Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY              FIlE  COPY
Report No. P-2977-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR A
FOURTH TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
March 2, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
On October 16, 1980, GOB adjusted the Taka downwards by 6%. The
Bangladesh Taka is now officially valued at Tk 38.5 to the Pound Sterling.
As the Pound is floating relative to the US Dollar, the Taka-US Dollar rate
is subject to change. The rate below has been used throughout this report
except where otherwise stated.
US$1          =  Tk 16.0
Tk I          =  US$0.0625
Tk I million  =  US$62,500
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 foot        =  0.305 meters
1 mile        =  1.609 kilometers
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB   -   Asian Development Bank
BADC  -   Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation
BCIC  -   Bangladesh Chemical Industries Corporation
BCSIR -   Bangladesh Council of Scientific and Industrial Research
BMR   -   Balancing, Modernization and Rehabilitation
BNP   -   Bangladesh National Party
DCA   -   Development Credit Agreement
ERD   -   External Resources Division
FAO   -   Food and Agriculture Organization (UN)
FY    -   Fiscal Year (July 1 - June 30)
GDP   -   Gross Domestic Product
GOB   -   Government of Bangladesh
HYV   -   High-Yielding Variety
IBRD  -   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA   -   International Development Association
IFAD  -   International Fund for Agricultural Development
IFC   -   International Finance Corporation
IMF   -   International Monetary Fund
MTFPP -   Medium-Term Foodgrain Production Plan
SDR   -   Special Drawing Right
SFYP  -   Second Five Year Plan
TA    -   Technical Assistance
UNDP  -   United Nations Development Programme
USAID -   United States Agency for International Development
GLOSSARY
Aman  -   Paddy planted before or during the monsoon (which begins in June)
and harvested in November or December.
Aus   -   Paddy planted during March and April and harvested during June
and July.
Boro  -   Paddy planted in winter and harvested during April to June.
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
FOURTH TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:          People's Republic of Bangladesh.
Amount:            SDR 12.9 million (US$16.0 million equivalent).
Terms:             Standard.
Project            Technical assistance and training subprojects, to be selected
Description:      by mutual agreement, in the fields of pre-investment planning,
feasibility or engineering studies, or strengthening institu-
tions responsible for project preparation and implementation,
or economic planning. There is a risk that the slow Govern-
ment decision-making process may cause delays in appointment
of consultants. The designation of a project coordinator
under previous Technical Assistance projects has helped to
expedite this process. The establishment of standardized
procedures for subproject processing, now underway, should
assure further progress in the future.
Financing Plan:   The credit would finance 100% of the costs of consultants,
foreign or local, and 100% of the foreign exchange costs
of material and equipment procured by the Government in
support of such consultants' services and of training
programs. Normally Government would provide counterpart
staff, equipment and local facilities required, which are
estimated to average up to about 25% of the total cost
of individual subprojects.
Estimated                                     US$ Million
Disbursements:                          (IDA Fiscal Year)
FY82   FY83    FY84   FY85
Annual            0.5    3.0      8.0    4.5
Cumulative        0.5    3.5    11.5   16.0
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH FOR A
FOUJRTH TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed
development credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for SDR 12.9 million
(the equivalent of US$16.0 million) on standard IDA terms to help finance a
fourth technical assistance project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY I/
2.        An economic report entitled "Bangladesh:  Current Economic Situation
and Review of the Second Five-Year Plan (Report No. 3309-BD, dated February 23,
1981) has been distributed to the Executive Directors.
3.        The first years of independence were difficult for Bangladesh.
With its economy already disrupted and its infrastructure severely damaged
by the struggle for independence, the country was afflicted by poor harvests
in FY72 and FY73 and by devastating floods in 1974. Foodgrain output fell
drastically and recovered to the pre-independence level only in FY76; foodgrain
imports averaging over two million tons per year were required between FY72
and FY75 to maintain foodgrain consumption near minimum requirements. Aggre-
gate output in manufacturing recovered to the pre-independence level only in
FY75, as the sector needed to overcome the destruction and disruption caused
by the struggle for independence and, in its aftermath, the departure of
skilled labor and managers and widespread shortages of spare parts and
crucial inputs. The production of jute, the predominant export commodity,
declined sharply, and the terms of trade deteriorated. Inflation, declining
real wages, rapid population growth, labor unrest and political instability
added to the difficulties. In these early years, Bangladesh's policy makers
were by necessity almost entirely preoccupied with matters of relief and
rehabilitation and the need to shape a national government out of a provincial
administration.
4.        Economic progress and increased political stability in the second
half of the last decade provided planners and policy makers the opportunity to
turn their attention from crisis management to the longer-range objectives of
development. It was not until FY75 that GDP recovered to the pre-independence
level, but between FY75 and FY80, it has increased by about 30% in real terms
(or about 5.5% p.a.), despite serious setbacks in agricultural production in
1/   Parts I and II are substantially the same as Parts I and II of the
Second Bangladesh Shilpa Bank Project (Report No. P-2970-BD), dated
February 27, 1981.



FY77 and. agcairi      '-                     _r ma. n.factu. ing (as measured by the
production -rd-r  a L-r:   ^                 a e in.ustries) rose by about 7.5%
annually bet-?>ee- 5                                !,, ant. '''/'8t . ''' S- .  ;.L_S g-:cwch taking place outside the
jute l'ndustry_  -          '-     -y-    X      therefore, as a period of economic
consolidatio.i.  Tl- e' T"  Y j    ar - _r          as intended as an opportunity
to complete tr-s eo  d                      a        reconsider development priori-
ties beforee                                        r C!e-Year Plan (FY8i-FY85).
5.         The k s. s   c _T7         a '&oU,ght signif-cant political change.
From 1975 unrL  ef                             db    governed under martial law.
In elections he u'           a      9   29 p ciLc a 1 parties and groups contested
300 seats in .bh e '    i c, e- LlI.     To-uhly  wc  thirds of the seats were won
by the Banglades'hi Nat-.onal   c-  '-) h-eaded by President Ziaur Rahman, who
had won the presLdential eueneion ir Ju-  1'978.  Thirty additional seats,
reserved for women, w=a.-e su..er ent       f' led by the BNPP.  Fcllowing the
convening of the new Parliacsenc :n laqcr 1i979. martial law was lifted and a
new cabinet apporactec.
Recent Developments and Shor:.-term OuLroek
6.         Econom'c grow.th s7ow-ad substanciall-y in FY79 and FY80, but has risen
rapidly in the first half of -his year (FY8).  Mostly as the result of a
record grain crop (13.1 million tons) and a 10% increase in industrial output,
GDP had increased by nearly 8% (in real terms) in FY78. But the experience of
FY79 and FY80 again demornstrat-ed the vulnerability of the Bangladesh economy
to unfavorable weather conciiLions.  A severe and prolonged drought affected
adversely four successive rice crops as well as the size and quality of the
FY80 jute crop;  -his had sigrificant re ercussions throughout the economy.
The shortfall in foodgrain supplies 1ed to a rapid rise in rice prices, and
inflation accelerated to an annual rate of about 18% in the first half of
FY80.  The rate Of growth of C-DP fell considerably and inequity in income
distribut-on increased as low-eer income groups were affected more severely by
the foodgrai-n shcortages ano. fasc-rising prices than the middle and higher
income groups.  The balance Cof -  -ayments, 1hich still had been in overall
surplus in FY79, deteriorate-s markedly i- FY80, mainly as a consequence of
costly food and petroleum purchases.   .DP g,owth in FY79 and FY80 averaged
no more than 4.5% pFa.  with populati0on growct, still estimated at about 2.7%
annually, average incomes imoproved only moderatelv.  In the current year, good
weather and expanded utilization of modern inputs are being reflected in a new
record level of focdgrairn pr-.duction (projected at 15.1 million tons), and GDP
is expected to rise by about 7%.
7         The disappointinp ocerall performan-e in FY79 and FY80 somewhat over-
shadowed a numcber    anrcou-rag-'n  de-velorments and positive policy steps during
this period,  T'hese. iRcluded:  (i) the successful mobilization and distribu-
tion of nearly 2 million tons o- imported foodgrains in the first half of
FY80; (ii) continued rapid growth',  in wheat production and in fertilizer
consumption; (iii) a yar.et-.  of nolicy measures taken to improve agricultural
input availabilities, _o nancn incenti-e output prices for farmers, to
strengthen the ao     i-ra>  o- _ne famly planning program, and to foster
a more active role by the prlvate sector. liv) increased capacity utilization



- 3 -
in several industries; (v) improved budgetary performance, reflecting a
strengthened tax administration, some reductions in subsidies and discipline
in curtailing current expenditures; (vi) substantial growth in non-traditional
exports and in workers' remittances; (vii) exchange rate adjustments and other
measures taken to encourage exports; and (viii) the conclusion of a Standby
Arrangement with the IMF. In December 1980, Bangladesh concluded a SDR 800
million EFF with the IMF.
8.        The growth of foodgrain production has become a principal concern of
Bangladesh's political leadership and economic planners. The Second Five-Year
Plan (SFYP), which is still in draft form, gives top priority to the expansion
of foodgrain production, aiming at self-sufficiency in foodgrains by the end
of the Plan period. The experience of FY79 and early FY80, when the severe
drought (combined with a major slippage in expected foodgrain imports) caused
a dangerous erosion of food stocks in the country and required an all-out
effort by the administration to avert a major famine, served to highlight the
importance of reducing the threat of crop failures and widespread starvation.
FY80 as a whole was a year in which food production and procurement were low,
while food imports, offtake from the public distribution system, domestic
foodgrain market prices, the budgetary deficit on the food account, and the
Government's expenditure of its own foreign exchange for commercial purchases
of food were all extremely high. By the autumn of 1980, however, the food-
grain situation had changed to one of relative abundance, and public food-
grain stocks stood at an all-time record level on the eve of an aman harvest
which also promised to reach an all-time high. Already by that time, food-
grain prices had fallen considerably and a principal concern of the Government
was to expand its storage and handling capacities fast enough to permit a
correspondingly record procurement effort. The immediate problem is two-fold;
how to cope, physically and financially with the unexpectedly abundant sup-
plies; and how to achieve a procurement level sufficient to prevent market
prices from falling so far that incentives to future production would be
diminished.
9.        Thus, in contrast to FY80, FY81 promises to be a year in which
production, procurement, and stock levels will be high while food imports
and offtake through the ration system will be relatively low. To a large
extent, the increased production in FY81 has been attributable to favorable
weather, but the Government deserves credit for a large part of the improved
performance attributable to increased investment in irrigation and other
agricultural infrastructure, increased capacity utilization, and improved
input delivery. In the realm of food policy, moreover, significant progress
has been made in reducing the extent of statutory rationing, changing the
ration mix, raising the ration price, expanding procurement facilities,
reducing input subsidies, and in privatizing the distribution of inputs.
The Balance of Payments
10.       The 1979 foodgrain shortage was reflected also in the balance of
payments. The need to finance commercial purchases of foodgrain imports led
the Government to be cautious in the implementation of other imports which
fell considerably below targets. In FY80 the current account deficit widened



- 4 -
considerably, primarily due to large increases in the volume and price of
foodgrain imports and to price increases for imported crude oil and petroleum
products. At USS2503 million, reserves at the end of FY80 were equivalent to
little more than one month's projected FY81 imports. In the current year,
the balance of payments is under severe pressure, notwithstanding the avail-
ability of EFF resources, in large part due to declining jute goods prices,
higher POL prices, and a shortfall in commodity aid availabilities. A par-
ticularly crucial determinant of the FY82 balance of payments as well as
budgetary outlook will be the extent of commodity aid availabilities. The
pipeline of commodity aid in particular has been very severely depleted over
the past two years.
11.       Bangladesh's balance of payments is characterized by a massive
structural trade deficit and heavy dependence on foreign aid. Export earnings
in FY80 represented less than 6% of GDP and less than one third of the import
bill. Moreover, Bangladesh's exports continue to be dominated by raw jute
and jute goods, which together account for approximately 70% of total export
earnings. Exceptionally large food imports in FY80 accounted for 26% of total
imports; this share is expected to fall to about 10% in FY81. Capital goods
imports have risen rapidly in recent years and currently account for over
one-fourth of total imports. Petroleum and petroleum product imports have
increased very slowLy in volume since the early 1970s, but their import bill
currently accounts for about 20% of total imports and is equivalent to about
two-thirds of export: earnings.
12.       The current account deficit in recent years ($1.5 billion in FY80)
has been considerably smaller than the trade deficit, owing mainly to the rapid
growth of workers' remittances from the Middle East. These receipts are now
the second most important source of foreign exchange earnings, exceeded only
by jute goods exports. Significant developments in the capital account were
the US$100 million increase in project aid disbursements in FY79 and again in
FY80, reflecting in part the country's growing absorptive capacity. Total
aid disbursements in FY80 were US$1.23 billion, equivalent to 52% of total
merchandise imports. Debt service payments were USS93 million in FY80. Some
debt relief measures undertaken by various donors contributed to a decline in
the debt service ratio from 15.8% in FY79 to about 13% in FY80.
13.       In early FY80, the IMF approved a Standby Arrangement for a period
of one year in an amount equivalent to SDR 85 million. Net of repayments, and
including disbursements from the IMF Trust Fund and new SDR allocations, the
IMF covered about US$60 million of Bangladesh's external financing require-
ments in FY80. In addition, Bangladesh has made extensive use of Fund
resources under the oil and compensatory financing facility. The financial
program agreed under the Standby Arrangement was designed to limit the expan-
sion in overall domestic credit. While the monetary targets embodied in the
financial program had to be revised upwards in midyear, the goals of the
program were largely met. The specific ceilings in the program on credit to
the public sector were exceeded, however, largely because of unanticipated
deficit financing by the Government in the last month of FY80. Under the
current EFF, Bangladesh expects net IMF financing in the current fiscal year
to exceed US$200 mihLlion, inclusive of Trust Fund loans and SDR allocations.



14.       The terms of trade remained essentially unchanged in FY80 as rising
export prices for jute goods helped offset the impact of rising petroleum and
other import prices. Total FY80 merchandise exports increased by about 21%
and imports by over 55% in value; foodgrain and petroleum purchases alone
accounted for over three-quarters of the increase in imports. The FY80
current account deficit was largely covered by disbursements of approximately
US$375 million in food aid, US$400 million in commodity aid and US$470 million
in project aid--total aid disbursements roughly 19% more than in FY79.  In
addition, however, reserves were drawn down by some US$150 million.
*          15.       The FY81 balance of payments situation, as noted above, is precarious.
The terms of trade are projected to deteriorate markedly, reflecting mainly
an expected fall in jute goods export prices and a continuing rise in import
prices. At present, the Government faces the difficult prospect of having to
choose between a further reduction in reserves and the containment of imports
to less-than-targeted levels.
Public Finance
16.       Government finances improved considerably in FY79.  However, in
FY80, the budget came under some stress, largely as a result of expenditures
for investments in food stocks and a shortfall in commodity and receipts.
The budgetary situation will continue to remain tight in FY81 for the same
reasons and the growth of development expenditures is likely to be restrained.
Further improvements in the mobilization of domestic resources are needed if
the ratio of public investment to GDP is to be raised above the level of
recent years.
17.       The task of raising additional domestic resources is wide-ranging,
involving a broadening of the tax base and a strengthening of public sector
business enterprises and utilities as well as a reduction of the major sub-
sidies on food and fertilizer. The latter task has to be carried out with
due regard for both equity and production considerations. Reflecting its
growing awareness of the problem, the Government appointed a Taxation Enquiry
Commission in 1977 and five special committees in 1978 to review various
aspects of public financial resource mobilization. The five committees
reviewed, respectively: (i) gradual elimination of the food subsidy; (ii)
rationalization of the rate structure of public transport agencies; (iii)
economic pricing by public utilities; (iv) reduction in agricultural input
subsidies, including the fertilizer subsidy; and (v) improvement in the
financial performance of public sector enterprises. The committees have
concluded their work, and the final report of the Taxation Enquiry Commission
was submitted to the Government in April 1979.
18.       A start has been made in implementing some of the recommendations
of these advisory groups and of the measures suggested by the report of the
Taxation Enquiry Commission, especially those in regard to tax administration.
In the course of FY79 and FY80, the Government raised foodgrain ration prices,
several utility rates, and commodity sales prices of public sector enterprises.
Fertilizer prices, for example, were increased by an average of 28% in August
1979 and a further 24% in November 1980 and petroleum product prices by up to
45% in November 1979; issue prices for foodgrains from the public distribution
system were increased in May 1979 and again in May 1980 by a combined 40%, as
the Government began to move toward a gradual elimination of the foodgrain



- 6 -
subsidy. In some cases, these price adijustments only kept up with inflation,
but in others--notabl]y the fertilizer subsidy--they served to reduce the
subsidy per unit of product in real terms. Petroleum product prices were
raised by a further 45% in mid-1980--an adjustment which should serve to
eliminate the subsidv on this account dluring FY81.
19.       The Goverrnent is expected to incorporate the essential long-term
recommendations of the various review committees concerning the reduction of
subsidies and the rationalization of the pricing policies of public sector
enterprises and util;ities into a comprehensive fiscal strategy paper for the
SFYP period by April 1981. This strategy paper will set out a time-phased
action program for fiscal policy measures and other steps to improve the
mobilization of public sector financial resources for the financing of the
development program embodied in the SFYP.
20.       In FY80, Government revenues increased considerably more than cur-
rent expenditures, resulting in a substantial increase in the current surplus.
This favorable fisca:L performance was accompanied, however, by a net erosion
in the financial position of the public enterprises and corporations, by a
very large increase in expenditures to build up food stocks, and by a large
shortfall (from the budgeted amount) in commodity aid receipts. The net
consequence was that a large (31%) increase in development expenditure was
able to be sustained only because the Government undertook unplanned deficit
financing amounting to Tk 3 billion, equivalent to 9% of total Government
expenditure. Although public savings are expected to increase markedly in
the current year, the budget is under severe stress. This is mainly because
of a projected further large increase in expenditures on food stocks, and
shortfalls (relative to budgeted levels) in food as well as commodity aid
receipts. The Government therefore faces the prospect that unless it effects
substantial cuts in targeted development expenditures (projected in the budget
to rise by a further 31% in current prices), it will have to resort to much
larger bank financing than is consistent with established credit ceilings
and monetary policy objectives.
21.       Inflationary pressures, which had re-emerged in FY78 (sparked pri-
marily by excessive Liquidity creation by the banking system) continued into
FY79 and gained force in the latter part of the year when rice prices rose
very rapidly. The cost-of-living index: for urban consumers rose by 19%
between June 1978 ancl June 1979, pushed by a 48% increase in average rice
prices; most of this rise occurred in the last months of the year. Rice prices
levelled off in the second half of 1979, and the inflationary pressure eased
considerably during FY80. As of June 1980, the cost-of-living index was about
12% above the June 1979 level, with overall liquidity (money supply plus time
and savings deposits) expanding by some 16% for the year ending June 1980.
Development Planning and Policy Issues
22.       FY79 and FY80 constituted the period of the Two-Year Plan, which
was meant to provide an opportunity for policy reappraisal and for prepara-
tion of the Second Five-Year P:Lan.  In the process of preparing the Plan, its
authors addressed the factors inderlying the slow development of the economy
over the past decade. These include poor land use, insufficient irrigation
and flood control, inadequate administrative capacity, low domestic resource



- 7 -
mobilization, and social impediments to change. The planners also analyzed
the problems posed by the basic structural characteristics of the economy: an
environment prone to natural disasters; poor physical capital stock; a high
rate of population growth; mass poverty; a highly skewed distribution of
income and land ownership; a high ratio of population to land; extreme frag-
mentation of landholdings and growing landlessness of the predominantly rural
population; high illiteracy; poor health and short life expectancy; high
unemployment and underemployment and scarce employment possibilities outside
agriculture; and a heavy dependence on foreign aid, not only for investment
financing, but also for food and other recurrent inputs.
23.       The Second Five-Year Plan (issued in draft form in May 1980) accords
top priority to three major efforts: (i) achievement of self-sufficiency in
foodgrains by FY85, with domestic foodgrain production targeted to increase to
an annual amount of 20 million tons by FY85; (ii) reduction of the population
growth rate with a view of bringing the net reproduction rate down to unity by
the year 1990; and (iii) progress towards mass literacy through the vehicle of
free, universal primary education. Enhanced priority is also to be given to
energy development, particularly through exploiting known reserves of natural
gas.
24.       The potential for increasing foodgrain output in Bangladesh is con-
siderable. Yields and cropping intensity are well below potential levels,
fertilizer application rates are modest, and the available surface and ground-
water would permit a substantial expansion of irrigation. There is large
unsatisfied demand for irrigation; where irrigation is available, the increase
in fertilizer use and the shift to high-yielding varieties of rice and from
dry season rice to wheat have been widespread and rapid. The growth of fer-
tilizer consumption and of wheat acreage and production during the past few
years have been among the most notable positive developments in Bangladesh
agriculture and justify some optimism concerning the ability of the country to
achieve self-sufficiency in foodgrains in the foreseeable future. The Govern-
ment has formulated, with assistance from IDA, a Medium-Term Foodgrain Produc-
tion Plan which provides an investment portfolio geared towards the attainment
of the SFYP target of 20 million tons of foodgrains. 1/ While the feasibility
of this target is beyond doubt, its achievement will be possible only if the
Government demonstrates the determination and capacity to allocate the resour-
ces required to provide the inputs needed by the farmers, and to permit the
private sector to play a substantial role in the provision and servicing of
modern agricultural implements and inputs. Other necessary requirements are
adequate levels of foreign aid to finance imported inputs, improved farmer
extension and training, and appropriate farm income and incentive levels.
Without suitable attention to these latter factors, farmers demand for inputs
could soon start to level off.
25.       Achievement of the second objective, reduction of the population
growth rate, will require more determined efforts than have been made thus
1/   The MTFPP target is flexibly set at the 18-20 million tons range, allow-
ing for a 10% shortfall due to adverse weather or other factors beyond
the control of the implementing agencies.



- 8 -
far. Recent projections 1/ indicate that, unless the net reproduction rate
is brought down more rapidly than present trends indicate, the population of
Bangladesh, estimated at almost 90 million in January 1980, could rise to 143
million by the year 2000. Birth control efforts in Bangladesh have suffered
thus far from poor implementation and have had only limited success. Recently
there has been some encouraging progress, however. The coordination of birth
control activities within the Government is improving, while training programs
for field staff have been revised and are now, for the first time, considered
adequate. GOB has decided to prepare a medium term implementation plan for
population and the Bank has agreed to provide technical assistance in prepar-
ing this plan.
26.       Vigorous pursuit of the measures that have been identified to improve
performance should enable GOB to come gradually to grips with the population
problem. It should make it possible to double approximately the number of
acceptors of family planning during the SFYP period (from 14% of couples of
reproductive age in FY79 to 28% by FY85). Officially, the planners aim at
reducing the net reproduction rate to the level of one by 1990, although they
note that, as yet, no other country has succeeded in reducing reproduction at
such a rapid rate. This target is clearly not achievable, but the Government
means to use it to galvanize institutions at all levels as well as the popu-
lation itself into determined action to stabilize the size of the population
as early as possible.
27.       The third of the central objectives of the SFYP is the drive for
general literacy. The planners recognize that its attainment will take longer
than five years, but they have set themselves the target of introducing uni-
versal primary education and enrolling 90% of all children of primary-school
age by 1985. This program is to be supplemented by a national non-formal
mass education scheme for those already past primary-school age.
28.       A plan aimed at effecting a significant departure from past trends
will place a severe strain on domestic finance and managerial skills. Even
with the adoption of labor-intensive and low capital-cost techniques, a signi-
ficant step-up in development spending will be required. This in turn will
require sizeable increases in the mobilization of domestic and the inflow of
foreign resources. A critical factor will also be the extent to which project
implementation capabilities are improved. Although immediate improvements
can be made in the ability of the administration to expedite project imple-
mentation, it is unlikely that the efforts of public agencies alone would be
adequate to achieve the targeted breakthrough. The Government recognizes
that in certain key areas greater reliance will have to be placed on the
private sector. It also believes that, to a certain extent, activities
such as education arid rural development should be carried out in a decentral-
ized fashion, with greater emphasis on local initiative and grass-roots
participation. 2/
1/   IBRD projections prepared for the World Development Report 1980.
2/   A full review of the (draft) Second Five-Year Plan is contained in the
Bank's 1981 economic report, entitled "Bangladesh: Current Economic
Situation and Review of the Second Plan" (Report No. 3309-BD, dated
February 23, 1981).



- 9 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
29.       Bangladesh became a member of the Bank and IDA in 1972.  Initially,
Bank Group operations in Bangladesh concentrated on the reactivation of eleven
credits, amounting to US$148.6 million, made originally to Pakistan before
1971. In addition, as of January 31, 1981, 49 new credits have been approved,
totaling US$1,481.7 million; of these, US$665 million have been for program
credits (nine imports program credits and two fertilizer imports credits).
Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits and disbursements as
of January 31, 1981, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. On
June 18, 1976 Bangladesh became a member of the IFC, and two investments (for
a shipbuilding company and an investment promotion company) have been approved.
30.       Bangladesh's debt service ratio was 15.8% in FY79 1/, but fell to
about 13% in FY80 following some debt relief measures undertaken by various
donors. The debt service ratio might exceed 20% by the mid-1980s unless care-
ful debt management policies are pursued and aid is provided on appropriately
concessional terms. Bangladesh's total outstanding and disbursed external
public debt amounted to just over US$3 billion as of June 30, 1980, with IDA
credits and the single IBRD loan accounting for 25% of the total. In FY80,
the Bank Group accounted for 3% of Bangladesh's total debt service payments;
because assistance is now entirely in the form of IDA credits, debt service
to the Bank Group will rise slowly.
31.       The focus of IDA assistance in recent years has been on agriculture
(15 of the 38 new projects approved since independence, and two fertilizer
imports credits). This is consistent with the country's needs and the Govern-
ment's priorities.  Particular emphasis continues to be placed on projects
that provide agricultural inputs, including fertilizer, fertilizer transport,
irrigation, improved seeds, extension, and credit and storage facilities.
In addition to agriculture projects, emphasis is also being placed upon comple-
mentary infrastructural projects in sectors which facilitate agricultural
development or which reduce bottlenecks interfering with the economy's overall
performance. In the power sector, for example, we expect to emphasize rural
electrification and elimination of shortages of generation capacity or distri-
bution facilities which have been a major impediment to utilization of existing
industrial capacity.
32.       Industry has been the main beneficiary of the nine imports program
credits approved to date. Given the need for substantial net transfers of
resources and the persistent structural imbalance and weakness of the economy,
program lending will continue to be an important component of IDA operations
in Bangladesh. The industrial sector has also benefited from two fertilizer
production projects, a jute industry rehabilitation project and several DFC
and small-scale industry projects. IFC is currently in the process of iden-
tifying further suitable investment opportunities.
1/   As a percentage of merchandise exports only.  If workers' remittances
amounting to US$140 million are added to total merchandise export earn-
ings of US$602 million, the debt service ratio would drop to 12.9%.



- 10 -
33.       The enormity of Bangladesh's population problem makes this an
extremely high priority sector as well, limited only by its absorptive capa-
city. The first population project is now making encouraging progress, and
a second population project was approved in FY79. Improved education and
availability of trained manpower are also crucial, and lending in this field
has emphasized agricultural, technical and vocational training, and primary
education.
34.       Disbursement of the imports program credits has proceeded satisfac-
torily. Project disbursements initially lagged behind expectations, owing
largely to delays in the release of local funds, approval of contracts,
employment of consultants, and appointment of staff. Underlying these delays
were serious constraints that included a shortage of qualified staff, over-
centralized bureaucratic procedures and organizational deficiencies. Progress
has been made recently on these issues and the disbursement performance is
improving. IDA and GOB have given increased attention to regular monitoring
and supervision in order to identify and resolve potential problems. IDA is
providing assistance both under specific projects and under technical assis-
tance credits to assist in improving planning, project preparation and
implementation capabilities.
35.       In view of Bangladesh's difficult foreign exchange position, IDA
credits should continue to cover all foreign exchange costs; and in order to
direct IDA lending to those sectors--such as agriculture and rural develop-
ment--where the percentage of foreign exchange costs is relatively low, the
financing of local currency expenditures is fully justified.
36.       Economic and sector work continues to provide the basis for a dialogue
between the Bank Group and the Government on economic policy and development
strategy. It is also designed to enhance the coordination of external assis-
tance within the framework of the Bangladesh Aid Group.  Recent activities
have concentrated on food policy, industrial investment strategy, and increased
domestic resource mobilization and have been undertaken in the context of the
recent detailed review of the Government's Second Five Year Plan.
PART III - TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
37.       Bangladesh's limited absorptive capacity at every stage of the
project cycle remains a key constraint on the country's efforts to achieve a
satisfactory rate of economic development. Shortage of well-prepared investment
projects inhibits the Government's ability to utilize fully the volume of
project aid currently and potentially available from bilateral and multi-
lateral sources. An equally, if not more, important factor contributing to
the country's limited absorptive capacity is its weak development administra-
tion. In particular there is an urgent need to strengthen the implementation
capacity of the main development ministries and agencies. The Bangladesh
authorities are aware of these problems and have made significant progress
during recent years in improving project preparation and implementation
capacity. Nevertheless, the process of increasing Bangladesh's absorptive
capacity is bound to take many years and, in the meantime, there remains a



- 11 -
continuing, and perhaps growing, need for technical assistance in these fields.
In recognition of this need, bilateral and multilateral agencies concerned
with development assistance to Bangladesh, including IDA, are providing
increasingly large amounts of technical and implementation aid in their over-
all commitments to the country. These efforts to help improve Bangladesh's
absorptive capacity are particularly apt at this time when the Government is
starting a Second Five Year Development Plan (FY81-FY85).
38.       While the UNDP, ADB and bilateral agencies already provide substan-
tial technical assistance, most of these funds are either tied or, in the case
of UNDP and ADB, are insufficient to meet Bangladesh's substantial requirements
for such assistance. The basic justification for IDA's lending for technical
assistance has therefore been to provide an additional assured source of
foreign exchange for technical assistance activities in cases where other
financing was not readily or quickly available on appropriate terms, or where
IDA financing permitted more expeditious preparation of projects suitable for
consideration by external aid agencies.
39.       IDA has so far provided Bangladesh with three technical assistance
credits amounting to US$21.5 million. The agreement for the first credit
(409-BD) for US$4.0 million was signed on June 20, 1973; the agreement for
the second credit (622-BD) for US$7.5 million was signed on April 8, 1976
and the third credit (872-BD) for US$10.0 was signed December 21, 1978. A
brief description of each subproject financed under the first three projects
and of their results is included as Annex IV to this report.
40.       A Project Completion Report for Credit 409-BD has been prepared
and is under review by OED. Use of Credit 409-BD was initially very slow and
disappointing, reflecting in part disagreements between the Planning Commission
and the line ministries concerning their respective roles in project prepara-
tion and a reluctance on the part of some Government officials to use external
Technical Assistance. When requests for financing studies were received,
their progress was impeded by slow Government procedures for selection of
consultants and negotiating of consultants' contracts. Progress accelerated
beginning in 1975 when Government officials appeared to become more willing
to suggest subprojects for financing and improved procedures were introduced
reducing somewhat the number of approvals required for consultants' contracts.
By December 1976, almost the whole of the US$4 million credit was committed.
Subprojects financed under the credit were completed by December 31, 1979.
The Project Completion Report (February 28, 1980) indicated that the sub-
projects financed under this credit played a very significant role in assisting
preparation and implementation of high priority projects and in strengthening
IDA's project pipeline in Bangladesh. It also noted that the project had
contributed to encouraging institutional improvement and strengthening of
Bangladesh's project preparation and implementation capacity, but that pro-
gress would continue to be slow in this intrinsically difficult field of
institutional reform.
41.       Under the second credit (622-BD), the rate of commitment accelerated
rapidly. While it took about 3-1/2 years to commit US$4 million under Credit
409-BD, almost all of the US$7.5 million under Credit 622-BD was committed
within about 2-1/2 years. However, the Government's procedures for selection



- 12 -
of consultants and negotiating and approving their contracts were still slow
and remained a problem. In addition to slow contracting procedures, the Gov-
ernment, after paying consultants, frequently neglected to make withdrawal
applications to IDA to obtain reimbursement from the credit, thus further
retarding the rate of disbursement. The appointment of a Project Coordinator
(as agreed subsequently under the Third Technical Assistance Credit) to be
specifically responsible for following up progress under these credits has
assisted in speeding disbursements. As of February 1981, about US$7.0 million
has been disbursed. In order to acce:Lerate disbursements this credit has
been "overcommitted" by about US$1.3 million, with the understanding that
the undisbursed portion of slower subprojects would be financed instead from
872-BD (Technical Assistance III). It is expected that the credit will be
disbursed before the current June 30, 1981 closing date (which was extended
by one year from the original closing date).
42.       The accelieration of commitment continued during the Third Technical
Assistance Credit (872-BD) signed December 21, 1978. As of February 1981 about
US$7.0 million out of the US$10.0 milLion credit has been committed for 19
subprojects (including about US$1.3 million overcommitment under Credit 622-BD).
Also about US$5.0 million of additional financing for thirteen subprojects has
been agreed in principle subject to satisfactory consultants' contracts. In
addition, IDA has indicated approval of the concept of providing about US$2
million of consultants services for developing and assisting in implementation
of proposals for strengthening the development and operational capacity of
seven key ministries. Thus, it appears that Credit 872-BD will soon be fully
committed and a pipeline for the proposed fourth TA project will be well in
hand. In order to avoid a break in commitment authority it is prudent to make
the proposed credit now rather than wait until Credit 872-BD is fully committed.
43.       A powerfuL rationale for technical assistance projects is their
demonstrated ability to generate well prepared investment projects. So far,
US$21.5 million of technical assistance has helped generate or advance the
implementation of at least 19 IDA financed projects with credit amounts
totalling over US$485 million. In addition two projects have been appraised
for possible IDA credits totalling up to US$70.0 million, and several other
projects currently under preparation are expected to be ready for Board
consideration in FY82 and FY83. Some investment projects spawned by the
technical assistance credits are being financed by other sources.
44.       In addition to direct project preparation, subprojects financed
under the technical assistance credits have made significant contributions
to improving project implementation capacity. For example, recommendations
of consultants financed by these credits have been adopted for improving
efficiency in the jute and fertilizer industry, improving import procedures
and giving a greater share in the responsibility for the distribution of
agricultural inputs to the private sector. Staff training under these credits
has improved operations of the grain storage silos. Most importantly the
Government is showing an increasing interest in utilizing technical assistance
financed under the credits for institution building activities such as improv-
ing general planning, budgeting and administrative procedures.



- 13 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
45.       With the increasing rate of commitments under previous technical
assistance credits and the build-up of a pipeline of technical assistance
subprojects (see paragraph 42), the Government during the spring of 1980 began
discussing the possibility of a fourth TA credit. Preparation of the fourth
project began in June and further discussions were held with Government during
supervision missions for the existing TA credits in July and November 1980.
Negotiations for the proposed credit were held in Washington, D.C. during the
month of February 1981.  The Government of Bangladesh was represented by a
delegation led by Mr. L. Majid, Joint Secretary, External Resources Division,
Ministry of Finance. Attached as Annex III is a supplementary project data
sheet.
Project Objectives and Description
46.       The immediate objective of the proposed Fourth Project would be
similar to that established for the first three, namely to provide an assured
and flexible source of foreign exchange for technical assistance activities
in cases where other financing is not readily or quickly available on appro-
priate terms, or where IDA financing would permit more expeditious action.
Underlying the immediate objective is the longer term objective of strength-
ening Bangladesh's capacity for project preparation and implementation.
47.       Funds would be used for the preparation of high priority projects
and for technical assistance and training programs designed to strengthen
Bangladesh's institutions responsible for project identification, preparation
and implementation or for the improvement of economic planning. Subprojects
would be selected which were mutually agreed by the Government and IDA to be
of high priority in the Government's development efforts and where no equally
suitable source of external financing was available. (See Criteria for
Sub-Project Eligibility in Schedule I of Development Credit Agreement.)
Subproject commitments would be in line with the Government's economic develop-
ment plan and IDA's lending strategy in the country during the next few years.
While, as in the past, emphasis will be placed on agricultural projects and
projects in other sectors assisting the rural development effort such as
transportation, other sectors are also expected to benefit from the proposed
fourth project. An illustrative list of projects representing about 40% of
the proposed credit is attached (see Annex V).
48.       In line with IDA's longer term objective to increase the local
development capacity, an IDA mission during September undertook a survey of
the local consulting industry. The mission identified several steps to pro-
mote development of the local consulting industry: (a) offering seminars
and training programs; (b) strengthening local consulting associations; (c)
improving selection procedures by more strongly emphasizing the quality of the
proposal; and (d) strengthening joint venture agreements between expatriate
and local firms. In order to start implementation of these suggestions, the
Government has indicated that it intends to request financing under the pro-
posed Technical Assistance IV credit for consultants' assistance in developing
measures for promoting the local consulting industry.



- 14 -
Organization and Implementation
49.       The External Resources Division (ERD) of the Ministry of Finance
which coordinates all foreign aid would have overall responsibility for the
implementation of the proposed project. This would include reviewing requests
from line ministrieis and operating agencies for use of technical assistance
funds and selecting those suitable for proposing for IDA consideration. ERD
has sufficient competent and qualified staff to undertake this responsibility.
Within ERD a Technical Assistance Coordinator has been designated to coordinate
administration of the ongoing IDA TA credits. He is responsible for ensuring
effective coordination among the various government ministries and agencies
involved in the implementation of the project. He is supported by two assis-
tant project coordinators. The Technical Assistance Coordinator would also
coordinate administration of the proposed credit (Section 4.01(b) of the DCA).
Consultants employed under the subprojects financed by the proposed credit
would work directly with and for the :Line ministries and operating agencies.
50.       Based on the experience gained from the previous TA projects,
emphasis will continue to be placed on the improvement of procedures for
subproject selection, hiring of consultants and disbursement processing so as
to continue to improve the quality and speed of subproject execution. Funds
from the proposed credit would be allocated to specific subprojects by mutual
agreement between the Government and the Association (Section 3.01 of the
DCA). The Government would provide an agreed list of information in seeking
IDA's approval of a subproject (Section 4.03 of the DCA). To reduce delays
in subproject processing, an explicit time schedule will become part of the
standard subproject application.  Also, the executing agency applying for
assistance will be required to indicate the proposed consultant selection
procedure as part of its application so as to avoid later interagency disputes
which might delay consultant selection. The terms of reference and consultant
contracts with the Government would be subject to agreement between the
Government and the Association (Section 4.02 of DCA). Consultants' terms
of reference would emphasize the importance of training local staff so as
to reduce the need for technical assistance in the long term.
51.       IDA would retain the right to withdraw its agreement to finance a
particular subproject if signature or effectiveness of a consultants contract
has not occurred within six months of IDA approval of a subproject, or if the
implementing agency failed to comply with the provisions of the DCA (Section
5.01 of the DCA).
Project Cost and Disbursement
52.       Although i:he proceeds of the credit have not been preallocated to
specific subprojects, it is estimated that approximately 40 studies would be
financed under the proposed project, amounting to about US$16.0 million equiv-
alent. Based on consultants rates under the previous technical assistance
credits, it is estimated that consultant rates under the proposed project will
average about US$8,000 per expatriate professional man-month. 1/ The credit
1/   The man-month rate includes salary, social and overhead costs, profit
and post adjustments.



- 15 -
would finance 100% of the costs of consultants, whether foreign or local,
and whether hired directly or as subcontractors. Government agencies would
not normally be considered eligible to be treated as consultants, except for
research agencies such as the Bangladesh Institute for Development Studies
or Government-supported universities. The credit would also finance 100% of
foreign expenditures for equipment and materials required for the carrying out
of the approved studies and procured directly by the Government or its agencies
(Section 2.02(b)(ii) of the DCA). Flexibility would be maintained to permit
financing of the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured equipment in cases
where the Association specifically agrees that this would be appropriate.
Equipment valued over US$50,000 equivalent would be procured by international
competitive bidding. Sumall contracts estimated to cost less than US$50,000
equivalent and totalling for the credit less than US$500,000 equivalent would
be permitted to be let through normal Government procedures which are accept-
able to IDA (Section 3.03 of the DCA). Credit funds would also be available
for financing 100% of the cost of overseas travel of Government staff asso-
ciated with project preparation and implementation or of overseas training
programs (Section 2.02(b)(iii) of DCA).
53.       The Government's contribution to individual subproject costs would
normally comprise the provision of counterpart staff, office space, supplies,
vehicle operations and secretarial services; a Government commitment to make
this contribution would be a condition of IDA's approval of each subproject.
It is estimated that such contributions would average up to about 25% of the
total cost of the various subprojects involved.
Benefits and Risks
54.       As the previous technical assistance credits have already shown, a
major benefit of the proposed project would be the development of a pipeline
of projects potentially suitable for financing by IDA and/or other external
agencies and improvement in the Government's ability to implement such
projects. This, in turn, would help Bangladesh make more effective use of
domestic and external resources for the development of its economy. The
proposed project would also assist in enhancing the overall capabilities
of the line ministries and operating agencies in project preparation and
implementation and general economic management. The domestic consulting
industry would be strengthened also, thus reducing dependence on expatriate
consultants and specialists.
55.       There is a risk that slow Government decision-making procedures
would continue to cause delays in appointment of consultants. The designation
of a project coordinator in the External Resources Division of the Ministry
of Finance, responsible for ensuring effective coordination among the various
Government agencies involved, has already helped to expedite this process.
The establishment of standardized procedures for subproject processing, now
underway, should assure further progress in the future. The project will,
nevertheless, continue to require close supervision and a heavier than usual
commitment of Bank staff time.



- 16 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
56.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of Bangladesh and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
57.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III. There are no additional conditions of effectiveness.
58.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
59.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
By: Ernest Stern
March 2, 1981



- 17 -
Annex I
Page 1
TABLE 3A
BANGLADESH - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BANGLADESH                  REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGCTED AVZACES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                - MDST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL           144.0                               MOST RECENT      LOW INCOWE               MIDDLE INCFMP
AGRICULTURAL     97.3              1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC           ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                40.0        50.0    100.0              212.4                  1114.7
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(RILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      ..        32.Oje   43.0              166.0                   842.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)    53.2       68.1      84.7
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 5. 1       7.6      10.4              20.8                    39.1
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                   143.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                     314.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED               2160
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                     369.0      473.0    588.0              193.2                   376.1
PER SQ. 1K1. AGRICULTURAL LAND    540.0    683.0    871.0              409.6                  2350.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                       44.3        46.4      42.9              42.0                    40.4
15-64 YRS.                       52.5        51.0     54.4               55.0                    56.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                 3.2         2.6      2.7                3.0                     3.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                            2.4         2.5       2.7               2.2                     2.4
URBAN                            3.9         6.5       6.9               3.9                     4. 1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    51.0       50.0      46.0              37.4                    28.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    25.0       25.0      17.6              14.6                     7.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE            3.5         3. 1      3. 2              2.6                     1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..      345.6    903.8
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..         ..       8.9              15.6                    39.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)       106.0       101.0      89.0             101.4                   116.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                 85.0        85.0      75.0              92.4                   108.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)        43.0        43.0      36.0              49.8                    60.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       9.0        9.0       6.4              12.0                    18.8
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    29.0       25.0     23.0               17.9                     5.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   40. 0      40.0      47.0              50.8                    63.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           ..       153.0    139.0                 ..                    52.8
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..        45.0      53.0              30.2                    42.4
URBAN                             ..        13.0      15.0              66.0                    62. i
RURAL                             ..        47.0      55.0              20.0                    29.7
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..         6.0       5.0              17.7                    52.8
URBAN                             ..          ..      40.0              71.3                    71. 1
RURAL                             ..          ..       ..                 ..                    42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            ..      8430.0/c  9260.0            6322.7                  4120.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       ..    79850.0/c 42080.0             9459.0                  2213.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             ..      6610.0/d  5490.0            1758.4                   819.4
URBAN                             ..          ..
R'JRAL                            ..          ..
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED         ..          ..       ..                ..                     28.8
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             ..          ..
URBAN                             ..          ..
RURAL                             ..          ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                             * -
URBAN                             . .
RURAL                             ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             ..
URBAN                             3.3. O/e
RURAL...



- 18 -                                                           Annex I
Page 2
TABLE 3A
BANGLADESH - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BANGLADESH                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVF,RAGES
-  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) '
MOST RECENT        LOW INCOME                  MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    ASIA & PACIFIC                ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  47.0         61.0       81.0                80.9                      98.6
MALE                  66.0         80.0      103.0                94.3                      99.2
FEMALE                26.0         42.0       58.0                66. 7                     97.7
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   8.0         19.0      23.0                 26.6                      55.5
MALE                  14.0         30.0       33.0                34.8                      60. 7
FEMALE                 1.0          8.0       11.0                18.2                      49.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (7 OF SECONDARY)   1.0            1.0        1.0                 9.9                      13. 7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                               ..         49.0      55.0                 41.1                      34.6
SECONDARY                             ..         26.0      24.0                 20.5                      28.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         21. 6/f        ..       26.0                40.9                      85.8
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            *           0. 4       0.4                 1. 8                      9.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND                                                      25.8                     118.9
POPULATION                            ..          6.0       14.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..           ..       0.4                  2. 4                     39. 4
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ..           ..        5.0                13.4
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..             ..         ..                  ..                       4.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    18515.0        23666.8   31000.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    15.2         16.5      17.0                 29.4                     36.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               86.8         85.9       74.0                70.5                      51.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   3. 3         3.5      11.0                 11.6                     21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 36.0         34.6       34.4                37.9                      39.1
MALE                                  58.7         55.8       55.3                51.3                      48.5
FEMALE                                11.4         11. 8      12.1                23.7                     29.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.3          1.4        1.4                 1.2                       1. 1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   18. 3/R        16.7/h
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  44. 5jR        42.3fh    38. Ofi
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6. 9/g         7.9/h     8. O**
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17. 9/         19.6         ...
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      139.0               107. 8
RURAL                                 ..          ..       111.0                86.5                    192.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..                  ..                    182.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..       86.0                46.2
RURAL                                 ..           ..      86.0                 51. 7                    33.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithnetic neans.  Coverage of countries
anong the indicators depends on availability of data and is not oniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Host Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   Registered, not all practicing in the country;  /d Government hospital establishments only;  /e 1973;
/f 1962; /g 1963-64; /h 1966-67; /i EstInated percent of national income.
Most recent estimate  of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



- 19 -
Annex I
Page 3
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Notes Although the data are drawn from sources generally judged the qost anthoritative atd reliable, it should also he toted that they may not he Ester-
nationally ocepacadle heoauas of the lack of staedardiaed daliotioss and tasicpts used by different coontries let     collectiag rhe data   The  data are, nens-
rheleas, usefal to describe orders of ntagniode, oidicare trrend, aod oharaoterloereaio rajor differe_cos between oountries
The reference groups are (1) the s-e .nountry group of the suhje ctounry and (7) acountry group with some.bat higher arerage income thas the tctunry group
of the euhJeot couocry (eocept fo "Capital Ssrplun Oi Nxpotsers" group where "iddle InPome North Africa aod Middle Eact  is chosen becoase of stronger
so;o-cultucal affinities)-  In the referecce group data the aleneees are population =eighted arithretic mecan  foe each indicator and show   only when an
leant hell of the couotntas in  a group has deta foe that indicatorg eice the coverage of coucreIo  among  the indicators  depends on  the aneelabllity of
dalta and to not tutforn, oautio  cast he exercised in relating aeeragea of one indicator to another.  Tese aerages are only useful ind tmpating the ralas
pf one indicatoc at a rice a=ong the country and reference groups.
L1A01 APEA (thousand sqAkr.)                                                               Fopulation pet Physicitac- fopallatian Itelded hy number as peanticnle  ply-
Itoal  - Total surface area cotprislng leod area and indeed w aters                       slodans qualifded Pros a seddol e chool at uInieraity  lane.
Agricultaral - Intimate of agricultur I   area used temporerly or pertacently           Popalation Per Narsina Persn - Populatien dEvided by cam.ber of peatticlph
for ceops, pastures, r-aRer cod kilchen gardens or to lie fallow; 1977 data,            eele and female graduate -urseg, practical nueses, and  es.i.eat nurses
Ponulation Per Nospital fed - tBtal. urban, aed cura - Populatien (teta,
GhP' PRR CAP17A (UPS) - G10P per caplta e-tei-ee    at c-P-en  marker prices, cot          urhun, and rural) dieided by their respective _    niset of haapdtsl beds
oulated hy came con.ersion nethod cc Uorld Bnek Atlia  (1977-79 bhies); 1960,             aeailable In public and privaer  genaetl and specielised bcspitai end en-
1970, and  1979 date                                                                      hebilit-tion cntes.   hospitals  rar  e-sblEshrent- petmanently staffed
by at Ieoot one phycian. Eatahblihments proidding pricilpally rsstedial
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA  - Annotl cnsurption of commercial energy (coal                care are not incloded.  Eurl hospitals, hwevee, inrlads health and medieel
cod lignite, petroleum, tatural gas and hydro-, nuclecr end geotherual elc-               neoters  not perm-nently staffed by a physician (bun by a eedfcel satesect,
tricity) it kilogr-me of ooal equivalent per capita; 1960, 1970, and 1978                 nurse,   dw      etc.) which offer in-perfect sot      d       atien end previde a
data.                                                                                     limIted range of medical facillties.  For Itanisticu1 purposes aban hsbpi-
taln include fiROs ptnicipel general and specialized hbepitnis, asd rcal
PO.PULkTION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                            hospitals local oe rurl hospitals and medical and maternity cemners
Total Population, 7fid-Yeac (edllloY s) - A. of J.ly 11 1960, 1970, aend 1979           AdmissIons per NoepIta             t Ned - Totel n=ber of adnissonss tm  -r dischbrges
data,                                                                                   frot hoapitals diEided by the number of beds.
Urbet Pppul..ton (rercenr of total) - talio of urbao to ntol population;
different definitions of urban areas  ay affect  .o=parability of data NeTNINI
among countries; 1960, 1970, aod 17I data.                                          Aderagt 11a  of fousehold (persons er boumahold) - tonal  urban  ed mcccl-
Populatio- Projections                                                                    A household ovnsie of a group of individoels abe share lnng quartets
Popalation in year 2000 - Cuoreot pcpulation p-ojectiots are based on 198E              and their  atin -eals.   A boaeder or lodger may on cay not be incladed in
total population hy age and see  nd their mortality and fertility rates               tbe hoasebold for  statistical purpone.
P_ojection parameters far nortality r             ites  co=prine of three levels'asnum-  Averagesnher of per_ons per roo= - total, urban, and nratl - Average sun-
ing life sepentancy at birth increaeing  irlb  onantry's pet capit. intone            ber of persons per root Iu all orhan, and cutel occupied  neneentincl
level, cod female lIfe  expecntanc  stahhlliey g at 77.0 yeas.  Tke yarn-             dwelliogs, respectively.  Dellings enolude non-peranent struitomes and
meters foe fertility cats oal    h-e three  -evels nassumin  declien                  unoccupied parts
fertility according to inc=e level and pant family planning performance.            Annesero Electriciry  (percent at dellings) - tonal aches, and  rel -
Each co_ntry is then assigned one of thase nine cobinhations of mortality             Ceonetianul dwellings with eleotricity in lining quarters as percentage
and fercility trerda for proje-tie  purpoeas.                                        of total, urhba, and rural dwellings respectively.
Stati-nary copulacioc - In a stationary population there is no grwetb since
the birth rate is equal to the death rat, and als  the  age scruturere-    EDUCATION
mails co.saten.  This is achie-d only after fertility  rates decline to             Ad1usted Entoll=eot Ratios
the reploam=er lenI of unit ne reproduction cane, when each generantio                PrImary school - tonal male and femdse - G.re         total, male end female
of cones replaces  itself Tea htly   Ike stationiay population siat was                 enrollment of all ages an thn prtmaey lasel as pernentages  f respectie
e-ti-ated an the basis of the ptrnj-ced characteristics of the population               priatly school-age populationa; neenally inclodea thildree  aged 6-11
it  the year 2000, and the rate of deeline of fertility rate to replace-                years bht adjustrd for different lengths of primary ed-antion; fer
cent leve,                                                                               countries with univereal edunation enrollment my  xcesed 100 peceent
Year stationary population is reached - The year when stati.nepy pepulation                since come pupils ace below nr above the official school age.
siae  bus hben rseched.                                                               lenendary school - total.  ale and female - Compu-ed as abner; senondary
Popularien D-nsify                                                                           education requiees an lees.  four  years of approved pdimaty ianestrctio;
Per sq. ka. - Mid-year populanion per square kilometer (100 bectares) of                   provides general, eoatienaI, or teihber training ineta..timme fee pcpiI
total area.                                                                             usually If 12 to 17 years of ae g     orresapenenceurses ate generally
Pet so. kmP   gricultural land - Co=puted as aboee  for agricultural land                 eacluded
Only.                                                                                 locational ento.lment (fscne t of  .e.o.daty) - VPcatie al inatiteti...
Pooulatio- Age NtrNctorr (pesoent) - Children (0-14 years), wobking-age (15-                include technical, iodustrial, or ether pregrass which  pperate indepen-
64 years), and retired (65 years and over) an percenrages If mid-year popo-                dennIf or as dep-rnennts of _scondaryinstitutions
lation; 1960, 1970, and 1978 dana.                                                      -uol-reachneretio - pri=ary, and secondary - Toal atudents  nreplled in
Population Grow_b Rate (portent) - total - Annual growth rates of total id-                 pritary and se-c-d-ry level divided by buners If teachere in she
year populations for 1950-6I, 1960-70, and 1970-78.                                        correponding le-el-
PopulatIon GReowb Rate (percent) -arhan - AssaIl growth crpts of urhan popt-              Adult lIteracy rate (percent) - Litnrate adnlts (able to read and amite)
lations fcc 1950-60, 1960-70, and 1970-78.                                                 as a vercetage of total adult population aged 1S yearn and over.
Crude liRb Nate (par thousand) - Annual line bitths per thEAsand of mid-yner
population; 1960, 1970, and 1978 data.                                              CONSUgTION
d   th                      -  Aual death  pr thousand of mod-year               Pf.ssener fats (par thousand population) - Passengar oars cp=prise easer
population; 1960, 1970, and 1978 data                                                    tars snaring lens than eight personm;  1cludem  ambulaces, hearses and
Incas Ocroducriou ER-At- Aeage - umber   ef deaghtets aw man   will  hear In  m      ilitey -ehielet
her norral ceproduc-riv  period  if she eaperienoca pmre_ent   ge-sprolfc fr-        Radio R-siverr  (Per thosand ponulacior( - All typos of retainers get made
tIlie    to.at; usually fie-year  veragns en ding in 1960, 1970, san  197.            broadcasts to general publIc pet thousand of populunion; excludes cmli-
Paxily flanning0-uAceptors, Annual (thousands) - Annual nomher of acceptors               tensed recein--I.ver   countries and It yeart  che. registration of radil  ser
of birth-control devices under auspices of national faily planning program              can in effect  dais for recent yea-s may not be comparable since mest
Pooily rlanuning -Users (prctent of married wonren  - Prc-entage of marcied                outrioces abolished linening.
omen of chhld-beaning age (15-44 years) who use birth-control devicrs to             TV Reoeivecs (per thousand cod ulaaion( - TV' racei-ern fee broadcast le
all tarried wonen Ic sane aft grouyp                                                     general public pmr thousand population; excludes  nlicensed TD Veseivets
in counctrie- ad in years when ergistratieonof TV sein was in effect.
FOOD Ak'D YUTRT1ION                                                                       NSwsmnppr Circulation (per  bhousand population) - Sh-ws the  -esrage ci-ncl
loden sf Food froductien par Capita (1969-71=100  - Index of per capita annual            ti_n of "daily general inserent newspaper', defised as a pecindical pab-
production of all food co=nodities.  Ptodoctiao  secludes send  and feed and            licecie denoted prim-rily to reornding general news.  It is consid.eed
is on calendcr year ein.  Co', odities tense primuty goods (e.gf su .a.ane              to be "daily" if it appears ot lsast fPer tees a maek.
ilotrad of eAger) whioh aem  edihle and  -cntainunurinens (e.g  coffei  and           CInema Annual Artendance Per Canite  er Yena-Nessd em  the number of
-ra ace etcludd).  Aggregate pr-d-ction of each -ou-ry it based on                      tictens sold duegnR the yeer, including admissions to drives-n nineas
atlonal nverage  producerice weights; 19b1-65, 1970, and 1978 dta.t                     and mobile unite
Per capIta supply of calories (prerent of mequiremants) - Conputed from
euergy equivalent of net food supplina available in country per capita            LABOR FORCE
per dy.  Available supplies c=mpr i.  dcetcct p_duio, imports lets                  Total icIer Porte (rouand) - Eonomically active persoss  includins
toports, and changes in stock   Nnt supplies axclude animal fend, aeads,              arned fortes and unsapleyed bun aenludieg bussewees, stuients,  tel.
.eootorclused it food processing, and leses de  diatribuion   Requlra-               Definirtins it various ceuntriss are non comparable; 1960, 1970 and
rents were estimated by PAO based cc physiologinel needs fer ner.al anti-              1979 duta.
aitr  and health  c_usidenlng ecvironmental temperature, body -eights, age          F.-. (2-eroent) - Female labor force as percesrage of total labor fore.
and uer  distribution of population, and allowing 10 penest for waste at            Agriculture  (percent) - Labor farce in farmIng, forestry, hasting and
household leoe; 1961-65, 1970, and 1977 data.                                         fishing as percentage of total laber fro;e 1960, 1970 and 197  data.
Per capita curply of protein (grams mper day) - Protein cInrent of pet  ,,pita        Industry (percene) - Labor force in mEning, construction, J,    asufafering
set supply of food pen day.  Net apply of food is defined an shee . Re-               and eltctricity, water and gas as percetagse of tonal labhr ferte; 1960,
qulcemenon for all countries esanblished by LISDA pronide for mitnimm                 1970 cud 1978 date.
allowaoce of 60 gr_ss  of total protein per day and 20 grass of aui=ml aed          Participation Rate (percent) - total, male, and female - Participation er
yulsn pr-tei, ol which 10 grams should be -animal proten.   These  tand-             activity rates are computed as metal, male, and female labor formeas
srds are lo-er thacntose of 75 grace  of total proteen and 71 gra  o                  percentages of total, sale and femule populanion of allgases reepe-tdely;
alomal protein as an average for the world, proposed by FAO in the Ihird              1960, 1970, and 1975 daa.  These are ILO'a participation rates rsfleetemg
World Pood SRrvey; 1961-65, 1970 aud 1977 data                                         age-sex str-cture of the population, and long nine treed   A fee e.ti-
Per capIta actntsPply from anImal and palte-rtttsin sapply of foed de-  mares are fron  ntlional sources
ricend a              d pulIes i  fra   per day;  961-65, 1970 sod 1977 data    Econmc Dendenc   a    - Ratl  of ppularit    d   15   d      ad 
Child (ages 1-u) Mortalit  Ratae (er thousand) - Annual deaths pe  thousand in                 the    l  la       e.
age group 1-4 yearn, to children if  bhi. age grasp; for most d-eelopiog coon-
trie_ data derived Ilo= lift cbl-e; 1960, 1970 and 1977 data.                       INCOME DISTRIBUTION
HeHoentAge of Pnri-ae encome (both in c-sh end kind) - Received by tioheRt
LifE            a                                                                          5 percent, richest 20 percent, pooreat 20 percent, and poorest 40 perent
ytrt  (ear)   Arage    ber  f years  f life remaining                    of households
ac birh; 1960, 1970 and 1978 dat.
lfant -Mortality Rate (pfe  th .sand) - Aneual deaths of if.acts under one Peat   POVERTY TARGET GROIUP
of age per thousand lile births.                                                       Isri-ated Absolcte Ponero Income Level (USi  met nani-a) - urban and  ural -
Atcnss no Safe Wter (pertent of Pepolation) - rotal  urhan  and moral - N.                 ohanlae poverty Decree leel is than Income level haesp which am=isiml
Number of people (total, utban, andrural) with reasonable acress le saft                 nutrltiemally adequate diet plos essential non-food require=ents is nst
water_spply (includes treeted surface watecs cr utreated bst ..co.tamiated               affrdable.
ctoer such an that from portotted boceholes, springs, and sanitary wells) as           Estiated Relative Porerty Incoma Level (US$ per .apita) - ueban and macal -
percentages of their respective popalatons.  In an urban area appublit                   natal relative poeerny ino=m  level is one-thi-d of a.erage pet napita
fountal  or standpoat located  n  mar cchan 200 meters fees  a house cy be              p        Jrsonal iuceme .f the country. lrbnn level is derieed fere  the rtral
connsdered an holing within reasonable nass of that house.  Inrcurl armac                level aith Rdj unt fent for higher cost of living in urban steam
reasonable  rcces would imply that the h.o.s.ifm   or members of the household    EIrnired Popelation Below Absolute Ponsrnr Inca  evel (Peent) - urban
do norternv to speed a ddoprcpocp-o-acc pare of the day le fe-chlng the                  ad rur.al - Percent of pepolation (urban and ruralj whe are eabseolte poor"
fd  y ily' n  ater needs
Anccess to Eacreta Disposal (pecsne of noualatien - total, urban fmd
rural -Number of people (total, urban, and rural) servedhbyencrnna
disposal us percentages of their respective populaniens.  Bxreta die-                                                  Eceocnie and Sialel Data siensien
posal my isclode the collecnion and disposal, with er withbot treatment4                                         Onoemin Analysis and Fr.ee tiecs Dspnctmast
of hRman ecrerea and wasts  -waer by water-bornes  ystems or the use of                                                                 tbr 19
pie privies and iIlac ioeeellatlcac



-20 -
Annex I
Page 4
BANGLADESH
ECONOMIC IDSICATORS
Population:                    89.5 million (July 1980)
GNP  Per  Capita:              US$90  (FY80)
Amount            Average Annual Innrease (2)       Share of GDP at Market Prices (Z)
(million US$           (in constant FY75 prices)              (in current Prices)
Indicator                            in current prices)
FY79             FY60-70   FY70-75   FY75-80   FY60        FY70       FY75      FY80 /a
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product Lb                   9,512.5                 4.0      -0.6       6.3    100.0      100.0      100.0     100.0
Agriculture /b                            5,174.0                3.1       -1.3       4.3      59.9      56.9       63.6      51.9
Industry Lb                               1,170.2                7.9       -3.2       8.9       7.7       9.6        8.6      12.5
Services lb                               3,168.3                4.9        3.3       6.6      30.1      30.0       25.0      28.8
Consumption                                 9,187.5                4.4       -0.7       6.7      92.4      92.8      100.0     102.1
Gross investment                            1,330.0               10.9      -10.9      13.5       6.9      11.3        7.0      15.0
Exports of goods & nfs                         603.0               0.8      -11.7       4.3      10.0       8.3        3.1       7.1
Imports of goods & afs                      1,603.0                8.8      -12.0      14.4       9.3      12.5       10.1      24.3
Gross national savings                        465.0               26.5      -17.7       ...       0.9       6.1        0.9      -0.4
Composition of Merchandise Trade (I)
(in current prices)
FY73       FY75       FY79     FY80
MERCHANDISE TRADE
Merchandise exports                            603.0                                            100.0      100.0      100.0    100.0
Primary                                     217.0                                              41.9       31.4       36.0     30.1
Manufactures                                386.0                                              58.1       68.6       64.0     69.9
Merchandise imports                         1,603.0                                             100.0      100.0      100.0    100.0
Food                                        250.0                                              44.1       42.2       15.6     29.5
Petroleum                                   186.0                                               3.2       11.1       11.6     17.6
Machinery & equipment                       382.0                                              13.8        9.6       23.8     25.8
Other                                       785.0                                              38.9       37.1      49.0      27.1
FY74        FY75         FY76        FY77         FY78        FY79
PRICES AND TERMS OF TRADE (1972/73-100)
GDP deflator
Exchange rate (Tk/US$)                                7.9661      8.8759      14.8521     15.4667      15.1215     15.2193
Export price index                                     104.6       132.9        108.7       117.7        136.7       168.9
Import price index                                     156.9       215.4        195.8       189.1        180.2       214.2
Terms of trade index                                    66.7        61.7         55.5        62.2         75.8         78.9
AS Z GDP
(at current prices)
FY73        FY75         FY77        FY79
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenue                                                     5.0          5.4         9.5         10.3
Current expenditure                                                 6.5          4.5         7.8          7.8
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                         -1.5         +0.9        +1.7         +2.6
Capital expenditure                                                 8.8          3.1         9.8         11.4
Foreign financing                                                   7.1          2.4         7.8          8.5
1960-70      1970-75       1975-80
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (X)                                                     4.2          -0.7            5.7
GNP. per capita growth rate (X)                                         1.5          -3.3            3.0
Energy consumption growth rate (%)
/a At constant FY78 prices.
/b  At market prices; components are expressed at factor cost imd will not add due to exclusion of net indirect taxes and subsidies.
- not available
- not applicable
July 1, 1980



-21-                                                AmnexI
-  - -                                         Page 5
BANGLADESH
BALANCE OF PAYMENIS. EXrERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million US$ in current prices)
Actual                                               Pro l*cted
Fy74      FY75      FY76       Fy77      FY78      FY79       FY80      FYS1      FY82       FY83
BALANCE OF AYNEBr e
Net exports of goods 6                                    5ervice  .565.7    -696.4   -647.4   -340.3    -786.0    -865.0    -1610.0  -1718.0  -2057.0  -2271.0
Exports of goods & services                             418.6      502.7     507.6     610.0      643.0     819.0      993.0    1123.0    1176.0    1276.0
Imports of goods & services                             984.3    1199.1    1355.0      950.3    1429.0    1684.0      2603.0    2841.0    3233.0    3547.0
Net transfers
Current account balance                                  -565.7    -696.4    447.4    -340.3    -786.0    465.0    -1610.0   -171.0   -2057.0   -2271.a
Direct private investment                                   -          -         -         -         12.0      15.0        20.0      25.0      30.0       35.0
M0T loans (nat)                                           274.4      508.2     502.9     246.0      399.0     465.4      861.5      950.0     995.0    1145.0
Grants & grant-like flmos                                 347.0      395.6     244.5     229.7    386.1       495.2      504.5      810.0     950.0    1100.0
Other capital flow  (not)                                   2.0   -358.8       153.1   -216.1        14.0      13.4       88.0    -45.0       153.0      59.0
Change in remerves (- - increase)                         -57.8      151.3    -53.1       80.7      -25.2   -124.0       136.0    -22.0       -71.0    -50.0
International reserves (end of period)                    115.0      266.3     213.2    293.9       268.7     393.0      257.0      279.0     350.0     400.0
Reserves as months of imports of next year                  1.15      2.36      2.69      2.47       1.91      1.81        1.09      1.04      1.18       1.26
Actual
FY74      FY75      FY76      FY77        Y78      FY79
GROSS DISBURSEMENTS
official grants                                            347.0      395.6     244.5     229.7      386.1     495.2
Gross disbursements of MLT loans                           285.1      529.1    569.3      276.1     434.4      520.8
Concessional                                               201.5      468.0     538.9     244.7      399.8     300.3
Bilateral                                                  82.4      305.6     357.3     117.3      237.3     226.8
IDA                                                        51.0      112.5     128.2      86.1       88.2     152.5
Other csiltilateral                                        68.1       49.9      53.4      41.3       74.3     121.0
Non-concessional                                            83.7       61.2      30.5      31.5       34.5      20.4
Official export credits                                    40.6       45.3      16.5       4.2        1.7       3.3
IBRD                                                        -                    -         -          -         -
Other moltilateral                                          5.4        0.3       1.2       0.5       0.5        0.1
Private                                                    37.7       15.6      12.8      26.8       32.3      17.0
EXTERNAL DEBT
Debt outstanding and disbursed (end of period)             490.6    1359.2    1806.5    2068.1    2581.S    3005.1
Official                                                  383.3    1240.9    1701.8    1951.8    2442.3    2856.4
IBRD                                                       -        54.9       54.9      54.9      54.9       54.9
IDA                                                      105.6      255.3     379.8    465.9      554.2    706.7
Other                                                    277.7      930.7    1267.1    1431.0    1833.3    2094.8
Private                                                   107.3      118.3     104.7     116.3      139.4     148.7
Undisbursed Debt                                           590.2   1033.2       952.7    1011.0    1316.2    1647.5
DEBT SERVICE
Total debt servics payments                                 18.0       31.0      88.3      38.5       67.4      95.4
Interest                                                    7.3       10.1      21.9      28.4       32.1      40.1
payments as % exports                                        4.3        6.2      17.4       9.6       10.5      11.6
payments as % GNP                                            0.2        0.3       1.3       0.9        0.9       1.2
Average interest rate on new loans CX)                        3.2       2.0       1.7       1.6        1.5       1.7
Official                                                    2.9        2.0       1.6       1.5        1.4       1.6
Private                                                     4.6        2.3       7.8       6.4        6.2       6.1
Average maturity of new loans (years)                       25.7       35.5      41.7      40.1       37.8      34.7
Official                                                   28.3       35.8      42.2      40.8       38.1      35.1
Private                                                    13.4       15.2      11.3      11.0        9.5      14.8
BANK GROW) EXPOSURE tZ)
IBRD  O        D/total0OD                                   -          4.0       3.0        2.6       2.1        1.8
IBRD disbursements/total gross disbursemnts                            -         -          -         -          -
IBRD debt service/totel debt service                        -          -         1.8        5.6      5.0         4.0
IDA DOD/total DOD                                           21.5      18.7      21.0       22.5      21.4       23.5
ID& disbursesents/total gross dixburanents                  17.8      21.2      22.5       31.1      20.3       29.2
IDA debt service/total debt service                          1.1       3.2       2.4        5.2      5.6         4.6
As . of Debt outstanding
at End of FY79
TERM STRUCTMRE
maturity structure of debt outstanding (%)
Maturities due vithin 5 years                                                      L2.0
Maturities due within 10 years                                                     32.7
Interest structure of debt outstanding (2)
Interest due within first year                                                      1.7
July 1, 1980



- 22 -                    ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS - BANGLADESH
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of January 31, 1981)
Amount
(less cancellations)
Loan or                                                              US$ Million /a
Credit
Number  Year   Borrower            Purpose                  Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
One loan and 17 credits fully disbursed                     54.9    557.24        -
341    1972   Bangladesh   Tubewells (replaces
Credit No. 208-PAK
of 1970)                               14.00      0.96
407    1973   Bangladesh   Education (replaces
Credit Nos. 49-PAK
and 87-PAK of 1964 and
1966)                                  21.00     2.62
408    1973   Bangladesh   Highways (replaces Credit
No. 53-PAK of 1964)                    25.00     2.97
410    1973   Bangladesh   Cereal Seeds                                7.50      3.31
487    1974   Bangladesh   Telecommunications II                      20.00      7.45
527    1975   Bangladesh   Ashuganj Fertilizer                        62.00      4.98
533    1975   Bangladesh   Population                                 15.00      4.91
542    1975   Bangladlesh   Barisal Irrigation                        27.00    16.19
605    1976   Bangladesh   Karnafuli Irrigation                       22.00    10.87
621    1976   Bangladesh   Agricultural and Rural Training            12.00      6.08
622    1976   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance II                     7.50      0.53
631    1976   Bangladesh   Rural Development                          16.00      9.77
632    1976   Bangladesh   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank                     25.00      6.46
724    1977   Bangladesh   Shallow Tubewells                  -       16.00      7.46
725    1977   Bangladesh   Muhuri Irrigation                  -       21.00    15.57
729    1977   Bangladesh   Extension and Research             -       10.00      7.09
735    1977   Bangladesh   Inland Water Transport II          -        5.00      3.29
765    1978   Bangladesh   Jute                               -       21.00    15.90
787    1978   Bangladesh   Foodgrain Storage II               -       25.00    23.30
/a   Prior to exchange rate adjustments.



- 23 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
A.   Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Bangladesh (Cont'd)
Amount
(less cancellations)
Loan or                                                           US$ million /a
Credit
Number  Year   Borrower            Purpose                  Bank       IDA  Undisbursed
825    1978   Bangladesh   Small-Scale Industry II             -       7.00    5.80
828    1978   Bangladesh   Agricultural Research               -       6.00    4.26
864    1978   Bangladesh   Drainage and Flood Control         -       19.00   16.60
866    1978   Bangladesh   Imports Program VII                -       75.00    1.43
872    1978   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance III           -       10.00    9.22
890    1979   Bangladesh   Oxbow Lakes Fisheries               -       6.00    5.64
912    1979   Bangladesh   Vocational Training                -       25.00   24.40
921    1979   Bangladesh   Population &  Family Health II -           32.00   31.76
934    1979   Bangladesh   Greater Khulna Power
Distribution                   -       28.00   27.90
941    1979   Bangladesh   Dacca Water Supply &
Sewerage II                    -       22.00   17.64
944    1979   Bangladesh   Fertilizer Imports                 -       25.00    3.11
955    1979   Bangladesh   Small-Scale Drainage and
Flood Control                   -       25.00   24.50
964    1979   Bangladesh   Highways II                        -       10.00   10.00
980    1980   Bangladesh   Imports Program VIII               -       50.00   13.42
990    1980   Bangladesh   Low-Lift Pumps                     -       37.00   37.00
1001   1980   Bangladesh   Chittagong Water Supply II         -       20.00   20.00 /b
1023   1980   Bangladesh   Fertilizer Industry
Rehabilitation                  -       29.00   29.00
1032   1980   Bangladesh   Jute Industry
Rehabilitation                  -       20.00   20.00
1042   1980   Bangladesh   Mangrove Afforestation             -       11.00   11.00
1044   1980   Bangladesh   Fertilizer Imports II              -       25.00   25.00
1054   1980   Bangladesh   Education IV (Primary
Education)                     -       40.00   39.45
1065   1980   Bangladesh   Small-Scale Industry III           -       35.00   35.00
1071   1980   Bangladesh   Imports Program IX                 -       65.00   65.00
1091   1981   Bangladesh   Bakhrabad Gas Development                  85.00   85.00 /b
1096   1981   Bangladesh   Fertilizer Transport Project   -           25.00   25.00 7T
Total,                                                      54.9  1,661.24  736.84
of which has been repaid                                   0.0       0.40    -
Total now held by Bank and IDA                              54.9  1,660.84
Total undisbursed                                            0.0    736.84  736.84
/a   Prior to exchange adjustments.
Tb   Not effective.



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at January 31, 1981)
Fiscal                                                       Amount in US$ Million
Year            Obligor                 Type of Business    Loan   Equity   Total
1979      Highspeed Shipbuilding           Ship-
and Heavy Engineering           building
Co. Ltd.                                           1.20    0.36    1.56
1980      IPDC                             DFC                -       1.05    1.05
Total gross commitments                                       1.20    1.41    2.61
less cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales  -            -        -
Total commitments now held by IFC                             1.20    1.41    2.61
Total undisbursed                                            0.65    1.05    1.70
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Agricultural Projects
Cr. No. 341    Tubewells Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of
November 6, 1972; Effective Date:  January 17, 1973;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1982
All 3,000 deep tubewells have now been drilled and all but 30 have
been commissioned with the remainder awaiting arrival of engines. Approxi-
mately $1.2 million from the project and $0.7 million from the Extension and
Research Project (Credit 729-BD) will be consolidated to fund the Command
Area Development (CAD) of the deep tubewells in the Northwest of Bangladesh.
1/   These notes are designed to infonn the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
Cr. No. 410    Cereal Seeds Project:  US$7.5 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: January 30, 1974; Closing Date: June 30,
1981
There has been some improvement in the Bangladesh Agricultural De-
velopment Corporation (BADC) component; all processing equipment has been
tendered, and is being installed, and all of the revised program of civil
works and land development with the exception of the recently agreed 8,000
tons of additional storage has been completed, bids for which are now being
evaluated. Construction should be completed by December 1981. The Seed
Certification Agency (SCA) component is nearing completion; however, the
Bangladesh Rice Research Institute (BRRI) component remains behind schedule
due to insufficient budgetary release of funds. The main positive aspect of
the project continues to be the success of the contract grower scheme. Wheat
seed sales have exceeded appraisal estimates, but paddy seed sales remain well
below appraisal targets. The main problem preventing increased paddy sales
are poor marketing arrangements and lack of suitable improved varieties for
multiplication. Marketing consultants have completed their report recommen-
ding improvements in seed distribution and marketing. The Seed Certification
Agency continues to be weak, however, and an intensive training programme is
currently under preparation. Future prospects have improved as a result of
GOB's recent strong commitments to stimulate foodgrain production and support
intensive seed production efforts, reflected, inter alia, by provision of full
ADP allocations for SCA and BRRI to permit completion of their FY81 work
programs. The closing date, originally September 30, 1980 was recently
extended once to June 30, 1981. A second extension is likely to be required.
Cr. No. 542    Barisal Irrigation Project:  US$27 Million Credit of April 29,
1975; Effective Date: September 30, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
During project execution it emerged that, by adjusting the project
design, the area to be irrigated can be increased without changing the number
of primary pumping stations and sluices included in the original project. The
Closing Date was extended to June 30, 1984 to enable the project to be carried
out fully over this increased area. Civil works in the original project area
are nearing completion. About 735 low lift pumps were fielded in the FY80
boro season irrigating about 30,000 acres. The extension and cooperatives
components of the project are short of staff which is slowing full utilization
of irrigation facilities.



- 26 -                     ANNEX II
Page 5
Cr. No. 605    Karnafuli Irrigation Project:  US$22 Million Credit of
January 28, 1976; Effective Date: February 24, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Overall project implementation is about 2.5 years behind schedule
with less than 50 percent of works completed. Draft tender documents for
remaining structures are being finalized by WDB. Works on embankments, a
major project component have not started. The revised Project Proforma given
to IDA in May 1980 showed an increase in project cost of 77 percent over the
appraisal estimate. A special mission visited the project in July 1980 to
review these estimates and gave recommendations aiming at reducing project
cost without sacrificing viabilities. Current estimates prepared by WDB based
on some of the recommendations show project cost about 34 percent higher than
the appraisal estimate. Since not all recommendations were followed, the mis-
sion urged WDB to revise the current estimate to reflect all recommendations,
with particular regard to the optimum height of the embankments. The project
is expected to be completed in June 1983. Close supervision is necessary.
Cr. No. 631    Rural Development Project:  US$16.0 Million Credit of
June 3 1976; Effective Date: August 3, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Project progress continues to improve after a difficult start. The
increasing production and income levels among project farmers are now becoming
visible. Irrigation equipment and agricultural input supplies are now being
provided on a reliable basis. Field level management appears effective but
headquarters management still requires strengthening. The rural works program
is making good physical progress and is having a significant impact on project
area families. However, supervision of contractors work and maintenance of
completed works require improvement. The livestock, horticulture and extension
components continue to make satisfactory progress. The fisheries component
had been making good progress, but pond excavation has slowed recently and
improved progress is required in registration of fisheries cooperatives,
assignment of pond leases, and identification of additional ponds suitable
for development.
Cr. No. 724    Shallow Tubewells Project:  US$16 Million Credit of July 1,
1977; Effective Date: December 9, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
There has been progress in procurement of engines and pumps, tools
and equipment, office equipment and part of the transports. Sales of shal-
low tubewells will be to both individuals and groups. The project has sold
its first phase of 2,050 pumpsets and procured its second phase of 8,450
pumpsets based on farmers' preference system. The construction of workshops
is proceeding with a modified program.



- 27 -                     ANNEX II
Page 6
Cr. No. 725    Muhuri Irrigation Project: US$21.0 Million Credit of July 1,
1977; Effective Date: January 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1983
Overall project implementation is about two years behind schedule.
Progress during the last few months has been less than satisfactory due to
unexpected break downs of pile driving hammers, lack of heavy equipment for
foundation excavation, and heavy rains. However, new pile driving hammers
were purchased and the work resumed in November 1980; also, the contractor
agreed to rent heavy equipment for use in the interim until new equipment is
delivered in early 1981. Construction of ten regulators and channel improve-
ment, drawings for which were completed several months ago, could not start
because the consultants are redesigning the structures. Tender documents for
the closure dam and embankments, the only remaining major works, are being
finalized. Water Development Board had prepared a revised cost estimate,
based on IDA suggestions, aiming to reduce cost increase. The revised cost,
about ten percent higher than the appraisal estimate, appears somewhat opti-
mistic. Close supervision is still required.
Cr. No. 729    Extension and Research Project:  US$10 Million Credit of
July 1, 1977; Effective Date: January 6, 1978; Closing Date:
April 30, 1981.
Project implementation has improved. Most of the vehicles have been
procured and Phase I civil works construction is nearing completion. Contact
farmer attendance has increased by 60 to 100% in most areas. Main achieve-
ment of the extension service has been in expanding wheat cultivation through-
out Northwest. Project has suffered some delays due to late release of local
funds by the Government.
Cr. No. 765    Jute Project:  US$21 Million Credit of February 8, 1978;
Effective Date: April 14, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The Jute Project has been successful in getting the project farmers
to use higher quantities of fertilizer, resulting in higher yields. However,
project implementation has suffered due to late release of local funds. GOB
has also not carried out its agreement to onlend IDA credit to the Sonali
Bank. The Government has since 1979 promised to resolve this problem.
Cr. No. 787    Foodgrain Storage II Project:  US$25 Million Credit of April 12,
1978; Effective Date: September 29, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
All Phase I sites (56,000 tons) construction is underway, of which
storage godowns with a capacity of 30,000 tons are at roof level or above.
Out of 53,000 tons of Phase II, 8,000 tons sites have been tendered; and
selection of locations for 36,000 tons of new construction is to be done in
February 1981. Two major components--godown rehabilitation and paddy drying
are about 12 months behind schedule. Selection of locations for Phase III has
been delayed to February 1981. Withdrawal applications for over US$2 million
of completed work have not yet been submitted.



- 28 -                    ANNEX II
Page 7
Cr. No. 828    Agricultural Research Project:  US$6 Million Credit of
June 16, 1978; Effective Date:  November 15, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Progress in the implementation of the technical aspects of Project
continues to be satisfactory. BARC headquarters building is under construction
and work has commenced on the civil works component of the three regional
research stations. Contracts for the provision of farm and laboratory equip-
ment have been finaLized. Consultants on farm development and potato research
have been appointed but not for research monitoring. The National Research
Plan has been published and the recomrmendations of the BARC technical working
groups have resulted in the generation of 39 sub-projects to be financed under
the research grant scheme. Arrangements have been completed for 20 students
to take up overseas Ph. D. course and nine senior scientific staff have
attended career development courses. No progress has been made in the MSC
training program.
There has been insufficient budgetary planning and management of
project finances. In order to avoid substantial cost overruns, BARC and BARI
have developed closer liaison and a consultancy accounting firm will be
employed to ensure that future expenditures are properly planned and managed.
Cr. No. 864    Drainage and Flood Control Project:  US$19.0 Million Credit
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: October 19, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Effectiveness had been delayed primarily due to delays by the Govern-
ment in approval of the project budget and staffing plan. In Chenchuri Beel
(CCB) and Kolabashakhali (KBK) five regulators are under construction and
some embankment work has been completed. Some delays have occurred due to
difficulties in land acquisition. In Brahmaputra Right Bank (BRE) construc-
tion is underway. Some components proposed within this subproject have been
rejected as too costly. The Government has been requested to prepare modified
proposals. Periodic project progress reports required under the project are
not being received for the BRE subproject.
Cr. No. 890    Oxbow Lakes Fishery Project:  US$6 Million Credit of April 3,
1979; Effective Date: February 13, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Based on the recommendation of the consultant firm, a 45 ha site
has been acquired by the Government for the construction of the central carp
hatchery facility of the project. Consultants have prepared and IDA has
approved draft design of the central hatchery complex.



- 29--                    ANNEX II
Page 8
Cr. No. 955    Small Scale Drainage & Flood Control Project; US$25.0
Million Credit of October 30, 1979; Effective Date:
May 21, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Effectiveness was delayed due to slow progress in approval of the
project proforma. Arrangements for CIDA financing of consultants for the
project were formalized in August 1980. A total of 15 subprojects have been
approved for construction this dry season.
Cr. No. 990    Low Lift Pump Project:  US$37.0 Million Credit of April 4,
1980; Effective Date: September 8, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The Credit became effective on September 8, 1980 after having met
all conditions of effectiveness. Project Director has prepared a detailed
project Action Plan (timetable).
Cr. No. 1042   Mangrove Afforestation Project:  US$11.0 Million Credit of
June 27, 1980; Effective Date: September 26, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
Progress on the project, which became effective on September 26,
1980, is satisfactory. The Government has approved the Project Proforma
and the Forest Department has established a Plantation Trial Unit, which were
both conditions to the effectiveness. However, the hiring of consultants for
the preparation of programs for the Plantation Trial Unit and the aerial-
monitoring/remote-sensing is somewhat behind schedule. This will not affect
the mangrove planting program, which is the main component of the project.
Industry and Imports Program Credits
Cr. No. 527    Ashuganj Fertilizer Project:  US$62.0 Million Credit of
February 11, 1975, as amended by Amending Agreement of June 18,
1979; Original Credit Effective Date: December 19, 1975;
Supplementary Credit Effective Date: August 1, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project is being cofinanced by the Asian Development Bank, KfW,
EEC, IFAD, the OPEC Special Fund, and the Governments of Iran, Switzerland, UK
and US, providing a total of about US$190 million equivalent in addition to
the IDA credit. Site preparation work including the necessary dredging and
filling was completed on schedule. However, based on the soil analyses under-
taken by two specialist consulting firms, further preparation of the site was
undertaken to protect the plant against earthquake risks. Currently the
project is about three years behind schedule due primarily to the additional
site preparation and initial slow progress in (a) placing orders for time-
critical items and (b) planning for construction. Due to the need for addi-
tional site work, the delays and currency fluctuations, supplemental financing
was required. The required financing has now been obtained. Plant construc-
tion is over 95% completed. Some additional delays are being encountered



-30 -                     ANNEX II
Page 9
but the project is expected to start production of urea in about the middle of
1981, only a few months later than anticipated at the time of supplementary
financing, and with costs within the margin for contingencies provided at the
time of IDA supplementary financing.
Cr. No. 632    Bangladesh Shilpa Bank Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of
May 20, 1976; Effective Date: November 8, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
As of January 31, 1981, disbursements were about US$18.54 million
and Qualified Agreements to Reimburse letters of credit (QAR) had been out-
standing for US$1.53 million.
Cr. No. 825    Small Scale Industry II Project:  US$7 Million of June 16,
1978; Effective Date: September 15, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
The Project: appraisal and processing capabilities of the implement-
ing Banks have developed rapidly, and the Project is expected to be completed
ahead of schedule. There has been good progress in training commercial bank
staff, distributing circulars to commercial bank branches describing project
procedures, and advertising the availability of funds for small industry
loans.  The project was fully committed by the commercial banks in July 1980.
Staff of the Small and Cottage Industries Corporation have begun preparation
of subsector and area studies for small industry promotion.
Cr. No. 866    Seventh Imports Program:  US$75.0 Million Credit of
December 22, 1978; Effective Date: January 8, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
As of January 31, 1981 disbursements were about US$73.6 million.
Cr. No. 944    Fertilizer Imports Project:  US$25 Million Credit of June 29,
1979; Effective Date: August 29, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
As agreed, fertilizer prices have been increased by an average of
about 28%. A staffing plan and administrative authorizations have been
completed for the provision of staff for the secretariat of the fertilizer
coordinating committee. Credit funds had been fully committed, but due to
currency fluctuations some additional fertilizer has now been ordered.
Cr. No. 980    Eighth Imports Program:  US$50 Million Credit of April 4, 1980;
Effective Date:  April 21, 1980; Closing Date:  February 28, 1982
As of January 31, 1981, QAR were outstanding for US$4.4 million
and US$36.6 million had been disbursed.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 10
Cr. No. 1023   Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation Project:  US$29 Million
Credit of June 4, 1980; Effective Date: September 8, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The reorganization of the project entities into three separate
fertilizer manufacturing companies has been accomplished, and project financ-
ing agreements have been executed.
Cr. No. 1032   Jute Industry Rehabilitation Project:  US$20 Million Credit
of June 4, 1980; Effective Date: July 22, 1980; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984.
This project is making satisfactory progress, but is a little
behind schedule on hiring two of four sets of consultants required to assist
on some aspects of implementation. First Tender Notice for procurement of
rehabilitation spares has been issued. Tender documents for the construction
of two new training centers are in preparation. Disbursements to second
quarter FY81 were nil, but should begin in the third quarter to meet expenses
in connection with purchases of weighing scales, orders for which have already
been made, and to meet consultancy costs.
Cr. No. 1044   Second Fertilizer Imports Project:  US$25 Million Credit of
June 27, 1980; Effective Date: November 11, 1980; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
Agreed increases in fertilizer prices were announced on November 5,
1980. The first tenders for fertilizer and fertilizer raw materials have
been issued.
Cr. No. 1065   Small-Scale Industry III Project:  US$35 Million of October 17,
1980; Effective Date: January 15, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
This Credit has just become effective.
Cr. No. 1071   Ninth Imports Program:  US$65 Million Credit of October 17,
1980; Effective Date: November 11, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
As of January 31, 1981 QAR for about SDR 8.9 million have been
approved and letter of credit opened.
Education Projects
Cr. No. 407    Education Project:  US$21.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: September 27, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project financed completion of the construction of the Bangladesh
Agricultural University (BAU), a fellowship program for BAU and building of
five new and equipping of eight existing technical institutes (polytechnics).



-'32-                      ANNEX II
Page 11
The BAU component is now about 85% complete. The credit was closed on
December 31, 1980. The major civil works components are completed excepting
some nonacademic buildings (gymnasium and auditorium) which would be completed
within the next 12 months. The Government has already committed the necessary
funds for this purpose. The fellowship program is completed. Most equipment
items have been procured and installed. Payments of existing commitments will
continue until March 31, 1981.  Civil works and equipment procurement associated
with the technical education component were completed earlier and the poly-
technics have been operating for the last two years. Project costs (in dollar
terms) are close to appraisal estimates due to currency devaluation.  Most
local overruns are caused by inflation, implementation delays but mostly by
taxes imposed on imported goods.
Cr. No. 621    Agricultural and Rural Training Project:  US$12.0 Million
Credit of March 25, 1976; Effective Date: June 30, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project finances a variety of training institutions for agricul-
tural extension and rural development staff. Technical assistance is also
provided to assist in the improvement of the training programs. Implementa-
tion of the civil works associated with the training institutions is about 85%
complete and about 95% of the equipment has been procured. The physical aspects
of the project are generally on schedule. However, the recruitment of the
consultants, who are to assist in conducting the studies and in improving the
training programs under the project, is delayed by about two years. This is
due largely to the ineffectiveness of the National Committee on Rural Training
(NCRT) which is in charge of the educational aspects of the project. To
improve the effectiveness of the NCRT, IDA has agreed to hire under the project
local consultants who would assist the NCRT in performing its functions. The
appointment of these consultants is now being finalized.
Cr. No. 912    Vocational Training Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of
May 31, 1979; Effective Date: November 2, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The Project Implementation Unit manager and architect are in post.
All sites for project buildings have been made available. Agreements with
consulting architects have been signed and designs are in progress. The
equipment and office furniture lists are under preparation and master lists
of Technical Training Center equipment are ready to be submitted for IDA
approval.  Curricula in ten trades have been prepared at Technical Training
Centers (TTC). Courses for 110 training officers in on-the-job training have
been concluded. Existing ILO/UNDP experts are assisting project development.
Cr. No. 1054   Fourth Education (Primary) Project:  US$40.0 Million Credit
of June 27, 1980; Effective Date:  December 1, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
All key staff have been selected for overseas training.  Mostly all
major staff for the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) and the Regional Project
Units have been appointed. Preparation for a detailed program for first year
construction has been started.



- 33           ~          ANNEX II
Page 12
Population Project
Cr. No. 533    Population Project:  US$15 Million Credit of March 10,
1975; Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The project is being cofinanced by six co-lenders providing a total
of US$25 million equivalent in addition to IDA credit. Program performance
during the last year generally has improved with better coordination and coop-
eration between the Health and Population Control and Family Planning Divisions
following the appointment of a single Secretary in charge of both. Training
programs for field workers were recently revised and upgraded to improve their
performance, but the programs are not yet being implemented as designed.
Implementation of civil works components, initially encouraging in several
areas, has deteriorated, and is now behind schedule across the board; revised
performance targets set by GOB in consultation with IDA to expedite the rate
of progress of construction components are still being met. Due to the slow
pace of construction, disbursement of the credit has also shown less than
expected improvements. The closing date was recently extended to December 31,
1981 to permit needed improvements to complete the project and full disburse-
ment of the credit.
Cr. No. 921    Second Population and Family Health Project:  US$32.0
million; Credit of May 31, 1979; Effective Date:  April 1,
1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Progress has been made on project staffing, site acquisition, and
completion of master plan for the project. Project architects have been
appointed and design development and tender document preparation are under
way.
Transport Projects
Cr. No. 408    Highways Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date:  August 7, 1973; Closing Date: March 31, 1981
All works under the project are now complete. Arbitration on the
Sitalakhya Bridge contractor's claims is in progress. IDA has agreed to a
request from the Government of Bangladesh for an extension of the closing
date of the credit to March 31, 1981 in order that credit funds may be used
to defray the cost of eligible components of the arbitration and settlement
(and a further extension may be needed if the decision on arbitration is
further delayed). Significant failures are appearing on Feni Bypass. GOB
with the assistance of IDA appointed a consultant who is investigating causes
of the failures and possible remedy.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 13
Cr. No 735      Inland Water Transport II Project:  US$5.0 Million Credit of
Septeraber 30, 1977; Effective Date: March 13, 1978;
Closing Date June 30, 1981
The Credit became effective on March 13, 1978 three and a half
months behind the original schedule. Lists of spare parts for BIWTA vessels,
navigation aids and for hydrographic equipment, and for BIWTC cargo vessels
have already been prepared and most items agreed. All consultants' contracts
have now been signed and work is underway, after initial delays. As the
implementation of the consultants recommendations is expected to extend
beyond the current closing date a further extension may be necessary.
Cr. No 964      Second Highway Project:  US$10.0 Million Credit of December 21,
1979; Effective Date: August 29, 1980; Closing Date: June 30,
1984.
Effectiveness was delayed due to slow progress in approval of the
Project Proforma and in the appointment of consultants for supervision. Equip-
ment procurement and the award of contracts for earthwork, bridges and culverts
have been delayed and it is expected that construction will commence in the
1981/82 construction season, a delay of a year.
Cr. No. 1096   Fertilizer Transport Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of
February 13, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
This Credit is not yet effective.
Telecommunications Projects
Cr. No. 487    Second Telecommunications Project:  US$20.0 Million Credit of
June 215, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
Project execution is behind schedule due to delays in procurement,
civil works and reduced output of the domestic telephone switching equipment
factory, combined with difficulties in ordering equipment under the project
and in completing local construction and installation. Also TTB, reinstated
to function as a "Government Board" since April 1979, encountered difficulties
and delays in organizing its finances and accounts and in managing efficiently
its operations and development. In November 1979, the Government was pressed
by IDA to take promptly the decisions and the measures required to enable TTB
to improve its management and finances, to have the telecommunications accounts
transferred from Government to TTB and to transfer to TTB the assets from the
cyclone project. An action program agreed to this effect has been implemented
by the Government and TTB during the first half of 1980. Although the project
is late, most of the coutstanding problems have been reduced or are being
eliminated. Covenants under the project are now being complied with. TTB is
presently taking final procurement action to commit the funds remaining under
the project which represent about 30% of the credit. Corresponding works will
require about two years from order. While the financial rate of return



- 35 -                    ANNEX II
Page 14
covenants are being met, the quality of the accounting information remains
inadequate and financial management and planning needs strengthening. Consul-
tants, financed under Technical Assistance Credit 872-BD, are assisting in
training TTB accounting staff.
Technical Assistance Credit
Cr. No. 622    Second Technical Assistance Project:  US$7.5 Million Credit
of April 8, 1976; Effective Date April 14, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
Twenty-four subprojects have been approved for financing under this
credit thus committing the total amount of the credit. However, due to the
slow rate of commitments during the early years of the credit, a one year
extension of the Closing Date was necessary to provide time for completion
of agreed subprojects. Disbursements have recently improved and amounted to
US$7.0 million at the end of January 31, 1981. The subprojects financed are
expected to have a significant beneficial impact on strengthening IDA's lend-
ing program to Bangladesh.
Cr. No. 872    Third Technical Assistance Project:  US$10.0 Million Credit
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: January 19, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Implementation of this project has begun, with 19 subprojects totaling
about $7 million having been approved. Thirteen further subprojects totaling
about $5 million have been approved in principle, and those that are finalized
first would be considered under this credit (with the remainder forming a
pipeline for a proposed Fourth Technical Assistance credit).
Power Projects
Cr. No. 934    Greater Khulna Power Distribution Project:  US$28.0 Million
Credit of June 18, 1979; Effective Date: November 20, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Consultants have been appointed as scheduled and have begun design
work.
Cr. No. 1091   Bakhrabad Gas Development Project:  US$85.0 Million Credit of
February 13, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
This Credit is not yet effective.
Water Supply and Sewerage Projects
Cr. No. 941    Second Dacca Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$22.0 Million
Credit of June 29, 1979; Effective Date: November 30, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Consultants have been engaged and have begun design work as scheduled.



- 36 -                     ANNEX II
Page 15
Cr. No. 1001   Second Chittagong Water Supply Project:  US$20.0 Million Credit
of April 4, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
This Credit is not yet effective.



- 37 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
BANGLADESH
FOURTH TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:           Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:
July-November 1980
(b) Agency which prepared project:
GOB and IDA
(c) Project first presented to IDA:
June 1980
(d) First IDA mission to review project:
July 1980
(e) Departure of appraisal mission:
Appraised during July and November 1980
supervision missions for previous technical
assistance credits.
(f) Completion of negotiations:
February 1981
(g) Planned date of effectiveness:
Within 90 days after signature.
Section II:          Special IDA Implementation Actions
Agreement with Government on an illustrative list of
projects representing about 40 percent of the proposed
credit.



- 38 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
Section III:         Special Conditions
(a)  An officer of the External Resources Division,
Ministry of Finance wou'i continue to function
as Project Coordinator (paragraph 49);
(b)  Credit funds would be allocated to specific
subprojects by mutual agreement between the
Government and the Association (paragraph 50);
and
(c)  IDA would have the right to withdraw its agreement
to finance a particular subproject in cases of
undue delay in signature or effectiveness of a
consultants contract, or if the implementing agency
failed to comply with the provisions of the DCA
(paragraph 51).



-39 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1
BANGLADESH
FOURTH TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Progress and Achievement of Technical Assistance Credits to Bangladesh
(409-BD, 622-BD and 872-BD)
The three technical assistance credits have made a significant
contribution in preparing projects for external financing and improving
project implementation (paragraphs 43 and 44). The contribution/progress of
each of the subprojects is reviewed in this annex. In addition, summaries
of the allocations and disbursements for the subprojects are provided in
Tables 1, 2 and 3.



- 40 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2
SUBPROJECTS FINANCED UNDER CREDIT 409-BD
Subproject Number and Description                 Amount
I  Inland Water Transport Study                     157,564.88
II  High YiLelding Variety Survey                     22,025.08
III  Rural Development Engineering Survey              41,336.65
IV Technical Advisory for Urea Fertilizer
Factory                                      650,000.00
V  Fisheries                                         20,056.98
VI  Karnafuli Paper Mill Rehabilitation               44,912.71
VII  Import Control System Study                      226,984.87
VIII  Muhuri Engineering                               172,400.69
IX  Fertilizer Factory Maintenance                   206,234.00
X  Fertilizer Marketing Distribution                230,000.00
XI  Water Development Board (Proj. Prep. Unit)    779,550.63
XII  Jute Factory Maintenance                         167,767.99
XIII  Grain Storage Management Study                   283,238.08
XIV Ministry of Agriculture/BADC Organization
and Management                             321,643.31
XV  Reprinting Bangladesh Maps                        59,084.00
XVI  Agriculture Credit Review                        299,884.17
XVII  Dacca WASA II                                    299,315.96
XVIII  Chittagong Gas Marketing                          18,000.00
TOTAL               4,000,000.00



- 41 -
ANNEX IV
Page 3
Table 2: SUBPROJECTS FINANCED UNDER CREDIT 622-BD
Disbursed
Current          thru
Allocation       2/20/81
(US$1,000)      (US$1,000)    Status
I. Southwest Region Study                      544             544       completed
II. Agricultural Credit /a                      525             360       completed /b
III. Jutton /c                                   436             436       ongoing
IV. Planning Assistance                         120             120       completed
V. Rural Development Thana Surveys             172             172       completed
VI. Bangladesh Institute of Development
Studies                                   -                -       cancelled
VII. North Bengal Paper Mills                    102             102       completed
VIII. Architectural Services -
Agricultural Research                     180              83      ongoing
IX. Chittagong Water Supply                     520             520       completed
X. Small Industry Training                      17              17       completed
XI. Pulp and Paper Advisor                       45              45       terminated /d
XII. Foodgrain Storage Training                   20              20       completed
XIII. Drainage & Flood Control II               1,500           1,299       ongoing
XIV. Sector Corporation Management
Training                                  100              75      completed /b
XV. Dacca WASA Engineering                      421             421       completed
XVI. Highway Maintenance                         560             219       project
suspended
XVII. Advisor to Min. Agriculture                 104              63       ongoing
XVIII. Southwest Region Special
Studies /c                             2,200           1,700       ongoing
XIX. Chittagong Gas Marketing /a                  17              17       completed
XX. Fertilizer Maintenance /a                    88              88       completed
XXI. Chittagong Port /c                          500             174       ongoing
XXII. Pussur River Studies /c                      40              21       ongoing
XXIII. Barisal/Patuakhali Irrigation                30             Nil       ongoing
XXIV. Gas Pipeline                                600             473       ongoing
8,841           6,969
Overcommitment/undisbursed           (1,341)            531
7,500           7,500
/a   Subproject partially financed under Cr. 409-BD.
/b   Subproject completed but some bills not yet submitted.
/c   Subproject to be partially financed under Cr. 872-BD.
/d   Subproject terminated.  Contract issues submitted to International
Chamber of Commerce for arbitration.



- 42 -
ANNEX IV
Page 4
Table 3:  SUBPROJECTS FINANCED UNDER CREDIT 872-BD
Disbursed
Current        through
Allocation       2/20/81
(US$1,000)     (US$1,000)    Status
I. Public Administration Curriculum
Development                               15              15      completed
II. Vocational Training Preparation /a           2               2       completed
III. Southwest Region Special Studies         1,000             493       ongoing
IV. Pussur River Study /a                       20              18       ongoing
V. External Resources Division - Phase 1       35              20       ongoing
VI. Oxbow Lake Sedimentation                    30              30       completed
VII. Jutton Pilot Plan /a                     1,714             Nil       recently
started
VIII. Road Research Laboratory                    711            Nil       contract
being
negotiated
IX. Chittagong Port Studies /a                 900             306       ongoing
X. Pulses Breeder.                            150              58       ongoing
XI. Primary School Mapping                       3               3       completed
XII. BADC Accounting Improvement                350             126       ongoing
XIII. Pussur River Survey                         57              34       completed /b
XIV. Sugar Project Preparation                   15             Nil       completed /b
XV. Industrial Project Profiles                 50             Nil       awaiting
clarifi-
cation
of TOR
XVI. Telecommunications Accounting               48             Nil       ongoing
XVII. Ashuganj Power Preparation                 500               3       ongoing
XVIII. Investment Approval Procedures Study         21              9       ongoing
XIX. Cyclone Project Evaluation                  46             Nil       recently
approved
5,667          1,117
Overcommitiment 622-BD                1,341              -
Total committed                   7,008              -
Unallocated/Undisbursed               2,992           8,883
10,000         10,000
/a   Subproject financed also under Cr. 622-BD.  Future disbursements will be from
Cr. 622-BD until credit is closed.
/b   Completed but final bills not yet submitted.



ANNEX IV
43                          Page  5
Credit 409-BD 1/
TA I
SUBPROJECT I - Inland Water Transport Study (US$157,565)
Main objectives: To review design alternatives of the inland water system
deep-draft area terminal and recommend alternatives for future investigation.
Achievement/progress: The report was prepared as part of the Bangladesh
Transport Survey which was published in November 1974. Originally, the study
was intended for the formulation of the second Inland Water Transport Project.
However, the second Inland Water Transport Project did not materialize from
this study as conceived originally due to (i) aid received from other sources;
(ii) insufficient detail on some of the investments proposed to permit appraisal
and (iii) slow progress in completion of work under prior credits. The study
has been useful for information but not for specific project formulation of
Inland Water Transport Projects.
SUBPROJECT II - High Yielding Variety Survey (US$22,025)
Main objectives: (1) To delineate areas suitable for rainfed cultivation of
HYV rice; (2) To define a project for major efforts to support rainfed HYV
rice cultivation; (3) To keep expert in Bangladesh to continue work during
period of UNDP fund scarcity.
Achievement/progress:  Objective (1) was achieved with very good results.
Consultant's work in identifying areas suitable for rainfed cultivation of
HYV rice and which also covered the development of data on the degree of HYV
cultivation achieved in various parts of Bangladesh was favorably acknowledged
by all concerned. Objective (2) was partially achieved. The Rainfed Rice
Project was transformed initially to a proposed Minimum Package Project
(rainfed rice and wheat) which gave birth to IDA's Extension and Research
Project (Cr. 729-BD) of June 28, 1978, for US$10 million. The project involved
rainfed and irrigated cultivation of both rice and wheat but excluded supply of
inputs. Objective (3) achieved.
SUBPROJECT III - Rural Development Engineering Survey (US$41,337)
Main objectives: Undertaking water resources and water works studies for
nine Thanas in the districts of Bogra, Mymensingh, Sylhlet, Barisal, to
prepare data required for Rural Development Project intended to modernize
agriculture, increase employment opportunities, reduce rural poverty, and
improve nutritional standards of the rural poor.
Achievement/progress: The objectives were achieved, leading to the Rural
Development I Project (Cr. 631-BD) approved May 20, 1976 for $16.0 million.
1/   Completed December 31, 1979.



- 44                       ANNEX IV
Page 6
Credit 409-BD
SUBPROJECT IV - Technical Advisory of Urea Fertilizer Factory (US$650,000)
Main objectives: To provide (1) technical advisory services for the prepara-
tion of the Ashuganj Fertilizer Project (Cr. 527-BD) and (2) the supervision
of tender arrangements up to the date of effectiveness of the proposed
Ashuganj Fertilizer Credit.
Achievement/progress:  The objectives were achieved, leading to a fertilizer
project totalling $142 million of foreign exchange, financed by a $33.0
million IDA Credit (Cr. 527-BD) approved January 28, 1975 and by other co-
financiers. This credit agreement was amended June 7, 1979 to provide $29.0
million additional IDA financing.
SUBPROJECT V - Fisheries (US$20,051)
Main objectives: Preliminary feasibility report on an inland fisheries
project in Jessore District.
Achievement/progress; Report was completed in May 1976 leading to the Oxbow
Lakes Fishery Project (Cr. 890-BD), approved on March 29, 1979 for US$6.0
million.
SUBPROJECT VI - Karnafuli Paper Mill Rehabilitation (US$44,913)
Main objectives: Carrying out a feasibility study for modernization and
balancing of the Karnafuli Paper Mills.
Achievement/progress: A draft Final Report was completed by the consultant
in December 1977. On the basis of the consultant's general recommendations,
GOB applied for a Swedish grant of US$10.0 million (Tk 140.0 million) to
implement, over a two-year period, major Balancing, Modernization and
Rehabilitation elements of the rehabilitation program proposed (see Sub-
project XI of Cr. 622-BD - Pulp and Paper Advisor).
SUBPROJECT VII - Import Control System Study (US$226,985)
Main objectives: To examine the institutional and administrative constraints
in the import control systems; suggest ways of streamlining at all stages to
ensure quick and better utilization of available foreign aid and foreign
exchange.
Achievement/progress: Consultant's report was completed on time. The report's
recommendations were accepted by the Government and implementation efforts
began September 1, 1977. An implementation cell was established in the Plan-
ning Ministry for this purpose. Also, import policy period has been changed
from 6 months to 12 months as recommended, and customs classification system
is being restructured and streamlined using a consultant.



ANNEX IV
Page 7
Credit 409-BD
SUBPROJECT VIII - Muhuri Engineering (US$172,401)
Main objectives: To assist in design and preparation of tender documents for
regulators, gates, hoists, and equipment for the Muhuri Irrigation Project
and assist in evaluation of tenders submitted for the construction of the
Muhuri Regulator.
Achievement/progress: Objectives were achieved leading to a US$21 million
IDA-financed project (Cr. 725-BD) approved June 16, 1977.
SUBPROJECT IX - Fertilizer Factory Maintenance (US$206,234)
Main objectives: To examine the operations of the fertilizer manufacturing
plants at Fenchuganj, Chittagong, and Ghorasal; make recommendations for
achieving increased output, especially in terms of improved operating and
maintenance procedures, and assist in implementing these recommendations.
This need was identified in the appraisal of the Ashuganj Project.
Achievement/progress: The report led to improved maintenance procedures
and to the Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation Project, Credit 1023-BD,
approved May 20, 1980 for US$29.0 million.
SUBPROJECT X - Fertilizer Marketing and Distribution (US$230,000)
Main objectives: (1) To develop phased proposals for improving the fertilizer
marketing and distribution system, including transport modes and the role of
the public and the private sector in it, as well as all the personnel and
material components. Taking into account costs and benefits, foreign exchange
scarcity and administrative constraints, the resulting system was to be achiev-
able for the period 1976 through 1986; and (2) investment proposals and, to the
extent applicable, reorganizational proposal in order to distribute and market
the country's fertilizer requirements by the end of 1978, when the Ashuganj
Fertilizer Plant was expected to commence commercial operations.
Achievement/progress: Assisted USAID in designing and appraising fertilizer
storage component of recently agreed fertilizer sector credit. A US$25.0
million Fertilizer Transport Credit (Cr. 1096-BD) was approved on January 22,
1981.
SUBPROJECT XI - Water Development Board Project Preparation Unit (US$779,551)
Main objectives: To review and update prior studies and complete feasibility
studies for selected drainage and flood control projects to a standard suit-
able for appraisal by IDA.
Achievement/progress: Feasibility studies were completed for the following
four subprojects which were appraised by IDA in February 1978: (1) Chenchuri
Beel; (2) Kolabashukhali; (3) Brahmaputra Right Embankment; (4) Surma-balai.
The last subproject was not included in the Drainage and Flood Control



- 46-                       ANNEX IV
Page 8
Cr. 409-BD
Project I, as it dici not provide an economic rate of return acceptable to IDA.
Drainage and Flood Control I (Cr. 864-BD) was approved on December 14, 1978
for US$19.0 million.
SUBPROJECT XII - Jute Factory Maintenance (US$167,768)
Main objectives: Af-ter Bangladesh's independence in 1971, the maintenance
of the machinery in the jute mills was neglected to a degree, so that poor
condition of equipment and lack of availability of spare parts resulted.
To devise and implemtent a comprehensive program of preventative maintenance,
together with programs of overhauling and rehabilitation of machinery, a
maintenance task force, consisting initially of expatriate consultants who
were to train local counterparts, was to be established.
Achievement/progress: Expatriate consultants established a maintenance program
and started its implementation in 16 mills. The consultants have now left but
the local counterparts whom they trained are continuing satisfactorily with
the implementation of the program for additional mills. This study assisted in
leading to the Jute Industry Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1032-BD) approved May
29, 1980 for US$20.0 million.
SUBPROJECT XIII - Grain Storage Management Study (US$283,238)
Main objectives: (1) To review existing operations and develop a system to
provide an efficient administration, operation and maintenance for the silos
financed under Foodgrain Storage I (Cr. 381-BD); (2) to prepare operation,
maintenance and inventory control manuals; (3) to develop and organize on-
the-job training for all personnel of the existing silos in Bangladesh.
Achievement/progress: Objectives (1) and (2) have been implemented and various
reports have been submitted. For objective (3), the consultants have submitted
a detailed report recommending a program for local and foreign training of key
Silo personnel and accordingly local training has begun. Foreign training
programs were drawn up and approved by the Ministry of Food and IDA and were
financed under Technical Assistance II Project (Cr. 622-BD). Implementation
of this subproject assisted in bringing about improvements in silo operations
which were a prerequisite for the Second Foodgrain Storage Project (Cr. 787-BD)
approved April 12, 1978 for US$25 million.
SUBPROJECT XIV - Ministry of Agriculture/Bangladesh Agricultural Development
Corporation (BADC) Organization and Management (US$321,543)
Main objectives: Designed to identify and prepare terms of reference for
studies required to streamline the organization of the Ministry of Agriculture
and the Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation (BADC).
Achievement/progress: The consultant's work was completed in July 1978,
and a two-volume report was submitted to IDA and the GOB. The report con-
tained inter alia three major recommendations for technical assistance by



47                        ANNEX IV
Page 9
Cr. 409-BD
IDA for both BADC and the Ministry of Agriculture. For BADC the report
provided terms of reference for further studies for (a) improvement of its
financial management and (b) strengthening of its irrigation/inventory manage-
ment. For the Ministry of Agriculture the report recommended a study of its
manpower requirements and resources. The Government has submitted requests
for follow-up assistance in these fields of which one has been approved for
financing under subsequent technical assistance credits and a second has been
approved in principle subject to IDA approval of the consultants contract.
SUBPROJECT XV - Reprinting Bangladesh Maps (US$59,084)
Main objectives: Updating and reprinting the land-use map and if possible
to update some of the other topical maps (hydrology, transportation, land
capability).
Achievement/progress: Two thousand copies of the base map have been printed
and shipped. These maps, using earth satellite data to record changes in
river courses, land accretion, and other topographical changes since the
previous maps of Bangladesh had been compiled, are being usefully employed
in project preparation and sectoral planning.
SUBPROJECT XVI - Agricultural Credit Review (US$229,884)
Main objectives: See Subproject II of Credit 622-BD. Some portions of
the consultants contract were financed under this Credit to utilize funds
released from completed subprojects.
Achievement/progress: Completed. See description of accomplishments under
Subproject II of Credit 622-BD.
SUBPROJECT XVII - Dacca Water Supply and Sewerage II (US$299,316)
Main objectives: To prepare proposed Second Dacca Water Supply and Sewerage
Project.
Achievement/progress: Led to Second Dacca Water and Sewerage Project
(Credit 941-BD) approved June 26, 1979 for US$22.0 million.
SUBPROJECT XVIII - Chittagong Gas Marketing (US$18,000)
Main objectives: To analyze the market for gas in Chittagong, in order
to assist in determining the feasibility of proposed gas project.
Achievement/progress: Field work completed. Assisted in preparation of
Bakhrabad Gas Project. Credit 1091-BD for US$85.0 million was approved
December 23, 1980.



ANNEX IV
- 48 -                    Page  10
Credit 622-BD
TA II
SUBPROJECT I - Southwest Region Study (US$544,000)
Main objectives: (1) To review available data to assess effects of upstream
diversion of the Ganges with a view to identifying and preparing proposals
for short-term remedial measures; (2) to assist in definition of short- and
long-term groundwater development program for the Southwest Region; (3) recom-
mend measures to improve hydrologicaL data; and (4) prepare terms of reference
for studies of medium and longer term measures for development of the South-
west Zone.
Achievement/progress: The consultants completed the studies as scheduled,
and a final report was submitted in September 1977. Based upon this report,
the Government of Bangladesh and IDA agreed on the financing of a Phase II
subproject including preparation of a specific project for appraisal and some
additional general planning work. (See Credit 622-BD subproject 18 and Credit
872-BD subproject 3.)
SUBPROJECT II - Agricultural Credit Review (US$525,000)
Main objectives: To examine agricultural credit practices, make recommenda-
tions on improving them and assist in the implementation, and identify and
prepare an agricultural project suitable for financing by foreign development
institutions.
Achievement/progress: The study is complete. A proposed IDA Agricultural
credit project has recently been appraised. (Subproject was also partially
financed under Credit 409-BD subproject 16.)
SUBPROJECT III - Jutton Pilot Plant Study (US$950,000)
Main objectives: To design and set up a model plant for jutton (cloth from
yarn made with a blend of jute and cotton fibres) where 10 to 20 kg of jute
fiber will be processed at a time. Resulting fibers will be subjected to
systematic tests for fiber characteristics. It will be blended in different
proportions with cotton and resulting yarn and cloth characteristics will be
tested. The work will be extended to blending of modified jute with synthetic
fibers. The consultant will also study and establish process parameters with
respect of time, temperatures, concentrations of chemicals, etc. for a charge
of 10 kg of jute. If successful, the use of jutton in commercial production
could reduce Bangladesh requirements for importing cotton.
Achievement/progress: A difference of opinion between BSCSIR and the Science
and Technology Division regarding the contract for procurement of equipment
and machinery has been resolved. Implementation of the subproject is now



49                        ANNEX IV
-                     Page 11
Credit 622-BD
proceeding. Financing beyond the Closing Date of Credit 622-BD will be pro-
vided under subproject 7 of Credit 872-BD.
SUBPROJECT IV - PLANNING ASSISTANCE (US$120,000)
Main objectives: To provide advisors to improve project planning capabilities
in connection with preparation of the Second Five-Year Plan of Bangladesh.
Achievement/progress: Project was originally to provide eight advisors, but
Government and consultants could not reach agreement on suitable candidates
for positions. Project was reduced to include only the adviser to the
Planning Commission on Physical Planning and Housing. Planning Commission
reports that advisor played useful role in assisting in plan preparation in
this sector.
SUBPROJECT V - Rural Development Thana Surveys (US$172,000)
Main objectives: To carry out engineering and socio-economic surveys in 29
Thanas designed to prepare proposed second Rural Development Project.
Achievement/progress: Completed. While the study is expected to lead to a
future Rural Development Project, appraisal has been deferred originally
awaiting improved progress on Rural Development I Project and now pending
progress on proposed IFAD Rural Development Project. IDA's Second Rural
Development project is now expected to be appraised in about FY82.
SUBPROJECT VI - Bangladesh Institute for Development Studies (BIDS) Training
Cancelled due to failure of the Government to provide its budgetary
contribution.
SUBPROJECT VII - North Bengal Paper Mills (US$102,000)
Main objectives: To examine the operational difficulties of the North Bengal
Paper Mills and to recommend measures to rehabilitate and improve their
efficiency to a satisfactory level of operation.
Achievement/progress: Completed. BCIC has submitted a formal Balancing,
Modernization and Rehabilitation (BMR) project proposal for a US$5.0 million
rehabilitation program to ERD for submission to IDA for review and possible
financing. IDA has indicated to GOB that it is prepared to consider financing
the BMR project but this should be within the context of the long-term devel-
opment program currently being prepared for the industry.



- 50 -                        ANNEX IV
Page 12
Credit 622-BD
SUBPROJECT VIII - Architectural Services -- Agricultural Research (USS180,000)
Main objectives: To prepare site and building plans, and tender documents
required for facilities to be constructed under Agricultural Research Project
(Cr. 828-BD).
Achievement/progress: Completion expected shortly. Early start in prepara-
tion of architectural plans has led to more rapid implementation of Credit
828-BD.
SUBPROJECT IX - Chittagong Water Supply (US$520,000)
Main objectives: To prepare a water supply development plan and a feasibil-
ity study for the Chittagong metropolitan area to meet water needs through
the year 2000. The Chittagong Water Supply II Project falls under said plan.
Achievement/progress: The second Chittagong Water Supply Project was approved
March 25, 1980 for US$20.0 million as follow-up investment (Cr. 1001-BD).
SUBPROJECT X - Small Industries Training (US$17,000)
Main objectives: To finance costs of eight commercial bank personnel to be
trained in India to enable them to carry out new responsibilities under the
Second Small Scale Industry Project (Cr. 825-BD).
Achievement/progress: Trained staff have now returned to work on the SSSI
project.
SUBPROJECT XI - Pulp and Paper Advisor (US$45,000)
Main objectives: To advise Bangladesh Chemical Industries Corporation (BCIC)
on long-term prospects and measures necessary for the development of the pulp
and paper industry in Bangladesh, and to assist in the evaluation of various
studies of BCIC's paper mills and to assist in initial operation of a new
BCIC paper industry planning cell.
Achievement/progress: Subproject Terminated. No report prepared. Contract
issues submitted to International Chamber of Commerce for arbitration. Gov-
ernment is making alternative arrangements for completion of plan for pulp
and paper sector.
SUBPROJECT XII - Foodgrain Storage Training (US$20,000)
Main objectives: To finance the training of silo maintenance personnel to
improve their ability to maintain facilities financed under the First Food-
grain Storage Project (Cr. 381-BD).
Achievement/progress: Sub-project was terminated after one year of the
intended two year program. Government decided not to send second batch of
employees for training.



_ 51_                       ANNEX IV
Page 13
Credit 622-BD
SUBPROJECT XIII - Drainage and Flood Control--Phase I (US$1,500,000)
Main objectives: To finance consultants' assistance in preparation of selected
drainage and flood control projects.
Achievement/progress: Feasibility studies completed. A proposed second
Drainage and Flood Control Project has been appraised. Consultants currently
assisting in selecting projects for preparation for a proposed third Drainage
and Flood Control Project.
SUBPROJECT XIV - Sector Corporation Management Training (US$100,000)
Main objectives: Overseas management training for key officials of sector
corporations under the Ministry of Industries.
Achievement/progress: Completed. Ten corporation officials received training
abroad.
SUBPROJECT XV - Dacca Water and Sewerage Authority Engineering (US$421,000)
Main objectives: To expedite work for inclusion in the Second Dacca Water
and Sewerage Project, through completion of engineering and preparation of
tender documents.
Achievement/progress: Completed. The IDA credit was approved June 26, 1979
for US$22.0 million for the Second Dacca Water Supply and Sewerage as follow-
up investment (Cr. 941-BD).
SUBPROJECT XVI - Highway Maintenance Study (US$560,000)
Main objectives: To advise on investment requirements in the field of road
maintenance and rehabilitation.
Achievement/progress: Phase I completed. Start of work on Phase II delayed
because of disagreements within Government over the scope of work, with differ-
ent emphasis proposed by Road and Highway Department and Ministry of Planning.
SUBPROJECT XVII - Advisor to Ministry of Agriculture (US$104,000)
Main objectives: To provide advisor to Secretary of Ministry of Agriculture
to assist him in improving organizational structure, internal management
systems and manpower utilization within the Ministry of Agriculture and
Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation.
Achievement/progress: Ongoing. Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture has
indicated consultants advice has been useful in assisting his ministerial
reorganization efforts. While credit for specific decisions must be given
to Bangladesh policy makers, advisor appears to have played helpful role in
assisting relevant policy makers in reaching their decisions.



- 52-                         ANNEX IV
Page 14
Credit 622-BD
SUBPROJECT XVIII -. Southwest Region Special Studies (US$2.2 million)
Main objectives: To prepare overall programs for land and water development
in the Southwest region and feasibility studies for two specific projects in
this region. (Expenses after full utilization of credit 622-BD to be financed
under Cr. 872-BD subproject 3.)
Achievement/progress: This is Phase II of subproiect I, Southwest Region
Studies.  Ongoing.  Consultants reports scheduled for completion in early 1981.
SUBPROJECT XIX - Chittagong Gas Marketing (US$17,000)
Main objectives: To analyze the market for gas in Chittagong. (Continuation
of subproject XVIII of 409-BD.)
Achievement/progress: Completed. Subproject contributed to the preparation
of Credit 1091-BD for the Bakhrabad Chittagoing Gas Pipeline Project.
SUBPROJECT XX - Fertilizer Maintenance (US$94,000)
Main objectives: To improve the operations of the existing fertilizer manu-
facturing plants at Fenchuganj, Chittagong and Ghorasal (continuation of
subproject IX of 409-BD).
Achievement/progress: Completed. Assisted fertilizer industry in improving
operations and identified rehabilitation requirements which were financed
under Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1023-BD), approved
May 20, 1980 for US$29.0 million.
SUBPROJECT XXI - Chittagong Port (US$500,000)
Main objectives: To prepare proposals for improving cargo handling and opera-
tion of mechanical handling equipment, financing and accounting practices as
well as improve port training facilities.
Achievement/progress: Ongoing. Is helping to prepare the proposed Chittagong
Ports Project scheduled for consideration in FY82. The subproject is partially
financed under Cr. 872-BD, subproject 9.
SUBPROJECT XXII - Pussur River Study (US$40,000)
Main objectives: To evaluate previous studies concerning the causes of silta-
tion in the Pussur River which is affecting the Port of Chalna and determine
what can be done, if anything to maintain the channels to the port.  Being
partially financed under Cr. 872-BD, subproject 4.
Achievement/progress: Field survey has been successfully completed and
results are now being analyzed. Consultant's report, expected to be received
this month, will recommend program of short-term remedial works and further
studies for longer term improvements.



- 53                ~~~~ANNEX IV
Page 15
Credit 622-BD
SUBPROJECT XXIII - Barisal/Patuakhali Irrigation (US$30,000)
Main objectives: To provide equipment needed to collect data required by
consultants for detailed engineering and preparation of cost estimates for
a land and water development proposal suited to World Bank financing.
Achievement/progress: Equipment being procured. TOR for related consultants
services agreed in principle for financing under Credit 872. Project expected
to be ready for consideration in FY83.
SIJBPROJECT XXIV - Gas Pipeline (US$600,000)
Main objectives: To provide initial funding for the consultancy services
for engineering design and drilling planning prior to the effectiveness of
the Bakhrabad-Chittagong Gas Project (Credit 1091-BD).
Achievement/progress: Ongoing. Allowed consultants to begin detailed
engineering and planning work shortly after completion of negotiations.



- 54 -                     ANNEX IV
Page 16
Credit 872-BD
TA III
SUBPROJECT I - Public Administration Curriculum Development (US$15,000)
Main objectives: To help Government identify the training needs for Govern-
ment and corporation officials in public administration.
Achievement/progress: Completed. FuLrther preparation for proposed Public
Administration Training Project now being financed under UNDP project.
SUBPROJECT II - Vocational Training Preparation (US$2,000)
Main objectives: To finance local consultant to prepare architectural design
and initiate detailed project planning prior to effectiveness of Vocational
Training Project (Cr. 912-BD) approved May 22, 1979.
Achievement/progress: Completed. Permitted an early start on architectural
designs and project planning.
SUBPROJECT III - Southwest Region Special Studies (US$1,000,000)
Main objectives: To prepare overall programs for land and water development
in the Southwest region of Bangladesh and feasibility studies for two specific
projects in this region.
Achievement/progress: Ongoing. Disbursement will continue under Cr. 622-BD,
subproject 18 until exhausted before 872-BD begins to be disbursed. The
subproject is expected to be completed in early 1981.
SUBPROJECT IV - Pussur River Study (US$20,000)
Main objectives: To identify causes of siltation in Pussur River which is
affecting the Port of Chalna and to determine what can be done, if anything,
to maintain the channels to the port. Partially financed under Credit 622-BD,
subproject 22.
Achievement/progress: Field work has been completed. Final report is ex-
pected to be received this month. The consultant is recommending a program of
short-term remediaL works and further studies for longer-term improvement of
the river.
SUBPROJECT V - External Resources Division - Phase I (US$35,000)
Main objectives: To finance a program of familiarization visits for ERD
staff handling IDA projects, and local consultants assistance to improve
efficiency of administration, monitoring and implementation of IDA TA credits.
Achievement/progress: Ongoing. ERD staff report that their visits have led
to increased understanding of IDA procedures. Consultants have assisted ERD
staff in improving monitoring of TA credits.



- 55 -                      ANNEX IV
Page 17
Credit 872-BD
SUBPROJECT VI - Oxbow Lake Sedimentation (US$32,000)
Main objectives: The consultant carried out a study on the degree of
sedimentation in the lakes of the Oxbow Lakes Fisheries Project.
Achievement/progress: Completed. The subproject supports Cr. 890-BD, Oxbow
Lakes Fishery, approved March 29, 1979 for US$6.0 million.
SUBPROJECT VII - Jutton Pilot Plant (US$1,200,000)
Main objectives: To design and set up a model plant for jutton (cloth from
yarn made with a blend of jute and cotton fibres) where 10 to 20 kg of jute
fiber will be processed at a time. Resulting fibers will be subjected to
systematic tests for fiber characteristics. It will be blended in different
proportions with cotton and resulting yarn and cloth characteristics will be
tested. The work will be extended to blending of modified jute with synthetic
fibers. The consultant will also study and establish process parameters with
respect of time, temperatures, concentrations of chemicals, etc. for a charge
of 10 kg of jute. If successful, the use of jutton in commercial production
could reduce Bangladesh requirements for importing cotton.
Achievement/progress: A difference of opinion between BSCSIR and the Science
and Technology Division regarding the contract for procurement of equipment
and machinery has been resolved. Implementation of the subproject is now
proceeding smoothly.
SUBPROJECT VIII - Road Research Laboratory (US$711,000)
Main objectives: To strengthen soils and pavement testing capabilities of
the Roads and Highways Department.
Achievement/progress: Considerable delays. Revised consultants contract
being negotiated.
SUBPROJECT IX - Chittagong Port Studies (US$980,000)
Main objectives: To prepare proposals for improving cargo handling and opera-
tion of mechanical handling equipment, financing and accounting practices as
well as improve port training facilities.
Achievement/progress: Ongoing. Project being financed also under Cr. 622-BD,
subproject 21. Helping to prepare for the proposed Chittagong Ports Project
scheduled for consideration in FY82.
SUBPROJECT X - Pulse Breeding (US$150,000)
Main objectives: To assist Bangladesh Agricultural Research Institute in
developing its program in the field of pulses breeding and production.



- 56 -                       ANNEX IV
Page 18
Achievement/progress.  Ongoing.  About two more years of consultancy services
are expected to be funded in this project.
Credit 872-BD
SUBPROJECT XI - Primary School Mapping (US$3,000)
Main objectives: Mapping 30 thanas for primary school locations and alloca-
tion of school resources to match the distribution of the potential population.
Achievement/progress:  Completed.  Assisted in Preparation of Primary
Education Project (Cr. 1054-BD), approved June 1980 for US$40.0 million.
SUBPROJECT XII - BADC Accounting Improvement (US$350,000)
Main objectives: To assist BADC in developing and implementing improved
systems of financial accounting budgetary control, stores accounting, internal
audit and management information systems.
Achievement/progress: Ongoing. Proposed systems have been developed and
recommendations were discussed by BADC and consultants in December 1980.
Following some modifications, agreement is to be reached with the consultants
on a program for detailed system design, staff training, and preparation of
operations manuals.
SUBPROJECT XIII - Pussur River Survey (US$57,000)
Main objectives: To finance the river survey works required to support
the consultant financed under Subproject IV.
Achievement/progress: Completed. Provided data needed for analysis of
Pussur River siltation.
SUBPROJECT XIV - Sugar Project Preparation (US$15,000)
Main objectives: To assist in preparation of a proposed sugar project.
Achievement/progress: Completed, but withdrawal applications not yet sub-
mitted. Consultants report will assist Bangladesh Sugar and Food Industries
Corporation in preparing project proposal for IDA consideration.
SUBPROJECT XV - Industrial Project Profiles (US$50,000)
Main objectives: To formulate a list of worthwhile industrial projects
suitable for external financing.
Achievement/progress: Not being implemented pending clarification of status
of similar program, being carried out with UNIDO financing.



57                        ANNEX IV
Page 19
Credit 872-BD
SUBPROJECT XVI - Telecommunications Accounting (US$48,000)
Main objectives: To introduce a modern commercial accounting system in the
Bangladesh T&T Board and to train personnel for smooth transition from the
existing system to the new one.  Support for ongoing Telecommunication II
(Credit 487-BD).
Achievement/progress:  Ongoing; consultants have been working since August 1,
1980.
SUBPROJECT XVII - Ashuganj Power Preparation (US$500,000)
Main objectives: To verify the feasibility and clarify the relevant
technical and economical aspects of the intended installation.
Achievement/progress: Approved by IDA November 18, 1980. Contract was signed
with consultant November 22, 1980. Feasibility report to be submitted by the
end of February 1981 and final design to be completed May 1981.
SUBPROJECT XVIII - Investment Approval Procedures Study (US$21,000)
Main objectives: To develop proposals for improving the Government procedures
for reviewing proposals relating to private sector industrial investments.
Achievement/progress: Consultant has begun work.
SUBPROJECT XIX - Cyclone Project Evaluation (US$45,750)
Main objectives: To assist the Government with data collection and analysis
in connection with the Government's preparation of a Project Completion Report
for the Cyclone Area Rehabilitation Project (Credit 339-BD).
Achievement/progress: Consultant has begun work.



- 58 -                      ANNEX V
PROPOSED FOURTH TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
Illustrative List of Subprojects
Amount
(US$1,000)
1.  Strengthening Local Consulting 'Industry                              250
2.  WDB Small Water Schemes                                               500
3.  Construction Industry Improvement Study                               400
4.  Pussar River Phase II                                                 100
5.  Bangladesh Shipping Corporation                                       450
6.  Barisal/Patuakhali Irrigation Project Preparation                     500
7.  Education Planning                                                    200
8.  Foodgrain Mar]keting & Storage Study                                  450
9.  BADC Project and Procurement Monitoring                               150
10.  Strengthening Capacity of 7 Key Ministries                          2,000
11.  Phosphate Gypsum                                                      150
12.  Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council Phase II Preparation         150
13.  Methanol Feasiblity Study                                             100
14.  Drainage and Flood Control III Preparation                          1,500



