IT NUMBER 1124 BD
Development Credit Agreement
(Fourth Technical Assistance Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
Fnd
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated       /               3 1          1981


﻿CREDIT NUhBER 1124 BD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated gatd   -3/ , 1981, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
OF BANGLADESH (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; DefinItions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the term "Sub-project" means a particular study or project of
technical assistance to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to Special Drawing Rights (SDR 12,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to paragraph (b) below the amount
of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account in accord-
ance with allocations of the proceeds of the Credit agreed between
the Borrower and the Association pursuant to Section 3.01 hereof,
as such allocations may be amended from time to time by agreement
between the Borrower and the   Association, for expenditures made
(or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) after the date
of this Agreement in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and agreed to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿-2-
(b) Except as the Borrower and the Association may otherwise
agree, withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be limited to:'
(i) one hundred per cent of expenditures for services
rendered by consultants or consulting firms;
(ii) one hundred per cent of expenditures in curren-
cies other than the currency of the Borrower (or,
if the Association shall so agree, one hundred per
cent of the ex-factory cost in the currency of the
Borrower) for equipment and materials required to
carry out Sub-projects and procured directly by the
Borrower; and
(iii) one hundred per cent of expenditures for overseas
travel of the Borrower's personnel working on
Sub-projects with the consultants referred to in
subparagraph (i) above or for overseas training
programs. "Borrower's personnel" means persons
employed by the Government of Bangladesh and its
agencies, including an entity, the majority of
which is owned by the Government and its agencies;
provided, however, that no proceeds of the Credit shall be dis-
bursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the
territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be April 30, 1985
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 15
and October 15 commencing April 15, 1991, and ending October 15,
2030, each installment to and including the installment payable on


﻿-3-
October 15, 2000, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such prircipal amount.
Section 2.07. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Description of the Project; Use of
Proceeds of the Credit
Section 3.01. (a) The Project for which the Credit is granted
consists of the carrying out of high priority Sub-projects
selected by agreement between the Borrower and the Association
which are designed to assist the Borrower in the planning and
implementation of its programs of economic development and
rehabilitaticn and in the improvement of management for key
enterprises.
(b) Sub-projects shall be selected in accordance with
the criteria set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(c) The purpose and scope of each Sub-project, the method
of implementation thereof and the specific allocation thereto
of proceeds of the Credit shall be determined by agreement between
the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceed of the Credit against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower
to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraph
(b) below, except as the Association may otherwise agree, the
equipment and materials to be financed under Section 2.02 (b) (ii)
hereof shall be procured on the basis of international competitive


﻿-4-
bidding under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits published by
the Bank in March 1977.
(b) Contracts for equipment and materials estimated to cost
each less than $50,000 equivalent may be let through normal
procurement procedures of the Borrower satisfactory to the
Association, provided that the aggregate for such contracts shall
not exceed $500,000 equivalent.
(c) For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender documents relating thereto, a general procure-
ment   notice, in such form and detail and containing such
information as the Association shall reasonably request; the
Association will arrange for the publication of such notice in
order to provide timely notification to prospective bidders of the
opportunity to bid for the goods in question. The Borrower shall
provide the necessary information to update such notice annually
so long as any goods remain to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding.
ARTICLE IV
Execution of the Project
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause each Sub-project
to be carried out with due diligence and efficiency and shall make
available, promptly as needed, all funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
(b) The External Resources Division of the Ministry of
Finance of the Borrower shall be responsible for ensuring effec-
tive coordination among the ministries and agencies of the
Borrower concerned in the implementation of the Project, and in
order to assist in achieving such coordination an officer of such
Division shall continue to be designated as Project Coordinator.
(c) For each Sub-project the Borrower shall establish
arrangements and procedures, satisfactory to the Borrower and
the Association, for selecting services, equipment and supplies
and directing their use for such Sub-project, and for supervising


﻿- 5 -
and directing the work of any consultants employed therefor and
reviewing the reports and recommendations of such consultants.
Section 4.02. (a) For the purpose of carrying out any
Sub-project which requires the employment of consultants, the
Borrower shall employ qualified and experienced consultants
acceptable to the Borrower and the Association, under contracts,
including terms of reference, satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Association.
(b) The Borrower shall take all reasonable measures to
facilitate the work of consultants in the performance of their
services for the Project and make available to them all infor-
mation relevant to the Sub-project involved.
(c) The Borrower shall not amend or waive any of the terms
and conditions of employment of consultants employed for any
Sub-project, or grant any material extension of time or any
approval of sub-contracts or modifications thereof, or agree to
substitution of personnel of such consultants, without prior
agreement between the Borrower and the Association. The Borrower
shall promptly inform the Association if it proposes to suspend
payments under or terminate any contract with such co-asultants.
Section 4.03. For each Sub-project, except as the Association
may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall submit the following
to the Association for its approval:
(a) a detailed description of the studies and work to
be carried out in connection with the proposed Sub-project,
including a time schedule for, the purposes and objectives of,
and the benefits expected from such Sub-project;
(b) the selection procedures, qualifications, terms of
reference and duration of service for any consultants to be
engaged in carrying out the proposed Sub-project;
(c) description of the role of the department or agency
or personnel of the Borrower to be responsible for the execution
of the proposed Sub-project;
(d) description of amenities and counterpart staff, if
any, to be supplied by the Borrower;


﻿-6-
(e) estimated foreign and local costs of the proposed
Sub-project broken down by major items and showing amounts to
be financed by the Borrower and out of the proceeds of the Credit,
respectively, and an estimated disbursement schedule; and
(f) measures to be taken to comply with paragraphs (b)
and (c) of Section 4.02, including any proposed variations in the
procedures described in the Guidelines referred to in Section
3.03.
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall cause the consultants
employed for the Project promptly to furnish to the Association
copies of the documents prepared by them for the Project,
including reports and drafts thereof, in such number as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to
time exchange views with respect to the evaluation and possible
implementation of the recommendations and other conclusions
contained in the documents referred to in the foregoing paragraph
(a).
(c) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain, or cause to be
maintained records and procedures adequate to record and monitor
the progress of the Project and of each Sub-project (including its
cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to identify the
goods and   services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
and to  disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall enable the
Association's representatives to inspect any records and documents
relevant to the Project, including records and documents which the
consultants employed by the Borrower shall be required to keep for
the purposes of the Project; and (iii) shall furnish or cause to
be furnished to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the expenditure of
the proceeds of the Credit and the Project.
(d) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained sound accounting practices the operations, resources
and expenditures, in respect of each Sub-project, of the depart-
ments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the
Project or any part thereof.
(e) The Borrower shall, not later than six months after the
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose


﻿-7-
between the Borrower and the Association, prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Association of their respective obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
ARTICLE V
Additional Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower, terminate in whole or in part the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account on account of
any Sub-project if any of the following events shall have occurred
and be continuing:
(a) the Borrower shall have failed to perform any covenant,
agreement or obligation under this Agreement in respect of such
Sub-project;
(b) the contract referred to in Section 4.02 (a) hereof for
the employment of consultants to assist in the carrying out of
such Sub-project shall not have come into force and effect within
six months from the date of the Association's approval of such
Sub-project pursuant to the provisions of Section 4.03 hereof;
and
(c) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that such Sub-project can be carried out
in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Termination
Section 6.01. The date   U    1, 19 /    , is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Se ion 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Deputy Secretary and Section Officer of the External
Resources Division of the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower are
designated as representatives of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
External Resources Division
Ministry of Finance
Government of the
People's Republic of Bangladesh
Dacca
Bangladesh
Cable address:
BAHIRSAMPAD
Dacca
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the


﻿-9-
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By
Authorized Representative
on behalf of the President
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Criteria for Sub-project Eligibility
1.   A Sub-project should be one of the following:
(a) a feasibility study or other investigation required
for preparing projects suitable for financing by the
Association or other external financing agencies (with
priority given to studies of projects believed likely
to be suitable for consideration for financing by the
Association);
(b) technical assistance or staff training program designed
to strengthen institutions in Bangladesh responsible for
project planning and implementation; or
(c) a study to provide information required for the selec-
tion of specific projects for implementation, or for
improvement of overall economic planning.
2.   A Sub-project should be mutually agreed to be of high
priority in the Borrower's development efforts.
3.   A Sub-project should h1ve no equally suitable financing
available from the United Nations Development Program or other
external financing agencies.
4.   A Sub-project proposal should include adequate arrangements,
by the executing agencies, for the provision of office space,
secretarial facilities, counterpart staff, transportation and
other operational facilities required for the Sub-project to
proceed efficiently and to permit Bangladeshi staff to develop
their expertise.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198 1.
FOR SECRETARY


