Doanct of
The World Bank
FOI OFMCIAL USE ONLY
Ratp No. 12022
PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
PORTUGAL
HOUSING FINANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2640-PO)
JUNE 17, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: 12022
Type: PCR
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Ope.atious Evaluation
MEOWRANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Note on Portugal
Housing Finance Proiect (Loan 2640-POR)
Attached is "Project Completion Note on Portugal - Housing Finance
Project (Loan 2640-POR)" prepared by the Europe and Central Asia Regional Office.
The project was canceled before the loan was signed because ;he
Government of Portugal preferred alternative funds to implement the project.
The-re ias full agreement with the designate-implementing agency about the
institutional development goals.  Most of them were achieved by the time the
project was approved as the Bank-borrower dialogue proved fruitful and led to
agreements on the necessary features of the housing finance intermediary (sound
financial policy) and itr lending program (focus on moderate income groups with
appropriate designs and lowered construction standa:rds).
This experience confirms that the Bank can, apart from its resource
transfer role, contribute to institutional development through advisory inputs
at the project inception and preparation sta6es.
The overall project outcome and its sustainability cannot be rated;
institutional development is rated as substantial.
I This dociment has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without WorLd Bank authorization.



P     D8JCT C  I    OTK
PORTUGAL
HOUSING FINANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2640-PO)
Simary:                  Loan 2640-PO for a Housing Finance Project was
approved by the Board on December 3, 1985. It was
never signed by the Government of Portugal and, at the
latter's request. was cancelled by the Bank on
April 6, 1987.
Basic Data:
Borrower:                Republic of Portugal
Beneficiary              Nutional Housing Institute (Instituto Nacional de
Habitaqgo - INE)
Loan amount:             USD 25 million
Board Approval:          December 3, 198_
Total Project Cost:      USD 56.6 million
Project Financing:       IBRD                     USD 25.0 million
USAID Housing Guarantee USD 25.0 million
USAID TA Grant           USD  0.6 million
Local Developers         USD  6.0 million
Project Objectives:      The objectives of the project were to support the
Government's social housing policy by providing low-
cost affordable serviced plots and turnkey housing
units to about 26,000 the lower income segment of the
urban population through a financial institution
specialized in low-cost housing finance.
Sumary of Project Performance:
Preparation of the project started in Sej amber 1982 at the request of
the Government of Portugal. It was appraised i: October 1984. Negotiations
took place in May 1985. The Board approved Loan 2640-PO on December 3, 1985.
The Government of Portugal deferred signing the loan and on March 31, 1987
requested the Bank to cancel it. Official notice of cancellation was sent to
the Government on April 6, 1987.
The project fell victim to a series of various external circumstances
whose importance was not necessarily foreseeable during project preparat
Political instability in the country and changes in the institutional



2
framework for housing finance contributed to delaying the finalization of the
project. Early 1984, the original Gover.anmet implementing agency. FAIH (Fundo
de Apoio ao Investimento par& a habitaq&o-FAIH) wa replaced by INH (Instituto
Nacional de Babitaqgo) vhose legal status and operating conditions remained
uncertain for several months. Appraisal. initially scheduled for December
1983, had therefore to be postponed several times until it could finally take
place in October 1984. Government approval of the May 1985 negotiations and
the draft loan documents wav held up for another five months for reasons of a
political crisis and the lack of a established government.
The main problem for the project. however, was that by the time the loan
got approved, Portugal had gained access to sources of funding for low-income
housing that were offering resources under more favorable and less stringent
conditions that those offered by the Bank:
As a side benefit to the agreement concluded in December 1983 between US
and Portugal on the use of the Lajas airbase on the Acoros islands, the US
Government proposed Portugal early 1984 an aid package that included a USAID
USD 75 million housing guarantee program wvth a first tranche of USD 25
million of housing construction loans at a rate two points lower than that
offered by the Bank. As a result, the Bank loan Was scaled down from
originally USD 50 million to USD 25 million, while USAID agreed to join the
project as a cofinancier. The Bank's decision tc continue project preparation
was based on the assumption that the USAID guaranteed construction loans would
not be rolled-over, but consolidated into mortgage financing through
specializpd institut_.ons, and that in this case the Bank loan would still be
needed to fill INH's anticipated resource gap for 1986 and 1987. In 1986,
however, USAID apparently decided, for reasons of its own, to authorize the
roll-over of its construction loans and thus helped INH to significantly
reduce its bcrrowing needs
Furthermore, in 1986 INH was authorized by the Govern.ant to borrow up
to US$40 million for housing finance from the Council of Europe's Resettlement
Fund at an interest rate that was about half of that of the Bank's then
prevailing rates thus was able to fill most of its possible financing gaps.
The attractiveness of the Bank loan was dealt a last blow by the Bank's
refusal in 1987 to amend the loan amortization schedule to offset the effects
of the lapsing of the 3-year grace period.
4.    Although the loan never became effective, Bank staff estimated that
through its very preparation the project had a strong and positive impact on
Portugal's policy framework for housing finance and related institutional
arrangements by fostering a series of legal decision3 on the provision of
legal status to illegal settlements, the regime of rent control, the phasing
out of housing subsidies, etc..
5.    In hindsight, it seems that the Bank probably underestimated the risks
stemming from the availability of other more advantageous funding sources and
overestimated the attractiveness of its own loan resources on a competitive
market. A more realistic assessment of the likely prospects for the Bank's
resources to be used under these circumstances could have advocated
discontinuing project preparation at an earlier stage and allowed significant
savings in staff resources.



