Dwncmat of
The World Bank
FM OMCUL USE ONLY
Repwt No. 5412-PO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PORTUGAL
HOUSING FINANCE PROJECT
June 3, 1985
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
Urban and Regional Development Projects Division
It nd bUa   - -  S bi ut   o6kWhb b dby  weikS W dy Ikn oh.Pdwm*



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit = Escudo (Esc); Esc 1,000 = Conto 1 (C)
US$1 = Esc 153 (mid-1984)
Cl = US$6.5
FISCAL YEAR (FY)
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATION
CGD    Caixa Geral de Dep6sitos (General Housing Deposit Bank)
CPP    Cr6dito Predial Portugues (Portuguese Housing Credit Bank)
EEC    European Economic Coummunity
FAIH Fundo de Apoio ao Investmento para a Habitagao (Housing Investment
Support Fund)
FFH    Fundo de Fomento de Habitacao (Housing Development Fund)
CAT    Gabinete de Apoio Tecnico (Technical Assistance Office)
GEP    Gabinete de Estudos e Planeamento (Office of Studies and Planning)
HGP    US-AID Housing Guarantee Program
INH    Instituto Nacional de Habitaqao (National Housing Institute)
LNEC   Laboratorio Nacional de Engenharia Civil (National Civil
Engineering Laboratory)
MSE    Ministerio de Equipamento Social (Ministry of Social Equipment)
MOF    Ministry of Finance
PRID   Program de Recuperacao de Imoveis Degradados (Program for
Improvement of Dilapidated Housing)
US-AID US Agency for International Development



FOR OICIL USE ONLY
PORUGAL
BOUSIM FnANCE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contentts
Paige ND.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUAY  *.................................   i
I.     INTRODUCTION ......................................I
II.     URBAN SBCTot              .......            ..........               2
A.  Urbanization Trends                                              2
B.  The Government's Rousing Policy Between 1974-1981                3
'C. Policy Developments Since 1982             .......                5
D.  flousing Finance Institutions ........................            6
E.  Lending Terms, Interest Rates, and Subsidies                      7
F.  Bank Strategy in the Sector and Project Rationale .......   10
II.     TEE INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE NABrIACAO ................. .*.**..  11
A.  Legal Status, Objectives, and Functions .............*....   11
B.  Organization, Management, and Staffing ..................   12
C.  Policies and Procedures .................................   13
D.  Operations ad Finance ........................           ....   15
IV.     THE PROJECT . ............*....s.... ................   16
A.  Objectives and Scope ....................................   16
B.  Project Description      .     ............                     17
C. Terms and Conditions                         ....22
D.  Procurement and Disbursement ..2... ... 22
E. Monitoring ..........                         .       .. 23
V.  PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS    ..24
VI.  ASSURANCES AND RECOMMEDDATIONS .....25
This report, written by J-F. Landeau, is based on the findings of an
appraisal mission vhich visited Lisbon in September-October 1984. The
mission imcluded J-F. Landeau (Mission leader), C. Hovnanian and M. Chr6tien
(Consultants).
I Tkb doxane has a resUikctd dbuikeon and my be used by recipents only in the performanu  of
their ofricial duties. Its contnts may ea odarwiw be dsdoed without Wodd Dank utionzadao



Table of Contents (cont'd)
Page No.
ANNES
Annex L: Social Housing Legislation Enacted since 1983 .------------   27
Annex 2:  EH's Organization Chart ........ - . . . . . ........................... .    28
Annex 3:  INDMs Proposed Statement of General and Operational
Policies      ................................................   29
Annex 4: Housing Units ........    .....................................   31
Table 1 - Projected Comuitmeuts of INK Lending Program    ............   31
Table 2 - Housing Units Built Annu6lly in Portugal 1970/1983   ......  32
Annex 5: Major Assumptions Underlying INh Projection ....  ...........  33
Table 1 - Actual and Projected Lending Operations (1983-1987) ......   34
Table 2 - Actual and Projected Income Statements (1983-1987)   ......  34
Table 3 - Actual and Projected Balance Sheets (1983-1987) .........  35
Table 4 - Actual and Projected Sources and Application of
Funds (1983-1987)    .    ..............   36
Table 5 - Project Financing Plan (1984-1987)      ......................   37
Table 6 - Projected Performunce Indicators (1984-1987) ........... .   38
Annex 6: Subproject Eligibility Criteria        ...........................   39
Annex 7: Affordability Test ............................. .40
Annex 8: Draft Sub-Loan Agreement for Consolidating World Bank
Funds into Mortgage Loans ...............................   41
Annex 9: Estimated Disbursement Schedule .....    ......................   43
Annex 10: Inventory of Project Background Documents, Data
and Details Available in the Project File    ...............  44



PORTUGAL
HOUSING FINNCE PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SID!ARY
Borrower:              The Republic of Portugal
Beneficiary Axency:   The National Housing Fund (INH)
Loan Amount:           US$25.0 million
Loan Terms:            Standard
Proiect Objectives:    To support the Government's social housing policy by
providing low-cost affordable serviced plots and
turnkey housing units to the lover income segment of
the urban population through a financial institution
specialized in low-cost housing finance.
Project Description:   Financing of the construction of eligible sub-
projects, then consolidation into co-financing of
mortgage loans granted by three specialized
institutions to the beneficiaries of these sub-
projects.
Proiect Costs:                                   US$'OOO          2
Plot Servicing, Housing Construction        56,000.0         98.9
Technical Assistance                           600.0          1.1
56,600.0        100.0
Financing Plau
World Bank                                  25,000.0         44.2
US-AID Housing Guarantee Loan               25,000.0         44.2
US-AID Technical Assistance Grant              600.0          1.1
Developers                                   6,000.0         10.6
56,600.0        100.0
Estimated Disbursements               FT 1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
AnnuaL                                2.5    6.5    9.0    5.0    2.0
Cumulative                            2.5    9.0   18.0   23.0   25.0



PORTUGAL
HOUSING FINANCE PROJECT
I.  INTRODUCTION
1.01     The Government of Portugal has recently adopted new urban and housing
policies. Until 1983, the focus was on provision of highly subsidized rental
housing, tightly controlled from the center. Now the focus is decentralized
with the participation of different downstream sectors, municipalities and
commercial developers as well as non-profit organizations (cooperatives). The
former policy had been costly and ineffective in reaching its intended
beneficiaries. The new policy emphasizes cost reduction, affordable
standards, and mobilization of private initiatives.  'I. is in line with the
findings and reconmendations of the Urban Sector Discussion Paper.L" The
Discussion Paper suggested the need for the Government to shift its priority
from the provision of fully finished housing to the supply of infrastructure
and lower-cost housing units; it also stressed the need for adequate standards
and cost recovery.
1.02     The proposed project has been formulated with the objective of
supporting the Government's recent social housing policy orientation and the
new institution, Instituto Nacional de Habitagao (IRK), established to
implemnt it. The project would be the Bank's first operation in the housing
sector in Portugal.
1.03     The project would be implemented through a US$25.0 million loan to
the Republic of Portugal to be used in two successive phases. First, it would
be on-lent as a medium-term line of credit to IN to finance the construction
phase of low-cost housing (para. 2.27). Upon completion of the construction
phase, it would be consolidated into a long-term line of credit from INE to
three specialized institutions to finance mortgage loans (paras. 2.22-2.26).
There would also be cofinancing in the form of a US$25 million loan from US
coimercial banks guaranteed by the US-AID Housing Guarantee Program (the first
tranche of a US$50 million commitment). The first US-AID loan was approved in
September 1984 and borrowing is scheduled for July 1985. A technical
assistance component to strengthen INH is financed through a US$600,000 grant
from US-AID (FY1985).
1/ Portugal - Urban Sector Discussion Paper (Report No. 4425-PO, March 21,
1983).



- 2 -
II. URBAN SECTOR BACKGROUND
A. Urbanization Trends
2.01     The urban population in continental Portugal increased from 1.9
million in 1960 to about 3.5 million in 1984.1' Despite this increase,
Portugal remains the least urbanized country in Europe with only 37X of the
total population living in urban areas. The relatively slow pace of
urbanization (2.7 % p.a. since 1960) reflects a population decline in the
early 1970s (largely due to out-migration to EEC countries) which was partly
off-set by the post-1974 influx of about 600,000 "'returnados"''  from the
former colonies.
2.02     It is estimated that the current stock of urban housing is about
800,000 units, growing at about 3X annually. In 1981, a Ministry of Housing
survey estimated that there was an unmet demand for about 300,000 ownership
units in urban areas and growth was estimated at about 30,000 units annually.
Current production (Annex 4, Table 2) is about 36,000, no more than 40S in
urban areas. Moreover, there is suppressed demand created by rent control and
also the influx of "returnados" occupying temporary shelters ("barracas").
Thus, it appears likely that the urban housing problem will become more
acute. In practice, the housing gap has been filled by the densification of
old established neighborhoods in major cities and the proliferation of
informal housing settlements ("clandestinos").
2.03     Almost half of the total urban population lives in two cities, Lisbon
and Oporto; another 30Z is concentrated in other coastal cities. This
concentration is projected to increase as many of the poorer eastern regions
are experiencing rapid out-migration. To compound the problem, past housing
policy Led to an overall decline in the production of formal housing in urban
areas, and remittances from workers in EEC countries were mostly invested in
rural housing. The 1981 census established that 62,000 families lived in
crowded neighborhoods and 36,000 others were in shanty towns. Many more,
however, live in informal settlements not included in current definitions of
"urban"; various surveys put the total informal units at about 600,000 in 1983
nationally. These settlements are illegal in that they are built on public or
private land without clear title, building permit or prior infrastructure.
Some consist of large clusters of houses soundly built where infrastructure
could be added at reasonable cost, but others will be excessively costly to
11 This legal definition of urban boundaries does not include the illegal
settlements on the urban periphery.
2/ Portuguese citizens returning from the former colonies (Angola,
Mozambique).



- 3 -
upgrade. The authorities viewed these illegal settlements as an unacceptable
response to the housing shortage, but no real effort to prevent their creation
was undertaken until recently. Som munmicipalities have launched upgrading
and land development programs to control their expansion.
2.04     The lack of adequate infrastructure is a major problem in Portugal.
despite recent improvements. The 1981 census established that 26% of all
housing was not connected to water, lOS was not connected to electricity, and
22Z had no in-house toilet facilities.
B. The Government's Housing Policy Between 1974 - 1981
2.05     From the 1974 revolution until late 1982, the Government focused
mainly on reducing the housing gap. The policy was based on the premise that
controlling prices by providing subsidized housing for either rental or sale
was the only solution to satisfy the demand from low-income groups.   But the
Government failed to develop a coherent policy framework on urban issues.
Policy responses to the housing problem included (i) setting up a rent control
system without regard for its long-term effects, (ii) stressing public
production of relatively costly social housing with little attention paid to
the provision of infrastructure in informal settlements, and (iii) offering
loans to low income groups at below market interest rates.
2.06     The negative impact of these policies is apparent from the build up
of housing construction (Annex 4, Table 2). The immediate result of rent
control which was introduced in 1974 was the stagnation of the private rental
market. While 40 to 50' of all housing units were  _nted in the early 1970s,
none is built today for rental purposes. Landlords had little incentive to
maintain the existing stock and the quality of many rental units
deteriorated. Moreover, a system of "key money" has evolved to offset the
rent control.
2.07     The impact was similar on housing built for sale.  Private sector
developers built about 10,000 units annually, mostly for middle and upper
income families between 1975 and 1981 (Annex 4, Table 2). This fell far short
of total housing needs and the Government's response was to organize housing
production around a public agency, the Fundo de Fomento de Habitacao (FF1H);
the cooperatives; and the private sector through negotiated "development
contracts". During the period 1975-1981, municipalities were not involved in
direct development activity.
2.08     The Fundo de Fomento de HabitaCao (FFH).  Established in 1969
initially to provide serviced land for private developees, FFH was expanded
after 1974 to implement subsidized social housing for lower income families.
It was simultaneously the financier (through government capital contributions



- 4 -
and rent income) and the executing agency for three programs: (i) large-scale
subsidized rental projects known as "direct promotion" programs where FFH
acted as developer of rental units either on behalf of municipalities or for
itself (usually developed on municipal land); (ii) a support program to
cooperatives and private developers under which it provided technical
assistance and financing on concessionary terms, and (iii) a modest program of
rehabilitation of existing dwellings through loans to individuals. Between
1975-1981, FFH cofinanced and completed about 42,500 units or about 18% of
total production: 15,000 as a developer, 10,000 through development contracts
and 17,500 for municipalities.
2.09     FFH's direct promotion program was plagued with serious problems from
the outset. The excessively high standards adopted for social housing (a
typical unit had three to four rooms, one-and-a-half bathrooms, and a
wood-panelled floor) combined with the low rents charged led to financial
difficulties for municipalities that sub-contracted FFH to implement their
housing program, and siphoned off FFH's available funds at an alarming rate.
FFH ran into liquidity problems which led to bankruptcy in 1981; in April
1982, it was dissolved.
2.10     The Cooperatives.  Although cooperatives have existed in Portugal
since 1894, they only took on any importance after 1974 when the Government
encouraged them as a way to mobilize grass-roots initiative. There are about
260 housing cooperatives, varying in size from less than 100 members up to
3,000, and comprising about 97,000 households, many of them with below-median
income. The membership is highly motivated by the prospects of owning
dwelling and, in many cases, members provide their own labor which makes
unfinished apartments an attractive option. Only the largest cooperatives,
however, have in-house capacity to design and implement programs.  Despite
official encouragement through subsidies and tax exemptions, cooperatives only
completed about 2,000 units between 1975 and 1981; and many are plagued with
financial difficulties because of their tendency to embark on unaffordable
programs. The establishment of INH and the implementation of less ambitious
standards have introduced some realism in the cooperatives' expectations and
as a result they could play a significant role in the proposed project.
2.11     The Private Sector.  In 1982 and 1983, private housing production
accounted for about 85Z of total. In spite of the size of the private market,
there are no professional real estate developers as such in Portugal. At
least two-thirds of private housing is built by individuals arranging to have
their house built by a contractor or by skilled workers. "Private developers"
in Portugal are generally no more than civil works contractors. To encourage
them to enter the low-income housing market, the Government launched the
concept of "development contracts." Under those, developers received
subsidized loans and technical assistance from FFH, and a guarantee that all
unsold units would be bought by the municipalities.  Despite these incentives,
only about 10,000 units were completed under such contracts from 1975 to 1982
due to the reluctance of municipalities to face the marketing risk involved.



C. Policy Developments Since 1982
2.12     The housing policy pursued in the late 1970s was clearly
ineffective. FFH was unable to meet the needs, the subsidies were
increasingly difficult to carry and they had a limited impact on the housing
situation. From 1975 to 1983, annual housing production remained below its
1974 level and the public sector share remained at about 15Z. Informal
private housing grew rapidly, while PFH became insolvent and other publicly
supported programs stagnated. The Government is aware of these problems and
has taken some measures, especially on rent control, credit subsidies, and
building standards, to rectify them.
2.13     In November 1983, the Secretary of State for Housing presented a
statement to modify its rent control policy in order to stimulate investment
in rental housing. Since then, the Government has taken steps to improve its
policy; there is no rent control on commercial buildings, and owners of
residential buildings rehabilitated with credit financing are free to set
initial rents after renovation. A bill on "Rules for Rental Housing" was
voted in broad terms by the Parliament in February 1985. The bill will create
three types of rents starting on January 1st, 1986, making a distinction
between current and new leases: (i) Current leases: (a) in force before
January 1st, 1980: Previously frozen rents could be increased in 1986 between
1.21 and 4 times depending on the geographical location of the building and
the lease date (for example, 4 times would apply to pre-1960 leases on
building with elevator and concierge in Lisbon and Oporto). The 1986 rents
could be increased in 1987 1.5 times 751 of the consumption price index; (b)
in force since January 1st, 1980: The inflation indexation would start in
1987; (c) all above leases would follow the controlled rent regime (see below)
from 1988 on; (ii) New leases: (a) "free" rents set initially in agreement
between landlords and tenants, but frozen at that level fo five years; (b)
"controlled" rents: the initial rent could be equal to up to 8S of the
dwvelling's market value, and annually indexed thereafter according to figures
published by the Government. The new law would be a substantial improvement
over the existing one and would represent a major achievement in the
Government's efforts to improve conditions in the rental market.
2.14     Interest rates have been raised to reflect inflation in the range of
25% p.a. (para. 2.26), with the effect of slowing down the growth of demand
for housing credit to below the pace of inflation. The Government subsidy for
low-income borrowers (called "family subsidy"; para 2.24) has been abolished
for all but the lowest income families. But the major potential for
improvement was the Government's recognition of the need to provide lower cost
alternatives to traditional walk-up apartment buildings. This became evident
in October 1983, when the low-income housing fund (then FAIH, later INH; see
paras. 2.21 and 3.01-3.05) was authorized to finance not only land development
and upgrading of illegal settlements, but also core units and unfinished
apartments (where all the inside finishing is left to the buyer). To make
social housing units more affordable to low income groups without excessive
subsidies, stringent technical and cost criteria have been adopted (reduction
of maximum built area, introduction of ceiling on costlmZ, ban on 5-bedroom
units, indexation of value ceilings at paces slower than inflation; see Annex
6). The average dwelling size would decline from 3.8 bedrooms and 131 m7 in
the early 1980's to 2.5 bedrooms and 92 mz in 1986. The new standards would
reduce the cost for the average unit by about 30Z.



- 6 -
2.15     This array of policy decisions, together with legislation recently
enacted (see list in Annex 1), have laid the basis for sound development of
the housing sector and would be supported by the proposed project. Project
timing is also appropriate in view of the need to reactivate the construction
sector currently depressed by the economic recession. Between 1981 and 193,
housing production by the private sector decreased by 12%, the employment
index declined by 6% to its 1976 level, and the consumption of steel and
cement dropped by 22% and 15% respectively. The construction sector has long
been seen as critical to the sound long-term evolution of the Portuguese
economy because of (1) its comparatively lower import content (about 30% of
cost for material inputs); (2) its relatively high employment potential (9.6%
of total labor force for 6.5% of total value-added in 1981); and (3) its
contribution to total investment (52% during 1981-1983, of which one-third in
housing alone). The proposed project would contribute to a timely revival of
investment activity, help reactivate economic growth, and alleviate the
unemployment problem.
D. Housing Finance Institutions
2.16     The Financial System.  The number and variety of financial
institutions is relatively limited for a country at Portugal's stage of
development. Besides the central bank (Banco de Portugal), there are eight
commercial banks, three specialized institutions classified as savings banks
(Caixa Geral de Dep6sitos, Cr6dito Predial Portugues, and Montepio Geral) and
an industrial development bank. Most of the system was nationalized in 1975,
but there are 20 private savings institutions, mostly mutuals, of which Caixa
Economica de Lisboa, linked to Montepio Geral, is the largest. Deposit
institutions operate under strict credit ceilings set by the central bank for
each institution on a monthly basis.
2.17     The share of housing credit in overall credit to the economy has
risen steadily from about 2% in 1974 to about 12% in 1983. The three
specialized institutions provide almost all the long-term financing for formal
housing (87% at the end of 1983). Among them, CGD, which is the largest bank
in Portugal, contributes close to 70%; CPP's share is around 16%; and Montepio
Geral's share has been slowly declining from 15%. Commercial banks accounted
for only 13% of all housing loans at the end of 1983, and most of it was for
short-term construction finance.
2.18     Caixa Geral de Dep6sitos (CGD), established in 1876, CGD is
Portugal's largest bank with US$5.7 billion in assets at the end of 1983, and
accounting for one-fourth of all bank deposits at 300 branches. It lent about
US$275 million for housing in 1983, 78% in the form of mortgage loans to
18,500 households, and US$55 million to local governments for infrastructure.
At the end of 1983, housing and infrastructure accounted for 43% and 11%
respectively of CGD's outstanding portfolio of US$3.4 billion (industry and
export financing absorbed another 33%, public enterprise 7%, and agriculture
4%). CGD has a well trained staff and follows adequate appraisal procedures.
It is the financial intermediary for credits from the European Investment
Bank, KfW, and the World Bank.



-7-
2.19     Credito Predial Portugues (CPP) collected 5% of all deposits in the
banking system in 1983, that is only one-fifth of CGD's deposits, but it
accounted for about half of all housing and conetruction finance in 1982
(US$130 million). By 1983, housing finance accounted for about half of CPP's
activities, with 60% in medium-term construction loans and 40% in mortgage
loans. CPP also has a well trained staff and appropriate appraisal techniques.
2.20     The Caixa Economica de Lisboa was established in 1840 as an outgrowth
of the Montepio Geral, a mutual fund of government employees. Although the
smallest of the three, it is the most specialized in housing finance, which
accounts for 80% of its activities, with 43% in mortgage lending. Its staff
is also well trained in appraisal techniques.
2.21     Fundo de Apoio ao Investimento para a Habitacao (FAIR).  Following
the dismantlement of FFH1, the Government established the FAIH in May 1982 to
take over the financial responsibilities of FFH. To start its lending
operations, FAIB was given a government equity contribution of US$18 million
(at the 1982 exchange rate) and borrowed US$32 million from a British bank.
By the end of 1983, however, the new Government determined that FAIH's
structure was inadequate and that an institution with broader scope was
needed. In May 1984, INH was established and charged with major functions
under the Government's housing policy: planning and programing, financing and
technical assistance (Chapter III); it took over FAIR's assets and liabilities.
E. Lending Terms, Interest Rates and Subsidies
Mortgage Loans
2.22     Lending Terms.  The nominal interest rate on mortgage loanis is the
same as that for loans of over five years, currently 32.5% p.a., and is
variable to the extent that rates are changed by the Government in relation
with inflation. However, the Central Bank and the lending institutions
provide interest rebates on mortgages for low and moderate price housing
units. The interest rebate that is provided by Banco de Portugal to the
specialized institutions, varies currently between 1.5 and 3.75 points p.a.
depending on the house price and only dwellings below US$32,400 are eligible.
The specialized institutions also grant an interest bonus ranging between 1.0
and 1.5 points p.a. for housing units costing less than US$27,000.  Under a
decree of December 1983, if the nominal interest rate is reduced, the Central
Bank rebate and the lender's bonus will be revised downward, so as to leave
the final borrower with a fixed reference interest rate of 27.25% for social
housing, and between 28.75% and 32.5% for luxury housing (see also para. 2.25).
2.23     The maximum maturity is 25 years for low-cost units (below
US$19,500), and the minimum 15 years for high-cost units (above US$27,000).
The maximum loan-to-value ratio is highest (95%) for low-cost dwellings
classified as social, and lowest (60%) for luxurious ones (above US$32,400)
(see TabLe 1 below).



- 8 -
2.24     Interest Subsidy for Low Income Families. Financed on the Government
budget, the 'family" subsidy is granted for a limited period for housing whose
cost is below US$19,500 to buyers whose income is below US$595 per month.
Depending on income level, the initiIl subsidy starts at either 8, 5, or 3
points, which at the end of 1984, was up to respectively the 30th, 45th and
65th percentile of the national urban income distribution. Overall, it is
well targeted and moreover, it is of a temporary nature as it is phased out by
half a point p.a. during the first five years, and by one point thereafter.
The family subsidy is therefore cancelled in 10, 7 or 5 years respectively.
The impact on the State budget of the family subsidy was estimated at US$33
million in 1984, less than 31 of its current transfers. Compared to many
other countries, these subsidies are reasonable; nonetheless, the Government
is aware of the need to reduce subsidies further and is making its best
efforts to reduce them.
2.25    Graduated Payment Mortgages.  Given the high nominal interest rates,
there is a need to lessen the debt-service burden of mortgage loans in the
initial years. To achieve this, amortization follows a complex formula which
for the first 5 years combines: (a) a g.-ace period on the principal, (b)
capitalization of a portion (40Z) of the interest payments, and (c) graduatior
of monthly payments at 12Z p.a. for the lowest income borrower (Category A in
Table 1) and 15% p.a_ for the others. As a result, monthly payments for a
US$1,000 loan starts at between US$5.74 and US$12.17 depending on the
borrower's income, compared to US$22.74 with level payments. The major
drawback is the negative amortization effect which results in the principal
being multiplied threefold for 25-year loans, and twofold for 15 and 20 year
loans.  Nonetheless, the increase in principal is slower than the anticipated
inflation rate and, thus, the loan to value ratio is expected to decline.
Furthermore, payments increase at a rate (between 12 and 201 p.a. taking into
acceimz_ the decreasing family subsidy) well below the average increase in
hourly wages observed in the period 1981-83. In the sixth year, however, when
>he repayment of principal starts and monthly payments jump by 24-44X, a
ivtential but temporary default situation is often observed until the
amortization resumes its normal graduation pace.-&  The graduation formula,
combined with the family subsidy, results in effective interest rates (in
discounted terms) that are lower than nominal rates, 20.2a to 28.51 compared
to 27.251 to 32.51.
2.26    Interest Rates in Real Terms. Both the nominal reference interest
rate (32.5X) and rate paid by the borrowers for social housing mortgages
(27.252) are positive in real terms in relation to both past inflation (24.31
over 1981-83) or projected (22.32 over 1985-87 and 20Z thereafter). When the
family subsidy is taken into account, interest rates (between 20.2Z and 23.21)
are slightly negative in real terms for borrowers with below-median incomes,
but they are cross-subsidized by higher income borrowers who, not eligible to
the family subsidy, are charged rates (between 25.51 and 28.51) that are
clearly positive in real terms.  Fux.-hermore, nominal rates are kept positive
1/ This would not affect the proposed project since the specialized
institutions would absorb the default risk (Annex 8, article 9).



Tableif. t|IrEREST RATE STRUCTURE FOR MORTGAGE LOANS
I H T E R E S T  R A T I S
Category   Cost of       Total Monthly                         Rebate from             Interest
of      Dwelling    Family Income                               .                     Rate       Subsidy      Effective
Dwelling   (Maximum)       (Maximum)       Statutory   Banco de    Specialized            to          from        Interest
( UIsti   /a .   ./aPrtuaSiL   -         I.lL     l    Institutions    Borrnwer   Government    Rate /c
360                                                                      a          20.2X
/A
A.  /A       19,500            450           32.5%        3.75A           1.5k          27.25%        5X           22.1X
_    953                                                                                 .X
____ __  ----_ _   over 595                                                                            24.3%_ _  _  _   2   .
B.  /h       27,000                          32.5%        2.75%           1.0%          28.78%
_ __ _                         __                                                         _-25.5X
C.  /k       32,400                          32.5%         1.5 %           -            31.0%          -
over
0.  /h       32,400                          32.5%                                      32.5%
LA  Eligible under tGP and World Bank Loan.
Lb  Not eligible under HGP and World Bank Loan.
Lc  On a discounted cash-flow basis.
Lt  Phased out over 10 years.
La  Phased out over 7 years.
If  Phased out over 5 years.
La  Figures converted at 185 Esc per US dollar because they were changed in early 1985.



- 10 -
in real terms by resetting them whenever inflation changes. While the upward
interest risk is absorbed mainly by rebates granted by the Central Bank and
the mortgage lenders, the final borrowers bear some interest risk if the
nominal rate falls below 27.25Z, in which case they would gain by refinancing
their loans. The latter scenario is more likely as inflation is forecast to
slow down from 28Z in 1984, to 25Z in 1986 and to 20Z from 1987 through 1990.
Interest rates can be expected to be adjusted accordingly, thus leading to the
potential elimination of the interest rebates by the time mortgage loans would
be needed under the proposed project (para. 4.02).
Construction Loans
2.27     Construction loans are made for up to five years with balloon
repayments of principal. They are usual'ly for three years and the current
interest rate is 31.5Z which is the rate for loans up to five years.
Developers of low-cost housing are eligible for an interest subsidy that was
increased from 6.5 to 10.5 points in September 1984 in an effort to stimulate
a declining construction industry. Loans to municipalities for land
acquisition and development (infrastructure) are made for either five years
when the land is to be sold, or fifteen years when it is to be leased. The
interest rate is 32.5Z, with a 6.5 points subsidy for the first three years
decreasing by one point p.a. The loan amount is currently limited to 190
Contos (US$1,250) per dwelling planned on the land.
F. Bank Strategy in the Sector and Project Rationale
2.28     The proposed project is the first project financed by the Bank in the
housing sector in Portugal and has emerged from a two-and-a-half year dialogue
on a number of sectoral issues. The overall Bank strategy in the sector is to
assist the Government in (i) focusing its social expenditures on appropriate
target groups; (ii) improving public and private access to government-provided
urcan services; (iii) lowering the cost per beneficiary to make housing and
services more affordable; and (iv) increasing institutional delivery capacity.
2.29     Specifically, the proposed project is designed to assist the
Government in implementing its new housing policies in urban areas. It
promotes a sectoral approach to lending through a financial intermediary to
maximize the efficiency of Bank intervention. It builds on [NK as an
instrument to target housing delivery to the lowest income groups, to enforce
new construction standards, and to promote more cost efficient alternatives to
fully built or finished shelter.  The choice of INH as the financial
intermediary was dictated by practical considerations. First, INH, although
in competition for construction financing, has an exclusive mandate to finance
low-cost infrastructure and housing. Second, INH was established directly
under the tutelage of the ministry in charge of housing (MSE) as its banking
arm. Third, and more importantly, the creation of INK provides the
opportunity to build a sound financial institution and avoid the pitfalls into
which FFE fell.



- 11 -
III. THE INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE HABITACAO
A. Legal Status. Obiectives, and Functions
3.01     INH was established by decree-law No. 177/84 of May 25, 1984, as a
publi- institute with financial and administrative autonomy. Administra-
tively, it is located in the Ministry of Social Equipment (MSE).
3.02     IND was established to implement Portugal's social housing policy,
articulated by MSE, by assuming certain ministerial functions (e.g.
development of policy framework and implementing the policy approved by the
Government) and all of FAIH's functions.  INK operates as an intermediary,
carrying out overall housing planning, mobilizing resources, and channelling
Government financial assistance, applying Government-defined technical
criteria to loan applications, granting construction financing, and providing
technical assistance to borrowers. IND is not involved in direct housing
development but its scope of intervention includes non-traditional types of
housing finance, i.e. land development, infrastructure upgrading, and
cost-effective alternatives to fully-finished dwellings.
3.03     By law, DNE's attributions are to administer the housing sector
within the policy framework laid down by the Government and to ensure the
coordination of financial assistance to the sector. This involves in
particular:
Ca) Studying the housing situation in order to formulate proposals
for political, legislative and regulatory measures;
Cb) preparing a National Housing Plan and the annual and
multi-annual plans of investment in the sector;
Cc) coordinating and preparing the financial policy measures for
the sector and participating in the financing of social housing
programs promoted by the public sector, cooperative and private
sector; and
(d) supervising both the execution of policy measures and the
housing programs in accordance with approved norms and plans,
and providing technical support to developers.
3.04     Specifically, the housing administration duties of INH are as follows:
(a) promoting inquiries and studies aimed at maintaining updated
knowledge of housing problems;
(b) studying solutions and technical and economic norms that are
more adequate for the implementation of housing policy;
(c) assessing the cost on the budget and to the public sector of
the implementation of the general housing policy;



- 12 -
(d) supervising the execution of social housing projects that are
either financed or subsidized by it;
(e)  supporting research in the field of housing and proposing norms
and standards relative to housing in coordination with the
research institutes;
(f)   promoting the execution of standard housing designs; and
(g)   promoting training and advertising activities, and providing
technical support to the developers.
The housing finance duties of INK are as follows:
(a)   granting loans for financing social housing programs;
(b)   granting interest rate subsidies to the specialized
institutions which participate in financing construction and
home improvement projects with funds provided by and managed on
behalf of the Government;
(c)   contracting loans in national or foreign currency;
,d)   issuing bonds and mobilizing other domestic or foreign currency
resources to finance its activity;
Ce)   signing development contracts or program contracts in the field
of housing; and
(f)   participating in companies which promote housing, construction,
urbanization or management of social housing.
3.05     INH can also cofinance with the three specialized institutions, the
construction phase of all types of housing projects which apply the revised
standards (para. 2.14), but unlike them it cannot extend mortgage loans to the
final beneficiaries. This gap will be bridged under the project by
consolidating; construction loans into mortgage loans (para. 4.09).
B. Organization, Management and Staffing
3.06     INH is under the dual tutelage of MSE and MOF, as delegated to the
State Secretaries for Housing and Treasury. Tutelage is joint for: nominating
board members, approving INH's financing plan and accounts. KOF's tutelage is
exclusive for all financial matters, in particular borrowing locally or
abroad. MSE's tutelage is exclusive for all technical matters, in particular
regarding the activity program. Like all other financial institutions in
Portugal, INE is also under the supervision of the Central Bank.



- 13 -
3.07     INK is governed by two bodies: an Administrative Council and an
Advisory Board. As provided by Portuguese law, IN is currently managed by a
temporary administrative council ("Installation Comuittee'), which has up to
June 30, 1985 to complete the establishment of INK, (with the option of an
additional year) and whose general mandate is as cescribed in paras. 3.03 and
3.04. At present, the council is composed of five members (to be reduced to
three in its final form) appointed jointly by MSE and MOF. The council is
chaired by a president, who is a former board member of CGD in charge of
housing operations and whose duties are mainly to ensure the coordination and
implementation of administration and management decisions taken by the
council. Management is collegial in nature with triple signature of all legal
and administrative documents, and the council is responsible for the day to
day administration of INK. All loan disbursements are checked a priori by a
representative from the Ministry of Finance.
3.08     The current draft organization chart (Figure 1 i Annex 2) reflects
the various tasks entrusted to INN. During the installation period, each
council member is responsible for specific activities andlor functions;
department directors and division chiefs have not therefore been appointed.
The Installation Commnittee is considering a revised organization structure
reflecting the difference in nature between lending and non-lending activities
(e.g. housing policy making, investment prograsmning, and technical assistance
to its borrowers). Approval by the Government of INM's definitive
organization structure and appointment by the Government of INE's board
members as well as appointment by INK of its department directors and division
chiefs will be a condition of effectiveness.
3.09     INH1 is based in Lisbon and has a branch office in Oporto. As of May
1985, it had 55 staff, 25 of them professional. Engineers and architects,
readily available from the former Prt, account for 64% of higher-level staff.
However. experienced economists/financial analysts and bankers are in short
supply because INK's pay scale cannot easily attract them from the banking
system.  The Installation Committee realizes that if INK is to develop into an
effective financial institution, a better balance has to be found between
technical and financial staff and that DNM needs to be given the means to
atcract and retain qualified and experienced personnel. Accordingly, INE hbs
requested that its current personnel statute be modified to put it on a more
equal footing with other similar agencies.
C. Policies and Procedures
3.10     Statement of General Policies. A Statement of General and
Operational Policies spelling out key guidelines and safeguards related to its
lending and financial operations was adopted in May 1985 by INK and endorsed
by the Secretaries of State for Housing and Treasury prior to negotiations
(Annex 3). With regard to INK's operating and project financing criteria, the
policy statement provides that (i) activities fall within the priorities
established by the Government; and (ii) projects will be financed on the basis
of their economic priority and social merit, financial viability, and



- 14 -
technical characteristics (see para. 4.06 for details on eligibility
criteria). With regard to financial policy, the policy statement aims at
safeguarding DNM's creditworthiness, in particular by defining a maximum
debt-equity ratio (4.0 to 1), a minimum debt-service ratio (1.15 to 1), a
minimum spread on borrowed resources (3.5 points) and loan loss provisions (21
of portfolio), and exchange risk policy (para. 4.17). The statement also
stipulates that INH can grant subsidies only if financed by Government
budgetary funds specifically earmarked for that purpose. In addition,
confirmation was obtained during negotiations that IH will (i) separate its
lending and non-lending (e.g., technical assistance) activities; (ii)
eventually ensure that cost of providing technical assistance is recovered
from beneficiaries; and (iii) not engage in direct contracting programs
(Project Agreement).
3.11     Appraisal of Loan Applications.  INH has the engineers and architects
necessary to appraise the technical feasibility of social housing projects
submitted for its financing. Th-y are experienced in this kind of analysis
and the quality of technical appraisal is high. To streamline appraisal work
and ensure that the new planning, design and construction standarls are
applied, INH has developed a detailed questionnaire that covers all the
economic, financial and legal aspects of projects, including the applicants'
experience and creditworthiness. Appraisal of economic and marketing aspects
is still somewhat weak, but planned hiring of economists is expected to solve
this problem. The experience of INH's staff in appraising land development or
upgrading projects is presently limited but will be strengthened through
training and exposure to land use analysis techniques under the proposed
project (para. 4.13).
3.12     Supervision of Subprojects.  INH has acknowledged the importance of
the follow-up function as disbursements are linked to progress in
construction. It has about fifty projects under active supervision carried
out by seven technicians who make 1-3 control visits per month. In the
future, every officer in charge of appraising a subproject would be also
involved in its technical follow-up.
3.13     Procurement.  Procurement for municipal projects is carried out under
legal texts that stipulate unified regulations for public sector tendering of
goods and services. They consist of open competitive bidding with advertising
in three nation-wide publications and pre-qualification of at least three
bidders. INH checks that municipalities follow the legal procedures and that
Fzice and implementation time-tables are documented; moreover, the financial
controller of the Ministry of Interior supervises all contracts signed by
municipalities. For projects submitted by cooperatives, INH requires a
minimum of three bids and that the choice of the awardee be documented. As
development contracts involve private developers who are usually general
contractors (para. 2.11), INH accepts procurement on the basis of limited
tendering, an acceptable procedure.
3.14     Disbursement Policy.  Construction loans are disbursed in three
tranches, usually 30% during the first year, 40% the second, and 30% the
third, after site inspections by INH's technical staff. This procedure is
satisfactory.



- 15 -
D. Operations and Finance
3.15     Past Operations.  INH began lending in June 1984 on its predecessor's
portfolio of applications which included 47 subprojects involving US$45
million in loans for 2,864 units previously approved by FAIR but not yet
committed. In 1984, approvals amounted to Contos 9.2 million (US$60.4
million) for 4,267 units. Despite its rapid start-uD, INK has fulfilled only
61Z of its official target for 1984 (3,000 units by unmicipalities and 4,000
by cooperatives). During the first four months of 1985, approvals rose to
Contos 2.1 million for 986 units.
3.16     Financial Position.  INH took over FAIH's assets and liabilities and
immediately had large unused resources: US$28.4 million in State
contributions, US$27.5 million in borrowing from National Westminster Bank to
be repaid in a balloon on December 29, 1990, and about US$4 million in free
reserves. Most of these funds were invested in time deposits with the
specialized institutions (mainly CPP), thus leaving INK in a highly liquid
situation.
3.17     Forecast of Operations.  Given the additional functions entrusted to
it (e.g. infrastructure and upgrading), its newness, and developers' limited
implementation c-apacity, the growth in INH's activities as projected by MSE in
1984 appears to be too ambitious. Projections were revised during
negotiations (Annex 4 and Table 1 of Annex 5); they assume lending commitments
of US$64.0 million in 1985 growing steadily to US$87.4 million in 1987. It is
estimated that 49% will benefit cooperative projects, 43Z municipal projects
and the balance, private projects. About 95Z of the lending will finance
low-cost housing projects and the balance infrastructure development and
upgrading projects. Projects promoted by private developers, and
infrastructure and upgrading projects were assumed to be a small share of
INK's activity for several reasons. First, a new decree under preparation
should improve development contracts (para. 2.11) to attract private
developers into housing construction, but it will have little effect before
1986. Second, only half of private developments are expected to be eligible
under the new standards. Third, infrastructure development undertaken by
municipalities will likely be financed by their traditional banker, CGD.
Nevertheless, private participation will be encouraged and since there is no a
priori allocation of financing, actual lending by INH and refinancing by the
Bank could accommodate more financing of private developers and of
infrastructure projects.
3.18     Financial Forecasts and Resource Requirements.  Over the period
1985-1987, INN's loan portfo'lio is expected to grow from US$35.6 to US$154.3
million. The impact of this growth on INH's projected income statements,
balance sheets, and cash flows for 1985-1987 is shown in Tables 2, 3, and 4 of
Annex 5; the main assumptions are sulmmarized at the beginning of Annex 5.
3.19     INH's projected lending on a commitment basis amounts to US$262.8
million for the period 1984-1987.1' At the beginning of 1984, there were
US$45.4 million of unutilized resources, thus leaving US$217.4 million in
1/ The financing plan of INH is presented with 1984 included because
financial data for 1984 are preliminary.



- 16 -
resource requirements. On a disbursement basis, they are lower (US$116.8
million). but funding should be secured on a commitment basis to avoid
uncovered lending. Identified resources would cover 921 of these
requirements. The main sources would be: ceqh-flow generation (20X), State
contribution to equity (31O), US-AID Housing Guarantee Program (251), European
Council's Resettlement Fund (91), and the proposed Bank loan (13Z) (para. 4.03
and Annex 5, Table 5). Assurances were obtained at negotiations on a plan for
the remaining financing gap (US$18.2 million) and on annual discussions with
the Bank of INH's financial projections. Given that there would be a sizable
surplus (US$43.4 million) on a disbursement basis over the proposed conmitment
period of the Bank loan, the complementary financing plan presented by INH
emphasizes the origins of resources rather than actual mobilization
timetables. DIN would rely on Government contributions for its domestic
resources in its initial years. 3ond issues are a remote possibility while
loans from the specialized institutions have been discussed.
3.20     Projected performance indicators are shown in Annex 5, Table 6.
INK's profitability is expected to reach quickly a healthy level (13.32 of
assets by 1987) and the spread should allow INK to build up limited reserves
(US$8.7 million). The debt-equity ratio is projected to remain well under the
proposed limit: 1.1:1 compared to 4.0:1; the debt-service ratio of principal
payments is also well covered over the period: 7.9:1 compared to 1.15:1 (para.
3.10). Confirmation was obtained during negotiations that (i) DNM's
debt-equity ratio would remain lover than 4.0:1, and (ii) MiR's debt-service
ratio would remain higher than 1.15:1.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives and Scope
4.01     The proposed project will support the reorientation of Government's
social housing policy through INK, the institutional set up to implement it.
Specifically, the objectives are:
(i)  to provide low-cost affordable serviced plots and turnkey housing
units to the lower income segment of the urban population;
(ii)  to provide crucial initial institutional support to INK by developing
and strengthening its organization, especially in the areas of
subproject appraisal and financial policy; and
(iii)  to encourage the participation of the three specialized institutions
(Caixa Geral de Dep6sitos, Credito Predial Portugues, and Montepio
Geral) in mortgage financing for low income households.



- 17 -
4.02     To meet these objectives, the proposed project will consist of a
US$25 million Bank loan to the Republic of Portugal, that will be used in two
successive phases.  First, it will be on-lent as a medium-term line of credit
to INH to finance the construction phase (up to five years) of low-cost
housing programs. Then, upon completion, the construction loans will be
consolidated into a long-term line of credit made available by INH to the
three specialized institutions to finance mortgage loans to the benef.iciaries
of INK-financed programs (Annex 8). The project will be co-financed with a
US$25 million loan from the US-AID Housing Guarantee Program (para. 1.03).
US-AID would also provide US$600,000 for technical assistance to INH.
Loan Amount
4.03     The size of the proposed Bank loan has been derived from a pipeline
of subprojects potentially eligible for Bank financing. Although the pipeline
calls for about US$141.6 million in financing, the proposed loan has been
limited for the following reasons. First, some subprojects might not
materialize during the expected commitment period despite substantial cuts
made in the official targets and the assumption of a 10% cancellation factor
between comnitments and disbursements. Second, it is desirable to match the
Bank loan with the first US$25 million tranche of the US$50 million US-AID
assistance to INH since most subprojects would be eligible for financing by
both institutions. Last, as this will be the first urban lending operation in
Portugal, the absence of a track record on actual c3sts/benefits argues in
favor of a conservative initial loan amount; moreover, the Government is
facing a budget squeeze which argues iu favor of a modest program.
4.04     The proposed loan will cover a small fraction (13%) of INH's
projected total loan commitments over a two and a half-year period from
mid-1985 to end-1987, the expected commitment period for the Bank loan. It
will finance 18% of INH's eligible commitments estimated at US$141.6 million
over the same period, and 35Z of the corresponding direct and indirect foreign
exchange requirements.
B. Project Description
Construction Financing Component
4.05     The proposed project will finance three types of housing through a
line of credit to INH. The main features are derived from an analysis of
developers' needs, and incorporate all recent regulations concerning
infrastructure and housing finance. The description below applies to both the
Bank and the US-AID loans. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the
proceeds of the Bank loan will be used for the following purposes. The loan
will finance:
(a) Infrastructure and upgrading. Sub-loans for upgrading infrastructure
in built up areas will be extended to municipalities under the
Program for Home Improvement (PRID). Sub-loans for servicing urban
land to be divided up and sold as plots will be extended to all



- 18 -
developers. A new law and set of regulations give municipalities
access to INH financing for land development. Loan terms are
described in para. 2.27. The underlying objective of tLis component
is that the beneficiary family will purchase the servicee plot from
the municipality and build a dwelling, usually to standari
specifications, over a two-year period. As the upgrading component
(PRID) is entrusted to municipalities, it is expected that most
financing needs will be satisfied by CGD which traditionally finances
most municipal investments.
(b)  Traditional Units:  The housing developments to be financed under the
project will consist of detached housed or walk-up apartment
buildings of no more than four floors, of 15-20 apartments, ranging
in size from one to three bedrooms, in a complex of several such
buildings. Such developments will also cover secondary and tertiary
on-site infrastructure. Although such developments might include
commercial and social facilities, these will not be financed under
the proposed loan since they have alternative sources of financing.
(c)  Unfinished Units:  Under this component, unit shells will be similar
to those above, but the level of finishing will be reduced (e.g.
without painting, flooring, bedroom partitions, doors on closets, and
with minimum sanitary and kitchen appliances).  The concept of
marketing unfinished units is not new in Portugal, but it received
increased impetus under a recent Decree Law (December 1983)
regulating their production as part of the social housing program.
It also provides municipalities the authority to grant temporary
occupancy permits, thus removing a key bottleneck. When units are
completed (usually within 1-3 years), owners are required to have a
municipal inspection to obtain final occupancy permits.
4.06     Subproject Eligibility Criteria.  To be eligible for Bank financing,
subprojects will have to ueet the following criteria:
(a)   Price criteria.
(i)    The maximum cost of on-site infrastructure improvement
(i.e., recoverable expenditures, excluding connecting
utilities and land) should not exceed Contos 2.0
(US$10.8)1' per m2 of the land area reserved for
housing (excluding primary roads and land occupied by
community facilities).
(ii)    The maximum selling price of serviced plots should not
exceed Contos 4.5 (US$24.3) per m2 of saleable land, and
a total price of Contos 540 (US$2,920) per plot for an
individual house or Contos 450 (US$2,430) per apartment
for a multistorey building.
1/ All figures in this section are converted at Esc 185 per USdollar as they
were changed early in 1985.



- 19 -
(iii)  The maximum construction cost of housing units should not
exceed Contos 17.6 (US$95) per ma of built area for an
unfinished unit, or Contos 22 (US$120) per m2 of built area
for a finished unit.
(iv)  The maximum selling price of housing units should not exceed
Contos 1,700 (US$9,190) for the least expensive type
(one-bedroon unfinished unit) and Contos 3,100 (US$16,760)
for the most expensive (three bedroom finished unit). (See
Annex 6 for further details).
(v)  Selling prices are in mid-1985 values and include land
acquisition and development cost, administrative costs, study
and design fees, interest during construction, and
contingencies. All above costs and prices are expressed in
local currency in mid-1985 prices and will be adjusted on
January 31 of each year to account for inflation, using the
Construction Cost Index over the latest 12 months.
(b) Technical criteria. The general requirement that subprojects
should be technically sound is included in the Statement of
General Policy adopted by INK (para. 3.10). In addition,
subprojects will have to meet specific technical requirements
regarding (i) land use efficiency, (ii) maximum size of the
units, (iii) building structure and design, and (iv) number of
unit types per subproject. Specifically, for each subproject
submitted for Bank financing:
(1) of all finished units, at least 102 will be one-bedroom, and
none will be larger than 3 bedroom;
(2) of all unfinished units, at least 82 will be one-bedroom,
and no more than 5% will be 4 bedroom, and no more than 50%
will be 3 and 4 bedroom.
These criteria are consistent with the new standards defining
social housing (dated May 1983), and the Technical Rules for
Low-Cost Housing published by the National Civil Engineering
Laboratory (LNEC) (July 1984). Eligibility criteria for
infrastructure and land development subprojects have been also
designed in accordance with MSE specifications.
(c) Financial criteria. All subprojects whose cost exceed US$1.5
million should have a financial rate of return (computed before
financial expenses) at least equal to INH's lending rate for
developers net of subsidies at the time of the loan (currently
21X). In addition, the loan-to-value ratio should not exceed
90%.
Agreement was obtained at negotiations that the subproject eligibility
criteria would be as above. Analysis shows that they would be affordable to
the targeted beneficiaries (Annex 7).



- 20 -
4.07     Beneficiary selection criteria.  The final beneficiaries of
subprojects will meet the following criteria that are specific to the proposed
project:
(a) the target population being low-income households, their monthly
income should not exceed Contos 60 (US$390) which corresponds to
the median urban income as of mid-1984. This ceiling will be
reviewed annually by the Bank, the Government, and INH to
account for inflation;
(b) beneficiary will not already own another dwelling;
(c) housing units financed under the proposed loan will be used for
residential purpose only; and
(d) for infrastructure subprojects, municipalities will have to
demonstrate that at least 80S of the population in the area to
be upgraded have incomes below the median urban income.
Legislation governing access to loans for social housing stipulates additional
matters, including the level of interest subsidy (para. 2.24) which would
apply under the project. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
selection criteria of final beneficiaries will be as above.
4.08     Bank Review and Approval.  Subprojects will be financed on a
first-come first-served basis. All subprojects with a total cost exceeding
US$1.5 million will be reviewed and approved by the Bank prior to approval by
INK to ascertain that all analysis has been properly performed and that the
beneficiaries are within the target group. Subprojects with a total cost less
than US$1.5 million will be reviewed by the Bank a posteriori on.a sample
basis, except for the first five subprojects which will be reviewed a priori.
It is expected that about 10 subprojects p.a. will have to be reviewed by the
Bank from mid-1985 to end-1987.
Mortgage Lending Comvxonent
4.09     As INH camnot extend mortgage loans to homeowners, a special
agreement will be entered into between INH and the three specialized
institutions whereby:
(i)  the latter will commit themselves to grant mortgage loans to the
final beneficiaries of subprojects financed by INH with funds from
the US-AID Housing Guarantee Program (HGP) and the Bank; and
(ii)  the financing of these mortgage loans will be done in part by
consolidating HGP and Bank funds lent initially tc developers through
INH and repaid by them at the end of the construction period.
This scheme will establish the necessary linkage between upstream developer
financing and downstream mortgage lending. It will ensure that all housing
units financed under HGP and Bank loans will be refinanced by a mortgage
institution, thus minimizing the marketing risk for the developers and
allowing INH to satisfy itself that all final beneficiaries are both
creditworthy and within the target group.



- 21 -
4.10     INH will enter into a sub-loan agreement with one of the specialized
institutions each 'time an eligible dwelling is sold. The sub-loan maturity
will be the number of years left on the Bank loan when the dwelling is
completed (i.e. a maximum of 12 years). As a result, the specialized
institutions will be responsible for financing the period remaining until
maturity of the mortgage loans (up to 25 years). The interest rate will be
the cost of Bank funds plus an exchange risk premium (that may be lower than
that charged to IND para. 4.17), plus a commission of 0.25 point p.a. paid to
INM by the specialized institutions. To ensure that mortgage loans are
effectively provided, INK would repay the World Bank Loan (through the
Treasury) if, within 12 months of the dwelling completion, no mortgage loan
has been granted. To ensure rapid construction, hence lower costs, no
consolidation of Bank funds will more than four years after subproject
approval.
4.11     Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the content of the
financing agreement will be as above. A draft agreement discussed with the
Portuguese parties is shown in Annex 8. The signature of this agreement
between INH, CGD, and one of the other two specialized institutions will be a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan. The signature of the same
agreement with the third specialized institution has been set at no later than
February 28, 1986.
4.12     In the opinion of the specialized institutions, as long as the
liquidity in the banking system continues to be high, an incentive mechanism
will be a prerequisite to their utilization of the proposed Bank funds. To
ensure their participation in the project, the specialized institutions will
be granted a credit ceiling incentive whereby HGP and Bank funds will be
deducted from their respective credit ceilings computed monthly by the central
bank. A similar waiver has been granted by Banco de Portugal under recent
Bank loans for agriculture and industry, and a KfW loan for municipalities.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that this arrangement has been
approved by the central bank. No credit ceiling will be imposed on INN as it
is a non-monetary financial institution.
Technical Assistance Component
4.13     Given its newness, INN is in need of technical assistance.  US-AID
has earmarked a US$600,000 grant for this purpose under its project . All 7W
staff are experience-I in appraising social housing projects, but few are in
appraising infrastructure and land development projects. The technical
assistance program will aim at (i) strengthening INK's project appraisal
procedures, and (ii) assisting INH in developing its own technical assistance
to developers for preparing and executing projects. The mission ascertained
that the program is satisfactory.
4.14     The technical assistance will take three forms:
(i) immediate short-term assistance: two consultants, Qne for
institutional aspects and one for technical matters, spent eight
man-weeks between November 1984 and April 1985 in INK, helping to set
up its organization and procedures before the US-AID guaranteed loan
is mobilized;



- 22 -
(ii) provision of a long-term resident advisor with an institutional
management and housing finance background, to be attached to  N!ts
presidency for three years; and
(iii)  availability of financing for short-term consultancies, studies to
satisfy specific institutional and program needs including
improvement of development contracts and unfinished housing
standards, and planning of in-house training for IND.
4.15     In addition, municipalities will tap the other source of technical
assistance available, the Gabinet de Apoio Technico (GAT) which is a unit of
the Ministry of Interior geared exclusively to assist municipalities.  It has
been operational since 1979 and has 51 branch offices in the country and 1,000
staff. Thus far, GATs have mostly been involved in designing infrastructure
and housing projects, but are not staffed to implement or supervise projects.
C. Terms and Conditions
4.16     As IH is a new institution, the proposed Bank loan will be made to
the Republic of Portugal. Terms and conditions will be those standard for
Portugal: 15 years of maturity, including four years of grace, with fixed
amortization schedule and variable interest rate. The Government will on-lend
Bank funds to INH at the same maturity but at a different interest rate as
described below. The conclusion of a subsidiary loan agreement between the
Government and DNM will be a condition of loan effectiveness.
4.17     INH will not bear the exchange risk on foreign currency resources as
it is not equipped to manage the uncertainty of parity fluctuations.  However,
INH will be charged a flat exchange risk premium tailored to leave it with a
three and a half percentage points spread over its foreign currency
borrowings. This will thus leave INH with a fixed margin to cover its
overheads and build up the reserves and provisions it needs in its early years
of operations. Given its current lending rate of 31.51 p.a., INH will receive
foreign funds at 28.01 p.a. US-AID has negotiated a similar arrangement for
its HGP assistance. The proceeds of the proposed Bank loan to INH to finance
infrastructure, land development, and housing development subprojects will all
be on-lent at the current terms and conditions (paras. 2.22 and 2.26).
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the onlending arrangements for
the Bank loan including terms and conditions will be as above.
D. Procurement and Disbursement
4.18     Procurement.  The proposed loan will finance civil works
(infrastructure and housing construction). For all contracts below US$1.5
million, the form of local competitive bidding specific to each type of
developer and required by INH will apply (para. 3.13). For contracts above
US$1.5 million, ICB will apply. However, it is expected that, on the basis of
the pipeline of identified subprojects, local competitive bidding will
prevail. The mission ascertained that INH staff have adequate experience in
estimating local construction costs and evaluating bids.



- ;!3 -
4.19     Disbursement. The proposed Bank loan will be comuitted over a period
of two and a half years (mid-1985 to end-1987). The final date for submission
of subprojects to the Bank would be December 31, 1987. The estimated
disbursement schedule (Annex 9) Pssumes full disbursement by the end of
FY1990. Because it is a line of credit, the typical disbursement profile for
traditional urban projects is not applicable. Yet, because only construction
and civil works will be financed, it is 12 months shorter than the typical
disbursement profile observed for DFC operations in the EMENA region. The
pace of actual disbursements xill be a function of INH's as yet unproven
capacity to develop a sufficient volume of eiigible lending. To allow for
such delays, the closing date will be December 31, 1990. Disbursement on
loans to developers will be made against statements of expenditures (SOE)
submitted by INH through the Treasury. Disbursements will be limited to
expenditures made less than one hundred and twenty days prior to the date on
which the Bank has received the application for approval, if such expenditures
were related to subprojects which would be reviewed a priori by the Bank (see
par... 4.08).
4.20     Special Account.  To avoid delays due to lengthy circuits and
procedures for moving project funmd to INH and then to promoters, a revolving
fund of US$1.5 million will be established at the Treasury - the funds will
correspond to about three months of expenditures and will be replenished
against statements of expenditures - the details of processing and modalities
for payments were discussed and agreed during negotiations.
4.21     Proceeds of the proposed loan for mortgage financing will be
disbursed by I[H through the Treasury and would cover 50X of INH's own
disbursements on all sub-loans committed under the project. This is close to
the actual foreign exchange component which was estimated at 48.6X, of which
11.1 points for interest during construction on foreign currency financing.
It has been rounded to 50S as Portugal qualifies for the Special Action
Program
E. Monitoring
4.22     Audit.  As INH has just completed its first fiscal year, an audit of
its accounts was not available at the time of negotiations. Nevertheless,
assurances were obtained at negotiations that INH's accounts for each fiscal
year will be audited by an independent auditor satisfactory to the Bank and
the audit report will be sent to the Bank within four months after the end of
INH's fiscal year.
4.23     Subproiect Appraisal Fornmat.  INH's appraisal reports for subprojects
will document all eligibility criteria requirements described in paras. 4.06
and 4.07. For subprojects below the proposed free-limit of US$1.5 million IRR
computations will not be mandatory. All reports translated into English will
contain information on (i) the demand for social housing in the area, (ii) the
creditworthiness of the target population and of the developer, (iii) the
investment cost and execution time-table, and (iv) the procurement process.
In the course of supervision, this appraisal format will be reviewed and
up-dated as necessary.



- 24 -
4.24     Supervision. Basic monitoring and evaluation will be carried out
through the quarterly reports and the project completion report to be prepared
by INK. The project will require close supervision, both to pursue the sector
dialogue with the autborities and to foster institution building. The
supervision of the project will require about 35 man-weeks over the projected
commitment period. The core team will include a financial analyst and an
architect/engineer. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that review
meetings between DNM and Baink representatives will be held annuallv ttc assess
the achievement of the project and to decide on corrective measures if
warranted, including inter alia the updating of INR's financing plan.
V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
5.01     The proposed project will be the first urban project in Portugal.  It
will concretize a two and a half year long dialogue between the Bank and the
Government that focussed on ways to improve the delivery of housiug at
standards affordable to families with below median incomes. Its major
expected result will be the strengthening of INK, exclusively geared to
financing social housing, that will be able to replicate projects by
mobilizing its own resources on the domestic market (bonds) on the strength of
its portfolio after a few years of operation. In the process, the project
will support the Government's efforts to promote housing at affordable
standards.
5.02     Although modest in scope, the project is expected to have an impact
on the housing sector by promoting infrastructure investments, home ownership
by low-income families, and stimulating the construction industry. It is
expected that the project will cofinance the development of 900 serviced
plots, the upgrading of 700 existing dwellings, and the construction of 4,000
new units. It is estimated that 45-60 jobs are created per US$l million of
investment in the construction sector alone and several times more in other
sectors. Based on this conservative estimate, the project will generate
directly up to 3,000 jobs during the construction period.
5.03     By the nature of its beneficiaries, a significant social impact on
the urban poor will be achieved. The Bank project will benefit about 26,000
persons in the lower half of the urban income distribution. Furthermore, on
the basis of the pipeline of subprojects reviewed, 40X of the beneficiaries
will be among the urban poor whose income is below the urban poverty threshold
estimated at US$200 per household per month in 1984. Through the allocations
within subprojects (para. 4.06 (b)), at least 65% of finished dwelling and 501
of unfinished dwelling will be oae- and two-bedrooms to ensure access to the
low-income families. Since subprojects will be composed essentially of
townhouses and 4-story walkup apartment buildings, the proposed project will
promote population density in the current average and thus reasonable urban
living standards. The Bank's financial assistance will also entail sensible
economic allocation of funds. Economic rates of return computed for a sample
of 26 subprojects submitted by I1NH cooperatives varied between 11.11 and



- 25 -
15.8S, and averaged 13.6X; simtlar figures for 21 subprojects submitted by
municipalities were 11.9%, 15.8X and 14.11. The sample was large enough to
assume safely that similar subprojects in forthcoming years will yield
comparable returns, well above the opportunity cost of capital (101).
Risks
5.04     This project involves more risks than the standard sites and services
project. The major risk is that the future effectiveness of INH reains
uncertain and that the delicate institution-building efforts could be
prolonged. This risk is, however, well worth taking and manageable through
the technical assistance component, the Statement of General Policy, and
project supervision. Moreover, since Bank funds will start to be onlent to
large and experienced financial institutions after three years, the risk
associated with INE is limited in time.
5.05     As INK is a new institution with a staff mostly familiar with
financing traditional types of housing (i.e., walk-up apartments with all
amenities), there is a risk that it will tend to finance subprojects in the
highest price range allowed by the eligibility criteria. This risk, while
acceptable if the beneficiaries are creditworthy, will be reduced by balancing
the price eligibility criteria with technical criteria, imposing ceilings on
the number of larger apartments in each subproject, and providing INH with
technical assistance to improve its staff 's capacity to deal with low-cost
housing.
5.06     Another risk, associated with the pressure of demand resulting from a
shortage of housing, is that higher income groups may obtain the shelter
facilities targeted for lower income populations. This risk of shift in
targeted beneficiaries will be considerably reduced as all subprojects will
have to meet the beneficiary selection criteria at the time of INK financing.
VI. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01     The following documents were reviewed during negotiations:
(i)  updated financing plan of INH (para. 3.15); and
(ii)  updated project pipeline of INH (para. 4.03).
6.02     Assurances were obtained prior to negotiations that the Statement of
General Policy has been adopted by INK's Installation Commission and its
tutelage ministries (para. 3.10). This Statement includes all the
dispositions spelled out in Annex 3.
6.03     Agreements were obtained on the following and recorded in the legal
documents:



- 26 -
Mi)   the proceeds of the loan would be used to finance subprojects as
defined in para. 4.05 (Loan Agreement) and procured as described
in para. 4.18 (Project Agreement);
(ii)    subproiect eligibility criteria would be as defined in
para. 4.06 (Project Agreement);
(iii)    the final beneficiary selection criteria would be as described
in para. 4.07 (Project Agreement);
(iv)    the credit ceilings in favor of the specialized institutions
using Bank funds would be reformulated (para. 4.12) (Loan
Agreement);
(v)    the on-lending arrangements for Bank funds would be as in para.
4.16 and 4.17 (Loan Agreement);
(vi)   undertstanding was reached on the financing plan for the
projected resource gap (para. 3.19);
(vii)    the coverage of DM's foreign exchange risk would be as proposed
in para. 4.17 including a minimum spread on foreign resources of
three and a half points (Loan Agreement);
(Viii)    DM1's .maximum debt-equity ratio and minimUm debt-service ratio
would be 4.0:1 and 1.15:1 respectively (Project Agreement);
DM's spread on borrowed resources would be at 3.5 points
(para. 3.30) (Project Agreement);
(iv)    the content of the on-lending agreement between INK and the
specialized institutions would be as described in para. 4.10;
(x)    INH's annual accounts will be audited by an independent auditor
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.22) (Project Agreement); and
(xi)    a review meeting between INH and Bank representatives be held
annually to assess the achievement of the project and to decide
on corrective measures if warranted (including inter alia
updating 1n11 financing plan) (paras. 3.19 and 4.24) (Project
Agreement).
6.04     Prior to loan effectiveness:
(i) the on-le-ading agreement between Government and INK for Bank funds
would be signed (para. 4.17);
(ii) the financing agreement between INK, CGP and either CPP or Montepio
Geral-CEL would have been signed (para. 4.11); and
(iii) INHE's definitive organization structure will be approved and INK's
Board members will be appointed by the Government, and INH will
appoint its department directors and its division chiefs.
6.05     Subject to Government's assurances on the above, the project is
suitable for a loan of US$25 million.



- 27 -
ANNEX 1
PORTUGAL - HOUSING FINANCE PROJECT
Social Rousing Legislation Enacted Since 1983 (Updated - May 1985)
GENERAL LEGISLATION
-    Establishment of INK: Decreto-lei No. 177/84 dated May 25, 1984.
-    Social Housing:  Technical Instructions dated July 1984
-    Unfinished Housing:  Legal definition:  Portaria No.1/84 dated 01/02/1984
-    Illegal Housing admitted for Upgrading: Portaria No.283/84 dated 04/17/84
-    Development Contract:  Draft prepared by G.E.P. and dated September 1984.
PREFINANCING: New Figures and Standards
-    Municipalities:        (For sale) Decreto-Lei No.220/83 and Portaria
No.609/83 dated 05/26/83.
(For rent) Decreto-Lei No.110/85 and Portaria
No.211/85 dated 04/17185.
-    Cooperatives:          Decreto-lei No.349/83 dated 07/30/83, alteration of
Decreto-lei No.246/82.
-    Ceiling Prices:        Portaria No.580183 dated 05/17183, alterated by
Portaria No.113(85, dated 02/21/85.
-    Development Contract: Ceiling prices fixed by Portaria No. 120(84 dated
February 23, 1984.
-    Upgrading (PRID):      Decreto-lei 449/83 dated 12/26/83 and Portaria
1077/83 dated 12/31/1983. .
Despacho No.4/SEHU/85 dated 02/04/85.
-    Infrastructure:        Cooperatives:  Portaria 1067/83 dated 12/28/83
Municipalities: Decrete-lei 6/84 dated 01/05/84,
and Portaria 987-A/84 dated 12/28/84.
INTEREST SUBSIDY
Decision of the council of State No.44/84 dated
Sept.1984.
MORTGAGE FINANCING:         Self construction, extension, upgrading and
acquisition of the family house.
-    Decreto-lei No.459/83 and 460/83 dated Dec. 30, 1983.
-    Portaria No. 5/84 dated Jan. 04, 1984, and altered by Portaria No.124/85
dated 03/02/85.
-    Decreto-lei No.244/84 and Portaria No.467/84 dated July 17, 1984.
-    Decision of the Council of State No.20/85 dated 05/09/85 for improvement
of housing finance for young households and students.



Fiaure 1I  PORTUGAL - HOUSING FINANCE PROJECT
INH ORGANIZATION CHART
IntalaIon Committee |(5)
Personnel &
(8)     Administrative                                                 Com__tte_  Staff   (2)
Management
Studies & Planning   (8)    Projects & Loans        (21)   Finance & Accounting  (8)           Oporto Department   (15)
Analysis & Follow-Up
Technical &                     roJects &   ~~~Budgeting &    Publc&
Standard        Programming    Projt             .ansFinancing                Banking
In parenthesis number of professional staff as of May 1985,



-29 -
AMEX 3
Page 1 of 2
PORTUGAL
HOUSING FINANCE PROJECT
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE HABIT&C&O (INI)
Statement of General and Operational Policies
1.       DE is a public institution, with legal statutes and financial
autonomy, establisbed by the Decree-Law No. 177/84.
2.       Obiectives and Areas of Activity.  INK's objectives, as indicated by
its Decree-Law, are:
(a)  Study the housing situation in order to formulate proposals for
political, legislative and regulatory measures;
(b)  Prepare a National Housing Plan and the annual and multi-annual plas
of investment in the sector;
(c)  Coordinate and prepare the financial policy measures of the sector
and participate in the finincing of social housing programs pronoted
by the public sector, cooperative and private sector;
(d)  Supervise both the execution of policy measures and the housing.
program. in accordance with the approved norms and plans, and provide
technical support to the above mentioned developers.
3.       Elitible Proiects.  INN evaluates projects for financing or guarantee
an the basis of their socio-economic merits, and of their technical and
financial viability according to quantitative eligibility criteria stipulated
by Decree.
4.       Terms of Lending. Because INK's intervention is limited to the
construction phase of projects, the maturity of its loans will be normally 3
years with a balloon repayment of principal.  Maximum loan-to-value ratios
will be set, not in excess of 901. The interest rate will be the official
rate set by the authorities. INN will physically inspect projects under
execution and disburse its loans according to progress of construction.
5.       Financial Policy.  INN will aim at earning a stable positive spread
of at least 3.5 points between the return on its average outstanding loan
portfolio and the cost of its average debt. This will enable INN to set aside
a provision for risk on its portfolio to be equal to 21 of its outstanding
portfolio at the end of each fiscal year. During its first five years of
activity, INN's total outstanding debt will not exceed four times its net



- 30 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 2
worth. Prudent financial management will dictate meeting a minimum
debt-service ratio of 1.15:1. These two ratios could be relaxed in the light
of experience with the prior agreement of INH's major lenders. INH will not
bear the exchange risk associated with its foreign currency resources. In
compensation for this, INK will pay an exchange risk premium to the authority
which will bear this risk, in an amount to be determined a priori, from time
to time, in consultation with the Ministry of Finance.
6.       Management. The Board of Directors will examine and approve all
financial commitments in accordance with the policies and regulations
established by the authorities. The Board will review and approve the
business plan during the fourth quarter of the fiscal year. The Board is
responsible for the day-to-day operations of INK. DMn will prepare an annual
business plan, incorporating projected levels of activity, revenues and
expenses. This plan will include alternative activity projections for the
planning period (at least three years), and an analysis of the impact of the
alternative scenarios on INH's assets, liabilities, and return to allow the
Board to decide on the most realistic alternative for IMH. The Board will
ensure that the activities of INH are carried out in a responsible and
professional manner.
7.       Conflicts of Interest.  INH will not participate, directly or
indirectly, in any transaction with any directors, officers, or employees of
INH which could involve a real or apparent conflict of interest between IR
and these individuals or other entities with which they have a significant
business relationship, unless such transaction has been approved by a formal
and recorded decision of the Board of Directors.
8.       Internal Organization.  INK will aim at developing an efficient,
effective and balanced internal organization suitable to the attainment of its
objectives. INH will recruit and develop a highly qualified staff, for whose
services appropriate compensation will be provided.
9.       Reporting Requirements.  The Board of Directors will furnish, at
their request, its major lenders quarterly operating reports. These reports
will include appropriate narrative and statistical information on activity
conducted and financial statements, as well as variances from the annual
business plan of INH. INH will provide its major lenders independently
audited annual financial statements within four months after the end of the
fiscal year. The auditors will also provide a detailed management letter
covering, inter alia, accounting systems, compliance with internal guidelines
and external regulations, and any other relevant matters they will deem
materially affecting the financial position of INK.
10.      Revision of Statement.  Any proposal to modify this Statement of
General and Operational Policies will be considered by the Board only after
each member and, as may be required by specific agreements with the lenders,
each major lender has been given adequate opportunity to study and comment on
the proposal.



HOUSING FINANCE PROJECT
Table l: PROJECTED COMMITHENT OF INN LENDING PROGRAM
Housing Units
193                  11984                  1 9BS                 ligi197oa
Pronoter           1nt*Ll9 Eikitble    Tntal    flEinil          atal    EWh11 alpl *   o     liasii         Total    lliuikla    I       Tll if96  L
Hunicipalities         50                     386                    824       618       1,700      1,250      2,500       2,000     6,024       3,868
Cooperatives                                2,241                  4,840     2,052       4,700      3,200      3,500       2,500    12,040       7,752
Develop. Contract       _0___ _ a__oD 7                                                                                    1.__2_000 _1_7_ __ _0_50_
Units              50                   2,627                 5,664      2,670       7,200     6,200       7,200      5,600    20,064       13,370
Upgrading                                   1,000                  1,000     1,000       2,000     2,000       2,000       2,000     5,000       6,000
Infrastructure                              1,000                  1,000     1,00O       2,000     2,000       3,000       3,000     6,000       6,000
Land Acqulsition          __  _._ l_ tOO_                                                                                    _       2 600         -
TOTAL             50         _         4,627                 7,664      4,670      12,200     9,200      13,700     10,500    33,564       24,370
0
IN 



m
IinUsIM PI*UCI PDMJIT
WIN...2:  HOUSING UNITS WILT ANNUALLY IN PORTUGAL"'
1970     1971      1972      1973      1974      1976     1976      1977      1971      1979      1980     19i1      1952      1963
priwatm Sftgr
individual (built
and occupied by        1.
ond r p       b         10.270   13.096   13.711   16.434   13.930   14.274   15.214   16.567   19.105   18.526   18.441   21.383   21.702   19.792
For Rent                  11.150   16.540   18.460   17.300   21.540    6.350    3.060    2.220    1.150             650       100       -         -           1
for Sale (by
developers)                A        2.630    2.956    3.164    5.087    8.460    8.900    9.100    9.600   10.100   12.100   10.090    9.963   10.482
Cooperatives                a                    2ss       231      2         222_      227       167        77       310 Z30  ..1                 sso       749_ .
Sub-Total                   a       32.409   35.421   37.13)   40.610   29.306   27.40)   23.054   29.936   30.306   31.171   31.834   32.275   31.024                 W
Public Suctor               .        396    5.19o    4,792    2.ss2    2.Jil    1.889    5.79l    4.114    A L               s._ h40    S.468    6-4   LM4L
Total             28.140.   35.005   40.611   41923L  43.402   31.267   29.290   33.848                     5.05L  .232   36.A11  _37.302   38.271   *.s0j4
No. of Units/House                                                                               1.71      1.69      1.72     1.74      1.98
Gross area/unit (sq.m.                                                                         121.0    126.0    131.2    135.3    131.2    130.6    139.6
Net area/unit (sq.m.)                                                                           65.3     61.4      61.4      65.1      65.8      67.0      68.3
No. Badroom/unit                                                                                 3.8       3.9      3.9       3.9 _         _..   3.8       3.8  |
Figures are not available.
J1/ Formal sector only.



- 33 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 6
PORTUGAL
HOUSING FINANCE PROJECT
Maior Assumptions Underlying DNu Proiections
1. Loans commitmeiats are as discussed with INH staff minus a 101 drop-out
rate. Disbursements follow the industry pattern: 301 in year 1, 40Z in
year 2, and 30X in year 3.
2. Domestic inflation is assumed at 25X p.a. and the depreciation of the
Escudo vis-A-vis the dollar is at 181 p.a.
3. Interest rate. received on deposit is 261 p.a. "Personnel expenses" grow
by 5 p.a. due to hiring plus 25Z p.a. for cost-of-living and "other
administrative expenses" grow by 251 p.a. "Provisions for exchange risk"
in the Income Statement iP associated with the 1984 interest payments on
the National Westminster Bank loan. State contribution to equity for 1985
to 1987 is assumed to be 3.5 million contos p.a. "Cash" and "short-term
borrowings" are used for balancing the balance sheet.  "Local borrowings"
are not yet identified while " other foreign borrowings represent a loan
from the Fonds de Retablissement of the European Council.
4. Projections have been developed on micro-computer using the spreadsheet
software Lotus 1-2-3.



- 34 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 6
PORTUGAL
HOUSING FINANCE PROJECT
Table 1: ACTUAL AND PROJECTED LENDING OPERATIONS
(1983-1987, in US$ million)
1983     1984     1985      1986     1987
(actual)
INK Total Lending Program              0.54    28.21    63.99    83.26    87.35
of which Onlending to
Specialized Institutions           0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      2.75
US-AID and IBRD Eligible Program
Municipalities                     0.00      0.00     6.93    14.26    23.20
Cooperatives                       0.00     0.00    23.30    36.95    29.36
Development Contract               0.00      0.00     0.00     8.62    11.69
Infrastructure upgrading           0.00     0.00      0.46     1.06      1.08
Sub-total Eligible Program      0.00     0.00    30.69    60.89    65.33
INH Total Disbursements:           0.00      7.91    27.73    53.44    73.12
of which Eligible Disbursements:  0.00       0.00     8.39    27.80    50.87
Table 2:  ACTUAL AND PROJECTED INCOME STATEMENTS
(1983-1987, in US$ million)
1983      1984      1985      1986     1987
(Actual)(Preliminary)
INCOME
Interests on deposits (26S)           7.05       8.51      5.32      6.97     6.43
Interests on loans (31.5%)            0.00       1.25      6.90    19.77    38.09
(of which interest subsidy)         0.00      0.42       2.29      6.56    12.63
Other Incomes                         0.00       0.10      0.11      0.12     0.14
Gross Income                     7.05       9.86     12.33    26.87    44.66
EXPENSES
Interests on borrowings               3.85       3.85     11.71    18.06    19.67
Personnel expenses                    0.05       0.12      0.12      0.15     0.20
Other administrative expenses         0.02       0.13      0.16      0.20     0.25
Provisions for portfolio risks        0.00       0.08      0.46      1.25     1.30
Provisions for exchange risks         1.09       4.55      0.00      0.00     0.00
Total Expenses                   5.01       8.73     12.44    19.65    21.42
NET INCOME              ,La                      LUJ      -     &2a          L.



-35-
ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 6
PORTUGAL
HOUSING FINANCE PROJECT
Table 3: ACTUAL AND PROJECTED BALANCZ SHEETS
(1983-1987, in US$ million)
1983      1984      1985      1986     1987
(actual)(preliminary)
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash                                  0.00     27.14      50.87    11.80      0.00
Sight deposits                       44.96     22.48      19.86    35.92    15.54
Term deposits                         0.42      0.21       0.00     0.00      0.00
Total deposits                     45.38     22.69      19.86    35.92    15.54
Current maturities of loans           0.00      0.00       0.01     7.92    27.53
Interest receivables                  7.05      9.08       8.45    15.96    23.75
Total current assets               52.43     58.90      79.19    71.61    66.82
Loan Portfolio
Loans outstanding                     0.00       7.91     35.64    89.07   154.26
Less: Current maturities              0.00      0.00       0.01     7.92    27.53
Total net portfolio                 0.00       7.91     35.63    81.15   126.73
Loans to specialized inst.            0.00      0.00       0.00     0.00      2.75
Deferred exchange risk West. Bank    0.00       4.96       0.00     0.00      0.00
Fixed assets (net)                    0.00      0.05       0.10     0.15      0.20
TOTAL ASSETS                    52.43     71.81    114.92   152.91   196.50
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities
Current maturities of LT debts        0.00      0.00       0.00     0.50      1.00
Interest payaoles                     1.73      1.73       5.27     8.13      8.85
Short-term borrowings                 4.65      0.00       MO.(     0.00      3.58
Provisions for exchange risks         1.09      4.55       0.00     0.00      0.00
Total Current Liabilities           7.47      6.28       5.27     8.63    13.44
Loan-Term Debts
National Westminster Bank            27.53      27.53     27.5.2   27.53    27.53
US-AID guaranteed loan                0.00      0.00       4.00    13.00    23.00
I.B.R.D.                              0.00      0.00       1.5cf    5.00    13.00
Other foreign borrowings              0.00      0.00      18.78    18.78    18.78
Total for currency loans           27.53     27.53      51.81    64.31    82.31
Local borrowings                      0.00      0.00       5.00    10.00    15.00
Total long-term debts              27.53     27.53      56.81    74.31    97.31
Less: Current maturities              0.00      0.00       0.00     0.50      1.00
Total Net Long-term Debts          27.53     27.53      56.81    73.81    96.31
Equity
State contribution to equity         15.38      28.42     47.76    64.14    78.03
Provisions for portfolio risks        0.00      0.08       0.53     1.78      3.09
Provisions for exchange risks         0.00       4.96      0.00     0.00      0.00
Retained earnings                     2.04       4.55      4.55     4.55      5.64
Total Equity                       17.43      38.00     52.84    70.47    86.75
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND
EQUITY                                           I "1.81    UL2J    15L2.9    f2f62



- 36 -
ANNE 5
Page 4 of 6
PORTUGAL
HOUSING FINADNCE PROJECT
Table 4: ACTUAL ANID PROJECTD SOURCES AND APPLICINS OF FUNDS
(1983-1987, in US$ million)
1983      1984      1985     1986      1987
(actual) (preliminary)
SOURCES
Retained earnings                    2.04       1.13    -0.11      7.21    23.23
Provisions for portfolio risks       0.00       0.08      0.46     1.25      1.30
Provisions for exchange risks        1.09       4.55      0.00     0.00     0.00
Total cash flow generation         3.13       5.76      0.35     8.46    24.54
Short-term debts                     4.65       0.00      0.00     0.00      3.58
Current liabilities (increase)        1.73      1.73      5.27     8.63      9.85
Total short-term liabilities       6.38       1.73      5.27     8.63    13.44
Current assets (decrease)            0.00       0.00      0.00     7.58      4.79
Long-term debts
Hatioral Westminster Bank            27.53      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
US-AID buaranteed loans               0.00      0.00      4.00     9.00    10.00
I.B.R.D.                             0.00       0.00      1.50     3.50     8.00
Other foreign borrowings             0.00       0.00     18.78     0.00      0.00
Local borruwings                      0.00-    0.00       5.00     5.00      5.00
Total long-term debts             27.53       0.00     29.28    17.50    23.00
Loan collection (principal)           0.00      0.00      0.00     0.01      7.92
Equity (increase)                    15.38     13.04     19.34    16.39    13.89
Others (exch. risk provision)         0.00      4.96     -4.96     0.00    000
TOTAL SOURCES                  52.43      25.48     49.28    58.56    87.58
APPLICATIONS
Loan disbursements                    0.00      7.91     27.73    53.44    73.12
L.T. debt service (principal)         0.00      0.00      0.00     0.50      1.00
Cash (increase)                      45.38      0.00      0.00    16.07      0.00
Current assets (increase)             7.05      2.03     -0.62     7.51      7.79
Current liabilities (decrease)        0.00      4.65      0.00     0.00      0.00
Treasury liab. (def. exch. risk)      0.00      4.96     -4.96     0.00      0.00
Fixed assets                          0.00      0.05      0.05     0.05      0.05
Loan to specialized inst.             0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      2.75
TOTAL APPLICATIONS            .           1Jfl   .Z27L6     77.5      B4.7
Financing needs (disb. basis)         0.00      0.00      0.00    19.00      0.00
Financing surplus (disb. basis)       0.00      5.89     27.07     0.00      2.88



-37-
A~S
Pat* 5 of 6
PORTUGAL
HOUSIcN FINANCE PROJECT
Table 5: INK PROJECT FWWCDIG PLAx lWs4-197,
(in Us$ million)
on Cott   0 
Total project fiac ing                        262.81           -162.20
Reource surplus at end 1984                   45.38             4s.38
Total fianc    necds                     217.43            116.82
Resources Identified
Net cash flow generatin                        39.10            39.10
Loan collection net of debt-service            3.68              3.68
Equity increase                               62.65             62.65
US-AID authorized loan                        25.00             23.00
I.B.R.D. proposed loan                        25.00             13.00
Other foreign lons                             18.78            18.J8
US-ArD approved loan                          25.00              0.00
Total identified resources               199.21.  160.21
Financing gap (-) or surplus ()           18.22           -43.39



-38-
ANNEX 5
Page 6 of 6
PORTUGAL
HOUSING FINANCE PROJECT
Table 6: PROJECTED PERFORMANCE INDICAIORS (1984-1987)
1984      1985      1986      1987
Operational Indicators
Gross income/average total assets (1)        15.87     13.20     20.06     25.56
Adminiztrative costs/average assets           0.53      0.78      1.19       1.00
Financial expen./average assets (2)          13.52     12.54     13.48      11.26
Loan income/average loan portfolio (3)       31.50     31.68     31.71     31.30
Cost L.T. debt/average L.T. debt (4)         30.52     27.76     27.54     22.93
Spread (3)-(4)                                0.98      3.91      4.17      8.38
Margin (1)-(2)                                2.34      0.66      6.58      14.30
Profitability Indicators
Net income/average equity                     4.47     -0.26     11.70      29.56
Net income/average assets                     1.82     -0.12      5.39      13.30
Financial Structure Indicators
Debt-equity ratio                             0.83      1.08      1.05       1.12
Debt-service coverage (principal & inter.)   0.15       0.59      1.07       2.23
Debt-service coverage (principal only)         -         -        0.02       7.92



PORTUGAL -OUSING FINANcE PRJcT
Housing unit                                                           Characedristics
Irfl*L- ~ ~ ~        ~TechicallLn  U11-A
I .  KstLAULIt
1.  Individual Plots      Secondary roads and utilittes           6X of land " "   houl  be          nfraStructure only
(Sewerage, drainase, water              for residential use              * 300 c/plot
electricity).  Public lishting          Plot size: ISO s4. ^uximm.  Serviced land *
and car parks.  Individual              n4nber of plots a 5b/ha             540 c/plot, or
water  sewerage and                     minim.                              4,  c/net eq    4C" "
electricity connections.
2.  multi Storey Houses  Secondary roads and utilities            maxkima 40% of land "i' nfrastructure only
up to the entrance of the houses,    should be for roads and             * 2 c/sq.m. ar
Public lighting and car parks           utilities,                       270 c/unit.
(connections not included)              Number of housing units          Serviced land * 3.4 c/s9m.
76/ha Minimum                   or 450 c/unit.
II.  UPGRADING OF EXISTINh IMSES
To upgrade individual houses            No change In Oxisting            No limited costs for
and mlti-stary buildings                land use.                        lnd-lords (private or
(inside and outsid0); to                                                 HunicIpalitiss)
create new service connections                                           Loans * 500 c/unit
(heating central units, water
supply, sewerage, electricity)                                                                                                              I
in ancient Apartment buildings
and Individual houses.
ii:.  ~ouSIzG       CNITs                                                                                                    Ci    rLIGIWE
1. One or more multi-   Unfinished houses *                                                                                   uSthnicFl recon endat1ons
published february 14, 1915)
storey hOUSeS.         I living room.                                                                                     Unifinishad hausan.
Area for I to 4 bedrooms                 uilt up areas (sp) for          Building 17.6 c/sq,4.
1 kitchen, 1 wetroom                   oultistorey houses:               total cost . g5S of    Num  r of Ti * at of total units
with show4r, water, sewerage                                             Costs for coupleted    Nber of Ta      * Of  *   "       *
and electricity connections.                                             house (see below).       Less than SOX of T3 and T
TI   1 IR * 65S,,                                          edian  of t/subpro   t
T2 3  2 B     a* as s.                                    *T 2.S of 92 aq.m
T3 = 3 BR * 100 S*90
T4 * 4U  a  114 s.q.                                      C&ce*. ilou2sas,
Completed houses a 1 living                                             fBuilding Costs           Nr er of TI a la% of total units
roomp  1 to 1 bedrooms  1 Iuilt-up areas (sp) for                        * 22c/s.5q.              Maxima unit * ST
kitchen, I bathroom.  All rooms         Individual houses:               Total Cost *              except for special ces
complete with furnishing.  All          95S of the above areas           Ti * 2000 c              Less than 3St of TS/T4
service connections.                                                     12 * 2610 c              Median unit/subproject
T3  a  3100  c          :T  2.3 of  90 sqm ,
T4 * 3500 c
Note:  Cost of land is taken into account for its actual value.
a)     KaxiMU cost or selling prices in CONTOS (1986 value).
b)     Land:  urbanized land except land for comiunity facilities and primry Infrastructure.
c)     net sq.M. , saleable land for individual plot.



-40 -
Af=Mtf tIEST
(in id-1S94 Contos - US$650)
.   ltIorn              Affordable lose Price                Haxim  Size of
1*stby      Wih       CateoY   with a Sde service Ratio              Affordable Housing
Fmily                                                                 If -      ar  n"ltt On - f BOMI_ t =
. e     Hstriutimn k       rs I/     SI           I ss              SIz        1_l
27.1       1%         Al          1.657        1.749      untfinishd 1 br.2/   f inished 1 br.
3.2      2JS          Al          2.397        2.S30      finisbed 2 br.        ftnished 2 br. or
unfinished 3 br.
44.4      32%         Al           2.727        2.879     finished 2 br. or      finished 3 br. or
unfinished 4 br.      unfinished 4 br.
53.2       40          A2         2.305        2.433      unfinished 2 br.      finished 2 br. or
unfinished 3 br.
s5.s       sIM        A2          2.578        2.721      unfinished 3 br.      unfinished 4 br.
1 S eeAeu1.
2/ hr. -beu



- 41 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 2
PORTUGAL
FINANCE HOUSING PROJECT
Draft Sub-Loan Agreement for Consolidation World Bank
Funds Into Mortgage Loans
Transfer of Funds
1. INE would make available World Bank funds as a loan to the three
specialized institutions (SI) - i.e. Caixa Geral de Dep6sitos, Credito
Predial Portugues and Montepio Gera - Caixa Econ6mica de Lisboa - when the
house and/or plot is sold to the beneficiary. If within twelve months of
the house and/or plot completion, no mortgage has been granted by any SI,
the funds will be repaid by INE to the World Bank in anticipation to the
agreed amortization schedule.
2. To ensure rapid constructon, hence lower costs, no transfer of World Bank
funds will be allowed more than four years after a construction program
has been approved for commitment under the proposed World Bank loan.
Eligibility of Beneficiaries
3. The list of beneficiaries of a construction program is proposed by its
promoter with an additional 5Z of standby beneficiaries to take into
account possible defaults and rejections by SI.
4. The beneficiary's income must be lower than the medain of urban income
observed or estimated from time to time.
5. The beneficiary must be deemed creditworthy by the SI which will take the
credit risk in granting the mortgage loan.
Cost of Transferred Funds
6. INK will lend World Bank funds to SI's at its cost (e.g. World Bank
interest rate plus an exchange risk premium to be agreed between INK and
the Treasury) plus a 0.25 point commission on average outstanding amounts
to cover INH's costs for administering the sub-loan.
7. Neither INH nor the SI's will bear an exchange risk beyond the premium to
be stipulated in this Agreement.
Debt ServicinR
8. World Bank funds will be repaid to INH according to the amortization
schedule set forth in the proposed Loan Agreement (e.g. in 24 installments
starting year 4 after the loan signature until year 15).
9. The SI will take full responsibility for arrears in interest or principal
occurred on its mortgage loans, and for any financing implication of
schemes where repayment of a portion of interest or/and principal is
postponed to later years of the mortgage maturity.



- 42 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 2
Cofinancing by SI's
10. The SI's will provide their own financing to complement World Bank funds
because (i) they may ouly contribute 501 of INH's financing of
construction costs, and (ii) maturity (between 9 and 12 years) on their
loans is shorter than the average mortgage loan (e.g. 25 years).
11. To ensure that INE's financing of low-cost housing is followed up with
mortgage loans to low-income beneficiaries, Banco de Portugal has waived
the SI's credit ceilings for such funds.



- 43 -
ANNEX 9
PORTUGAL
HOUSING FINANCE PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
Disbursement        Cwmzlative
Semester                  during period       Disburseent        Cumulative
Ending On          (FY)  (US$ million)       (US$ million)       Percentage
December 31, 1985    (86)        1.5                1.5               6.0
June 30, 1986        (86)        1.0                2.5              10.0
December 31, 1986    (87)        2.5                5.0              20.0
June 30, 1987        (87)        4.0                9.0              36.0
December 31, 1987    (88)        4.0               13.0              52.0
June 30, 1988        (88)        5.0               18.0              72.0
December 31, 1988    (89)        3.0               21.0              84.0
June 30, 1989        (89)        2.0               23.0              92.0
December 31, 1989    (90)        1.0               24.0              36.0
June 30, 1990        (90)        1.0               25.0             100.0



- 44 -
ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 3
PORTUGAL
HOUSING FINANCE PROJECT
Inventory of Project Background Documents
(Data and Details Available in the Project File)
1..      The Project
1.1 Public Strategies for housing in Portugal - PADCO - June 1979.
1.2 (a) An evaluation of AID shelter program in Portugal - USAID
July 1983.
(b) Preliminary proposal for AID support of a low-cost housing
program in Portugal - John Miller, Consultant, USAID -
Jul.1983.
1.3 Premier Projet Urbain au Portugal - N. Chretien, Consultant
(a) Le secteur du financement de 1'habitat - Oct.. 1982.
(b) Mission de preparation - Jan. 1984.
1.4 Aspects techniques relatifs aux problimes urbains et au logement
social - C. Hovnanian, Consultant.
(a) Rapport preliminaire - Sept. 1982.
(b) Rapport de mission technique - Feb. 1983.
(c) Rapport complementaire et annexes - Dec. 1983.
1.5 GEP/MES - (Gabinete de Estudos e Planamento) - (Ministerio do
Equipamento Social).
(a) Programmacao preliminar no dominio da habita'ao social -
May 1983.
(b) Proposta de programa de medio prazo para o sector habitag&o
1983/86.
(c)  Programwaro para o emprestimo garantido pela - USAID - 1983.
1.6 Housing program Agreement between the Government of Portugal and the
U.S.A. for low cost housing, USAID Draft - Nov. 20, 1984.
1.7 World Bank Housing Finance Project - Jan.; 1984.
(a) FAIHIINH - Lending program - 1983.
(b)  INE Project conitment of eligible lending program - 1984/87.
(c) Social housing program - Economic rate of return.
1.8 Rental system for housing purposes - Council of Ministers - Draft
bill approved - June 19, 1984



- 45 -
ANN1X 10
Page 2 of 3
1.9   Banco de Portugal - Letter No. 8223/Doc. dated December 6, 1984.
1.10  Pipeline of subprojects potentially eligible for W.B. financing GEP
- April 1985.
1.11  Emprestimos aprovados por proposta do INN em contratados com o INM.
Deade o inicio at6 30. IV 1985. INN. May 1985.
2. Housing Finance in Portugal
2.1   GEP/MES
(a)  Distriuicao das familias per escalabs de rendimento - Dec. 1980.
(b) 0 Credito bonificarao a aquisagao de casa propria en 1978 -
Analisa economica e sociologica.
(c) Analise de sensibilidado de alternatives de programfatao
financeira para programmas de habita,cao social 1984/88
May 1984.
2.2   FAIR - Relatorio de Actividas 1983. Planeamento financeiro -
1984/86.
2.3  Banco de Portugal - Relatorio de conselho de Administragao 1983.
2.4   Caixa Geral de Depositos -. Relatorio e Contos 1981-1982-1983.
2.5   Credito Predia Portuguese.
(a) Relatorio e contos 1981-1982.
(b) Relatorio de prospeccao immobiliare 1983.
2.6   Secretario Estado do Planeamento - Portuguese economic - Situation
in 1981.
2.7 Recomendacaes T6cnicas para Habitaqao Social - Diario da Republica -
II. Serie Numero 38. February 14, 1985.
3. General Background Information
3.1   GEP/MES
(a)  Monografio sabvre a previsao ed a programzacao de habitagao
Portugal Dec. 1977.
(b) Housing development fund program - Legislation - May 1978.
(c)  Contratos de desenvolvimento para a habitaqao  - June 1975.
(d)  Situac,o da constru,ao clandestino March 1978.
(e) 0 SituaCao recente no domino da saneamento basico - Apr. 1978.
(f) Breve analise aos apuramentos preliminares do censo de 1981
June 1981.



- 46 -
A)NEX 10
Page 3 of 3
(g) Relatorio estatistico 1981.
(h) Estudos de conjontura - From Jan. 1981 through Jan. 1984.
(i) Caracterizigao sumaria dos sectores da construsao e de
habitacAo June 1982.
3.2  Instituto de Estudos para o desenvolvimento.
(a) Rendimento e riqueza desiguais 1980.
(b) Envelhecimento do stock construida da cidade de Lisboa 1982.
3.3  FFH (Fundo de Fomento de HabitarAo).
(a) Some aspects on housing in Portugal - June 1977
(b) Instrugaos para projetos de habitaSao promovida pelo Estato 1978
(c) Loi des sols - June 1978
(d) Housing cooperatives in Portugal - Feb. 1979
3.4  OECD (Organization of European Cooperation and Development)
Urban growth in Mediterranean countries - Portugal Nov. 1978.
3.5  EEC (European Economic Community)
(a) Tendances et politiques actuelles dans le domaine de 1'habitation
et de la planification - Portugal 1980.
(b) Logements sous 6quipes dans les villes - Portugal 1980.
3.6  Cooperagao Luso - Suica
Monographia base sobre a situaqao de habitaqao em Portugal 1980.
3.7 Plano integrado di Almada - Monte de Caparica.
3.8  Cidade de Porto - Una experencia de renovaro urbana - Ribeira
Barreido - 1980.
3.9  Alto de Lumiar - Lisboa - RecuperaqAo des areas degradades 1982.
4. Procurement
4.1  MES/MHOPT - Licencas de obras - Legislarao 1975.
4.2 GEP/MES - Revisto do pre,os de empreitados - Jan. 1979.
4.3 Mission interministerielle de la qualite de l'habitat France -
Architecture et cowmande publique au Portugal 1983.






