Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Rapyo No. P-4109-PO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$25 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
FOR A
HOUSING FINANCE PROJuECT
November 5, 1985
JThI    s document km a msbidehd iltbsdo. ad may be used by recIpkets edy in the perfonrmnce of
thir oficIa doIs lb eantnmy not othenwdse be iscmei wItout W.d  Bank uath_don.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS 1/
Currency Unit  =  Portuguese Escudo (Esc.)
Calendar 1984 2/                                   May 1985
USt     =  Esc. 146.4                             USt    = 174.54
Esc. I =  US$0.0068                               Esc. 1 = 0.0057
PORTUGUESE FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
CGD     General Deposit Bank
CPP     Portuguese Housing Credit Bank
FAIH    Housing Investment Support Fund
FFH     Housing Development Fund
GAT     Technical Assistance Office
GEP     Office of Studies and Planning
H.P     Housing Guarantee Program
INH     National Housing Institute
KfW     Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
LNEC    National Civil Engineering Laboratory
MOF     Ministry of Finance
MSE     Ministry of Social Equipment
PRID    Program for Improvement of Dilapidated Housing
1/ The exchange rate of the escudo is being adjusted monthly on the basis
ot a "crawling peg" system, and a rate of Esc. 153.00 = tl prevailing
ir. July 1984 has been used in the Staff Appraisal Report.
2/   Period average.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PORTUGAL
HOUSING FINANCE PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMHARY
Borrower:             Republic of Portugal
Beneficiary;           The National Housing Institute (INH)
Amount:                US$25.0 million
Terms:                 Fifteen years, including three years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate. The Government would
bear the foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
Relending Terms:       The Bank loan would be onlent by the Government in
local currency to INH for a similar maturity, at the
interest rate for medium- and long-term loans
prevailing in Portugal, less a margin of 3.5 points and
0.25 point to INH for its activities of direct lending
to developers and to financial intermediaries for
mortgage finance, respectively.
Project Objectives    The project is designed to support the Government's
and Description:    housing policy by providing low-cost affordable
serviced plots and increasing the housing stock serving
the low income segment of the urban population, and to
encourage private and public developers to produce low
income housing and develop INH. Towards these
objectives, the project would finance, through INH, the
construction of infrastructure development and low cost
housing schemes for the subsequent sale of housing
units targeted at the selected income groups, provide
mortgage loans through specialized institutions to
eligible beneficiaries and strengthen INH through a
t2chnical assistance program.
Benefits and Risks:   The project would promote home ownership as a means of
mobilizing savings, stimulate the recovery of the
depressed construction sector and create new
employment. It would also help to reduce government
subsidies in the housing sector. Project risks relate
to: (i) the effectiveness of INH in realizing the
government's policy objectives; and (ii) financing the
IThis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their offcial duties. Its contensi may not oterwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
subprojects in the higher price range within
established standards, thus diluting the benefits to
the target population. These risks have been minimized
to acceptable levels through the provision of technical
assistance and agreement on a statement of policy
designed to protect INH's viability. The eligibility
criteria, both technical and financial, have been
designed to ensure that the schemes are targeted to low
income groups.                                                     b
Estimated Project Costz
us$ million
Local    Foreign      Total
Plot servicing, housing
construction                          28.0      28.0       56.0
Technical Assistance                     -         0.6        0.6
28.0      28.6       56.6
Financing Plan:
US$ million
Local    Foreign      Total
World Bank                               -        25.0       25.0
USAID Housing Guarantee Loan            22.0       3.0       25.0
Developers                               6.0        -         6.0
USAID Technical Assistance Grant         -         0.6        0.6
28.0      28.6       56.6
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank Fiscal Year       1986    1987   1988   1989   1990
-uST s  million               -
Annual          5.0     8.0    8.0    3.0    1.0
Cumulative      5.0    13.0   21.0   24.0   25.0
Rate of Return;  Not Applicable
Appraisal Report: No. 5412-PO dated June 3, 1985



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL FOR A HOUSING FINANCE PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Portugal for the equivalent of US$25.0 million to help
finance a Housing Finance project. The loan would have a term of 15 years,
including 3 years grace, with interest at the standard variable rate. The
loan proceeds would be onlent to the National Housing Institute (INH) for the
same maturity at a variable interest rate equal to the prevailing interest
rate for local currency loans for similar terms, less a margin of 3.5 points
and 0.25 point to INH for its activities of direct lending to developers and
to financial intermediaries for mortgage finance, respectively. The
Government would bear the foreign exchange and interest rate risks. INH
would relend these funds to public and private developers for periods not
exceeding four years and, after the construction phase, consolidate the loans
repaid by the developers and relend to specialized mortgage financing
institutions for providing mortgage loans, at the prevailing interest rate
for local currency loans for similar terms.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       The latest economic report, entitled "The Portuguese Economy,
1980-82, An Updating Report" (No. 4004-PO, dated March 1, 1983) was
distributed to the Executive Directors in March 1983. Country data sheets
are attached as Annex I. An updating economic report has been prepared and
was discussed with the Government in June 1985; further discussions are to be
held shortly. The main findings of the draft report are reflected below.
Background
3.       The revolution of April 1974 radically transformed Portugal's econ-
omy. Major sectors of the economy were nationalized, and a comprehensive
land reform was carried out in the central and southern parts of the country.
Trade union activity was legalized and workers' rights safeguarded. The
Government increased its intervention in the economy through wage and price
controls, as well as by a significant increase in public expenditures. The
disruptions from these structural changes, together with a combination of
adverse external factors, resulted in a sharp deterioration in the balance of
payments by 1977. In 1978, the Government adopted a comprehensive adjustment
program, including a Standby Agreement with the IMF, which reduced the current
account deficit to virtually zero by 1979.



- 2 -
4.       The period from 1980 to mid 1983 was characterized by a progressive
deterioration of economic performance in most areas, including the balance of
payments. Furthermore, the combination of high current account deficits
since 1980; political uncertainty, which followed the fall in December 1982
of a coalition government which had been in power for about two years; and
the lack of economic leadership by the caretaker Government during the first
semester of 1983 led to a serious deterioration in Portugal's credit rating
in international capital markets. Difficulties were encountered in renewing
part of the short-term external debt of public enterprises, resulting in its
decline by about $600 million during 1983. A large part of the current
account deficit in 1983 was financed through reductions in gold reserves.
Recent Deve lopments
5.       In June 1983, a coalition Government between the Socialists and
Social Democrats was installed. The Government took a number of measures,
including devaluation of the escudo and reduction of subsidies, to address
the country's deteriorated economic situation. It also developed an
adjustment program to reduce the balance of payments deficits and to slow
down the growth of indebtedness. A Standby Agreement with the IMF was signed
on October 9, 1983, and included agreed targets for domestic credit and
external borrowing through February 1985.
6.       On the external side, the Government attained its two main
stabilization goals: Ci) a reduction in the current account deficit in the
balance of payments from ov-cr $3.2 billion (13 percent of GDP) in 1982 to
about tl.7 billion (7 percent of GDP) in 1983, and to about $0.6 billion (2
percent of GDP) in 1984; and (ii) containment of external debt under the
targeted 1984 level of $15 billion. Measures to keep the escudo competitive
(through devaluations and an increase in the crawling peg) were effective,
and merchandise exports increased in constant prices by 21 percent in 1983
and 15 percent in 1984. Merchandise imports declined by 8 percent in 1983
and by an estimated 5 percent in 1984, partly as a result of a drawdown in
inventories of imported goods. Tourist receipts, which had declined in the
1980-83 period, increased Wy about 30 percent in 1984 in dollar terms.
Workers remittances, which also had declined during 1980-83 (in large part
due to factors external to Portugal such as depreciation of European
currencies against the US dollar and the continued wenkness of European
economies), remained steady in 1984, at roughly the 1983 level.
7.       On the internal side, however, the Government was less successful.
In 1983, the Government achieved an initial, dramatic reduction in the
deficit of the enlarged public sector, which includes both public enterprises
and the central administration (down from 23 percent of GDP in 1982 to 15
percent of GDP in 1983). The estimates for 1984, however, indicate that the
deficit increased again to about 17 percent. The state budget deficit alone
reached 9 percent of GDP for 1984, compared to the target of 6 percent.



- 3 -
8.       The implementation of the stabilization program entailed consider-
able costs. Domestic demand was sharply curtailed and stocks were run down.
Real GDP declined by 0.5 percent in 1983 and 2 percent in 1984. Real wages
declined for three years in a row and have returned to levels experienced
prior to the revolution. Unemployment increased to over 10 percent by the end
of 1984. The corporate sector has been faced with reduced access to credit,
higher interest rates, and lower domestic demand, even as it faces the
pressing need to restructure to meet the changing market conditions resulting
from the EEC accession. Inflation, as measured by the consumer price index,
also accelerated during 1983, averaging over 25 percent during 1983 on an
annual basis and reached an estimated 30 percent on average during 1984. It
has since subsided and is expected to be around 22 percent in 1985, reflecting
in part the anticipated delays in price increases prior to the Presidential
elections in early 1986.
9.       In June 1985, the treaty of accession for Portuga  co join the EEC
was signed and entry was set for January 1, 1986.  Some adjustments-in
particular, the reduction in EEC tariffs on Portugal's exports-have already
been made, and others-for example the introduction of the Common Agricultural
Policy--will take place over a ten-year transitional period. There is
considerable opportunity associated with EEC entry-in particular, in the use
of community funds to promote regional development and structural change and
in the attraction of direct foreign investment--but some uncertainty also
exists, especially with respect to the competitiveness of some firms in the
private sector and possible balance of payments effects. Also, in June 1985,
the coalition government resigned but was asked by the President to remain in
power as a caretaker government until new Parliamentary elections could take
place. These elections were held in early October, and the Social Democrats
have been asked to form a new government.
The Need for Structural Change
10.      The dilemma which the new Government will face is how to maintain the
gains of the stabilization program while at the same time ending the economic
recession and preventing a further deterioration in living standards. In
addition, Portugal has still to undertake the structural changes which will be
necessary to take advantage of EEC accession. Attempts to obtain rapid GDP
growth may not be compatible with a sustainable balance of payments position
over the next three to four years, as the Government has not yet taken
sufficient measures to increase productivity and stimulate investment. In
March 1985, however, the Government approved a draft program for mediumrterm
economic recovery and reform. The objectives of this program are to resume
economic growth, reduce unemployment and reduce inflation. The structural
reforms it proposes relate to the financial system, rationalization of the
public enterprise sector, restructuring of the private manufacturing sector,
tax reform, and regional development. These are all areas where substantial
improvements are required.



11.      The Bank is closely associated with work underway at the Government
level to formulate a restructuring program for the statutory nonfinancial
public enterprises (NPE). NPEs consist of government transport, utility, and
marketing monopolies and some large industrial enterprises. They account for
about 13 percent of value added, 5 percent of employment, and 18 percent of
gross fixed capital formation. NPEs contributed to the public sector deficit
in the 1983-85 period in amounts equivalent to about 7Z of GDP per year; they
hold more than half of total medium- and long term and nearly all of the
short-term external debt of Portugal. The need for structural change in NPEs
is acute for several reasons. First, there has been little direct pressura on
these enterprises to adjust to changed circumstances, resulting in low
profits, if not losses, for many of them. Administered prices, rigid labor
laws, inadequate managerial incentives/accountability, and insufficient
self-financing requirements for investment have retarded rationalization at
the enterprise level. Second, exogenous circumstances have aggravated the
adjustment problem. These include the concentration in the public sector of
industries which are economically depressed worldwide (e.g., shipbuilding,
steel, cement, and international transport); delays and uncertainties in
budgetary transfers and investment approvals due to changing governments; and
the relatively strong position of labor unions in the large public sector
enterprises. Uncompensated social service obligations, such as maintaining
strategic reserves or uneconomic services, might also fall into this
category. And third, NPEs have been required to borrow abroad for more than
their own foreign exchange requirements and also to bear the burden of
adjustment of inadequate fiscal policies through accumulated net budgetary
arrears. It seems essential, therefore, that institutional reforms be
introduced and that public enterprises increase their self-financing
capabilities. In some cases, financial restructuring will be required to
permit adequate long-run profitability.
12.      While a few larger private enterprises perform well and account for
an important share of Portugal's manufactured exports, private enterprises are
typically in a difficult economic and financial position. Following the
nationalizations of 1974, many of the large private companies came under
public management. In the small, traditional enterprises, which remain in the
private sector, productivity is often low, profit rates are low or negative
(except in tourism and trade) and management, marketing and technology are
poorly developed. They are highly indebted, mostly on short term. With slack
internal demand and higher real interest rates, a number of firms have
experienced serious liquidity problems. Few bankruptcies have been declared,
but arrears have accumulated.  Restoring the financial soundness of
enterprises is urgently needed, but it is only a partial solution. Much
remains to be done to modernize and expand private production and to improve
the policy environment.  Labor laws have been partlv liberalized, and the
fertilizer, industry, banking and insurance sectors have been reopened to the
private sector. The new Government will have to decide on the energy plan,
the technology plan, and on programs to restructure traditional industries
such as textiles or mechanical industries. There is need to develop policies
to promote and diversify exports and to improve the existing export credit and
insurance schemes. A reform of the export institute is in preparation, but
work is proceeding slowly.



13.      Only weeks before entry to the EEC, the need for change in the
agricultural sector is evident in almost every domain. Agricultural
technologies are inadequate, and productivity is surprisingly low for a
country of Portugal's income level. As a result, Portugal is largely
dependent on food imports.  Agricultural credit schemes have not been
successful in facilitating investment to increase productivity, and the land
reform initiated after the revolution has yet to be completed. The
Government, with the assistance of the World Bank, has prepared an action
program aimed at improving agricultural productivity. In addition, the
Government needs to: (i) complete its reform of the pricing and subsidy
system; (ii) design a strategy for adjusting producer prices to EEC levels;
(iii) complete the land reform and bring more flexibility to the land market;
(iv) establish an improved scheme of agricultural credit; and (v) decentralize
its authority. While EEC accession might provide additional resources from
the Regional Fund, restructuring the agricultural seclor will require
continuous efforts by Portuguese authorities to strengthen and render more
efficient their support services.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
14.      Portugal's experience in the international capital markets has been
favorable in 1984 and 1985, with successful borrowings by the state and public
enterprises. Borrowings have been contracted mainly at floating rates and in
US dollars, although recent efforts at diversification of currencies have been
made. Portugal's tot21 external debt increased from $7.3 billion at the end
of 1979 to t13.7 billion at end-1982 to about W15 billion, or 77 percent of
CDP, by end 1984. Short-term debt has stabilized at about $3 billion, but
still accounts for a significant proportion of the total. Over 90 percent of
the total outstanding debt has been contracted by the public sector, with
public enterprises accounting for slightly over 50 percent. The majority of
the short-term debt has been contracted by four NPEs.
15.      The debt service ratio, including interest on short-term debt, rose
from 14.5 percent in 1980 to 35 percent in 1984. In addition to the rapid
build-up in Portugal's external debt and the hardening terms of borrowing, the
deterioration in the debt service ratio has been the result of large
amortization payments falling due on medium-term debt contracted in the late
1970s.  The sale of gold reserves ir. 1983 and the recent decline in the
international price of gold have resulted in a situation where Portugal's gold
reserves now provide coverage for about 40 percent of total external debt.
Although less than the previous coverage, most lenders still perceive this as
an important guarantee of creditworthiness for the medium-term.
16.      Despite the gold coverage and the Government's success in 1983-85 in
reducing external borrowing, the relatively high levels of the debt and debt
service ratio call for continuing prudent external debt management and
appropriate economic policies at home. Over the long-term, creditworthiness
will depend on the ability of the authorities to formulate and implement the
structural reforms discussed above. In the short term, che necessity of
rolling over existing short-term debt and obtaining additional loans will



-6 -
require careful management of Portugal's foreign exchange position, and
external financial arrangements will remain an extremely important issue for
Portugal for the next several years. About two-thirds of total borrowings,
and virtually all of the short-term borrowing, have been contracted from
financial institutions. Multilateral lending constitutes only about 13
percent of Portugal's medium- and long-term debt outstanding, and is slightly
less than bilateral lending. The Bank's exposure is limited. Bank loans
disbursed and outstanding amount to about 3 percent of total outstanding
Imedium- and long-term debt.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PORTUGAL
17.      The first phase of Bank lending to Portugal, during the period
1963-66, was concentrated in the power sector; this reflected the Government's
development priorities to meet the energy needs of a rapidly developing
industrial sector. The events of the more recent past have created special
problems; the transition to an open political system has revealed social and
economic weaknesses which are unusual for a relatively high-income developing
country. The Bank has responded to Portugal's needs by assisting in
identifying, preparing and financing projects, and through economic and sector
work in a number of areas.
18.      The proposed project would be the twenty-sixth with Portugal.  Bank
operations amount to about $940 million (net of cancellations), and have been
concentrated in the industry (6 projects for about $320 million) and energy (9
projects for about $250 million) sectors. About 40 percent of the total
lending has been channelled to public enterprises, about 30 percent via lines
of credit for onlending to individual enterprises, with the remaining 30
percent in support of activities undertaken by the Government administration.
Map No. 14942R4, attached, shows the location of Bank lending activities.
19.      Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IFC
investments as of September 30, 1985. At that time, total disbursements from
loans made after 1976 amounted to over t540 million. The improvement in
disbursement performance noted in FY83 has been sustained; $85 million was
disbursed in FY84, and about S90 million was disbursed in FY85. Disbursements
during the current fiscal year have continued at this pace. As a result of a
full review of the performance of the portfolio, held in Lisbon in March 1984,
the Bank agreed to the establishment of special accounts for several projects
to help facilitate disbursements. The Government also requested the
cancellation of balances not expected to be utilized under several loanh .nd
cancelled two recently approved projects which had not yet begun
implementation; the Goverment decided to use other sources of finance for the
Agriculture Services project, and to reorient its industrial restructuring
efforts away from the subsector-based approach taken by the Textile Industry
Restructuring Project.
20.      The projects with public enterprises have progressed well in physical
project terms and all but the most recent loan to the electricity corporation
(FY83) are nearly fully disbursed; the fertilizer modernization, petroleum



exploration and the mechanical industries projects were completed. As noted
above, however, many public enterprise borrowers are experiencing serious
financial difficulties. This situation is under close scrutiny by the
Government and the Bank, and special efforts to address the underlying and
institutional causes are being designed. The loans for onlending via lines of
credit have slowed in disbursements due to the slowdown of growth and
investment in the general economy. Furthermore, the devaluation of the escudo
over the course of project execution has meant that lines of credit are able
to finance many more sub-loans denominated in local currency than had been
expected at appraisal. Most of the loan for the agricultural and fisheries
credit project, which experienced severe institutional difficulties and was
not able to reach the target population, was cancelled.
21.      The Bank is also assisting the Government in an intense parallel
effort at macroeconomic and sectoral levels, to review policy and management
issues. The report "Policies for Industrial Restructuring" (No. 3804-PO,
dated August 4, 1982) laid the basis for a number of policy improvements and
identification of projects for possible Bank assistance. This report was
followed-up by an updated economic memorandum and a special report on
"Prospects for External Trade in Light of EEC Entry - with Special Reference
to Agriculture," (Nos. 4004-PO and 4109-PO, dated March 1 and 3, 1983,
respectively). At the sectoral level, an Agricultural Sector Survey (No.
5007-PO, dated July 20, 1984) and an Energy Assessment Report (No. 4824-PO,
dated April 1984) were prepared. The major ongoing effort is the preparation
of a report on the nonfinancial public enterprise sector which has been
discussed with the Government. Future economic and sector work Will be
directed at analyzing the prospects and opportunities in the EEC environment
for the Portuguese agricultural and industrial sectors and regional
development.
22.      The Bank has been discussing with the Portuguese authorities the
orientation and focus of future Bank work. Discussions have also been held
with EEC agencies and funds about possible means of cooperation once Portugal
joins the EEC. These consultations will be renewed when the new Government is
formed. Restructuring of the public enterprise sector (institutionally,
physically and financially) is a high priority. Also the importance of the
industrial sec.or cannot be overemphasized, as it is expected to be the major
growth point for the Portuguese economy and exports. The main objectives of
Bank assistance to the industrial sector would be structural reform, export
promotion and efficient import-substitution, employment creation and the
preservation and promotion of energy-saving. Activities in support of the
development of the energy sector in Portugal also are important, given its
continuing high dependence on imported petroleum products, the attractive
potential benefits from energy conservation, and the very large share of
energy investments in the overall public investment program.
23.      IFC is presently considering an additional investment in the
Portuguese Investment Society, which has recently been converted into a
private bank. IFC continues to explore opportunities to assist the private
sector, but the depressed investment climate, the poor financial situation of



- 8 -
private companies, and the fact that large investments which would be of
interest to IFC arr in the public sector, have prevented IFC's larger
involvement in support of the private sector.
24.      In the context of the stabilization program, the overall investment
program of the Government and the public enterprises has been severely
constrained. The slowdown of growth for the general economy has dampened
private sector investment levels as well. The Bank program of assistance will
therefore address policy level issues which will facilitate the progressive
return to robust growth, and be targeted at those specific investment areas
which should receive priority, especially in the constrained circumstances and
in view of Portugal's forthcoming entry into the EEC.
PART III - THE HOUSING SECTOR
25.      Despite the modest pace of urbanization in Portugal, the construction
of formal housing has not kept pace with housing needs in urban areas. The
urban population in continental Portugal increased from 1.9 million in 1960 to
about 3.5 million in 1984, representing 32 percent of total population.
Portugal remains the least urbanized country in Europe, and its urban growth
has been spatially imbalanced. Half of the total urban population lives in
two cities, Lisbon and Oporto, with another 30 percent in other coastal
cities. Though the Government is initiating measures to proriote regional
development with a view to lessen the pace of urbanization, the spatial
imbalance is expected to be aggravated in the near future.
26.      Basic urban infrastructure and services are still deficient.
According to the 1981 census, about 26 percent of urban housing was without
water connections, 22 percent without sanitary installations and 10 percent
without electricity.  The municipalities which are responsible for the
provision of basic services are constrained by the lack of adequate financial,
technical and managerial resources.
27.      Following the 1974 revolution, successive Governments have pursued
housing policies based on rent controls, public construction of social housing
with unrealistic standards and high costs, and provision of subsidized loans.
Rent control has resulted in the stagnation of the private rental market,
deterioration of the existing stock of housing, and a reduction in the housing
supply for ownership.  To increase public housing production, the Government
expanded in 1974 the role of the Housing Development Fund (FFH) to implement
subsidized housing for lower income families through:  (i) a program for
large-scale subsidized rental projects, both directly and on behalf of
municipalities; (ii) a program to support cooperatives and private developers
by the provision of technical assistance and concessional financing; and (iii)
a modest program of loans for the rehabilitation of existing dwellings.
During the period 1974-1982, FFH cofinanced about 42,500 units or about 18
percent of total housing construction, which included only 2,000 units through
cooperatives despite official encouragement, and 10,000 units through private
development contracts, financed by subsidized loans and technical assistance
from FFH. The excessive standards adopted for social hlousing, coupled with
the low rents, created financial difficulties for the municipalities and FFH,
leading to the latter's dissolution in 1982.



28.      Due to the limited construction of both public and private housing,
and to the lack of adequate housing finance, the current level of output is
under 40,000 units per year, largely by the private sector (about 70
percent). Much of urban expansion has been through the formation of informal
housing settlements, built illegally on public or private land without clear
title, building permit or supporting infrastructure. Upgrading and
infrastructure development included in the proposed project would help to
improve amenities in these informal settlements. Such informal units were
estimated at about 600,000 in 1983. The Government also estimated that
another 600,000 households need houses, representing 15 years of current
supply.
29.      Recognizing that its housing policy has been ineffective and costly,
the Government has made significant changes in regard to rent control,
building standards and credit subsidies. With a view to stimulating
investment in ceatal housing, the Government abolished rent controls on
commercial buildings, new rental buildings, and buildings renovated with
credit financing. With a view to progressively eliminating rent controls
altogether, Parliament has approved the framework of legislation permitting
homeowners to choose from January 1, 1986 either free market rents or
regulated rents, while rents previously frozen will be allowed to catch up
with inflation. The details for implementing this legislation are being
worked out by a Parliamentary Commission, and are expected to be approved
shortly. In the event homeowners choose to be governed by the regulated rent
regime, the initial rent would be established to yield 8 percent of the market
value of the property, and allowed to be adjusted annually for inflation in
accordance with an officially published index. In addition, the new law would
allow the landiords tax incentives, such as waiver of property tax for the
first five years, and a lower property tax thereafter, and also a reduction in
the tax liability on rental income. The new law would thus help to improve
conditions in the rental market, and to stimulate investment in rental
housing. To minimize the impact of increased rents on low-income households,
the Government proposes to provide an income supplement related to family size
and incomes, to be financed by taxation of non-regulated rents.
30.      In order to provide cost-effective and affordable housing, the
Government has already revised the social housing standards in consultation
with the Bank, which would help to reduce construction costs by about 30
percent. The adoption of more realistic and affordable standards should have
a major impact in reducing the level of subsidies. On the institutional side,
it has set up in 1983 the National Housing Institute, (INH) which has been
empowered to finance land development, upgrade informal settlements through
the provision of basic infrastructure, and the construction of "unfinished
apartments" which are finished by the buyer. The lending rates to developers
(municipalities, cooperatives and private developers) on loans from the
banking system have been raised to 31.5 percent, and carry a positive rate of
interest. Mortgage rates have been increased to 32.5 percent; and interest
subsidies are now limited to low-income households with incomes below $595 per
month. With a view to eliminating progressively the subsidies in the housing
sector, the Government is reassessing the program of housing subsidies, as



- 10 -
part of an overall review of its entire program of subsidies in various
sectors. It has already decided that, starting with its fiscal year 1986,
housing subsidies would be subject to an overall annual ceiling; in this
context, the Government would have to reduce the present scale of subsidies to
all beneficiaries, or to reduce the claas of eligible beneficiaries, by
targetting them to the poorer sections of the urban population, as suggested
by the Bank. Understandings were reached during negotiations that the
Government would endeavour to eliminate the subsidies presently available to
families with incomes in the 50-65 percentiles of urban income, and discuss
with the Bank its plans and timetable for elimination of subsidies while
formulating INH's program for 1986, and setting the ceilings for budgetary
subsidies in 1986. During the implementation of the proposed project, the
Bank would continue its dialogue with the Government on further possible
policy adjustments to promote the Government's objectives in the sector (See
para. 34).
Housing Financial Institutions
31.      For a country of Portugal's size and state of development, the number
and variety of financial institutions are limited. All private Portuguese
financial institutions, with the exception of the small savings banks, were
nationalized in 1975. However, the latest revision to the Constitution
reopened parts of the financial sector to the private sector (both domestic
and foreign). After the law on private banking was approved at the end of
1983, three private banks (one domestic and two foreign) were established.
More banks have applied, and the Government is considering their applications
and will progressively enlarge the number of private banks operating in
Portugal. While foreign banks will introduce more competition in financial
markets, they may also play a maior role in introducing new financial
instruments and techniques to Portugal. The Government is also considering
measures to improve the operational efficiency of the nationalized banking
system.
32.      The major sources of loan financing for the housing sector are the
three specialized credit institutions: General Deposit Bank (CGD), Portugal's
largest bank, Portuguese Housing Credit Bank (CPP), and Montepio-Geral (MG), a
mutual fund of government employees. CGD lent about 0275 million for housing
in 1983, 78 percent in the form of mortgage loans, and housing accounted for
43 percent of its outstanding portfolio. It has a well trained staff and
follows adequate appraisal procedures. It has successfully performed the
financial intermediation role for credits from the European Investment Bank,
Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) and the World Bank. Though much smaller
in size compared to CGD, CPP is more active in housing and construction
financing, and its loans in 1982 amounted to about half of CGD's. About 60
percent of its loans were for medium-term construction and 40 percent for
mortgage loans. CPP also has a well-trained staff and appropriate appraisal
techniques. The Caixa Economica de Lisboa, the smallest and the most
specialized in housing finance, devoted 80 percent of its resources for
housing, nearly half being for mortgage lending. Commercial banks have played
a relatively minor role in the housing sector, with their financing mostly
devoted to the construction phase.



- L1 -
Interest Rates for Housing Loans
33.      All deposit and lending rates are determined by the Bank of Portugal,
and are variable over the life of the loans. Interest rates on deposits and
loans have been periodically increased so that they are positive in relation
to inflation. The basic interest rate on mortgage loans is currently 32.5
percent per annum, with maturity varying from 15 to 25 years depending on the
house price. A maximum loan to value ratio of 95 percent is applied for
social dwellings, defined as those with a price of less than $32,400
equivalent, and a ratio of 60 percent for luxurious ones. The interest rates
charged are positive in real terms, both in relation to the recent past when
inflation averaged about 30 percent, and given future, prospects of inflation
currently forecast to be about 22 percent in 1985.
34.      There are three types of interest subsidy provided to the
beneficiaries. First, lending institutions grant an interest bonus of up to
1.5 percent for all beneficiaries, which is viewed as an incentive for
attracting deposits from these borrowers. Second, the Banco de Portugal
provides an interest rebate varying from 1.5 to 3.75 percent for dwellings
whose prices are below the equivalent of $32,400. In addition, the Government
provides a family subsidy for dwellings costing less than $19,500 to buyers
whose income is below $550 per month equivalent, which is applied towards
reduction of the burden on interest payments on housing loans. These interest
subsidies vary from 8 percentage points of the loans for families with income
levels at the 30th percentile of urban income distribution at the end of 1984,
to 5 percentage points of the loans for families with incomes below the 45th
percentile and 3 points of the loans to those whose incomes are below the 65th
percentile. The subsidies are reduced by half a point per annum in the first
five years, and by one percentage point thereafter; thus, the subsidies are
entirely eliminated in 5 to 10 years. The burden on the state budget on
account of interest subsidies is estimated at $33 million in 1984, less than 3
percent of its current transfers. The subsidies are thus contained and
targeted to the lowest income groups. The prospects for the total elimination
of subsidies would be improved by the time mortgage loans provided under the
proposed project are available as the Government's stabilization and
macro-management policies reduce the inflationary pressures, allowing a
reduction in the high nominal and real interest rates. The Bank is pursuing
with the Portuguese authorities ways and means of imuroving public finances,
including reduction of subsidies as part of its economic dialogue.
35.      The decline in GDP as a result of the Government's measures to
stabilize the economy, and the application of relatively high positive real
interests has adversely affected housing demand and the construction sector.
To stimiulate the construction industry, and to lessen the impact of high
nominal and real interest rates on debt-service and on the affordability of
house ownership to the low income population, the Government has introduced a
system of graduated payments, with capitalization of a portion of interest
payments, a five-year grace period on principal payments, and a progressive
increase, by 12 percent per annum of monthly payments during the first five
years. The graduation formula results in effective interest rates in



- 12 -
discounted terms lower than the average nominal rates, net of subsidies, i.e.,
between 20.2 percent and 28.5 percent compared to between 27.25 and 32.5
percent at present.
The Institution
36.      The National Housing Institute (INH) was established in May 1983 as
an autonomous institution within the administrative jurisdiction of the
Ministry of Social Equipment (MSE). Designed to help formulate housing policy
and programs, its functions include the coordination and preparation of policy
measures, participation in the financing of social housing programs, provision
of technical support to developers and supervision of the execution of housing
programs in accordance with technical criteria defined by the Government.
Unlike FFH, INH is not involved in direct housing development. Besides
financing housing development by private and public developers, it supports
non-traditional types of housing finance such as land development, upgrading
infrastructure, and cost-effective and affordable alternatives to fully
finished dwellings. Its duties also include technical and policy analysis and
studies, preparation of a national housing plan with investment planning and
programming, and training. With the three specialized housing finance
institutions, it can cofinance the construction phase of all types of housing
projects, but cannot extend mortgage loans to the final beneficiaries. In its
operations, it is subject to policy direction by the Ministry of Finance on
financial matters, and by the MSE on technical matters.
37.      INH's day-to-day operations are carried out by an Administrative
Council, supported by an advisory board. The Council presently consists of
five members appointed jointly by the Ministries of Finance and Social
Equinment. INH's organizational structure and staffing are being developed by
a temporary administrative council. To ensure that its organizational
structure adequately distinguishes between lending activities and those
related to policy formulation, investment programming and provision of
technical assistance to its borrowers, it would be a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed Bank loan thatz (i) the Government approve INH's
organization structure; (ii) the Government appoint INH's Board of Directors;
and (iii) INH annoint its department Directors and division chiefs. Steps (i)
and (ii) have recently been accomplished and work on (iii) is underway.
38.      To ensure the sound development of INH as a financially viable
institution, and to avoid problems which beset FFH and the Housing Investment
Support Fund (FAIH) which replaced FFH in 1982, INH Installation Commission
has adopted a statement of general and operational policies, which has been
approved by the Ministries of Social Equipment, and Finance and Planning.
These policies provide that INH's financing would be restricted to projects of
proven economic, technical and financial viability, in accordance with
priorities established by the Goverrment. Its financial soundness would be
safeguarded by adequate debt-equity and debt service ratios, an appropriate
spread on lending, and provisions for bad debt. INH would be responsible for
subsidy programs only as an agent of the Government. It would not engage in
direL contracting programs, including the creation of specialized



- 13 -
affiliates. It would also eventually charge user fees for the technical
assistance services it would provide the developers. Further, INH would take
steps satisfactory to the Bank to protect itself against losses arising from
exchange risks in connection with its foreign borrowings to support its
lending operations.
39.      INH currently has a staff of 55, and plans to recruit additional
staff in line with its business expansion. A large proportion of its current
staff, seconded from the former FFH, are engineers and architects, and the
quality of their technical appraisal is high. However, it is short of
economists and financial analysts to cover adequately the economic, financial
and marketing aspects of subproject appraisal. To be able to attract and
retain qualified and experienced personnel, INH has requested that its
personnel statute be that of public sector enterprises, which would allow it
to offer better terms than those of the civil service by which it is presently
governed.
40.      INH took over the assets and liabilities of FAIR.  Its liabilities
included t28.4 million in Government equity contributions, $27.5 million in
loans from the National Westminster Bank and about t4 million in reserves. As
INH has only recently begun operations, it is in a highly liquid situation.
Its initial operations have been confined to processing the portfolio of
applications pending approval at the time of dissolution of its predecessor,
the FAIH. In 1984, INH approved subprojects involving t60 million equivalent
in loans for about 4,300 units. INH's initial forecast of operations during
the 1984-87 period was ambitious, taking into account the need to develop its
institutional capability. These projections were revised in consultation with
the Bank. A pipeline of subprojects amounting to about S141.6 million
equivalent, with conditions which would make them eligible for financing under
the proposed loan, have been identified and are in advanced state of
preparation. Current estimates call for a steady growth in INH's overall
lending program from about t64.0 million in 1985 to $87.0 million equivalent
in 1987. Nearly half the subprojects would be implemented by cooperatives,
about 40 percent by municipalities, and the balance by private developers; 95
percent of the lending would finance low-cost housing projects, with only 5
percent for infrastructure development and upgrading, as most of the resources
for such activities would be provided by CGD.
41.      INH's program would involve commitment of loans of $262.8 million and
disbursement of $162.2 million equivalent during 1984-1987. Taking into
account the unutilized resources available to INH, and the identified sources
including Government contribution to equity, the USAID Housing Guarantee
Program, the European Council's Resettlement Fund, and the proposed Bank loan,
there is an identified balance of $18.3 million yet to be mobilized. INH
would, not later than September 30 of each year, review with the Bank project
progress, its programs and plan for the following fiscal year, and take
appropriate measures to secure the needed resources to carry out the project.
The Government would ensure the provision of adequate budgetary contributions
to meet the agreed debt/equity ratio, and also the availability of other
resources to enable INH to implement its program. The agreed spread of not



- 14 -
less than three and a half percentage points for INK in its onlending would
help to build its reserves, and INH's financial situation would continue to be
satisfactory. To ensure maintaining a sound financial position, INH would
maintain a debt/equity ratio of not more than 4;l, and a debt service ratio of
at least 1.15;l.
Bank Involvement and Strategy in the Sector
42.      The proposed project would be the first in the housing sector.  The
overall Bank strategy in the housing sector has been to attempt to improve the
planning and delivery of urban services, to lower the cost per beneficiary of
government services, to increase the institutional delivery capacity of urban
services (especially those of the municipalities), to promote cost recovery
measures and to ensure that social expenditures are targeted to low income
groups. Through the proposed project, the Bank is assisting in increasing the
involvement of the Portuguese financial community in the housing sector
(shifting the focus away from central government bureaucracy) and redirecting
that lending toward lower cost units. The Bank has also assisted the urban
sector via the Lisbon Water Supply Project (Loan 1541-PO), which has been
delayed, due mainly to resource constraints, and is now ex-z.ted to be
completed in June 1986 (about three years behind schedule).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Concept and Background
43.      The proposed project is designed to assist the Government in
implementing its new housing policies, to promote a sector approach through a
financial intermediary, and to further the improvements in sectoral policies.
It would contribute towards building up the new institution established in the
housing sector to target housing delivery to the lowest income groups, enforce
new construction standards and to promote cost efficient alternatives. The
project was identified by an urban sector mission in September 1982. It was
appraised in October 1984. Negotiations were held in Washington in May 1985;
the Portuguese team was led by Dr. Labisa, of Banco de Portugal, and included
representatives of the Ministry of Social Equipment, INH and the Ministry of
Finance. A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 5412-PO dated June 3, 1985) is being
circulated separately to the Executive Directors. The main features of the
project are outlined in the Loan and Project Summary, and in Annex III. A map
showing the location of Bank-assisted projects is attached CIBRD 14942-R3).
44.      The project objectives are to;  (i) provide low-cost, affordable,
serviced plots and housing units to the lower income groups in Portugal; (ii)
provide institutional support to INK, by developing and strengthening its
organization, especially in the areas of subproject appraisal and financial
policy; (iii) encourage the participation of private developers and
municipalities in low cost housing development and provision of
infrastructure; and (iv) encourage the participation of specialized
institutions in mortgage financing for low income households.



- 15 -
45.      The proposed project would help to alleviate the pressure on the
development of illegal settlements, thus reducing the needs for future costly
servicing of such areas. By promoting home-ownership, the project would
contribute to promote private savings, and by ensuring subsidies are targeted
to the low income groups and reducing housing standards, it would have a
favorable budgetary impact by reducing subsidies in the housing sector.
46.      The project would make financing available to public and private
developers engaged in the construction of low cost housing units and in the
provision of infrastructure and serviced plots. Upon completion of the
initial construction phase, the loans would be consolidated into a long-term
line of credit by INH to the specialized institutions to finance mortgage
loans to the ultimate beneficiaries.
Project Description
47.      The project would consist of;  (a) a line of credit to INH of $25.0
million for financing low income housing schemes meeting technical and
economic criteria satisfactory to the Bank and (b) technical assistance to INH
to help develop its capability to appraise low-cost housing schemes.
48.      The loan would finance:  (i) land development through the provision
of infrastructure, and upgrading of infrastructure in built-up areas including
informal settlements under the Government's recently promulgated Program for
Improvement of Dilapidated Housing (PRID). Loans would be extended to
developers, including municipalities which have recently been empowered to
undertake land development, supplementing the resources provided by CGD; (ii)
traditional housing units, (apartments and individual units) with secondary
and tertiary on-site infrastructure; and (iii) unfinished units, which are
sim.lar to traditional units, with a reduced level of finishing.  The
production of unfinished and/or core units has recently been approved as part
of the social housing program, which, inter alia, enables the municipalities
to grant temporary occupancy permits, thus removing one of the key bottlenecks
which had led to large-scale informal settlements in the past.
49.      To be eligible for Bank financing, these schemes would have to meet
the following criteria: (a) price criteria: the maximum selling price of the
housing units should not exceed $9,200 equivalent for the least expensive and
$16,800 equivalent for the most expensive units, with construction costs per
square meter not exceeding $95 for unfinished and $120 for finished units.
The maximum selling price of serviced plots should not exceed $24.3 equivalent
per square meter of saleable land, with the total price not exceeding $2,920
equivalent for an individual house or $2,430 for an apartment in a multi-story
bui'.ding. Cost of infrastructure development should not exceed $10.8
equivalent per square meter of urbanized land. These prices (all quoted in
mid-1984 prices) would be set in domestic currency equivalent, and adjusted
each year to account for inflation, using the construction cost index over the
last 12 months; (b) technical criteria: in addition to technical requirements
which are included in the Statement of General Policy, subprojects would have
to meet criteria regarding land use efficiency, maximum size of units,



- 16 -
building structure and design and number of unit types per subproject.
Consistent with MSE's new social housing standards and technical rules for
low-cost housing, each subproject should have at least 10 percent of finished
units or 8% of unfinished units of one-bedroom, and no more than 5X of
unfinished units but none of the finished units larger than three bedrooms.
Infrastructure and land development subprojects would also conform to MSE
specifications; (c) financial criteria: all subprojects whose costs exceed
$1.5 million should have a financial rate of return not less than INH's
lending rate for developers, and loans would not exceed 90 percent of the
construction cost.
50.      Upon completion of construction, the construction loans would be
consolidated into mortgage loans to low-income buyers of the newly constructed
units/developed plots. Use of Bank loan funds in this way will be anincentive
to developers to produce low-cost housing units. To facilitate the
consolidation of its construction loans into mortgage loans, which INH cannot
extend directly to homeowners, INH would enter into a financing agreement with
the three specialized institutions, (CGD, CPP, and MG) whereby they would
provide mortgage loans to eligible beneficiaries of subprojects financed by
INH with Bank and USAID Housing Guarantee Program (HGP) funds; INH would
provide the specialized institutions with resources derived from the repayment
of USAID and Bank funds lent initially by INH to developers. The conclusion
of such an agreement with CGD (the institution which has the largest portfolio
in mortgage finance) plus one other institution, on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, would be a condition of loan effectiveness. This
would ensure the necessary linkages between upstream developer financing and
downstream mortgage lending, that final beneficiaries are both creditworthy
and within the target group, and would minimize the marketing risk for the
developers. The beneficiaries would be selected from those with monthly
incomes of not more than the median urban household income (equivalent to $390
per month in mid-1984). These income levels would be reviewed annually and
adjusted by mutual agreement between the Bank, INH and the Government.
Municipalities would ensure that for infrastructure projects, 80 percent of
the beneficiaries would have incomes below the median urban income. The
criteria regarding the eligibility for, and the level of, interest subsidies
provided in the Government legislation would continue to apply.
51.      The technical assistance program would focus on developing INH's
organizational and financial plans, project appraisal and procedures, staff
development, relationships with municipalities, cooperatives and private
developers; development of low-cost housing programs; provision of technical
assistance to municipalities and other sub-borrowers; and project monitoring
and evaluation. The technical assistance is expected to include 60 mar.--months
of consultancy services.
Project Financial Features and Onlending Arrangements
52.      The proposed Bank loan of $25 million would be made to the Republic
of Portugal. There would be cofinancing in the form of a t25 million loan
from US commercial banks guaranteed by the USAID Housing Guarantee Program



- 17 -
(which is the first tranche of a $50 million commitment); the USAID package
was approved in September 1984. The conditions for eligibility under the
USAID program are fully consistent with those established for the Bank loan.
USAID is also providing a $600,000 grant for the technical assistance
component. The proposed Bank loan would finance nearly all of the foreign
exchange cost of the housing programs; the local costs of the housing program
(plus a small portion of the foreign exchange cost) and the total cost of the
technical assistance program would be financed by the USAID funds. Developers
would finance about 11% of the cost of the construction program.
53.      The Government would onlend the proceeds of the Bank loan to INH at
an interest rate which would allow INH a margin of not less than 3.5
percentage points on eligible sub-loans it finances. The Government would
bear the foreign exchange risk. The balance of the differential between the
Bank's variable interest rate and the Governme,t's onlending rate would accrue
to the Governmen. to cover the foreign exchange and interest rate risks on the
Bank loan. The conclusion of a subsidiary loan agreement between the
Government and INH with terms and conditicns satisfactory to the Bank and
incorporating the above-mentioned principles relating to exchange risks and
margins, would be a condition of loan effectiveness. To avoid rollover of
Bank funds for activities outside the project's objectives, INH would forward,
through the Government, the repayments by the developers that are not used for
mortgage loans to eligible beneficiaries; such repayment would be made within
twelve months of the delivery of the dwellings where no mortgage loan has been
granted. Further, to ensure tnat the construction phase is completed
speedily, INH would not be allowed to consolidate Bank funds into mortgage
financing to the specialized institutions more than four years after
subproject approval by the Bank.
54.      INH would onlend the proceeds of the Bank loan to private and public
developers for construction and infrastructure development for not more than
four years and at the current interest rate for medium-term loans. Following
the completion of construction/infrastructure development, INH would utilize
the repayments of construction loans to provide mortgage financing through the
specialized institutions. INH would enter into a financing agreement with the
three concerned institutions by February 28, 1986, with the maturity of each
sub--loan being the balance of the maturity period left on the Bank loan, and
an interest rate equal to INH's cost of Bank funds (including the foreign
exchange risk premium) plus a margin to INH of 0.25 percent. To ensure the
active participation of the specialized mortgage institutions in the proposed
project, the Government, in cooperation with the Bank of Portugal, would
provide them with an incentive, whereby their monthly credit ceiling would be
adjusted to reflect the utilization of Bank loan funds onlent by INH, similar
to the ones granted under recent Bank loans for agriculture and industry, and
under a KEv loan for municipalities.
55.      All subprojects exceeding a total cost of $1.5 million each and the
first five subprojects would be subject to prior review by the Bank. This
would ensure the consistent and sound application of the economic, financial
and technical criteria, and strengthen the appraisal capacity of INH. The
final date for submission of eligible subprojects to the Bank would be
December 31, 1987.



18 -
56.      Procurement.  The proposed loan would finance civil works
(infrastructure and housing construction). All contracts estimated to cost
more than $1.5 million would be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. Contracts estimated
to cost less than $1.5 million would be awarded on the basis of local
competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the Bank applicable to each
type of developer.
57.      Disbursement.  The proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed
at 50 percent of INH's disbursements on all sub-loans committed under the
project. This corresponds to the foreign exchange costs of the project
including interest during construction. No Bank reimbursement would be made
for expenditures incurred more than 120 days prior to the Bank approval of
subprojects above the free limit. A special account would be established with
an initial deposit in dollars for an amount of $1.5 million as a revolving
fund with a financial institution to manage the disbursement of the loan
proceeds and to facilitate project implementation. The disbursements would be
on the basis of statements of expenditures, and are expected to be completed
by June 30, 1990. The loan closing date would be December 31, 1990.
58.      Accounts and Audit.  As INH has been recently established, and took
over all the assets and liabilities of the former FAIH, INH would provide
consolidated financial accounts for FY84, including those of FAIH. These
accounts would reflect the Government's decision that INH would not bear the
foreign exchange risk on foreign loans obtained by FAIR. INH would ensure
that its accounts are audited by an independent auditor satisfactory to the
Bank, and that such audited accounts are provided to the Bank within four
months following the end of its fiscal year.
Project Benefits and Risks
59.      The project is expected to have a significant impact on the housing
sector by promoting infrastructure investments, mobilizing private savings
through home ownership by low income families, stimulating the construction
industry, and promoting employment and growth in the economy. The project
would help to develop 900 serviced plots, upgrade 700 existing dwellings and
construct 4,000 new housing units, benefitting 26,000 persons in the lower
half of the urban income distribution, and promoting a rational allocation of
the limited resources. It would also help to strengthen the institutional
capacity of 'IqlH, which is exclusively geared to social housing, and permit the
replication of similar subprojects by mobilizing INE's own resources.
Eligible subprojects are estimated to yield an average economic return of 14
percent, which is above the estimated opportunity cost of capital.  The
project would also help to stimulate the construction industry, and generate
direct employment of about 1250 man-years, besides indirect employment in
other sectors.
60.      There are three main risks associated with the project:  (i) the
effectiveness of INE as a viable institution capable of discharging its
assigned role; (ii) the possibility that INH would tend to finance subprojects



- 19 -
in the higher price ranges allowed by the eligibility criteria; (iii) the
potential of higher income groups obtaining the shelter facilities targeted
for the lower income population. The institutional risk would be minimized by
the institution-building efforts undertaken under the project and the
prcvision of technical assistance to ensure the development of INH on sound
lines. The other risks would be reduced by limiting the number of relatively
higher priced dwelling units in each subproject, by balancing the price
criteria with technical criteria, and ensuring that eligible subprojects meet
the beneficiary selection criteria at the time of INH financing.
PART V - RECOMMENDATIONS
61.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve
the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington D.C.
November 5, 1985



- 20-                                       ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
T A * L C IA
PITUGAL               - MctAL INDICATORS DATA SKn
PORTUGAL                             FRUNGC GROUS CVKIGTrD AvgaS1  I
MrST                    CMoST RET CSTDWE) lb
RU;ET          MIDOL ICO 30tU          IIIDA
196za!     197    u Ap./b                                #AXlY COIIUIEC S
-  (TwTSD  SQ. 0O
TOTAL                             92.L       92.1       92.1
AGRICLTURAL                       49.6       43.1       40.8
CGP P  CATA (S)                       ..         ..      2230.0           2144.3                  11062.9
no" mauRr60. vS CAPIT
(ZILOGRA  OF OIL EQUIVALENT)     351.0      748.0     1130.0            1119.8                 4991.1
Ohuzazau -M nut mTmMCm
POPULATIOII,I0-UAR, (TNOSANDS)   6943.1    90442    10099.0
UR1A POPULIZON tR o0 TOTAL)       22.5       26.2       30.3              47.4                   76.1
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATON IN YR 200 CKIL)                             11.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILT)                          13.a
POPULATION HWDTU                                       1.3
POPALATION DENSM
PER sq. Klm.                    97.1       98.Z      109.7              66.7                   140.
PER SQ. IO. ACRI. LAUD         16O.4      210.1      245.0             166.9                   522.2
POPULATION AGE STaUCTURE (2)
0-14 IRS                       29.1       28.4       25.3              31.2                    21.3
15-64 IRS                       62.8       61.9       64.0             61.5                     664
65 AND ABOVE                     7.9        9.6       10.5               7.2                    12.0
POPULATION GROWN RATE (C)
TOTAL                            0.6 Ic     0.1 Ic     0.8               1.6                     0.8
URBN                             Z.2        1.6        2.5               3.7                     1.3
CRUDE RElRI RATE (PM TKOUS)       23.9       20.q       15.0             23.4                    13.5
CRUD DEATH RATE (PER THUS)        10.6       10.3        9.0              8.9                     5.9
GROSS REPNODUCXIOS RATE            1.5        1.4        1.1              1.5                     0.9
FAMYLY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANUAL (TWOeS)         -          .-
USERS (O? OF MARRIE    N)        ..         ..        66.0 Id           ..                      71.1
POW mm swurm
IMEX OF FOOD PROD. PEt CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                     92.0      105.0       69.0            109.1                   107.2
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES C: OF RUlBIRES)       108.0      120.0      129.0            131.5                   132.9
PROTaES (CRAUM Pv  DAT)         73.0       83.0       S6.0             92.4                   101.0
OF wNICCK ANIUL AND PULSE      33.0       39.0       39.0 Ia          34.5                    61.4
CHILD (AES 1-4) DEATH RE          7.4         4.6        1.0              4.7                     0.4
aILO
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRIH (TEARS)    64.0        67A        70.9             67.2                    75.3
INFANT MITR. RATE (PEIL TROUS)   77.5        58.0       25.0             53.3                     9.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (iMP)
TOTAL                           28.9       34.5       67.3 If          70.2
URBAN                           82.1         .        95.0 7           89.4
RURAL                           14.4        .         56.0 7           57.0
ACICSS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(Z OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                            ..         ..         ..               59.6
URBN                             ..         ..        67.0 If          65.9
RURAL                            ..         ..        4..               7.6
POPULATION PER PEYSICIA         1260.0     1110.0      540.0 /d        1070.6                   553.2
POP. FM NURSING PERSON          1430.0 a   1080.0      64.0 7?          769.5                   166.8
POP. Ps IIOSPIL RED
TOTAL                          190.0      170.0      190.0 /f         328.3                   120.9
URN                             70.0 a     70.0       SO. -r          201.9                   143.2 If
RURAL                            ..         ..         ..            4519.7                   773.8
AMISSIONS PER HosPITAL                        ; 9   .8   13.5 /a         20.0                    17.8
-m
AVERSE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                            3.9        3.7
URBAN                           4.0
RURAL                            3.9
AVE  NO. OF PZ5S65/RoamC
TOTAL                            1.1        0.8
URAN                             1.0
RURAL                            1.1
iACSR rAGE OF DVELLIW5  XTH ELECT.
TOTAL                           40.5       64.2
URBAN                           88.5
RURAL                           27.4



-21-                                          ANNEX I
T A B LE c  1                            Page  2 of  5
POKTUGAL               - SOCIAL tNDICATORS DATA SHEET
PORTUGAL                            REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAS)  I
MOST                    (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) lb
RECENT           HIDOLC INCOME            iNDhiSlRLAL
1960/b     1970lb  gSTITb                EUPE        c      AcoEr ECONMES
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMU:  TOTAL                     ..         9J.0     -103.0 lb           101.9                    101.2
AULE                    ..        99.0         ..              106.2                    102.6
FEMALE                  ..        96.0         ..               97.5                    102.4
SECONDARY: TOTAL                   .         57.0       56.0 lb           57.5                     J7.1
MAL                     ..        63.0         ..               64.9                     80.3
FEMALE                 ..         51.0         ..               50.0                     84.1
V`:AMtMAL (Z Of SECONiARD)         46.4        33.6        9.6 lb           21.0                      18.4
PUPIL-TEAO- RATIO
PRDIARY                          34.0        34.0       19.0 If            25.1                     16.7
SECONDART                        19.0        17.0       23.0 7;            19.1                     11.6
PASSEHE CARS/TROOSAND POP          17.6        60.9      118.6 If           54.2                     366.3
RADIO RZCZIVRS/SIOUSAND POP        94.8       151.3      165.0              170.7                   1093.2
TV RECEIVERSYIOUSANID POP           5.1        43.0      149.6              149.3                   492.3
NESPAP  ("DAXLY GENERAL
tNTEREST") CIRCULATTAN
PER THOUSAND POPUATION            62.4        82.2       49.9 /d           97.0                    320.4
CNM& AINIAL ATTE1CANWECAPITA        2.9         3.1        3.0               2.7                      3.3
LAUM FORC
TOTAL LABOFORCC (TNOIS)          3642.0      3550.0     4620.0 Ik
FE1ALZ (PERT)                    17.9        24.8       4z.0 7-            36.3                    36.2
ACRICULTE (PZRCENT)              44.1        33.3       28.2 7i;          40.8                      6.2
IDUSTr (PERCENT)                 29.0       a3.2        35.1 7-5          23.3                     37.7
PARTCIPATO  RATE (PERCENT)
TOAL                             38.5        39.3       45.7 /k           43.1                      46.0
MALE                             66.0        62.3       58.1 7W            55.1                     59.5
FEMALZ                           13.2        18.5       39.s 7i           31.4                     32.7
ECOROHIC DEPENENCY RAUIO            1.0         1.0        0.9               0.9                      0.7
3uz DInUMF
PERCENT OF PRATE INCOME
RECEIVED Bt
RITT 52 OF NOUSEIOLDS             ..
RIGHEST 2=  OF OUSEOLDS           ..         56.1 /LA    ..                ..                      43.1
LOUES  20 OF ROUSEROLDS           ..         6.2         ..                ..                       5.4
LOuE  40S OF R    OLDS           *     -    20.6         ..                ..                      16.4
E-TALTED ASOfLUE l     U INCOME
LVEL (VWS PER CAPITA)
URRA                              ..
ESTIATED RELAnv  PovERTY IcoME
LEtEL (C  PER CAPITA)
uRBAN                             ..          ..       480.0 /a
RumL                              ..          ..       hO.7..
ESTIMATED POP. BELOI ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEV  (I)
URB"                              ..
URL                               ........
NOT AVAILABLE
NOr APPLICABLE
NOTES
/a  The group average  far each indictsor am  populatian-u.ighted arithoetic _emm. Covera  of countries
mng the indicators depends on availability of data end is not unifore.
lb  Unless otherwise noted. "Data for 1960" rafer ta any year betwen 1959 and 1961; 'Dna for 1970" between
1969 ad 1971; end date for "Mot Recent Eetluae between 1981 and 1983.
/c  Due to e     oation. population growtb rate In lower thn rate of natursl incrs;  /  1979; /a 1977;
/f 1978; 11 1962; /h 1980; /It Hlxhet 252, lowet 25S and SOZ of housbolds;  . 1968; /k De to
conceptual and mtbodoloagcel differencehr the data f ro, the nw sure  (1983) are not coeparable vith
the hietorical caries.
JIUN. 1985



- 22 -                                         ANNE I
Page 3 of 5
DEFINMONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Notes. Although the data are drawn from sources generally judged the moat authoritative and reliable. it should also be noted that they may nol be inlermationally
comparabk because of the lack of standardzed definitions and cocpws uscd by dilerent countries in colectng the data. The data are. nonetheksa useful to
descnbeordersofmagnstud .indicatetrendsdcharactenzecert majrdilNercesbewencountres.
Tbe reference groups are i 1t the same country group or the subjct country and (2) a country grour with somewhat higher average icome than the country
group of the subject country (exceptfor High Income Oil Exporters"groupwhere'Middle Income North Afro and .4addle East- is clsn bcause orstronger
sociowcultural affinitia. In the reference group data the avenra are population weiglted arithmetic mcAitr ror each indictor and shown only when majority
of the countres in a group has daa for that indicator Since the coverage ofrountries among te indicator depend on the availability ofdata and is not uniform.
caution mus be cesed in re mg averag of one idicator to another. Thee averag e only usefl in eompanng the value of one indicator at a time antng  |
the country and refernce grOups.
AREA (thousand sq.km)                                            Crlder Urth Rote (pera'isuuad)-Number of live births in the year
Tota-Total surface area comprising land area and inland waterx   per thousand of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                        Crude Death Rat  (per rleusadj-Number of deaths in the year
Agricafus'a-lEstimate of agricultural area used temporarily or   per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
permanently for crops. pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to  Goss Rep _tiea Rate-Average number of daughters a woman
lie fallow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                            will bear in her nornal reproductive period if she experiences
present agc-specific rertility rates usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current         in 1960, 1970, and 1983.
market prices. calculated by same conversion method as World     Fasfylp PIAuiag.-Acceptrn. Annstual (thussan)--Annual num-
Bank Arias (1981-83 basis): 1983 data.                           ber ofacceptoirs of ,Arth-contral devices under auspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                   family pwing program.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite.      hmifr PIaEMiJStu Jser (pecnt of   r- pd usenj-Th ren-
petrolenu.r natural gas and hydro-. nucicar and geothermal dec-  tage of married viomen of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capiLa; 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are pracficing any form of contmaception. Women
1982 data.                                                       of child-bearing age ar generally women aged 15 49. although for
some countries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                  groups.
Total Popalafao. Mid-Yegw (thomsur)-As of July 1, 1960. 1970.    FOOD AND NUTRmON
and 1983- data.            -
-     fFaadRWa  Per Capita (1969-71 - IIJ)-tdex of per
Urba  Popafiob  (percet of teatd)-Ratio of urban to total        capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
population; different definitions of urban areas may affect compar-  excludes animal feed and seed for agriculture. Food commodities
ability of data among countni. 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.        indl prmary commodii*  (e.g sgacaneistead of supr-
Fbp-lrdo ?ijeeom                                                 which ar edible and contain nutrients (eg. coffec and tea are
Rbpulatwn un year 7000-The projection of population for 2000,    c-xluded). they conprisc ceals. root crops, pulses oil seeds.
made for each economy separatey. Saurting with information on    vegetabls, fruits, nuts, sugarcane and sugar bet livestock. and
total population by age and sex. fertility rates. mortality rates. and  Cvestock products. Aggmgate producto  of each country is based
international nigratiOn in the base year 1980. these parametes   on naional average producer price weights; 1961-65. 1970. and
wre  projected at five-year intervals on the basis of geaeaird   1982 data..
asmptions until the population became stationary.                Per Capita Supply -fCalarin (pericefrt qfriwenaeonr)-Comput-
Srar yary popufarwu-ls one in which age- and sex-specific mor-   ed from caorie equivalet of net rood suppies avai-I.!e in country
tlity rates have not changed over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement Levd  tion. imports less exports, and changcs in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rare= I). In such a population, the birth rate is  excude animal feed. seeds for use in agricultur. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate. the age structure is also  food procei_ng, and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constanL and the growiu rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characterstics of  and health considering environmental temperature, body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  ageand sex distribution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replaemcnt evel                                          waste at household lvel; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Pbpulion Mont na-Is the tendency for population growth to       Pnr GC a Sapply .f Auei (arts per dAyJ-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-levd fertilty has bee  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achleved. that is, even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year t is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 gram  of animal and pulse protein, of wnich 10 grams
the year r. given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animl protein. These standards.are lower than tho,e of
ment level from year r onward. 1985 data.                        75 grans of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
Pbpdatios Deusiey                                                averag for the world, pr6posed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per s.km.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-     Supply; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
ars) of total area 1960, 1970. and 1983 data. o                      Capa oteM  Supply &am An4min  aid Pude-Protein supply
Pe sqgkm. agriczdltal Iwrd-Computed as above for agricultural    offood derived from animals and pulses in grams per day; 1961-65,
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                            1970 and 1977 data.
Popatiou A4e Sbatwe (percesr)-Children (0-14 years). work-       CAild (Age 1-4) Death Rate (perrhostand)-Number ofdeaths of
ing age (I5-64 yea,s), and retired (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
Of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.               group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
PiPALtiOn Growh Rae (preaI)-torad--Annual growth rates of        from life tables: 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 195060. 1960-70. and 1970-83.      HL'H
Pepwlut   Grwth Rue (per'cemt-wllao-Annual growtb rates          Life Expectancy at Jlit (yewn)-Number of years a newborn
Of urban population for 1950-0. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.       infant vould live if prevailing patterns of mortality for aQl people



- 23 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
IAmounts in milltons of US Dollars)
Act..-1                     Anual Growth Rate Iti                     Share of GOP at market
1953                              Actual                             Prices IC.rre=t PEtLr.e
Wsvc   ''0-751    1979   'gap   1981   19'2    1923   1984 hI              1982        '983        494
'-NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Grass 0Omwstic Proouct A/              20.668           6.Z    4.1    0.8    3.2   -4.5    -Z.1             1o0.0      100.0       Ic0.o
Agriculture                             1 .7Z7         20.6    0.4  -13.Z    5.8    -5.0          ..         a.6         8.4
Inoustry                                a.177           5. 0    *7    2.0    3.1        0.4                 t9-6 39.6
-Services                               10o764             .6    * 7    3.7    Z 7       0.6       .            .5       52.1
consLsotion                            17.3Z4            1.9    3.0    3.2    2.5       0.0    -3.4         83.1        83.8        83.8
Gross Investment                        5.988           8.6   13.8    4.0    5.4   -22.7   -11.3             17.0        29.0        22 *
ECoarts of GUFS                         6.518          27.3    6.8   -2.4    6.0    16.7    15.1            26.3        31.5         3A.8
Imports of GUFS                         9.'62          10.6   11.4    5.8    5.4    -8.7    -3.6            46.5        44.3        45.3
Gross Natlonal Savings                                 33.5    0.6  -15.1   -5.4    -6.4    -9.8             z2.8        21.3        21.1
Prices
Rate of inflation (Consuter Price Endezl             24.2   16.6   20.0   32.5    25.5    27.1 C
Excnange Rate                                        48.92  50.06  61.55  79.47  110.78  144.57
mRCHANOISF TuRAE                                       Annual Growtn Rates it Constant Prices           As Percent of Total
1976   1932  JIM
linsrts                                                 i_     Li    Li    Li    :2.             .     1.-    2 1 o. l OCA  J
FOod                                                 16.9    8.7    4.6    4.4   -10.2                 11.0    9.3   14.6
Other Consumer Goods                                  4.1   10.9    1.7    6.7    -2.1           .      9.3    6.1      '2
Petroletm ProductS                                   1S.3    2.5   -7.7   14.7    -S.4                  9.5   24.3   27.a
Interneciare Gooas                                    3.3   10.9    0.0    2.6    -8.5         ..      41.5   37.5   21.1
Caiotal Goods                                         3.6   11.0   16.0    4.5    -8.8          .      28.5   22.8   Z5.4
EAPorts                                                f2.      J l   --L0   11.2    _L& 0              LOLa   100L0 ILA 
Agriculture and Food                                 15.3   -1.0   -8.8    7.0    17.3                 20.9   12.1   1:.s
Wood. Cork. Pager and PulP                           28.2   17.3   -6.8    6.4    13.!          ..     16.1   17.7   '3.4
Textiles and Clotntng                                26.2   -8.0    4.1   18.9    12.                  26.4   2S.2   28.4
Petrolaa Products                                    33.6   so.0   10.0   23.3    48.8         ..        ..    6.3    9.0
atner manufactures                                           i3.0   -SZ   16.3    25.5        ..      36.7   38.8   37.6
ERC14AMOISE TRAoa INtrcES                                             197a   10a
Export Price Index                                  382.3  467.s  529.7  617.1   782.5
Emcort Price Index                                  452.7  578.6  700.6  821.9 i.059.4
Terus of Trade Index                                 84.4   80.8   75.6   75.1    73.9
Current Prices (Billion Escueosi             AS Percent of GOP at market Prices
PUBLIC FISNAICE                                                                                          197    ims    imt   19a    imS
Current Receipts                                    264.3  361.9  486.4  618.0   8:8.S   908.5         26.6   29.3   33.0   33.3   36.6
Current Expenditures                                302.2  404.2  556.1  708.9   914.0  1016.5         30.4   32.7   37.a   38.2   39.9
Current Surplus/DeFicit (-2 of tne State            -37.9  -42.3  -69.7  -90.9   -75.s  -207.7         -3.8   -3.4   -4.7   -4.9   -3.3
Canital Exponditures (meet                           42.7   64.1   79.3   95.3   111.4   11I.5          4.2    5.2    5.4    5.1    4.9
Net Financing Requirements                           80.6  106.4  149.0  586.2   185.9   219.2          8.1    8.6   10.1   10.0    8.2
Financing Needs                                      97.1  118.5  i71.7  220.0   226.4                 9.8    9.6   12.7   11.8    9.9
Debt Amortization                                   -16.5  -12.1  -22.7  -33.8   -39.5         .       -1.7   -1.0   -'.5   -2.8   -1.7
LABOR FLKE                                                              TOTAL LABOR FORCE g/
:n Tioucara5                               Percent of Total                       Annual
- 1979 tOI10 1949                                                                          Geawth Ratfi S1
Agriculture               :289   t.082   '.J27        998      914          30.4   27.3   26.0   25.3   22.7               -4.1
Inaustry                  1.364   t.443   *.4SO   1.472   1.374             34.9   36.4   36.8   37.3   34.1                3.3
Serwices                  1.358   1.436   '.466   1.479   1.737             34.7   36.3   37.2   37.4   43.2                2.7
Total                   3.91i   3.961   3.943   3.949   4.025            100.0  100.0  200.0  200.0  100.0                0.9
p3  At market prices.  For 1979 cne gra-cn of sectarai comonents is expressed at factor costs.
u1  Estimaces.
i/  Rate reflecting evolut!on ber.een Searemner I983,eSeoteser 1984.
g/  Total employea lacor force ekcludng _orkers abroad and unemployed.
p3  Figures from ne. survey. not comparaDle .itn earler years oue to metnodological diFferenceS.
.. Not availanle.
marcn 12. 1985
10340G. p. 3-4)



- 24 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
aAlApcOt nr PAIMNFTS sea r Vf0  L astcTarr anarer
(ibounts in Mfillions of uS 0Dlars  t Current Prices)
sA2ArUAAMOLMI                       1a7   _W     -Ir  P19111r _12    I"          1 124 t
xieortas (.0.0.)                 2279   2550    575  4*0U    4101   4575   5200
marts (F.o..l                     23    512M    31    921       MI       U    MA
rrade Balane (3-MI               -2405  -3632  -4204  -5191  -4023  -2050  -2020
Net mo-factor Ser,ices           27S    41   S       431    177    121    Sie
Taurta  lueltits  G4ross   t 12   1131 114n1l t1lOi. nsalz   im   z  U
Resource Ialance                 -Z132  -2091  -2353e  -4744  -4450  -2735  -1*70
'et investInt Deeca  a/           -329   -427   -412   -975  -1269  -2050  -1Z:3
let Transfer D                    1435   2474   3000   2817   2e60   2171   Z1W
linde an Curret AL.coue           zf       11  _AM    -3M 5 =    dll   -in
Direct For ein Investment           56     59    12      144    120    113
Changes in Official Liquid
Foreign Exchanse Reserves
I- * Increa-l                -203    -68    120    1S4    162    6el
Official Reserves
Gross End of  ear cl            se72  '2242  14378   9470  13140   1434
Of SeCh:  Gold                  sOIl  11331  13553   9144  9f91   7954
Foreign E.cnanee    371    931    7S1    447    393    28S
*.UII a0 La" flbaiThFaS                                                                             oraDETrir I/    I21  11    IM           .L 121
Official Grants and Grant-like       -       -      -      -       -      -      ..   Total ItT Debt Outstand-
and ilisburCse  -
Public ML? Loan                                                                         Public Debt enly            3950  S44  6574  7399    U 908   "SI
iO                              131    143    134    220         -   241            Intest -  Public Debt          is&   329   479   019   910   dcl
IIA--                                     -       -_      _        _          ..-   Repasnts on Pulic Oebt    25   *435   54   74   799  1010
Otner ejltilateiral              112     84    187    III    555    210             Total Public Debt Sevice    4Z7   7,4  1033  1603  2700  1051
GoverAnts                        91g    237   1IU      174     27    444
SODpli1s                          66     Is   1I      166    s8       1       .
Public Debt Service Retlo j/3.2  10.   20l.7  17.5  20.4  22.4
Frinacial Morts                 795   1121   1227   Z373   1400   1183
Public Loan n.e.t.
Total Publir MALT LoanS                                                               Averaee TOMOf Pbl1IC
ceat (Gorant Eldnt)         4.0  -5.7  -5.3 -15.4  -6.9  -2 9
eaur Dutsren on - Peerney- Ii_ ias            Interest on Public DebtI       9.0  1l.e  22.4  13.6  11.9  1I.%
EXTELN   g                                 01-clurled Only          Perrmr
nom                                            259                  2.4            at17sation as S Prior
MAn r ^ltsist!-                                                       -              Year Public GM                11.4  11.1  10.   22.9  10.9  11.1
Other 19.1tilateral                           1050                   *.4            iNW NUb Outswusng
Govninns (Bilaterial LoanS)                   152                   13.9               nd Disbursd                  34.1 63.0 209.4 232.4 184.7 259.5
Suopllers  CrdItts                             273                   2.5           i     eos  as S PublIc Debt
uImanaelal Instirtu ns                        6440                 62.4              Ouatainen and DIsb1rsed    0.9   12.   1.7   1.5   z.0  2.
'otal Public and Publiscly Guaranteed Debt   5 5                    JS De bt Srvice as S
Total It1lec an  Private SLT Obet f            ID0956                200.0              Public Det Service              .7   1.7   1.0   1.4   2.4   1.O
Short-term ODbt (Estimated) dl                339
A/  Lareely  Interest Dayents.
D/  Largely wners  remittances.
c/  Gold valued at the end of Period London aret price, an  Serial Drawine lights.
0V  Debt serice as a ratio of earnings frog eports. nan-fatter servces and nrtrr raittances (On _d1a- and 7le-term debt only).
e/  Estilte for gihl ic debt aMi pubi lCl  euarantged diot based on Treasury data process  dby the Werld ana Peat eftortine Syst.
y  Sa5re:  Mank of Portual. inCludes private non-guarfntead debt (not Included in OS) .
a/  Source:   asa  of Porual.
y  Estimtes.
L/  e bt service on Duolic audits.. nSid lane-term debt onily.  ir  rivate debt service and Interest on snort-term  debt are incliald. tne ratio  would
be 34 In 19184.
Not available.
Europe. middle CaSt and North Africa Region
Marcn 12. 1985
(340G. P. S a 6)



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PORTUGAL
($ million)
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS 1/ (as of September 30, 1985)
Loan                                                     Amount (less cancellations)
No.  Year     Borrower                Purpose               Bank      Undisbursed
Fourteen loans fully disbursed                          343.2          -
1541 1978 Republic of Portugal    Water Supply             40.0            6.1
1700 1979 Republic of Portugal      Highways II            40.0           17.2
1793 1980 Republic of Portugal    Education II              35.0          22.7
1853 1980 Republic of Portugal    Forestry                  50.0          32.2
1942 1981Banco de Fomento Nacional Development Finance   100.0            53.2
2168 1982 Republic of Portugal      Industrial Energy
Conservation           18.5          16.7
2175 1982 Republic of Portugal      Tras-os-Montes Rural
Development            51.0          47.6
2240 1983 Electricidade de
Portugal, EdP            Power VII              126.4          80.3
2263 1983 Republic of Portugal      SMI II                  40.3          27.4
2456 1984 Republic of Portugal    Manpower Training
and Development       30.5           29.5
2521 1985 Republic of Portugal      Coal Handling Port3/   66.0           66.0
TOTAL                                            940.9         398.9
of which has been repaid                        201.5
TOTAL now outstanding                           739.4
Amount sold                         2.6
of which has been repaid           2.5            0.1
TOTAL now helo by Bank 2/                        739.3
TOTAL undisbursed                                              398.9
1/ The stacus of projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly
and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
2/ Prior to exchange adjustments.
3/ Signed October 3, 1985, but not yet effective.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1985)
Year        Obligor              Type of Business       Loan   Euty   Total
(in USS million)
1981   BPI Banco Portugues       Development Finance   10.0       1.2     11.2
/1984    de Investimento           Company
1983   Sociedade Portuguesa de  Money and Capital       12.0      0.7     12.7
/1984  Locagao Financeira, SARL   Market
TOTAL Gross Commitments 11                     22.0      1.9     23.9
Less Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments, Sales                            12.5      -       12.5
TOTAL Commitments now held by IFC 1/              9.5      1.9     11.4
TOTAL Undisbursed 1/                               -      0.2       0.2
Disbursed                                   9.5     1.7      11.2
1/ Includes participants' portion.



- 27 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
PORTUGAL
HOUSING FINANCE PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by country to prepare the project           2 years.
(b)  Agency which prepared the project                      Ministry of
Social
Equipment,
Housing
Investment
Support Fund,
and National
Housing
Institute.
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Bank                December 1983
(d)  date of first Bank mission to consider                March 1984
the project
Ce)  Departure of Appraisal mission                         October 8, 1984
(f)  Completion of negotiations                            May 1985
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness                          January 1986
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
Evaluate jointly with INK first five appraisal reports to ensure quality
control on technical and financial appraisal standards (para. 55).
Section III: Special Conditions
(a)  Effectiveness:
'i) An agreement between INH and CGD and one of the other three
specialized mortgage financing institutions has been executed
(paras. 50 and 54).
Cii) INH's organizational structure has been approved, its Board of
Directors appointed, and Department Directors and Division Chiefs
have been appointed (para. 37).
(b)  Other:  The Government, in cooperation with Banco de Portugal, would
provide incentives to the specialized institutions to participate in
the project by adjusting their credit ceilings (para. 54).



r . rx, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4r-
oOcaozj#~~ A : :.::-.  ::-    - -  !
VIANA DOcAm             A                        A....
PORTUGAL
DISTRIBUTION  OF                                                 ...                                                 a- I
BANK ASSISTED PROJECTS                                                                              t MONTES
BY SECTOR                             -Y.   A.                                                          i
..   MWo
F -t                                    k                                                                            Li.  9 - 
41    Industrial   \                                 .........i; ; .....
*     Power Station s  .................... ,,,,,.,.,..;U ,j
iEXISTING FEATURES '-Sg;'
Forestryc aptl
H4wrpoAVtW
__                                                                 @                                                        rSonCpd  ....-2-
Prmr Roads                      *1"O--A-S} '' 
* A         EISATN G FAC
V.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9
OCEAN                     b        
Q ~~~~~~~~~.....    r ....... .. ....... , 
*tIcat.ic P....r H ~ ~ ~  ~      ~     ~          ....
PrmayRods. I                   ..      .
L                             g
PROJ    E     C , ftCAE YEAR APPRIND   g
*ECwrac Pau   I              1aw                                                                    0      2  *           60 ,
*E W       P.- a             14bS            |
(   ed =              19 7b    
-i- 17 ----- . 11 PF        196__6q
*l.Ohicys I                  1977
*Auia,lhWa and Falem IEm    1977           /                                                  *Sm___ __
L uisbo R    Wowmn.sagm     1979                                                                   J *--
9S.Uad Mgdmn Scl kisry 1979 *t      -_
.Eduaria  n                  1980                                                    f             "             v        __
Oerelaaawar Fin (E &1   1981                   ..t
*Filrum ElaqoatBNigan        1981 7, RAC
ulol E_Lr d C         a    1962 79                                                                                                1
Ti-an-an. Rvdal DeLuent 1912
SI _d M.d.k ScIle a3d....,  1983
Telilotery Ra ng           19B4
Ia     T       d  DC-l_r.nWr 19842
Cad Heding                  1983t
]I*.    -g   SPAINE |
Te.ilu aoinoRctrwo in,01L198                                                                               Ic



