Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H317-TP 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Energy Services Delivery Project) 
 
between 
 
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF TIMOR-LESTE 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated   July 27, 2007 
Page  2
2
Page  3
GRANT NUMBER H317-TP 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated July 27, 2007, entered into between DEMOCRATIC 
REPUBLIC OF TIMOR-LESTE (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“Association”).  The Recipient and the Association 
hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
–
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
 
ARTICLE II – FINANCING 
 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to one 
million six hundred forty thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 1,640,000) 
(“Financing”) to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (“Project”).  
 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
 annum. 
 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is United States Dollars. 
 
ARTICLE III 
–
PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this 
end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project through MNRMEP in accordance 
with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.  
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
Page  4
2
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
–
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
4.02. 
For purposes of Section 8.05(b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing for 
payment obligations) shall terminate is twenty (20) years after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
5.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister of Planning and Finance. 
 
5.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
Minister of Planning and Finance 
 
Ministry of Planning and Finance 
GPA Building 5 
 
Dili  
 
Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste  
 
Facsimile:    
 
(670) 333-9782 
 
5.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
 
Page  5
3
AGREED at Dili, Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste, as of the day and year 
first above written. 
 
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF TIMOR-LESTE 
 
By: /s/ Maria Madalena Brites Boavida 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By: /s/ Nigel Roberts 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  6
4
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Recipient to stabilize the power 
services in Dili, by restoring or improving operational efficiency, reliability, safety and 
availability of power supply, and to promote long-term sustainability of the power sector. 
 
Part 1: 
Emergency Repair and Maintenance of Comoro Power Station
Emergency repair and maintenance of the Comoro Power Station, including 
purchase of spare parts.  
 
Part 2: 
Rehabilitation and Upgrading of Dili Power Distribution System
(a) Installation of additional distribution transformers; (b) construction of new 
low voltage lines; (c) upgrading conductors; (d) reinstallation of prepaid meters based on 
appropriate theft proofing standards; (e) installation of medium voltage feeder reclosers 
and meters; and (f) installation of power connections to new customers, in each case in 
Dili. 
 
Part 3: 
Distribution of Energy Efficient Light Bulbs
Provision of energy efficient compact fluorescent lamps to consumers in the 
Dili system to replace traditional incandescent light bulbs.  
 
Part 4: 
Institutional Capacity Building 
Strengthening the capacity of: 
 
(a) 
Ministry of Natural Resources, Minerals and Energy Policy including, to: 
(i) improve the quality of its policy-making, sector planning, monitoring and conducting 
of performance audits of the management contractor of 
Electricidade de Timor-Leste
,
subsidy and pricing policies; and (ii) carry out project construction supervision, 
procurement, financial management and other project implementation support activities. 
 
(b)
 
Electricidade de Timor-Leste
 to address the design and planning of the 
rehabilitation of the Comoro Power Station and the power distribution system, including 
the provision of office and field work equipment. 
 
Page  7
5
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation and Other Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements. 
 
1. 
The Recipient shall appoint, and maintain until completion of the Project, a 
Project team, acceptable to the Association, led by the Director of NDWEP, 
responsible for the daily management and overall coordination and 
implementation of the Project, and provided with staffing in adequate numbers, 
including a financial and procurement officer, funds and other resources, in each 
case as shall be necessary to carry out its responsibilities. 
 
2. 
The Recipient shall carry out the procurement and financial management for the 
Project through NDAF.  
 
B. 
Implementation of the Project. 
 
1. 
EDTL shall, in consultation with the engineer consultants engaged under Part 4 
of the Project, develop and implement an operations and maintenance plan, 
acceptable to the Association, for the investments to be carried out under Parts 1 
and 2 of the Project. 
 
2. 
For the implementation of the Project, the Recipient shall, on an annual basis 
commencing in 2008 and on a date acceptable to the Association to be 
determined in coordination with the annual review of the Procurement Plan, 
prepare and furnish to the Association for its review and comments a list of the 
activities to be carried out during the following year; revise such list of activities 
taking into account the comments of the Association; and thereafter implement 
such activities in a manner satisfactory to the Association. 
 
C. Anti-Corruption. 
 
1. 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
D. Safeguards.
 
1. The 
Recipient 
shall: 
 
(a) 
implement and cause to be implemented, in a manner satisfactory to the 
Association, the Environmental Management Plan designed to ensure that the 
Page  8
6
Project is implemented in accordance with sound environmental practices and 
standards; and 
 
(b) 
provide to the Association, for its prior approval, any revision proposed 
to be introduced into the EMP in order to achieve their respective objectives, and, 
thereafter, introduce only such revisions into the EMP as shall have been agreed 
with the Association. 
 
2. 
The Recipient shall, in carrying out the Project:   
 
(a) 
take and cause to be taken all necessary actions to minimize to the extent 
possible any involuntary loss by persons of shelter, productive assets or access to 
productive assets or income or means of livelihood, temporarily or permanently; 
and 
 
(b) 
to this end, implement and cause to be implemented the Resettlement 
Policy Framework, in a manner satisfactory to the Association in respect of 
Displaced Persons. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports. 
 
1. 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed with the Association.  Each 
Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar semester, and shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than one (1) month after the end of the 
period covered by such report.  
 
2. 
The Recipient shall prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association, on or about June 30, 2009, a mid-
term review report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph 1 of this Section II(A) on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of 
such report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date.  
 
3. 
For purposes of Section 4.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date. 
 
Page  9
7
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits. 
 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain a financial management system in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
The Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the Association not later than one (1) 
month after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports 
for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association. 
 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Recipient. 
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General.
 
1.
 
Goods and Works
.
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services
.
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
3.
 Definitions
.
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.
 
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding
.
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
.
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
Page  10
8
Procurement Method
:
(a)  National Competitive Bidding, subject to additional provisions set forth in 
the Annex to this Schedule  
 
(b)  Shopping 
 
(c)  Direct Contracting 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Pr
ocurement of Consultants’ Services. 
 
1.
 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 Other 
Met
hods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
 
Procurement Method
:
(a)  Quality-Based Selection 
 
(b)  Selection Based on the Consultants’ Qualification 
 
(c)  Single Source Selection 
 
(d)  Selection of Individual Consultants 
 
(e)  Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions. 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Association’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review 
by the Association. 
 
Page  11
9
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General. 
 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made applicable to 
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as 
set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the grant to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the 
Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR
)
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be Financed 
(inclusive of Taxes
)
(1)  Goods, works and 
consultants’ services for 
the Project 
 
1,600,000 100% 
(2)  Training 
 
20,000 100% 
(3)  Incremental 
Operating Costs 
 20,000 
100% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
1,640,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period. 
 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
 
2.
 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2011. 
Page  12
10
ANNEX to SCHEDULE 2 
 
National Competitive Bidding Procedures 
 
The following provisions shall apply in respect of contracts for goods and works 
financed under the Project and procured according to National Competitive Bidding 
(“NCB”) procedures: 
 
1. Eligibility
The eligibility of bidders shall be as defined under Section I of the Association’s 
Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, published by the 
Association in May 2004 and revised in October 2006; accordingly, no bidder or potential 
bidder should be declared ineligible for contracts financed by the Association for reasons 
other than the ones provided by Section I of the Guidelines. 
 
2. Bidders 
participation
(a) 
No eligibility restrictions based on nationality of bidder or origin of 
goods shall apply; therefore, foreign bidders shall be allowed to participate in NCB 
without restriction.  
 
(b) 
No limitations shall be imposed on any bidder as to the number of 
tenders in which he may participate during a given period of time. 
 
(c) 
Prior registration, obtaining a license or an agreement shall not be a 
requirement for any bidder to participate in bidding procedures. 
 
3. 
Advertising, Time for Bid Preparation
Potential bidders shall be allowed adequate time to prepare bids which should not be less 
than thirty (30) days, except for commodities and small goods contracts. 
 
4. 
Standard Bidding Documents
Standard Bidding Documents, acceptable to the Association, should be used. 
 
5. Bid 
Security
Bid security shall not be required for all procurement and shall be caped to a reasonable 
percentage of the amount of the contract in order not to hinder competition; when 
required, it shall be in the form of a bank guarantee from a reputable bank. 
 
Page  13
11
6. 
Qualification Criteria and Evaluation Criteria
Qualification criteria shall be clearly specified in the bidding documents
,
and all criteria 
so specified, and only criteria so specified, shall be used to determine whether a bidder is 
qualified. The evaluation of the bidder’s qualifications should be conducted separately 
from the technical and commercial evaluation of the bid.  
 
7. 
Bid Opening, Evaluation and Award of Contract
Bids shall be opened immediately after the stipulated deadline for submission of bids.  
Bids received after the deadline for bid submission shall be rejected and returned to the 
bidders unopened.  
 
(a) 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria that 
shall be clearly specified in the bidding documents and quantified in 
monetary terms for evaluation criteria other than price; Merit points shall 
not be used in bid evaluation. 
 
(b) 
A contract shall be awarded to the technically responsive bid that offers 
the lowest evaluated price and no negotiations shall be permitted. 
 
(c) 
Bidders shall not be eliminated from detailed evaluation on the basis of 
minor, non-substantial deviations. 
 
(d) 
No bidder shall be rejected on the basis of a comparison with the 
employer’s estimate and budget ceiling without the Association’s prior 
concurrence. 
 
8. Preferences
No domestic preference shall be given for domestic bidders and for domestically 
manufactured goods. 
 
9. 
Rejection of all bids and re-bidding
All bids shall not be rejected or new bids solicited without the Association’s prior written 
concurrence. 
 
10. 
Publication of the Award of Contract
Publication of the contract award should include: (a) name of each bidder who submitted 
a
bid; (b) bid prices as read out at bid opening; (c) name and evaluated price of each bid; 
(d) name of bidders whose bids were rejected; and (e) name of the winning bidder; upon 
request, the borrower shall inform unsuccessful bidders of the reasons of their rejection. 
 
Page  14
12
11. 
Complaints by Bidders and Handling of Complaints 
The Recipient shall establish an effective and independent protest mechanism allowing 
bidders to protest and to have their protests handled in a timely manner.  
 
12. Fraud 
and 
Corruption
The Association shall declare a firm or individual ineligible, either indefinitely or for a 
stated period, to be awarded a contract financed by the Association, if it at any time 
determines that the firm or individual has, directly or through an agent, engaged in 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in competing for, or in 
executing, a contract financed by the Association. 
 
13. Right 
to 
inspect/audit
Each bidding document and contract financed from the proceeds of the Grant shall 
provide that bidders, suppliers and contractors shall permit the Association, at its request, 
to inspect their accounts and records relating to the bid submission and performance of 
the contract and to have said accounts and records audited by auditors appointed by the 
Association. The deliberate and material violation by the supplier, contractor, or 
subcontractor of such provision may amount to obstructive practice. 
 
Page  15
13
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
 
2. 
“Displaced Persons” means a person who, on account of the execution of the 
Project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts 
caused by: (i) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (A) relocation or loss 
of shelter; (B) loss of assets or access to assets; or (C) loss of income sources or 
means of livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location; 
or (ii) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and 
protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such person; 
and “Displaced Persons” means, collectively, all such Displaced Persons. 
 
3. “EDTL” 
means 
Electricidade de Timor-Leste
,
the unit within the MNRMEP 
responsible for the provision of electricity within the Democratic Republic of 
Timor-Leste. 
 
4. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
5. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
6. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006). 
 
7. 
“Environmental Management Plan” and the acronym “EMP” mean the 
environmental environment plan dated May 2007, and duly adopted by the 
MNRMEP in respect of the Project, which sets out the environmental protection 
measures in respect of the Project, as well as administrative and monitoring 
arrangements to ensure the implementation of said plan, as the same may be 
revised from time to time with the prior agreement of the Association.  
 
8. 
“Fiscal Year” and the acronym “FY” mean the Recipient’s fiscal year 
commencing July 1 and ending June 30. 
 
9. 
“Incremental Operating Costs” means reasonable expenditures directly related to 
the Activities, incurred by the Recipient (which expenditures would not have 
been incurred absent the Project), including consumable materials and supplies; 
Page  16
14
communications; mass media and printing services; vehicle rental, operation and 
maintenance; charges for the opening and operation of bank accounts required 
for the Project; postage and handling; and travel, lodging and per diems; but 
excluding salaries of officials of the Recipient’s civil service.  
 
10. 
“MNRMEP” means the Ministry of Natural Resources, Minerals and Energy 
Policy and any successor thereto. 
 
11. 
“NDAF” means the National Directorate of Administration and Finance under 
MNRMEP and any successor thereto. 
 
12. 
“NDWEP” means the National Directorate for Water and Electricity Policy under 
MNRMEP and any successor thereto. 
 
13. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October, 2006. 
 
14. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated May 31, 2007, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
15. 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” and the acronym “RPF” mean the resettlement 
policy framework dated May 2007 and duly adopted by the MNRMEP in respect 
of the Project, which sets out the resettlement measures in respect of the Project, 
as well as administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure the 
implementation of said framework, as the same may be revised from time to time 
with the prior agreement of the Association.  
 
16. 
“Training” means expenditures for the cost of training materials, facilities, course 
fees, travel and subsistence for trainees, all in connection with training. 
 
