                                       Document of
                                  The World Bank

                           FOR OFFICIALUSEONLY

                                                                  ReportNo: 39717-TP



               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION


                                   PROJECTPAPER

                                          ONA

                                 PROPOSEDGRANT

                     INTHEAMOUNT OFSDR 1.64MILLION
                          (US$2.5MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                         TO THE

                  DEMOCRATICREPUBLICOF TIMOR-LESTE

                                         FOR AN

                    ENERGY SERVICES DELIVERY PROJECT

                                       June 7,2007




Transport, Energy and MiningSector Unit
SustainableDevelopmentDepartment
East Asia andPacific Region

This document has a restricteddistributionandmay be usedby recipientsonly in the
performanceof their official duties. Its contents may not otherwisebe disclosedwithout
WorldBank authorization.

                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   Currency Unit = U S Dollars ($9


                            FISCALYEAR

                          July 1 - June 30


               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


ADB      Asian Development Bank
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CFLs     Compact Fluorescent Lamps
CFTL     Consolidated Fundsfor Timor-Leste
CSP      Consolidation Support Program
EdTL ,   Electricidade de Timor-Leste
EMP      EnvironmentalManagement Plan
GoTL     Government of Timor-Leste
JICA     Japan International CooperationAgency
kWh      Kilowatt-hour
LV .     Low voltage
MNRMEP   Ministry of Natural Resources, Minerals andEnergy Policy
MoFP     Ministry of Planning and Finance
MV       Medium voltage
NDAF     National Directorate of Administration and Finance
NDWEP    National Directorate for Water andElectricity Policy
PCB      polychlorinated biphenyl
PLN      National Power Corporation (Indonesia)
SIP      Sector Investment Plan
TFET     Trust Fundfor East Timor
UN       United Nations
UNTAET   U.N.Transitional Administration forEastTimor
USAID    United States Agency for InternationalDevelopment




                   Vice President:     James Adams
                 Country Director:     Nigel Roberts
                   Sector Director:    Christian Delvoie
                  Sector Manager:      Junhui Wu
               Task Team Leader:       Selina Shum

                                                                                                     FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY



                           DEMOCRATIC REPUBLICOF TIMOR-LESTE
                            ENERGYSERVICESDELIVERY PROJECT


                                                    TABLEOF CONTENTS


        A.   Introduction................................................................................................................. 1
        B.   Emergency Challenge: Country Context. Recovery Strategy. and Rationale for
               Proposed Bank Emergency Project............................................................................                 1
        C.    Bank Response: The Project......................................................................................             3
        D.    Appraisal of Project Activities....................................................................................          6
        E.    Implementation Arrangements andFinancingPlan....................................................                             8
        F .   Project Risks and Mitigating Measures ....................................................................                   10
        G.    Terms and Conditions for Project Financing............................................................                       10


        Annexes

                                                                                                                                           11
        Annex 2: Results Framework and Monitoring ...............................................................
        Annex 1: DetailedDescription of Project Components .................................................
                                                                                                                                           19
        Annex 3: Summary of EstimatedProject Costs .............................................................                          23
                                                                                                                                          24
        Annex 5: Procurement Arrangements ............................................................................
        Annex 4: Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements ..............................
                                                                                                                                          27
        Annex 6: Implementation and Monitoring Arrangements ..............................................                                31
                                                                                                                                          32
        Annex 8: Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework.........................................
        Annex 7: Project Preparation and Appraisal Team Members ........................................
                                                                                                                                          33
        Annex 9: Economic and Financial Analysis...................................................................                       40
                                                                                                                                          47
        Annex 11: Statement of Loans, Credits and Grants .........................................................
        Annex 10: Documents in the Project File.........................................................................
                                                                                                                                          48
        Annex 12: Country at a Glance ........................................................................................            49




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties.Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.


                                EMERGENCY PROJECTPAPER DATA SHEET
                                 DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF TIMOR-LESTE
                                   ENERGYSERVICESDELIVERY PROJECT
                                       EASTASIA AND PACIFICREGION

Date: June 7,2007                                                  Team Leader: Selina Shum
Country Director: Nigel Roberts                                    Sector: Electric Power
Sector Director: Christian Delvoie                                 Themes: infrastructure services
Sector Manager: Junhui Wu                                          Environmental Screening Category: B
Lending Instrument: Emergency operation




Project ID (s): PO95593                                    Total Amount: US$2.5 million

Proposed Terms: standard                                   Expected Implementation Period: 4 years

Expected Effectiveness Date: September 30, 2007            ExpectedRevised Closing Date: December 31,2011

Recipient: Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste              Responsible Agency: Ministry of Natural Resources,
                                                           Minerals and Energy Policy (MNRMEP)




Source                                             Local                   Foreign                  Total
Borrower                                           0.2                     0.1                      0.3
Total IBRD/IDA                                     -
                                                   0.0                     -
                                                                           2.5                      -
                                                                                                    2.5
Total                                              0.2                     2.6                      2.8


                                      2007          2008        2009        2010        2011        2012
Total IBRD/IDA                                       0.4         0.8         0.5         0.5         0.3
Does the emergency operation require any exceptions from Bank policies?                      Yes [ ] No [XI
Have these been approved by Bank management?Not applicable                                   Yes[ 1 N o [ 1
Are there any critical risks rated "substantial" or "high"?                                  Yes [ X ] No [ 3
What safeguard policies are triggered, if any?
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) and Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)


    A.    INTRODUCTION

  1.    This Project Paper seeks the approval of the Executive Directors to provide a grant in the
  amount of SDR 1.64 million (US$2.5 million equivalent) to the Democratic Republic of Timor-
  Leste for the Energy Services Delivery Project.

  2.    The proposed grant would help finance urgently needed investments for the emergency
. repair of the Comoro Power Station and rehabilitation and upgrading of the power distribution
  system in Dili, as well as distribution of energy efficient light bulbs. In addition, the Project
  would include technical assistance and training to support project implementation and
  strengthening of the institutional capacity of the Ministry of Natural Resources, Minerals and
  Energy Policy (MNRMEP) and the national utility, Electricidade de Timor-Leste (EdTL), to
  promote long-term sustainability of the power sector. The "quick-win" investments supported
  under this Project are economically sound, with tangible results on the ground expected within
  the first year of project implementation. Without such investments, the quality and quantity of
  the power supply will continue to decline, if not fail, in the near future.

  3.    Partnership arrangements: Not applicable.

    B. EMERGENCY CHALLENGE: COUNTRY CONTEXT, RECOVERY
      STRATEGY,AND RATIONALEFORPROPOSEDBANKEMERGENCYPROJECT

  4.    InMay 2006, after several increasingly unstable months, Timor-Leste slid into a complex
  political, social, and security crisis. The crisis has generated a new set of challenges, including
  displacement of the population, destruction of property, dramatically weakened security
  institutions, and armed groups operating outside the purview of state institutions.

  5.    Timor-Leste's crisis i s far from over and has significant potential to deepen. Despite the
  presence of 1,600 UNpolice officers and more than 1,000 Australian and New Zealand troops,
  community violence in Dili continues. Regular gang mayhem, including murder and arson,
  continues to plague many of Dili's neighborhoods, with more than 60 people killed since
  September 2006. Security concerns, political uncertainty, and ambivalent policy signals have
  contributed to persistent displacement, with approximately 30,000 people still residing in camps
  inDili,and well over 70,000 havingmoved away to outlying districts.

  6.    Stagnant economic growth, high youth unemployment, poverty, and pre-existing
  community tensions make Dili a tinderbox in which violence i s easily ignited. Shortages of
  commercially available rice and poor harvests in 2007 have caused added stress. The presidential
  election conducted in April and May 2007 passed off with few incidents, and was judged free
  and fair - but a higher degree of competition and a much increased risk of violence may
  accompany the parliamentary elections slated for June 30, 2007. The crisis has also brought deep
  social and political fragmentation. The combination of poor security, unresolved community
  tensions, and political competition could lead to renewed conflict, even in the face of a
  technically sound electoral process. Elections are a necessary condition for recovery - it i s hoped
  that they will deliver stability, but there are no guarantees.

  7.    The impact of the crisis on the functioning of government and on service delivery has been
  significant. With the exception of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Labor and


                                                - 1 -

Community Reinsertion (responsible for emergency relief), state agencies operated at much
reduced levels through much of 2006. Many ministers and high-level civil servants have
suspended routine activities in order to campaign. The current Council of Ministers has met only
a few times since March 2007 and appears unlikely to make any further policy decisions while
the new government will only be sworn in following the seating of the new Parliament in
September 2007.

8.    A comprehensive assessment of the full economic and social impact of the crisis has yet to
be undertaken. However, government estimates suggest that the crisis would have brought about
an estimated decline in economic output of 7 to 8 percent. This appears to have been offset by
the influx of international forces and United Nations (UN) personnel, leading to an estimated
economic growth of 1 percent for 2006, still four percentage points lower than projected before
the crisis.

9.    The crisis has reduced the functionality of an already very weak public administration.
Donors and the United Nations have responded generously to the crisis, including the
mobilization of the U.N.IntegratedMission in Timor-Leste, contributions of troops by Australia
and New Zealand, and commitments to relief efforts. Several donors, including AusAid and the
United States Agency for International Development (USAID), have undertaken comprehensive
assessments and retooled aspects of their strategies, but such efforts have necessarily been
fragmented in the absence of a national political consensus and a recovery plan. The Bank-
managed Consolidation Support Program (CSP) remains a central mechanism for the monitoring
of government performance and donor coordination. A successful CSP mission was concluded in
February 2007. Inaddition, several working groups are coordinating an emergency response, but
these efforts, while addressing the immediate needs of those left most vulnerable by the crisis,
remain somewhat ad hoc in the absence of an overall recovery plan. The sector level working
groups and coordination mechanisms that existed prior to the crisis have yet to regain
momentum.

10. In the case of the power sector, Indonesia's National Power Corporation (PLN) operated
the power systems until 1999.Following the violence and destruction in 1999, most of the PLN
technical staff and management departed. The U.N.Transitional Administration for East Timor
(UNTAET) then set up Electricidade de Timor-Leste (EdTL) to operate a severely damaged
power system with the assistance of various development partners. Despite intensive efforts to
restore the system with assistance from the international community, it i s still at a substantially
lower service level than before the violence. Currently, about 43,500 households have access to
electricity, amounting to an overall electrification rate of around 22 percent. Nearly half of these
households are located in the capital, Dili, or its surrounding area, and the electrification rate i s
about 85 percent in these urban areas. However, only five percent of rural households have
access to electricity. Households account for the largest share of power consumption, at about 55
percent, while industrial and commercial users and the government account for about 26 percent
and 19 percent, respectively. Power generation depends entirely on imported diesel oil, resulting
in one of the most costly electricity supply systems in the world. The high cost of, and limited
access to, electric power are major constraints to economic growth and poverty alleviation
efforts.




                                            - 2 -

11. The government's strategy in the power sector is presented in its Sector Investment Plan
(SIP), first published in 2003 and updated annually since then. The SIP identifies the priority
short-term investments for the power system, including, among others, the following:

        (a)   Supplementation to generation capacity at the Comoro Power Station. This has
              already been supported by earlier projects, including the Power Sector Priority
              Investments Project, funded b y the Trust Fund for East Timor (TFET), which
              financed a new generator that was commissioned inApril 2007.

        (b)   Reinforcement and reliability improvement of the Dili distribution system. This was
              only addressed partially by other development partners under earlier projects. The
              unfinishedagendawill be the focus of the investmentcomponent underthis project.

        (c)   Distribution of energy-efficient lamps and light bulbs. This program was partially
              completed under the TFET-financed Power Sector Priority Investments Project and
              will continue to be supported under this project.
12.   Since 2002, the nominal power generation capacity has been restored to close to its former
level. During the past few years, the focus of system restoration efforts began to shift from
rebuilding of the power stations to repair and rehabilitation of damaged distribution networks.
Attention also began to focus on increasing the commercial orientation of EdTL, through the
engagement of a management contractor. However, resulting progress made in the improvement
of power services has been disrupted and reversed by the civil unrest that started in April 2006,
which also resulted in the breakdown of power-generating unitsbecause of poor and/or disrupted
maintenance, non-optimal operation, and the lack of spare parts. The poor quality of power
services has, in turn, triggered a sharp increase in bypassing prepaid meters (Annex 1) and
encouraged energy waste, which has exacerbated the current power supply shortfall during peak
hours. Broad-based stakeholder consultations confirmed the high priority of the government to
reverse the deterioration of power services by restoring or improving the availability, reliability,
and safety of power supply and to address the issue of illegal tapping of power, which i s prone to
cause fires and accidents (Annex 8). The urgently needed investments supported under this
project are precisely designed to achieve this objective by maximizing opportunities for a rapid
and effective response.

  C.    BANKRESPONSE: THE PROJECT

    1. BRIEF DESCRIPTION BANK'S
                              OF         STRATEGY OF EMERGENCY        SUPPORT

13. The overall strategic priorities of the Bank's program of assistance in Timor-Leste are
articulated in the current Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) approved by the Board on July 19,
2005 (Report No. 32700-TL). However, given the current crisis, the Bank has been reviewing on
a case-by-case basis the scope and content of each of the projects during its preparation phase to
ensure the best response to changing circumstances on the ground. An additional new emergency
project i s   being identified to address youth unemployment and disenfranchisement.
Consideration i s being given to replacing the current CAS with an Interim CAS after the June
2007 parliamentary elections when the new government i s fully in place. With regard to this
project, as elaborated below, the content has been simplified and scaled down from the original




                                            - 3 -

concept of a normal IDA-assisted operation to a rapid response project that will yield results on
the ground within the first year of project implementation.

    2. PROJECTDEVELOPMENT          OBJECTIVES

14. The objectives are to stabilize the power services in Dili, by restoring or improving
operational efficiency, reliability, safety and availability of the power supply, and to promote
long-term sustainability of the power sector. These would, in turn, contribute to the social
stability and economic development of the country.

    3. SUMMARY OFPROJECT COMPONENTS

15. The Project would include two main components: (a) investments; and (b) capacity
building. The investment component would include: (i)        emergency repair and maintenance of
the Comoro Power Station; (ii)    rehabilitation and upgrading of the power distribution system in
Dili; and (iii)distribution of energy efficient light bulbs, Compact Fluorescent Lamps (CFLs).
Timely repair of the power station and energy savings from the above investments will increase
availability and reliability of power supply for both existing customers and new customers.
Details are in Annex 1.

16. A substantial capacity building componentis proposed to support project implementation
and for institutional and policy strengthening to help lay the groundwork for increased
commercial orientation and long-term sustainability of the power sector.

17. For background, the dislocations in Timor-Leste have meant that there i s extremely limited
management and policy capacity inEdTL and MNRMEP. As a result, there i s an urgent need to
provide direct access to the necessary management and policy skills and to enhance the capacity
within EdTLand MNRMEPinthe short-term.

 18. The experience in Timor-Leste with the first management contract with Companhia de
Electricidade de Macau (CEM) - has highlighted the need for timely and professional
supervision of the management contract. The management contract with C E M was, on the
whole, a good contract. It contained obligations on C E M to improve the performance of EdTL,
establish financial and management information systems, and train and develop staff. It also
obliged the government to provide the CEM with substantially greater managerial autonomy and
to establish a Supervisory Committee. Initially, C E M achieved material improvements inEdTL's
cash flows and met key performance indicators (KPIs), such as the reduction in non-technical
losses. However, neither party completely fulfilled the obligations under the management
contract. A recent consultant review of the performance under the management contract
highlighted the failure to monitor the contract properly, as well as the difficult operating
environment, as critical reasons for the poor performance overall under the contract.

 19. MNRMEP's capacity will need to be enhanced to monitor the performance of the
management contractor, to develop the sector strategy, and to advise on pricing, sector reforms,
and the development and oversight of programs to ensure increased access to affordable energy
services. A key element will be the engagement of an experienced expert as a technical advisor
to MNRMEP. While the technical advisor will be available to provide ad hoc advice, the key



                                             - 4 -

tasks of the advisor will relate to institution building and capacity development, including the
following: developing a strategy and work program for MNRMEP, identifying resource
requirements, and developing a team within MNRMEPthat can take increasing responsibility for
advice on these issues.

20. An auditor of the performance of the management contract will be engaged to complement
the monitoring of the management contractor by MNRMEP, assisted b y the technical advisor
noted above. Payments to the management contractor will be closely tied to the outcomes of the
audit. Thus, contracting out the audit will increase the credibility of the audit and reduce the
likelihood of disputes - especially while MNRMEP i s still buildingup its capacity.

    4. ELIGIBILITYFORPROCESSINGUNDERoP/BP 8.00

21. As noted above, the social and institutional fabric in Timor-Leste has been badly damaged
by the prolonged crisis. A timely economic response i s essential to halting the deterioration in
Timor-Leste's human capital and infrastructure. The overarching objective of a move to
processing projects under OP/BP 8.00 would be to add speed, simplicity, and flexibility. The
proposed project i s the first of such operations under the Bank's overall rapid response in Timor-
Leste, consistent with the guiding principles of OPBP 8.00, which include continued focus of
the Bank's direct assistance on its core development and economic competencies. The project
will help reverse the deterioration in power services, which in turn will contribute to economic
development and social stability.

    5. CONSISTENCYWITH COUNTRY           ASSISTANCESTRATEGY(CAS)

22. The current CAS includes the delivery of sustainable key services for growth and
development as one of its three pillars for its lending and advisory programs in the country.
Recognizing the important role of access to energy services for growth and poverty reduction,
and taking into account the paucity of development partners in the energy sector, the CAS
proposes this project as part of the Bank's assistanceprogram in Timor-Leste's energy sector. In
addition, the Bank has extensive experience in providing similar assistance in other countries.

    6. EXPECTED     OUTCOMES

23. The investments supported under the Project are expected to improve the power supply
services in Dili. Specifically, timely repair of the Comoro Power Station will increase the
capacity and reliability of the power supply. Installation of distribution transformers and
upgrading of low voltage conductors will reduce technical system losses and improve power
quality. Construction of new low-voltage (LV) lines in accordance with appropriate construction
standards will reduce technical and non-technical system losses and improve the reliability and
safety of the power supply. Reinstallation of prepaid meters and provision of kWh meters on
medium-voltage (MV) feeders based on theft-proofing standards will reduce non-technical
system losses. Installation of reclosers on excessively long MV feeders will improve the
reliability of the power supply. The energy savings from the above investments and from wider
use of energy efficient CFLs will increase availability of power to meet the needs of both
existing and new customers in Dili. Key monitoring indicators will include: (a) technical and
non-technical system losses as a percentage of power generated; (b) reliability of the power


                                             - 5 -

supply; (c) increase in power supply capacity (as a result of repair of Comoro Power Station); (d)
power supply safety; (e) the number of connections to new customers; and (f) energy savings
implied by the number of CFLs distributed to metered customers. In addition, the monitoring
indicator for the capacity buildingcomponent will include the preparation and implementation of
a Human Resource plan for MNRMEP. Details are in Annex 2.

  D. APPRAISAL OFPROJECTACTIVITIES

24.   The investments to be supported by the Project will help improve power service delivery in
a cost-effective manner and within a relatively short time. The project design i s based on
international good practice and the technology entails relatively simple, straightforward
applications, with negligible technological risks. As in the case of this Project (detailed fiscal and
economic analyses are in Annex 9), energy efficiency investments are typically economically
sound, thus allowing for a substantial margin to cover potential downside risks. This Project
does face considerable risks of political and social instability and the resultant risks of project
implementation delays and project cost overruns (see Section F below). Nevertheless, the
potential benefits outweigh the risks. In the absence of this Project, the quality and quantity of
the power supply will continue to decline significantly (detailed comparisons of performance
indicators with and without the Project are in Annex 2).

25.   The subcomponent for emergency repair of the Comoro Power Station will include
investments for the replacement of a radiator and electrical upgrade of substation switchboard,
totaling US$300,000. This will increase power supply capacity by 500 KW, resulting in net
avoided cost estimated at about US$78,000 if a new generator were to be installed. In addition,
improvements in the firefighting system at the Comoro Power Station will improve safety of the
power services delivery.

26.   For the power distribution system rehabilitation subcomponent, investments would
focus on geographic areas where the system losses are at relatively high levels. The economic
efficiency benefits will flow from lower costs of service through the reduction in technical losses
and the freeing up of capacity through the reduction in both technical and non-technical losses.
The economic efficiency benefits will flow from lower costs of service through the reduction in
technical losses and the freeing up of capacity through the reduction in both technical and non-
technical losses. In addition, reduction in non-technical losses will yield social equity benefits,
since the costs of producing the energy used-but-not-paid-for must be met by the paying
customers or government subsidies (taxpayers), or both.

27.   Conceptual design has been completed for the first phase investments for rehabilitation of
the power distribution system, estimated at about US$600,000 (net of provision for
contingencies). The major economic benefits for the first phase investments are assumed to be
derived from the energy savings through reduction of both technical and non-technical losses to
levels observed before the civil unrest in April 2006. This i s a conservative estimate because of
the potential for considerably further reduction in non-technical losses. The indicative economic
rates of return (ERRS)of these investments are robust under various scenarios. Specifically,
even without the inclusion of such benefits as reliability and safety of the power supply, and the
global environmental benefits of improved energy efficiency, the ERR i s estimated at about 28
percent. The results of sensitivity analysis indicate that even under the scenarios of 30 percent



                                           - 6 -

lower gross benefits and a 30 percent cost overrun, the ERR i s projected to remain satisfactory at
about 17 percent and 21 percent, respectively.

28.   It should be noted that EdTL is not a separate legal entity; it is legally part of the
government under MNRMEP, and i s not financially autonomous. Specifically, its finances are
consolidated with the government budget and it receives government subsidies to cover fully any
cash deficits for both operations and capital expenditures. For fiscal year 2007, the government
budget for EdTL amounted to US$12.4 million, including about US$8.4 million for imported
fuels and the balance of US$4 million for capital expenditures. In addition, US$1.4 million of
government budget will cover the fees of the management contractor at EdTL. In light of the
foregoing, financial analyses of the project and entity at the level of EdTL are not meaningful.
From the fiscal perspective, upon completion of the first phase investments, annual savings for
the government budget are estimated at more than US$300,000, based on the current tariff of
US$O.12 per kWh.The payback period i s about two years.

29. For the CFLs subcomponent,the objective is to achieve energy savings through the use of
CFLs as direct replacements for traditional incandescent light bulbs. The benefits of energy
efficient CFLs will accrue both to the consumers (increased availability of power supply at peak
hours, reduced power bills and much longer life of light bulbs) and to the country (reduced fuel
consumption and avoided investments for peak load capacity). The ERR i s estimated at about
125 percent and the payback period i s less than one year. This i s a conservative estimate, since
the ERR calculation has not included the benefits of reducing the peak load by about 1MW and
the related avoided capital cost of power generation, as well as the global environmental benefits
from energy savings. The CFL program has been successfully launched under the TFET-
financed Power Sector Priority Investment Project and will be scaled up under this Project.
Based on conservative assumptions, monthly savings are estimated at about US$1.25 per
customer (at US$0.12 per kWh, the current tariff in Dili), which i s similar to the estimated unit
cost of a CFL (US$1.20). This implies a payback period of only three months, even if the
consumers have to purchase three replacement CFLs. Moreover, the much longer life of CFLs
will result in a lower frequency of replacement and lower expenditures for the light bulbs.
Interviews with random samples of end users confirmed that even the lower-income consumers
are willing to purchase CFLs in light of the substantial reduction in power bills.

30.   The Project design has incorporated lessons learned from previous country experience and
from Bank-wide experience with both the power sector and emergency response operations. One
particular lesson i s that speed i s of the essence for an effective response by emergency recovery
assistance. Moreover, the limited capacity of the government and the power utility must be
addressed adequately. Thus, the project design has been simplified and the investments scaled
down considerably from the original concept of a regular IDA-assisted operation. Specifically,
the Project will support high priority "quick-win" investments for rehabilitation of the existing
power distribution system in Dili. Greenfield investments for rural electrification and renewable
energy that were originally envisioned at the concept stage are no longer included. In addition,
the Project will be implemented by an essentially "turn-key" contractor that will be responsible
for the supply and installation of the power distribution equipment. Technical assistance and
training will be provided under the project to enhance the capacity of both MNRMEP and EdTL
in project implementation and in overall power sector policy and institutionalreforms to help lay
the ground for long term sustainability of the power sector.


                                              - 7 -

Environmental and Social Safeguards

31. The Project i s assessed as an environment Category B as the investment component of the
Project i s not expected to have substantial negative environmental impacts as it only involves
rehabilitation of existing power distribution lines and emergency repair of a power station to
improve efficiency and reliability of the energy services. The Bank safeguard policies triggered
by the Project include Environmental Assessment (OPA3P 4.01) and Involuntary Resettlement
(OPA3P 4.12). Further discussions of environmental and social safeguards are in Annex 8.

32. An analysis of the likely impacts of the Project identifiedthree minor environmental issues.
The first issue relates to the potential presence of polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) in the
insulating fluids of the 7 to 10 second-hand transformers that are still in good condition that will
be installed and used under the project to supplement existing overloaded transformers. It i s
highly unlikely that these second-hand transformers have PCB, considering that the transformers,
based on the inventory, were manufactured from 1988 onwards, and that PCB was banned in
1971. The biddingdocuments and contracts will require contractors to test these transformers for
the presence and levels of PCB prior to installation. Transformers with PCB levels of 0.05 mg/L
and higher will not be installed or used.` The second issue relates to the minor disturbance to
vegetation during rehabilitation and operation, mainly because of trimming and, to a small
extent, cutting of trees that are located along the right-of-way. Cutting of trees will be avoided
and will be minimal considering that existing alignments will be followed. The third issue i s the
minor civil works for the installation of the 16-inch diameter poles for the power lines. An
Environmental Management Plan, satisfactory to the Bank, has been adopted by MNRMEP for
this Project.

33.   On the social impacts, most of the poles will be installed along the roadright-of-way which
i s public land. A very small number may, however, intrude onto private property. Considering
that the land required per post i s only one-fourth of a square meter each, no compensation may
be required for these as gathered from the consultations conducted with affected residents.
Proper pre-construction social preparation involving suco (village) and aldea (sub-village) chiefs
will facilitate getting affected persons' cooperation.        In the unlikely scenario that it will be
needed, a Resettlement Policy Framework, satisfactory to the Bank, has been adopted by
MNRMEP for this project. Moreover, the project social acceptability was ascertained for this
Project through the conduct of a series of public consultation with key stakeholders in February
2007. A summary of the results of stakeholder consultations and the project team's response are
inAnnex 8.

   E. IMPLEMENTATIONARRANGEMENTSAND FINANCINGPLAN

34. Project cost. The project cost i s estimated to total about US$2.8 million. Details are in
Annex 3. O f the total project cost, including contingencies, about US$2 million i s for the
investment component, and the balance, about US$0.8 million, i s for the capacity building
component. To minimize the risk of cost overrun as a result of security risks and the resultant
country risk premium for the investment component, price contingencies are assumed to be 20
percent, which i s exceptionally high and well above the projected manufacturers' unit value

'Basedon   Indonesianstandards inthe absenceof Timor-Leste standards for PCB.


                                               - 8 -

index (MUV) of 0.7 to 0.8 percent per year. In the event that actual investment costs are lower
than the estimated costs, including contingencies, the cost savings could be reallocated to
additional capacity buildingactivities (see Annex 1).Proposed IDA Grant financing i s SDR 1.64
million (US$2.5 million equivalent), and the remaining financing requirement of about US$0.3
million i s expected to be funded by the state budget.

                                                                  Local    Foreign       Total
A. InvestmentComponent                                           $190,105  $1,376,318   $1,566,422

 8.Capacity BuildingComponent                                               $835,000     $835,000

 Total Project BaseCost (in mid-2006price terms)                 $190,105  $2,211,318   $2,401,422
       Taxes and Duties
       PhysicalContingencies                                       $9,505     $68,816     $78,321
       Price Contingencies                                        $39,922   $289,027     $328,949

                             Total Project Cost                  $239,532  $2,569,160   $2,808,692

35.    Project Implementation. The Project will be implemented by MNRMEP, on behalf of the
government. MNRMEP has formally designated the National Directorate for Water and
Electricity Policy (NDWEP) as the overall implementing agency of the project. Procurement and
financial management for all activities under the Ministry, including for the Project, i s the
responsibility of the National Directorate of Administration and Finance (NDAF). Three sub-
directorates under the NDAF are responsible for finance management, procurement management
and human resources management, respectively. As noted above, technical assistance will be
provided under the Project for the following: (a) project construction supervision; (b) project
procurement and implementation support; and (c) design and planning for the power distribution
system.

36.    Financial Management. Overall financial management of funds under the Project will be
the responsibility of NDAF. The project implementation consultant will assist NDAF in the
discharge of these responsibilities. Activities funded through the state budget - Consolidated
Funds for Timor-Leste (CFTL) - will be captured in the Government of Timor-Leste (GoTL)
accounting system, whereas those funded through the IDA Grant will be recorded in a separate
system. Given the very small volume of contracts and payments expected, financial reports on
the Project may be in the form of a simple spreadsheet. MNRMEP will be responsible for
aggregating the two sets of information into a single report. MNRMEP will initiate all requests to
contractors for payments, which will be processed by the Ministry of Planning and Finance
(MOPF) following standard GoTL procedures. Traditional disbursement methods will be used
with additional reliance being placed on direct payments (given low-volume, high-value
contracts).

37. Audit. MNRMEP will be responsible for the preparation of financial statements of all
project expenditures. GoTL has, in the past, contracted an acceptable auditor for the audit of all
bank administered projects and the costs of these audit services were borne by the GoTL. These
arrangements are currently under review and the Project may need to finance the costs of audit
services.




                                               - 9 -

38.   CZosing date. The rehabilitation investments will be implemented in two phases by supply
and installation contractors. The first phase i s expected to be completed by about December 31,
2008, and the second phase investments, as well as the overall project, should be completed by
about December 31, 2010. The closing date for the IDA Grant i s December 31, 2011, allowing
for potential delays from security risk situations.

39. Bunk supervision. Intensive Bank supervision efforts are planned, estimated at about 10
staff weeks for at least the first two years of project implementation. As far as practicable,
supervision will be carried out by staff in the Dili office and other Bank offices in the East Asia
and Pacific Region.

  F. PROJECTRISKSAND MITIGATINGMEASURES

40.   The overall risk i s substantial due to the potential high country risks of political and social
instability and security risks that would have a significant impact on project implementation. On
the other hand, the Project's design i s simple and flexible enough to accommodate and mitigate
most risks specific to the project. Overall, although the Project will be implemented in a
challenging environment, the potential benefits outweigh the risks.

           Risks           R                                  PlannedMitigation
   Political and social    H     Little can be done within the Project to mitigate these risks although
   instability and               successful implementation of the Project will contribute positively towards
   security risks                social stability and economic development of the countr;.
    Capacity-related risk  S     The risk will be mitigated by technical assistanceand training in project
                                 management, engineering, procurement and project construction
                                 supervision as well as "turnkey" contract for the supply and installation of
                                 equipment.
    Customer non-                The risk will be mitigated by the hiring of a qualified management
   payment risk                  cpntractor for EdTL, with reduction of non-technical and commercial
                                 losses as key performance indicators in the calculation of its performance-
                                 basedmanagement fees. Inaddition, technical assistance will be provided
                                 to the Ministry in its monitoring and auditing of the management
                                 contractor's performance.
   Cost overrun                  Country risk premium included inbidders' price will be mitigated by the
                                 provision of relatively high price contingencies (20%) in theprojectcost
                                 estimates, flexibility in reallocation of IDA funding and potential
                                 additional funding from the government in later phase of project
                                 implementation
    OverallRisk Rating   I S
    RiskRating: H=High; S=Substantial; M=Modest.

  G. TERMS AND CONDITIONSFORPROJECTFINANCING

41.   The grant would have standard IDA terms. Regarding environmental and social safeguards,
MNRMEP shall:

        Undertake the implementation of the Project in accordance with the Project's
        Environmental Management Plan and Resettlement Policy Framework, all in a manner
        satisfactory to the Bank.




                                                - 10-

                  ANNEX 1: DETAILEDDESCRIPTION PROJECT COMPONENTS
                                                        OF

                                    Component A: Investments

Background

1.      In 1999, EdTLinherited a power system built largely by the Indonesianutility, PLN, but
in a severely damaged state and partly destroyed duringthe violence leading to the formation of
the country. Despite intensive efforts to restore the system, it i s still at a substantially lower
operational level than before the violence. The power generation capacity has been restored to
close to its former level, but the general level of services provision, such as availability of street
lighting, system reliability and availability, customer interfacing, provision of new connections,
billing and collection, remains poorer than before. Over the past few years, the focus of system
restoration efforts has shifted from rebuilding of the power stations to that of damaged
distribution networks and establishing EdTL as a viable power utility. As elaborated below,
recent progress made in the improvement of power supply services has been reversed by the
ongoing civil unrest started in April 2006. The investments supported under this project are
urgently needed to arrest the deterioration of power services and restore the levels of services at
least to the levels just before the civil unrest noted above.

2.      Power Sector Development Plan (PSDP): The government approved an Electricity
Sector Policy Paper in September 2002. Thereafter, a Power Sector Development Plan for
Timor-Leste covering a 20-year development period was prepared in 2003 under the direction of
the Asian Development Bank (ADB). This i s a master plan that establishes the basis for future
development of the power sector including generation, transmission, distribution and
electrification, and additionally discusses institutional and policy issues.

3.      Sector Znvestment Plan (SIP):           The government first published a Power Sector
Investment Plan: Priorities and Proposed Sector Investment Program in December 2003 (with
updated versions issued in subsequent years). The power SIP identified the priority short-term
investments for the power system, including the following, among others:
             a. Supplement to generation capacity at Comoro Power Station - this has already
                been supported by earlier projects, including the TFET-financed Power Sector
                Priority Investments Project which financed a generator that was commissionedin
                April 2007;
            b. Reinforcement andreliability improvement of Dili distribution system -this was
                only addressed partially by other development partners under earlier projects and
                the unfinished agenda will be the focus of the investment component under this
                Project; and
            c. Distribution of energy efficient lamp/light bulb program: this was partially
                completed under the TFET-financed Power Sector Priority Investments Project,
                and it will be continuedunder this Project.




                                             - 11-

Existing Power Supply System inDiliand Key Deficiencies:

4.      Power Generation. The Comoro Power Plant inDili i s the only power generating station
supplying electricity to EdTL's power system and it i s purely powered b y diesel. Over the past
year, reliability of the generating plant has been poor and frequent generator failures have
resulted in inadequate generation capacity, requiring rationing of electricity supply. Until
recently, the plant had a nominal generating capacity of approximately 19 MW, with available
output of only around 12 MW - almost equivalent to the somewhat suppressed peak demand.
No normal maintenance can be arranged for any generators and the overhauls for several aged
diesel generators have been significantly delayed. This situation has significantly disrupted the
power plant's normal operation and maintenance practices, which need to be restored urgently.
Under the Bank's on-going Power Sector Priority Investment Project, a 4.7 MW diesel generator
was scheduled to be commissioned in 2006. Due to the civil unrest, it was only put into operation
in April 2007. The commissioning of the generator will significantly improve the reliability of
the generation system. However, further supports, including emergency repair of several over-
used generators and supply of necessary spare parts, are needed urgently to restore and sustain
the reliable supply capacity of the power station and restore normal operation and maintenance
practices.

5.      Power Distribution. There were a total of 188 transformers supplied from the
distribution system at the end of 2006. The majority of the existing distribution transformers
were installed in 1970s. The load on these transformers has been gradually growing over the
years. The transformers in the commercial parts of Dili, where businesses, hotels and restaurants
are located, have generally experienced a significantly higher load growth compared to the
transformers in residential areas. Approximately 50 overloaded transformers were replaced and
upgraded with larger capacity transformers in 2005-06 under a project funded through a grant
from the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA). However, an additional 20 to 30
transformers are expected to be approaching overload conditions in the short-term; they are
being identifiedthrough field surveys by EdTL'sDistribution Planning andDesignUnit (DPU).

6.      In order to supply new customers, the low voltage (LV) lines have been extended over
the past 25 years without adequate planning and design and, as a result, a number of LV circuits
have become excessively long and are loaded beyond their optimal loading levels. These are the
main reason for high technical losses on the distribution system and low voltage conditions at
customer premises. Based on the results of modeling, technical losses on LV system can be
reduced to a level of about 4 to 5 percent (from the existing level of 8 to 12percent) by reducing
circuit lengths and lowering loads to optimal levels through injection of additional distribution
transformers and upgrading of LV conductor sizes. The LV systems for only about 15
transformers, out of the 50 upgraded transformers noted above, have been upgraded thus far
under a grant from Norway. Thus, significantly more work still needs to be done to upgrade LV
circuits to optimal levels.

7.      Customer service conductors in a majority of residential communities are under-sized and
have been extended from one house roof to another. These improperly installed service
conductors can be easily tapped for illegal connections by customers, thus contributing towards
high technical losses and posing a threat to public safety from fire and accidents and resulting in



                                           - 12-

poor power quality and reliability. To improve safety, reliability, quality and efficiency of power
supply, many of these service conductors need to be reinstalled, using optimal-sized conductors,
and connected directly to LV mains using new poles, in accordance with appropriate
construction standards.

8.     Due to the poor collection efficiency for electricity bills, Norwegian grants financed
replacement of conventional meters with prepaid meters in Dili starting in September 2003. A
vast majority of the residential and small commercial meters (totaling about 24,500) have been
changed over to pre-paid meters during the last three years. However, inadequate attention was
paid to reducing or eliminating the possibility of electricity theft under the existing prepaid meter
installation. The incidents of meter by-passing by customers increased sharply after the start of
social unrest in April 2006. B y December 2006, approximately 75 to 80 percent of the pre-paid
meters in Dili were estimated to have been by-passed or tampered with. After allowing for 12
percent technical losses and 4 percent energy for internal EDTL use, non technical losses on the
Dili distribution system were averaging approximately 44 percent during the last five months of
2006. Virtually all of the revenue meters need to be reinstalled following a new standard, using a
concentric neutral LV cable from the meter base to the service mast or the service pole, without
any joints in the service conductor, ahead of the revenue meter. The Norwegian grant financed
contractor i s planning to adopt the new standard for replacing of remaining revenue meters, but
sufficient funds are not available to reinstall the previously-installed meters.

9.      The distribution transformers or medium voltage (MV) feeders are presently not
equipped with revenue class energy meters that could be used for estimating losses on individual
feeders. While installing and managing revenue meters on each distribution transformer would
be costly, equipping each of the six MV feeders with kWh meters at the sending end will provide
reasonably adequate and useful information to identify MV feeders of highest system losses.

10.     In addition to the above technical solutions, which are proposed to be supported by the
Project, the government issued a new decree on tariff regulation for power supply in December
2006 which reconfirms the mandate of the power supplier to: (i)cut off supply in cases of
nonpayment by customers; and (ii)     to impose financial penalties for bypassing meters. However,
effective enforcement of the above decree and other remedial actions by Electricidade de Timor-
Leste (EdTL) are needed to address this serious concern, including among others: (a) clearly
designating responsibility and accountability of EdTL's management contractor, through the
commercial department of the utility, to oversee the implementation of remedial actions.
Reduction of non-technical losses should be one of the key factors for performance-based fees to
be paid to the management contractor. Similarly, incentives may be provided to EdTL staff
directly involved with the non-techical loss reduction effort; and (b) undertaking a public
information campaign with participation by local leaders.

ProposedInvestments

Part 1:         Emergency Repair and Maintenance of Comoro Power Station

11.     This subcomponent would support the government's emergency response to breakdowns
and unscheduled repairs of generation units, including purchase of spare parts, and would
include the following: (i)replacement of a radiator; (ii)electrical upgrade of substation


                                            - 1 3 -

switchboard in Comoro substations; and (iii)     improvement of the firefighting system in Comoro
station.

Part 2:         Rehabilitationand Upgradingof DiliPowerDistributionSystem

12.     To rectify the main deficiencies in the existing supply system described in the previous
section, the investment subcomponent for rehabilitation of the power distribution system in Dili
i s aimed at achieving the following four key objectives:

     a) Improve efficiency by reducing power distribution system losses (both technical and non-
        technical);
     b) Improve reliability and quality of power services;
     c) Improve safety of power supply; and
     d) Increase availability of power to meet the growing demand of existing customers and to
        supply new customers.
 13.    This subcomponent would support the following:

        a)      Installationof additional distribution transformers;
        b)       Construction of new low voltage lines;
        c)     , Upgrading conductors;
        d)       Reinstallationof prepaid meters based on appropriate theft proofing standards;
        e)       Installation of medium voltage feeder reclosers and meters; and
        f)       Installation of power connections to new customers, in each case in Dili.

 14.    The program of priority investments to be supported under the Poject is, by design, a
least-cost solution, based on costhenefit analysis for optimization of alternative options, as
elaborated below. For detailed project cost estimates by subcomponents, please see Annex 3.

Transformers

 15.    Where existing distribution transformers are overloaded beyond their optimal loading
levels, additional distribution transformers will be injected into the LV network, and partial load
will be transferred to the new transformers.

Low Voltage (LV) Circuits
 16.    Where existing LV circuits are excessively long, resulting in poor voltage conditions at
customer premises and high technical losses, the most cost efficient alternative of the following
will be selected and implemented:
        0    Replacement of existing LV conductors with a larger sized LV conductors; and/or
             installation of additional LV circuits and transfer of partial load to the new circuits.
            Injection of new distribution transformers into the LV network to reduce the length of
            LV circuits.
 17.    Where existing LV circuits are overloaded beyond their optimal loading levels, the most
cost efficient alternative of the following will be selected and implemented:


                                             - 14-

           Replacement of existing LV conductors with higher capacity LV conductors; and/or

       0   Installation of additional LV circuits and transfer of partial load to the new circuits.
MediumVoltage (MV) Circuits
           Medium voltage feeders will be extended as required to supply new distribution
           transformers noted above.

       0   Where excessive length of MV circuits i s resulting in poor reliability, isolating
            disconnect switches and automatic reclosers will be installed on MV feeders at
            appropriate locations to improve power supply reliability.
Service Conductors
18.    Where existing services are not installed in a safe, reliable and efficient manner, they will
be reinstalledin accordance with appropriate standards.

RevenueMeters

19.    Where existing revenue meters are not installed in accordance with best utility practices
to discourage and prevent electricity theft, they will be reinstalled in accordance with appropriate
standards. Revenue class accuracy kWh meters will also be installed at the sending end of MV
feeders.

CustomerConnectionRecords

20.    Where accurate as-built records for customer connections do not exist, customer
connection records will be updated indicating the meter number, the source LV circuit, the
source distribution transformer and the source MV circuit for each customer served from the
distribution system supplied from Comoro Power Plant.

Part 3. Distributionof EnergyEfficientLightBulbs,CompactFluorescentLamps(CFLs)

21.    The objective i s to achieve energy savings through the use of CFLs as direct
replacements for traditional incandescent light bulbs. The benefits of energy efficient CFLs will
accrue both to the consumers (increased availability of power supply at peak hours, reduced
payment of power bills and much longer life of light bulbs) and to the country (reduced fuel
consumption and avoided investments for peak load capacity). The benefits of energy efficient
CFLs accrue both to the consumer (reduced payment of bills for the same benefits) and to the
country (reduced fuel consumption). The financial payback period i s only about two months for
the country. This program has been successfully implemented under the Power Sector Priority
Investment Project and will be scaled up under the proposed project.

                                 ComponentB:CapacityBuilding

22.    Technical assistance and training will play an important role in enhancing capacity in
EdTLand MNRMEPand will help lay the groundwork for increased commercial orientation and
long term sustainability of the power sector.




                                            - 15-

(a)     Strengthening of EdTL
23.     A new management contractor, funded by state budget, i s expected to be appointed by
around August 2007, with performance incentives and obligations to build management systems
and capacity in EdTL and to improve customer relations and services, as well as managing
capital expenditures. This would be supplemented by IDA-funded consultants to MNRMEP to
address the design and planning of the rehabilitation of the Comoro Power Station and the power
distribution system, including the provision of office and field work equipment.

24.     There i s an urgent need to upgrade financial and management systems and capacities
within EdTL -- in particular the ability of EdTL to plan and supervise capital expenditure
programs. The new management contract i s expected to include enforceable obligations
requiring the new management contractor to undertake this institutional strengthening. This i s
the first best option. If necessary, as a fall-back option, some IDA funding under the Project may
need to be reallocated to fund strengthening of EdTL.

(b)     Strengthening of MNRMEP
25.     This subcomponent will focus on strengthening MNRMEPthrough the engagement of an
experienced advisor to build up capacity within the Ministry and provide advice on policy,
planning and sector supervision issues, including monitoring the performance of the management
contractor at EdTL. This will be supported by specific consultancy studies, including but not
limited to annual performance audit of the management contract. Inaddition, technical assistance
and training will be provided for project construction supervision, procurement, financial
management and other project implementation support activities.

26.     The roles of the auditor of the management contract and the technical advisor to
MNRMEP are complementary and both are essential to the supervision of the sector and the
development and an essential, minimumpolicy capacity. Once the new management contract i s
issued, MNRMEP will have to be able to properly supervise the performance of the management
contractor andEdTLas a whole. It i s expected that this will involve the following:

        (0     Review of periodic (monthly, quarterly and annual) reporting by the management
              contractor to MNRMEPon the financial and technical performance of EdTL. This
               will include key measures of energy supplied, reliability, losses and other measures
               of technical and operating efficiency, costs and revenues, progress with capital
              expenditures. The monthly and quarterly reports will be based on unauditeddata;

        (ii)SupportforMNRMEPinanydiscussionswithEdTLonanyissuesrelatedtothe
              performance of EdTLand the management contract;

        (iii)Anannualauditofthedataprovidedandthemanagementcontractor'scompliance
               with the requirements of the management contract and related performance
              measures. It i s expected that this will be the basis for the payment of the relevant
              fees to the management contractor; and




                                              - 16-

       (iv) Advice on the medium term fiscal obligations with regardto EdTL and options for
              enhancing performance (e.g. further progress on commercialization and
              corporatization, etc.).

27.    Annual audit under task (iii)above would be undertaken b y an independent consulting
firm because: (a) MNRMEP does not have.the capacity to do this; and (b) the payments to the
management contractor will be closely tied to the outcomes of the audit. Contracting it out will
increase the credibility of the audit and reduce the likelihood of disputes.

28.    MNRMEP should be responsible for tasks (i), and (iv) but it does not have the
                                                            (ii)
necessary resources or capacity at present. It i s proposed to engage an experienced technical
advisor to provide an immediate source of policy and sector expertise for MNRMEPand develop
capacity within the Ministry over time. In addition to the tasks set out above the technical
advisor would:

    (A) Prepare a strategic plan for the development of the energy unitto ensure it has the
    capacity to undertake the following core activities:
          (i) SupervisetheperformanceofEdTLandotherserviceproviders, adviseonfuture
                contracts/concessions, and issue licences as necessary
          (ii)Supervisetheimplementationoftheruralelectrificationprogramandsubsidy
                schemes
          (iii)Provideadviceonpricing,andservicestandards
          (iv) Undertake sector wide planning and development of relevant sector strategies;

    (B)Develop processes and systems necessary for the implementation of the core activities
    noted under item A above and provide advice to the head of the energy unit and MNRMEP
    on each of these activities, and other areas of energy policy, as required;

     (C) Develop and implement recruitment, training and mentoring strategies to ensure the unit
    has an adequate skill base built around local staff;

     (D)Preparepolicy papers andguidance/process notes that can guide staff ineach of the core
     activities of the energy unit; and

     (E) Provide advice to MNRMEPon policy issuesrelated to the energy sector (excluding
    upstream gas) as requested.

29.     The Terms of Reference (TOR) for the technical advisor would emphasize the
developmental roles but task (E) above would occupy a significant proportion of the consultant's
time.

30.     In the event actual investment costs are lower than the estimated costs including
contingencies, the cost savings could be reallocated to additional capacity building activities,
andor additional funding would also be'sought from other development partners. Specifically, to
support the Advisor and develop capacity within MNRMEP, additional technical assistance not
included in the project cost estimates includes the following:



                                            - 17-

a) Modeling of costs, by customer class and location based on existing and prospective
   generation capacity and system utilization, to estimate current and prospective levels of
   subsidies;
b) Advising on pricing strategies, given the results under item (a) above, that can best meet
   the government's objectives of sustainable, efficient and affordable supply of electricity;
c) Developing models for forecasting power demand, supply and the overall balance and
   undertaking an initial power supply plan and relatedinvestments usingthese models;

d) Providing TA for productive uses of electricityAivelihood promotion: this would be
   patterned, as appropriate, from a similar successful activity by PLN in Indonesia, the
   Bank-supportedRural Business Services (RBS) Program; and

e) Providing TA for wind measurements for potential wind farms: previous studies have
   preliminarily identified potential sites for wind farms in Timor-Leste, generally in the
   mountains and upland areas. At the conclusion of the measurement periods, the
   consultant would analyze the data collected at each site and prepare a report summarizing
   the result of the analysis.




                                     - 1 8 -

.I
1
Y

L
rc
0

U
E
3
8Y
0



c)
V
-5
P)
E
P,
rc
2
0




n


c)
0

%
U
c
?uE
P)




cw
L
0



4
a"Lh
W
B
0
8Y
Y
V
*5
P)


&
E




        -19-

       E     b           0I
            5   5
                b   5b        Y
                              b
                             B
                         Y    Y
       -0
        W  7   7   7     7



           73I
                     Y
                     b
                   7
             Y       Y




                 -


             Y
             b       Y        Y
                              b
           7       7         7
                     Y
                     b
            I                 Y




                             3
                             8
                             M

                             m

I


                             3
                             M.
                             8
                             m



                         C
                         3

                         Y   0
                         2
                         Y




                             4-
                              0




  E
 I




  V
  0
 Bc)




                      -20-

       C
       I     A
            B
       c
      '5
       i    5




    -


      7c
      c     I
            A
            7
      c     I




    -


            72
             I
      c
      cc
      '5



    vi
    hl




    W
    3




                       n
                       Y



    0   3  >      J




                       3
                       .I
                       I



                       s
                       .I
                       I

                       c




-21-

hY

 e,
 C
 Ea
.-e



 2
 e,
 x
*g-a
 cd
 M



3>    .-c    c
    -.-2E
 L
 2     C
       M

      Y   -.-2
             C
             MI

          .IY


             2
      3E     e,
             E
            Y
 x     v)    v)
n      6    6




.-x
Y

Ca
.e
Y
e
8



e,

a"&
i%


e,
>
e
z
cd




                   -22-

                     ANNEX3: SUMMARY OF ESTIMATED             PROJECTCOSTS
                                             (INU.S. DOLLARS)


Project Cost By Component andlor Activity                        Local    Foreign     Total
A. Investment ComDonent
A-1   Emergency repair for power generation station                        $350,000   $350,000
A-2   Install additional dlstrlbution trasnformers                $25,364  $158,160   $183,524
A-3   Construct new LV lines                                      $88,995  $282,519   $371,514
A-4   Upgrade conductor on existing LV lines                      $22,201  $134,439   $156,639
A-5   Theft proofing of revenue meters                            $38,546  $250,000   $288,546
A-6   MV Feeder Reclosers and kWh meters                          $15,000   $65,000    $80,000
A-7   Install new customer services                                          $90,000    $90,000
A-8   Energy Efficient lighting (CFLs)                                       $46,200    $46,200
      Subtotal Investment Component                              $190,105 $1,376,318 $1,566,422

B. Capacity Building Component
      EdTL constructionsupervision, DistributionDesign
      Policy Advisor/Managementcontractor monitoring- MRNMEP               $150,000   $150,000
                                                                           $250,000   $250,000
      Annual performance audit of EdTL managementcontractor                $300,000   $300,000
      Projectprocurementhplementation support     - MRNMEP                   $35,000    $35,000
      Office equipmentrrraininglincrementaloperatingcost                   $100,000   $100,000
                      Subtotal Capacity Building Component                 $835,000   $835,000

Total Project Base Cost (in mid-2006 price terms)                $190,105 $2,211,318 $2,401,422
      Taxes and Duties
      PhysicalContingencies                                        $9,505    $68,816    $78,321
      Price Contingencies                                         $39,922  $289,027   $328,949

                                Total Project Cost               $239,532 $2,569,160 $2,808,692

Note 1:   There are no duties and taxes on imported goods

1.       The primary basis of the cost estimates are recent projects of similar nature that
have been implemented in Timor-Leste and in Indonesia. The base cost estimates are in
mid-2006 price terms. The cost estimates do not include the cost of prepaid revenue
meters. While meters were reportedly damaged during the recent civil unrest, it i s
expected that there are adequate meters (financed by Norwegian grants) available in
EdTLstock for the necessary replacements.

2.       Physical contingencies for the investment component are estimated at 5 percent of
the base costs for each component, and this i s considered adequate in view of the
standard nature of the project components and widely available sources of supply
ensuring good competition.

3.       To minimize the risk of cost overruns as a result of security risks and resultant
country risk premium for the investment component, price contingencies are assumed to
be 20 percent, which i s exceptionally high and well above the projected Manufacturers
Unit Value Index (MUV) of 0.7 percent to 0.8 percent per annum. In the event actual
investment costs are lower than the estimated costs including contingencies, the cost
savings could be reallocated to additional capacity building activities (see Annex 1).




                                                     - 23 -

      ANNEX 4: FINANCIALMANAGEMENT                AND DISBURSEMENT     ARRANGEMENTS

1.      The desired result of program financial management (FM) arrangements i s that
funds will be used for the purposes intended. Financial management risk is the risk that
grant proceeds will not be used for the purposes intended and i s a combination of
country, sector and project specific risk factors. The F M risk rating for this project i s
Moderate. The financial management assessment report i s available from the Project
files.
Implementing Entity
2.      Overall, financial management of funds under the proposed project will be the
responsibility of the National Directorate of Administration and Finance (NDAF) with
the Ministry of Planning and Finance MoPF (Treasury) of the Government of Timor-
Leste providing the necessary support for processing o f payments and withdrawal
applications. Project financing will come from: (i)       IDA grant; and (ii) government
                                                                              the
budget ConsolidatedFundsfor Timor-Leste (CFTL).
3.      The project implementation advisor will assist NDAFin the discharge of financial
management responsibilities. The number of contracts and volume of transactions i s
expected to be low and should not present a burden on the project management resources
available. NDAF will initiate all requests for payments which will be processed by the
Ministry of Planning and Finance (MoPF) following standard GoTL procedures.
4.      Duringthe course of project implementation it is anticipated that the NDSC will
receive technical assistance, including capacity building for financial management,
proposed to be financed by ADBIAusAid under the Infrastructure Project Management
Technical Assistance Project. This may provide the opportunity for local counterpart staff
to take on more of the responsibilities for project record keeping and reporting.
Disbursement
5.      Proceeds from the IDA Grant, and CFTL will be segregated with each source of
funding being used to finance a discrete set of activities. This allows the disbursement
percentage for the grant to be set at 100 percent. While there i s co-financing at the project
level, this i s not required at the activity level. Three disbursement categories are proposed
with expenditure eligibility being defined in terms of the agreed activity plan.




                                               - 24 -

                 Category                Amount of the             Percentage of
                                      FinancingAllocated        Expenditures to be
                                       (expressedinSDR)              Financed
                                                                (inclusive of Taxes)
          (1) Goods, works and              1,600,000                  100%
          consultants' services for
          the Project

          (2) Training                       20,000                    100%

          (3) Incremental                    20,000                    100%
          OperatingCosts

          TOTAL AMOUNT                      1.640.000



6.     Disbursement will use traditional disbursement methods: direct payments,
reimbursements or Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). The documentation supporting
disbursements will be retained by MNRMEP for at least one year after receipt by IDA of
the audit report for the year in which the last disbursement was made. A designated
account will be established to facilitate disbursement of grant funds. Initially, the
authorized allocation for the Designated Account will be US$50,000. Fulldocumentation
will be required for contracts greater than US$50,000. It i s expected that most
expenditure will be against contracts with high values utilizing the direct payment
method- this provides the Bank with the additional opportunity for verifying transactions
before payments are made.
                                  Accounting and Reporting
7.     For activities funded from the grant, a simple spreadsheet will be maintained to
record payments against contracts. This will be reconciled against the bank statement of
the designated account and monthly disbursement summaries received from the Bank
through the client connection web site. For CFT'L activities, payments will be processed
and recorded in the Government accounting system, however MNRMEP will need to
maintain supplemental records so as to analyze expenditure by activity and facilitate the
preparation of a consolidated financial report. Again, given the low volume of
transactions and contracts, a simple spreadsheet-based system will suffice. In order for
payments under CFTL to be made, an appropriation will need to have been made based
on Parliamentary approval of the budget.
8.     A consolidated financial report will be prepared by MNRMEP every three months
and provided to the Bank within 45 days of the end of the period.
9.     In addition to the financial reporting, MNRMEP will be required, through EdTL,
to provide records of the distribution of CFL lamps procured through the project.
                                           Auditing
10.    The constitution of Timor-Leste allots the function of external audit to the High
Administrative, Tax and Audit Court. As this institution remains to be created, the
function of external audit i s for the time being assigned to the MoPF which discharges its


                                             - 25 -

 responsibilities through the contracting of external audit services. MNRMEP will be
 responsible for preparation of financial statements of all project expenditures.
 11.     Discussions are ongoing with the GoTL as to whether audit arrangements for
 FY06 (an umbrella agreement through which GoTL financed all audit costs for bank
 financed projects from its own resources) will be carried over into FY07. If this were to
 be the case, then the cost of the audit services will be borne by the GoTL. Although the
 Auditor will be recruited and remunerated by Government, the Bank would reserve the
 right to insist on a supplementary audit if the quality and scope of audit services
 contracted by Government falls short of the required standards.
 12.     In the event that GoTL requests projects to fund their own audit costs, the Bank
 will work with Government to organize an umbrella contract covering all projects in
.Timor-Leste This i s likely to be more cost effective and produce higher quality audit
 results than if each project were to be asked to make their own audit arrangements.
                                      SupervisionPlan
 13.     The overall financial management risk rating for the project i s moderate and it i s
 envisaged that after the initial implementation period, financial management supervision
 missions would be required only on an annual basis. To minimize costs the missions
 would be planned to coincide with financial management supervision of other programs
 inTimor-Leste.




                                            - 26 -

                       ANNEX5: PROCUREMENT          ARRANGEMENTS

                               ProcurementArrangements
A.      GENERAL

1.      Procurement for the proposed Project would be carried out in accordance with the
World Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated
May 2004, and revised in October 2006; and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants B y World Bank Borrowers" dated May 2004, and revised in October 2006,
and the provisions stipulated in the Legal Agreement which takes into consideration the
provisions stipulated in the Grant Agreement. The various items under different
expenditure categories are described in general below. For each contract to be financed
under the Project, the different procurement methods or consultant selection methods, the
need for estimated costs, prior review requirements, and time frame are agreed between
the Recipient and the World Bank inthe Procurement Plan. The Procurement Plan will be
updated annually or as required to reflect the actual project implementation needs and
improvements in institutional capacity. Since the Project i s in response to an emergency
situation, OPE3P8.00 shall apply., which allows for flexible and simplified procurement
approaches.

Procurementof GoodsandWorks:A total of about US$2 million (including
contingencies) worth of goods and works would be procured under the proposed Project,
including:

        (A) Emergency repair and spare parts for the Comoro power station (about
        US$0.4 million through an IDA grant) - including (i)    replacement of the MAK 3
        radiator (direct contracting with previous suppliers) - estimated at about
        US$150,000; (ii)electrical upgrade of substation switchboard in Comoro
        substations (shopping) - estimated at about US$150,000; and (iii)  improvement of
        the firefighting system in the Comoro station (shopping) - estimated at about
        US$91,000;

        (B) The rehabilitation works, which shall be divided into two contract packages
        due to concerns with the ongoing political situation in Timor. With this approach,
        the Government can focus on completion of the first phasebefore continuing with
        the second phase. Consistent with OPD3P8.00, procurement under the first phase
        will be done through Shopping, and through Direct Contracting with the first
        phase contractor. The Bank's concurrence to Direct Contracting would be subject
        to satisfactory performance of the contractor under the first phase of work, and
        reasonable terms and conditions for the second phase of work. Equipment
        required under these contracts can be included in the Bill of Quantities and
        acceptance of such equipment should follow strict quality assurance procedures.

        (C) Purchase of CFLs, which        may be done by Direct Contracting with the
        supplier who provided the CFLs under the Power Sector Priority investment
        Project, subject to the unit prices for the CFLs being the same as those quoted in


                                            - 27 -

       the original contract. If there is an increase inthe unit prices, such increase should
       bejustified; and

       (D) Purchase of office and field work equipment, which shall be done through
       Shopping.

2.     Selection of Consultants: The Project consists of a capacity building program
which requires consultant services to provide technical assistance and trainings. The
program will include strengthening of MNRMEP and EdTL. An estimated total of
US$785,000 for consultant services provided by Firms (US$300,000) and Individual
Consultants (US$435,000) i s envisaged under the proposed project. Services will include
but may not be limited to: (a) Policy AdvisodManagement Contractor monitoring -
MNRMEP; (b) Performance audit of EdTL Management Contractor; and (c) several
short-term Individual Consultant Contracts for project implementation support, including
procurement and financial management, as well as construction supervision and the
design and planning of the rehabilitation of the Comoro Power Station and the power
distribution system.

3.     Consulting contracts, each estimated to cost US$lOO,OOO or more, will be
awarded following the procedures of Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) or
Quality Based Selection (QBS). For consulting services estimated to cost equivalent of
US$lOO,OOO or less per contract under this project, the Selection Based on Consultants'
Qualifications (CQS) may be used. Selection of individual consultant will be done
competitively and, subject to meeting conditions in the Guidelines, may be done on a
sole-source basis.

4.     Training and Incremental Operating Costs: A small provision has been made
for Training (US$30,000) and Incremental Operating Cost (US$30,000). This includes
reimbursement on the basis of a Statement of Expense for operation, traveling and
lodging and other cost for which it i s not possible or impractical to issue a contract.

B.      ASSESSMENT THE AGENCY'SCAPACITYTO IMPLEMENTPROCUREMENT
                      OF

5.      The overall Project implementations will be the responsibility of the National
Directorate for Water and Electricity Policy (NDWEP) under MNRMEP, which i s
responsible for the implementation of the earlier projects funded by TFET, namely: the
Power Sector Priority Investment Project and the Gas Seep Harvesting Project (GSHP).
Under the coordination of NDWEP, procurement activities for the project will be carried
out by the National Directorate of Administration and Finance (NDAF) of MNRMEP.
NDAF will be supported by project implementation support consultants funded under this
Project, in addition to the Project Manager of the GSHP. Both the project implementation
consultants and the Project Manager should have proven international qualifications and
experience in Bank-financed procurement.

6.      An assessment of the capacity of MNRMEP to implement procurement actions
for the project was carried out in September 2006. The assessment reviewed the
organizational structure for implementing the project and the interaction between the


                                             - 28 -

project's staff responsible for procurement and the Ministry's relevant central unit for
administration and finance. Final revision to the assessment was done inMay 2007.

7.       Most of the issues and risks concerning the procurement component for
implementation of the project have been identified. These include weak capacity of the
implementing unit and the marginally satisfactory procurement environment. Based on
the assessment, the overall procurement risk i s rated as "AVERAGE". The corrective
measures which have been agreed are (i)    the project management team will be supported
in operational procurement and in procurement capacity building by project
implementation support consultants with strong experience and qualifications in Bank's
procurement, (ii)a small number of contracts (less than ten) will be awarded under this
project, all will follow Bank's procurement methods, (iii) if not all, contracts will
                                                            most,
be subject to prior review, as indicated in the procurement plan of the Project; and (iv) all
contracts over US$200,000 are required to be reviewed by the Government's Contract
Assessment Commission, adding to the internal control on the Government side. Even
with these risk mitigating measures, ,the rating for residual risk for procurement will still
be AVERAGE. This i s mainly due to the low procurement capacity.

C.       PROCUREMENT     PLAN

8.       The Recipient, at appraisal, developed a procurement plan for project
implementation that provides the basis for the procurement methods. This plan has been
agreed between the Recipient and the Project Team and i s summarized below. The Plan
i s available at MNRMEP. It will also be available in the project's file and on the Bank's
external website. The Procurement Plan will be updated in agreement with the Project
Team quarterly, or as required, to reflect the actual project implementation needs and
improvements in institutional capacity.

D.       FREQUENCY    OF PROCUREMENT SUPERVISION

9.       Procurement supervision will be part of the overall supervision efforts for this
Project. In addition to the prior review supervision for most of the activities to be carried
out from World Bank offices, the capacity assessment of MNRMEP has recommended
one procurement supervision mission each year to visit the field to carry out post review
of procurement actions.




                                            - 29 -

       Attachment 1to Annex 5: DETAILSOFTHEPROCUREMENTARRANGEMENT
                         INVOLVINGCOMPETITION.
                                      INTERNATIONAL

     1.Goods andWorks andnon consulting services.

       (a) List of contract Packages which will be procured following Direct contracting:

                                    Estimated      Prior        Bid
Description        Procurement                                                  Remarks
                     Method         Amount       Review      Submission
                                      US$        (Yes/No)     Planned
1.Emergency       Direct            441,000         Yes      30-Sep-07   Direct contracting with
repair and spare  Contracting                                            original supplier;
parts for                                                                multiple contracts
Comoro
generation
station


2.Rehabilitation  Shopping or       736,492         Yes        TBD       Supply and installation
and upgrading     Direct                                                 contract. Phase2
Dilidistribution  Contracting                                            Contract may use
system, Phase2    with the Phase                                         Direct contracting with
                  1Contractor                                            Phase 1 contractor,
                                                                         subject to satisfactory
                                                                         performance and
                                                                         reasonable terms and
                                                                         conditions. Includes
                                                                         Government's Fund
                                                                         US$288,099
3.CFL Lamps                          46,200         Yes      30-Nov-07   Supply only, may use
                                                                         Direct Contracting
                                                                         with Original Supplier

        (b) All Contractsestimated to cost above US$lOO,OOO, Shopping (first contract and
            above US$50,000) and all Direct Contracting will be subject to prior review by
            the Bank.

     2. Consulting Services.
        (a) List of Consulting Assignments with short-list of international firms.


Description                Selection     Estimated      PriorReview      ExpectedProposals
                         Method(*)      Amount (US$)     (Yes/No)         SubmissionDate
Annual performance
audit of EdTL
Management                  QCBS          300,000           Yes               01-Jul-08
Contractor

        (b) Consultancy services estimated to cost above US$lOO,OOO per contract and
            Single Source selection of consultants (firms) will be subject to prior review by
            the Bank.
        (c) Short lists composed entirely of national consultants shall not apply.



                                              - 30 -

            ANNEX6: IMPLEMENTATIONAND MONITORING              ARRANGEMENTS

1.     The project will be implemented by the Ministry of Natural Resources, Minerals
and Energy Policy (MNRMEP). The Ministry has seven directorates, as follows: (i)
National Directorate of Administration and Finance (NDAF); (ii)     National Directorate of
Water and Electricity Policy (NDWEP); (iii)   National Directorate for Petroleum, Gas and
Mineral Policy (NDPGEP); (iv) EdTL; (v) National Directorate for Petroleum and Gas
(NDPG); (vi) National Directorate of Geology, and Mineral Resources (NDGM); and
(vii) National Directorate for Water and Sanitation (NDWS). Project implementation
will involve the following directorates: NDWEP, NDAF, and EdTL.

2.     MNRMEP has formally designated the NDWEP as the overall implementing
agency of the project. Procurement and financial management for all activities under the
Ministry, including for this Project, are the responsibility of the NDAF. There are three
sub-directorates under the NDAF which are responsible for finance management,
procurement management and human resources management, respectively. Technical
assistance will be provided under the Project for the following: (i)  project construction
supervision; (ii) project procurement and implementation support; and (iii)design and
planning for power distribution system.

3.      Operation and maintenance of the power distribution system i s the responsibility
of EdTL. In addition, EdTLhas recently created a Distribution and Planning and Design
Unit (DPU). The DPU has contributed to the conceptual design of the first phase
rehabilitation investments and i s expected to continue to provide inputs for the second
phase rehabilitation investments under the guidance of an engineer consultant for project
design and construction supervision under the Project.




                                           - 31 -

              ANNEX7: PROJECT PREPARATIONAND APPRAISALTEAMMEMBERS


                                                  Planned                Acutal
    PCNreview                                                            5/07
    Initial PID to PIC                                                   5/07
    Initial ISDS to PIC                                                  5/07
    Appraisal                                                            5/07
    Negotiations                                                         5/07
    Board/RVP approval                            6/28/07
    Planned date of effectiveness                 7131/07
    Planneddate of mid-term review                6/30/09
    Planned closing date                         12/31/11

    Bank staff and consultants who worked on the project included:

Name                                                Title                       Unit
Selina Shum                      Task Team Leader, Lead Financial Analyst      EASTE
Leiping Wang                     Senior Energy Specialist                      EASTE
Eric Groom                       Senior Regulatory Specialist                  FEU
Barry Trembath                   Consultant                                    EASTE
Shawn Otal                       Consultant                                    EASTE
Bisma Husen                      Procurement Specialist                       EAPCO
DavidChandler                    Senior Financial Management Specialist       EAPCO
Joao Gomes                       Operations Officer                           EAPCO
Josefo Tuyor                     Operations Officer (Environment)             EASRE
Mary Judd                        Senior Socia1Development Specialist           EASSO
V. FlorianLazaro                 Operations Officer (Social Development)      EASSO
MariaPardo                       Counsel                                      LEGEA
Roch Levesque                    Senior Counsel                               LEGEA
Eka Putra                        Consultant                                   EASTE
Galina Menchikova                Program Assistant                            EASTE




                                            - 3 2 -

          ANNEX8: ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL SAFEGUARDS FRAMEWORK
                                         AND

                             I.ENVIRONMENTAL      SAFEGUARDS

Existing Environment

1.      The Project will be implemented around the capital city of Dili,covering basically
a built-up area, and will involve emergency repair of an existing power station, as well as
rehabilitation and upgrading of existing transmission and distribution lines that will
benefit around 26,500 residential and commercial customers. The Project, being just
rehabilitation and being located in built up area and existing system, will not impact on
natural habitats and forests. The Project will basically traverse residential and commercial
areas. Some species of fruit and ornamental trees are located along the existing lines.

2.      Timor-Leste experiences a typical tropical monsoon climate. It i s hot and dry
from July to November, with the western monsoon bringing rains from December to
March.

Potential Effects and RisksAssociated with the Proposed Project

3.      The proposed Project i s assessed to have minor negative environmental impacts.
There are no major civil works activities - only minor civil works including manual
installation of 16-inches diameter poles.

4.      There are three minor environmental issues identified with the Project.

              Possible Presence of Polychlorinated Biphenyl (PCB) in Transformers.
              Approximately 7 to 10 second-hand transformers, that are in good working
              condition, out of the 19 transformers now in storage at the existing Comoro
              Power Plant, will be installed under the Project to supplement existing
              overloaded transformers. It i s possible, but highly unlikely, that these
              transformers may have insulating fluids that contain polychlorinated
              biphenyl (PCB), a persistent chemical that i s harmful to human health and
              which can stay in the environment for many years. The likelihood i s very
              low because these second-hand were manufactured from 1988 onwards,
              whereas PCB was banned in 1971.
              Trimming and Cutting of Trees. There may be minor disturbance to
              vegetation duringrehabilitation and operations mainly due to trimming and,
              to a small extent, cutting of trees that are located along the power
              transmission and distribution lines. Cutting of trees, however, will be
              avoided and will be very minimal considering that the existing alignment
              will be followed.

              Civil Works are minor and will only involve manual installation of poles that
              are 16 inches in diameter. Most of the poles will be installed along existing
              public right-of-ways; thus, negative impacts on air and water quality
              resultingfrom civil works are unlikely.


                                           - 33 -

 MitigationPlan/EnvironmentalManagementPlan

 Second Hand Transformers

 5.     Testingfor PCB in the 7 to 10 second-hand transformers that will be installed
 under the Project will be the main responsibility of the MNRMEP,through the EdTL, and
 the National Directorate for Water and Electricity Policy (NDWEP) and contractors. The
 biddingdocuments and contracts will require contractors to test these transformers for the
 presence and levels of PCB prior to their installation. Transformers with PCB levels of
 0.05 m a ' and higher would not be installed or used.

 Old Meters and Insulation Materials

 6.     The insulated cables and old meters do not contain any material that could cause
 negative environmental impacts. Cables removed from service will be sold as scrap either
 by EdTL or the contractor, depending upon how the contract i s prepared. Non-working
 meters will be sent back to the supplier for repairs.

 Rehabilitation andor Upgrading of Power Transmissionand Distribution System

 7.     The power transmission and distribution system will follow the existing alignment
 and road right-of-way. The route will be clearly marked, including the tree/s to be
 trimmed or cut unavoidably. Trimming and cutting of trees, if any, will be done
 manually.

                        Table 1.EnvironmentalMitigationPlan.


 Phase                        Environmental             Mitigation
                                   Issues                Measures            ResponsibleParty
 RehabilitatiodUpgrading Cutting of trees from
                           the right of way       trees to be cut, if
                                                  any, will be marked
                                                  prior to clearing
                                                   - All clearingto be
                                                  done manually.No
                                                  pesticideswill be
                                                  used
                                                  - Works   to be done    I- Contractor
                                                  during regular
                                                  working time
                           Health risk to         - Installation of    I - Contractor
                           communities            warning signs,       I
I                        I Injury                 where needed
                                  to workers      - Contractors to         - Contractor
                                                  provide safety
                                                  gadgets andbrief

 'Based  on Indonesian standards due to the absence of Timor Leste standards for PCB.


                                            -34-   '

                                                  workers on safety
                                                  procedures
                          Possible presenceof     - Testing of         - Contractor, EdTL
                         PCB in secondhand        transformers for     Technical
                          transformers to be      PCB levels prior to  Department,
                          installed               replacement will be  MNRMEP,NDWEP
                                                  requiredfrom the
                                                  contractor
                                                  - Transformers
                                                  containingPCB        - Contractor, EdTL
                                                  levels of 0.05       Technical
                                                  mg/L andhigher       Department,
                                                  will not be          MNRMEP, NDWEP
                                                  usedinstalled
                                                  - Cables removed     - ContractorEdTL
                         cables and old meters    from service will be Technical
                                                  sold as scrap        Department
                                                  -Non working
                                                  meters will be sent  - ContractorEdTL
                                                  back to the supplier
                                                  for repairs
Operations and           Trimming of trees        - Trimmingto be      - EdTLTechnical
Maintenance              along the                done manually        Department
                         transmission and
                         distribution lines
                         Transformers leaking     - Regular inspectior - EdTLTechnical
                         and contaminating        and cleaning of      Department
                         the environment          leaking cooling oils

Monitoring Plan

8.      Monitoring of environmental impacts and the implementation of the EMP by the
contractors and EdTL will be the responsibility of NDWEP. The monitoring plan is presented
below.




                                           - 35 -

                                   Table 2. MonitoringPlan

I                   Environmental            Mitigation
 Phase                   Issues              Measures
 Rehabilitation/   Cutting of trees    - Route, including
 Upgrading         from the right-of-  trees to be cut, if any,
                   way                 will be markedprior
                                       to clearing
                                       - All clearing to be
                                       done manually. No
                                       pesticides will be
                                       used
                   Healthrisk to       - Installation of        Visual inspection of   - NDWEP
                   communities         warning signs, where     warning signs
                                       needed
                   Injury to workers   - Contractors to         Visual inspection of   - NDWEP
                                                                workers wearing safety
                                                                gadgetdequipment and
                                                                observing safety
                                       procedures               practices
                   Possible presence - Testing of               Submission of test     - NDWEP/
                   of PCB in second                             results                NDES
                   hand
                   transformers to
                   be installed
                                                                                       - NDWEP/
                                       transformers will not                           NDES
                                       be usedhnstalled
                   Disposal of         - Cables removed         Visual inspection      - NDWEP
                   insulated cables    from service will be
                   and old meters      sold as scrap
                                       -Non working meters                             - NDWEP /
                                       will be sent back to                            Contractor
                                       the supplier for
                                       repairs
                   Trimming of         - Trimmingto be          Visual inspection      - EdTL
 Maintenance       trees along the     done manually                                   Technical
                   transmission and                                                    Department
                   distribution lines
                   Transformers        - Regular inspection     Visual inspection      - EdTL
                   leaking and         and cleaning of                                 Technical
                   contaminating the leaking cooling oils                              Department
                   environment

 Implementation Arrangements: Roles and Responsibilities

 9.     The roles and responsibilities in terms o f implementing the EMP and monitoring
 during the rehabilitatiodupgrading and operational phases are as follows:


                                             - 36 -

    Contractors are responsible for environmental protection and implementing the EMP,
    as well as the safety of communities andpersonnel duringrehabilitationhpgrading;

    National Directorate for Water and Electricity Policy (NOWEP) will ensure that
    EMP is included inthe biddingdocuments and contracts. NDWEP will also monitor
    compliance of contractors to the EMP.The NDWEP will have a Research Officer for
    Environment and Sustainable Development who will take charge in compliance
    monitoring in coordination with the National Directorate for Environmental Services
    (NDES);

    EdTL Technical Department will assume responsibility and implement the EMP
    during operations and maintenance phase; and

    National Directorate for Environmental Services (NDES), as part of its mandate, will
    also monitor implementation of the EMP. In particular, NDES-Central Office and
    NDES-Focal Point inDiliDistrict will be doing the monitoring.

                                    11. SOCIAL SAFEGUARDS

10.      Public consultation. The project social acceptability was ascertained for this
project through the conduct of a series of public consultation with key stakeholders in
February 2007. These consultations gathered information, as perceived by the
stakeholders, on benefits of the project as well as issues and concerns about the project. It
was an opportunity for the stakeholders to receive information on the project. The series
consisted of separate focused group discussions with the representatives of the Local
Government units of Dili, NGOs (Haburas Foundation Luta Hamutuk, Ai- Bon),
women's association, (Fokupers), a business group (Forum dos Empresario de Timor-
Leste) and local residents. The table below shows the summarized results of the
stakeholders'        consultations   together    with      the        Project      team's       response,

                     Table3: StakeholderCommentsandTeamResponses

       Stakeholders Comments                             ProjectTeam's Response
1.Very low level of knowledge of the      Multistakeholders consultationwas carried out inFebruary
project.                                  2007 together with distribution of project info sheet in
                                          Tetum
                                          Comprehensive information, education program (IEC)
                                          program will be part of capacity building component.
2. Very high level of acceptance.         Team acknowledges that improved access to electricity
Perceived benefits of the project:        strongly supports access to vital goods and services.
    It will promote livelihood
    activities, peace and order, and      A project to install street lights throughout Dili is under
    access to use o f computers and       way with help of a grant from Government of Norway.
    other media for information.
    I t will help prevent frequent        Investments component of ESDP are aimed at improving
    power interruptions, fluctuating      power distribution reliability and reinforcement
    voltage and illegal tapping of



                                              - 37 -

     power that cause fires and

3. Issuesand Concerns
     Accident prone service               Planned to be reinstalled in accordance with improved
     connections from distribution line   safety construction standards.
     to houses.
      Insufficient power supply           A new generator and transformer have been commissioned
                                          inApril 2007 under TFET-financedPower Sector Priority
                                          Investments Project.
                                          Less technical and nontechnical losses and wider use of
                                          CFLs under the Project will increase power availability
     Prioritize un-served areas outside   Addressed by the government's plans under separate
     Dili                                 projects that could be mainly financed by the MCC, and
                                          there i s provision for serving communities outside Dili in
                                          EdTLbudget.

     Predictable/fixed scheduled power    The contractor will be required to notify customers in
     interruptions so they can work       advance of planned power interruptions during project
     around it during construction        implementation.
     work.
     Need to upgrade EdTLpersonnel        As part of the project design; funding is provided through
     capability.                          ESDP for specific capacity building initiatives.
     Project should be done integrated    Project is planned within the Master Plan for Power Sector
     to the Master Plan for Energy        Development.
     Development.                         The planned investments under the Project ensure full
                                          integration of the distribution system in Dili into the
                                          national power grid, when it i s developed.
     Need for safety and maintenance      New management contractor i s expected to more diligently
     inspection of the system including   carry out preventative maintenance and inspections.
     prepaid metering
     No compensation neededfor            Regular, accurate and timely IEC from EdTLon
     minor land take for posts and tree   developments will be provided. The EdTL will closely
     trimming. Deal with Suco chief       coordinate with the local governments including the Suco
     for documentation..                  Chiefs as conduit to residents.
     Explore underground lines for        Underground distribution lines will be cost prohibitive and
     greater efficiency and to make       difficult to justify for now.
     illegal tapping more difficult.
     Explore means to help the poor       Tariff reduction to US$O.12 per kWh (from US$O.16per
     get access to services at a lower    kWh for households and US$0.22 per kWh for non-
     cost to them.                        households) has been recently put inplace by the
                                          government. Inaddition, the distribution of energy efficient
                                          CFLs under this Project will reduce the power bills for
                                          households. Further, the policy advisor supported under the
                                          Project will assist in the government in designing a
                                          tariffhubsidy policy that i s transparent and targeted at
                                          assisting the poor.
     There should be greater              The Bank supports civil society's informed participation in
     mechanism for civil society's        all its supported projects. This consultation is one indicator
     participation.                       of sumort.

11.       Land acquisition, resettlement and rehabilitation. The project shall not cause loss
of shelter or access to livelihood opportunities. The willingness of potentially affected
persons for minor trimming of trees and land take has been confirmed by the team in a



                                               - 38 -

                                                                         0
series of consultations held with various stakeholders, They have further stated that all
other cooperation required from potential affected persons will not be a problem as long
as prior information i s relayed to them though their respective Suco Chief. For good
practice, a Resettlement Policy Framework has been formally submitted by the
government even when only minor land take may be required for construction of new
posts. This has been reviewed b y the Bank's task team and found in compliance with the
World Bank safeguard policy (OP 4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement). It i s adapted from a
similar project on power in Timor-Leste also funded by the Bank. The Resettlement
Policy Framework specifies measures to avoid negative impacts including involuntary
relocation of shelters, procedure for compensation payment at replacement value, roles of
involved agencies, and procedure for grievance, monitoring and evaluation.

12.     Zndigenous Peoples. A separate Indigenous Peoples' Action Plan i s not required
because the vast majority of the beneficiaries of the project are indigenous peoples. To
promote their informed participation, a local consultant was hired to assist the task team
inthe conduct of consultation andinthe preparation of a fact sheet for the project inthe
Tetum language.

13.     Analysis of alternatives. All investments under the Project that involve
rehabilitating existing distribution lines follow the existing road alignments. The analysis
of alternatives thus far for each has considered the no-project option, which i s essentially
doing nothing. In all circumstances, the no-project option would eliminate concerns about
minor land take and trimming of trees and other vegetation. It shall also lead to further
deterioration of a power service characterized by frequent 5 to 7 hours power interruption
and fluctuating voltage exacerbated by inadequate power supply which i s the subject of
the TFET-financed Power Sector Priority Investments Project.

Disclosure requirements
14.     All safeguard documents have been disclosed in accordance with the applicable
Bank disclosure policies.




                                            - 39 -

                      ANNEX9: ECONOMIC FINANCIALANALYSIS
                                             AND

               I.PowerDistributionSystemRehabilitationSubcomponent

BACKGROUND
1.       EdTLis currently part of MNRMEP and operates at a substantial loss at present
that i s fundedby Government. Hence, any financial benefits are fiscal benefits for GoTL.
There i s a shortage of reliable generation capacity which results in frequent, extensive
interruptions in supply - with implications including the following:

0   Substantial costs on customers. Those who can afford it have installed standby
    generators or have to make do with other more expensive alternatives to meet basic
    energy needs such as kerosene lamps, torches and candles;

0   Increased difficulty in determining the benefits of the project because the true demand
    at the market clearing price i s not known. This means that the demand curve cannot
    be positioned nor can the consumer surplus benefits be accurately estimated; and

0   In the short-term, a primary benefit from reducing losses may be a reduction in
    supply interruptions.
2.        Prices (US 12 cents/kWh) are substantially below the current costs of supply.
While normally the primary recommendation would be to increase prices to address
this,the poor quality of supply and sociaUpolitica1 unease make it difficult to increase
prices in the short term. Also, in the medium term, the planned construction of the Ira
Lalaro hydro plant will reduce the average costs of supply substantially to levels below
current prices.

3.        It is expected that rural electrification will accelerate with funding from the
Millenium Challenge Corporation (MCC), resulting in sharp increases in coverage of the
network and customers connected. Hence, over the medium-term, reductions in losses
may continue to be needed to improve the quality and reliability of supply,
notwithstanding the substantial program of investment to increase supply capacity.

INCREMENTAL COSTS
4.        Conceptual design has been completed for the first phase investments, estimated
at about US$600,000. Where new lines are being constructed and new transformers are
installed, additional annual operation and maintenance costs are assumed to be 1percent
of the capital investments.

INCREMENTALBENEFITS
5.        The major economic benefits of the first phase investments are assume to be
derived from the reduction of both technical andnon-technical losses, conservatively
assumedto be 3 percent and 16 percent of power generated, respectively, in comparison
with the baseline data in December 2006. This would reduce the system losses to the
levels experiencedjust before the civil unrest in April 2006. This i s considered a
conservative estimate because of the potential for considerably further reduction in non-


                                             - 40 -

technical losses. Inthe absenceof this Project, the quality and quantity of the power
supply will continue to decline significantly (detailed comparisons of performance
indicators with and without the Project are in Annex 2).

FISCAL  BENEFITS
Reduction in Technical Losses

6.     The fiscal benefits to government from technical loss reductions depend on
whether the reduction in losses results in either:
    A reduction in costs because less output i s required from the generators to meet the
    expected demand; or
    Increased sales because of the increased ability to meet end-user demands from
    existing capacity.

7.      Inthe near-term, there is a strong argument for valuing technical loss reduction on
the basis of the additional revenue earned rather than costs deferred or avoided. In the
medium-term significant new capacity will be added but demand i s expected to also grow
strongly as electrification rates are increased under the rural electrification program to be
financed by MCC.

8.      The avoided generation costs have been estimated conservatively and are based
on the marginal fuel and O&M costs only. No capital costs are included and it i s assumed
Ira Lalaro will be operating from 2013.

9.      Initially, the annual benefits are higher if valued on the basis of avoided
generation costs, but after 2013 the annual benefits are higher if valued on the basis of the
current price. Over the Project period as a whole, the value of the benefits i s higher if
valued on the basis of current prices, but the difference i s less than 10percent.

Reduction in Non-Technical losses

10.     The commercial benefit of the reduction in non-technical losses has two
components:

    Increase in income from customers who previously did not pay in full for the
    electricity consumed; and
    Benefits from the capacity `freed-up' by the demand response of customers now
    paying in full for electricity consumed. Like with the technical losses, this can be
    valued on the basis of either the additional revenue from the consumption of others
    that i s now made possible or the costs avoidedby the reduced energy generation.

Overall Assessment

11.     Overall, the project shows strong fiscal benefits. The table below presents the
annual fiscal cash flows valued on the basis of increased revenue at the current price.


                                            - 41 -

After project completion, the net benefits rapidly grow to exceed US$500,000 per
annum.                                              mi
                                Table 1:FiscalBenefits

       I                                            I       costs        I        I
 Year Commercial Technical BenefitsTotal
       FI~:%      Benefits             I
                                                      Capital O&M                      Net
                                                                                    Benefits
         reduction        reduction                   costs




12.    The benefits from the reduction in commercial losses were valued based on the
estimated reduction in losses multiplied by the current unit price. At present, there are
severe capacity constraints and the benefit of the reduction in technical losses was valued
on the basis of revenue from additional sales that this would allow. Sensitivity tests were
undertaken to value the reduction in technical losses at the reduction in avoided
generation costs and this didnot affect the results significantly.


ECONOMIC    BENEFITS

Reduction in Technical Losses

13.     The economic benefits of the reduction in technical losses can be looked at from
two perspectives:
    Increase inconsumer surplus from the increased capacity provided at lower cost of
    supply to end-users; or

    Reduction in costs of meeting a given level of electricity consumption.



                                           - 42 -

14.     The first approach provides a more direct measure of the economic benefits of the
reduction in technical losses, but it i s difficult to implement in Timor-Leste. It requires an
estimation of the demand curve for electricity -- which i s difficult due the extensive
supply interruptions at present. The second approach assumes that the existing generation
provides positive economic benefits and provides an assessment of the increase in
economic benefits through a reduction in costs of supply. In essence, it i s a cost
effectiveness or least-cost analysis.

15.     The first approach was used as the basis for the base case scenario in estimating
the project benefits. Sensitivity tests using the second approach did not alter the
conclusion that the project has significant positive economic benefits.

16.     The estimationof the increase in consumer surpluscan be illustratedby the
following diagram:

           Diagram1:TechnicalLoss Reductionwith ConstrainedSupply




MWTl

    6

    G
                     2
     P                             l      7
                     1             l       6
17.     Currently, prices (P) are below the cost of supply (CO), but the constraints on
supply mean that there are substantial interruptions in supply which impose significant
costs on consumers (e.g., some consumers are investing in small back-up generators).
While there has not been a comprehensive study o f the marginal willingness to pay
(MWTP), it can be reasonably assumed to exceed the current costs of supply (COin the
diagram). At the initial quantity of supply (Qo),the consumer surplus i s the sum of areas
2+3+4+5, but this i s partially offset by the loss on supply (2+3); so, the net surplus i s
(4+5). The reduction in'technical losses has two effects: it reduces the costs of supplying
energy to end-users (reduction in cost from COto C1, equivalent to area 3) and expands


                                               - 43 -

the quantity supplied (increase in supply from Qo      to Q1)increasing the consumer surplus
by area 8. So, the net increase in consumer surplus due to the reduction in technical losses
i s areas 3+8.

18.      The increase inconsumer surplus has been estimated usingthe following
assumptions:
     An increase inquantity  (Q1-  Qo),equivalent to the reduction in technical losses.
     A reduction inthe cost of supply to end-users based on adjustment of the ex-generator
     marginal cost adjusted for the change in losses.
     A marginal willingness to pay (MWTP) of US 25c/kWh.

19.      The primary uncertainty i s the MWTP assumption, but this i s a conservative
assumption compared to the alternatives of back-up on site generation or use of
alternative lighting such as kerosene lamps. Sensitivities were undertaken varying the
MWTPby +/- 20 percent.

Reduction in non-technical losses

20.      Reducing non-technical losses has two primary effects:

0        Increased equity. Non-technical losses are in effect an inequitable transfer from
         customers who pay for their supply and taxpayers to those who evade payment.
         The costs of the supply to users who do not currently pay for their supply (e.g.,
         due to illegal connections) have to be met either by other customers or the
         government. If the latter, the costs are effectively met by taxpayers or the users of
         other government services for which fewer funds are available. In Timor Leste,
         EdTLcurrently operates at a substantial loss so the costs are borne through taxes
         or reduced government services. Reducing non-technical losses addresses this
         inequity.

0        Zncreased efficiency. Electricity i s currently a scarce and valuable resource in the
         community and the shortages of capacity impose high costs. Non-technical losses
         mean that some users do not pay for the electricity they consume and this i s likely
         to encourage excessive consumption of this scarce resource. Reducing non-
         technical losses means that these customers will see the price signals and may
         reduce their consumption. This provides efficiency benefits to the extent that it
         makes energy available for use by others who value it more (equivalent to the
         increase reflected by area 8 in the diagram above) or reduces future generation
         needs (under the least-cost approach). However, reducing the non-technical losses
         does not reduce the effective costs of delivered energy or reduce demand to
         provide additional capacity and reduce disruptions to supply (except to the extent
         those who didnot previously pay adjust their demand).




                                              - 44 -

Overall Assessment
21.    Overall, the project economics for the first phase investments i s robust, with ERR
estimated at about 28 percent (see Table 2 below) under the approach that estimates the
consumer surplus under constrained supply with assumptions that are considered
conservative. The results of sensitivity analysis indicate that even under the scenarios of
30 percent lower gross benefits and a 30 percent cost overrun, the ERR is projected to be
remain satisfactory at about 17 percent and 21 percent, respectively.

                          Table 2: EconomicRateof Return

                    Benc its                                                                 ~~




  Year     Commercial Technical            Total                             Total       Net
           Loss             loss          Benefits    Capital     O&M       costs      Benefits
           reduction        reduction                 costs


    2007                                                 74,914               74,914     -74,914
    2008            2,611         9,769      12,380    524,389        249    524,638    -512,258
    2009           43,090        77,806     120,896                 1,989      1,989     118,907
    2010           66,571        77,624     144,195                 1,989      1,989     142,206
    2011           91,503        77,794     169,296                 1,989      1,989     167,307
    2012           96,935        77,794     174,729                 1,989      1,989     172,740
    2013          135,063        73,511     208,574                 1,989      1,989    206,585
    2014          138,363        74,653     213,016                 1,989      1,989    211,027
    2015          139,910        76,142     216,052                 1,989      1,989    214,063
    2016          139,910        77,901     217,811                 1,989      1,989    215,822
    2017          139,910        79,731     219,641                 1,989      1,989    217,652
    2018          139,910        81,635     221,545                 1,989      1,989    219,556
    2019          139,910        83,616     223,526                 1,989      1,989    221,537
    2020           85.677        85,677     171,353                 1,989      1,989     169,364
    2021          139,910        87,821     227,731                 1,989      1,989    225,742
    2022          139,910        90,051     229,961                 1,989      1,989    227,972
    2023          140,179        92,370     232,549                 1,989      1,989    230,560
                                                                                ERR            28%

                   11. DistributionofEnergyEfficientLightBulbs

22.    The benefits of energy efficient light bulbs accrue both to the consumer (reduced
payment of bills for the same benefits) and to the country (reduced fuel consumption).
An 11 Watt CFL lamp/light bulb will provide the equivalent light of a 40 W normal
incandescent lampilight bulb. If three lampdlight bulbs are provided for each household,
the cost will be US$3.6 (assuming US$1.2 for each) for an energy saving of 10.5 kWh
per month (assuming a conservative estimate of 4 hours usage every day). This provides
a saving of US$1.25 per month to the customer (at US$0.12 per kWh, the current tariff in
Dili).




                                          -45 -

23.    The fuel cost saving i s the benefit accrued to the country from the use of CFLs.
With EdTL's marginal operating cost of electricity of US$O.l63/kWh in 2008, the energy
saving of 10.5 kWh per month per household translates into an annual saving of US$5.42
to EdTLfor every set of three lampsllight bulbs given to every household. This implies a
saving of US$70,094 duringthe first year through distribution of 38,500 CFLs. Assuming
CFL has an average service life of 3 years or 4380 hours, the ERR i s estimated at about
125 percent and the payback period i s less than one year. This i s a conservative estimate,
as the ERR calculation has not included the benefits of reducing the peak load by about
1.1MW and the related avoided capital cost of power generation, as well as the global
environmental benefits from energy conservation.

                          Table 3: EconomicRateof Return

       costs                             Benefits                           Net Benefits
    Investment      kWh Saved       Marginalcost/kWh     Total Benefits
       46,200                                                  0               -46,200
         0           1,630,090            0.163             70,094             70,094
         0           1,630,090            0.155             57,053             57,053
         0           1,630,090            0.147             44,012             44,012




                                          - 46 -

                ANNEX10: DOCUMENTSTHEPROJECT FILE
                                          IN

1.  Working papers on the conceptual design of the first phase investments supported
    under the Project.
2.  Procurement assessment and procurement plan.
3.  Financial management assessment.
4.  Stakeholders ConsultationReport: Multi-stakeholder Consultations for World
    Bank Financial Assistance to Improving Power Distribution System (February 26-
    March 2, 2007).
5.  Power Sector Development Planfor East Timor (2003).




                                     - 47 -

                       ANNEX 11: STATEMENTOF LOANS,             CREDITSAND GRANTS


                                                                  Orlalnai Amount in US$ Millions

   Project Name                                  FiscalYear               IDA          GRANT Cancel.      Undisb.

   Planning & Fin Mgt Capacity Building             2006                7.00                                6.07
   TP-2ND HEALTH SECTOR REHAB                       2001                                 12.60              1.97
   TP-POWER SECTOR PRIORITY INVESTMENTS             2005                                  1.39              0.05
   TP-SF-Gas Seep Harvesting Poject                 2007                                 0.85               0.85
   TP-Small Enterprises Project II                  2002                                 7.50               1.42
   TP-Third Agric.Rehabilitation Proj.              2004                                 3.00               0.40
                    TOTAL                                               7.00            25.34               9.90




                                               TIMOR-LESTE
                                          STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                        HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                         (InMillionsof U.S. Dollars)

                                                  Committed                                    Disbursed

FY Approval             Company                  IFC             Partic.                    IFC               Partic.
                                         Loan   Equity     Quasi              Loan        Equity     Quasi




                      Total portfolio:   0.00     0.00      0.00    0.00       0.00           0.00     0.00      0.00




              FY                                            Approvals PendingCommitment
              Approval                 Company
                                                           Loan   Equity         Quasi          Partic.



                                                            _____
                                         Total pending     0.00     0.00           0.00          0.00
                                          commitment:




                                                     - 48 -

                                ANNEX 12: COUNTRY AT A GLANCE



                                                                East
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                   Timor-    Asia &        Low-
                                                      Leste   Paclflc      income      Development dlamond'

2005
Population, mid-year(millions)                          0.98     1885         2,353
GNIpercapita(At1asmethod. US$)                           750     1627           580                 Lite expectancy

GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                         0.73    3,067        1364

Average annual growth, 1999-05                                                        I                    T
Population(y                                              3.7      0.9           19
Laborforce PA)                                            6.6       13          2.3    GNi                                Gross
                                                                                       per    t--                        primary
M os1 recent estimate (latest year available, 1909-05)                                 capita                         enrollment
Poverty (%ofpopulationbelownationalpovertyline)
Urbanpopulation (%of totalpopulation)                     27        41           30
Lifeexpectancyat birth (years)                                      70           59
Infantmortality(per lOOOlivebirths)                        64       29           80
Childmalnutrition (%of childrenunder5)                    46        15           39         Access to improvedwater source
Accessto an improvedwatersource (%ofpopulation)           58        79           75
Literacy(%ofpopulationageE+)                                        91           62
Gross primaryenroilment (56ofschool-agepopulation)        146       115         K14           -I__   Timor-Leste
  Male                                                              1%           1Kl                 LOW-incomeqroup
  Female                                                            114          99

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                                                                                                                I
                                              1985     1995     2004         2005      Economlc ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                                                0.34         0.35
Gross capitalformationlGDP                                        28.5         32.0
Exportsof goods andservices/GDP                                                                          Trade

Gross domestic savings/GDP                                        -Q.8
Gross nationalsavings1GDP                                         e3.5          6.0

Currentaccount balance/GDP                                        35.2         42.7
Interestpaynents/GDP                                                                    Domestic                      Capital

Totaldebt/GDP                                                                           savings                       formation

Totaldebt sewice/exports
Present valueof debt/GDP
Present valueof debtlexports
                                                                                                      Indebtedness
                                   1985-95 1995-05     2004     2005 2005-09
(averageannualQrOMh)
GDP                                              15       0.4       18          4.3            ---    Timor-Leste
GDP percapita                            ..     -2.4     -4.8      -3.5          11            __Low-incomegroup
Exportsof goods andservices


STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                              1985     1995
(%of GDP)
Agriculture
Industry
 Manufacturing
Services                                                    ..    53.7

Householdfinal consumptionexpenditure
Generalgov't final consumptionexpenditure
imports of goods andsewices


                                           1985-95 1995-05      2004         2005
(averageannualgroowth)
Agriculture                                        ..     2.5       13.1
Industry                                           ..    -2.8       2.0
 Manufacturing                                     ..     7.3       18
Services                                                   4.1     -2.3
Householdfinal consumptionexpenditure                     -5.1      3.7
Generalgov't finalconsumptionexpenditure           ..    22.3     -13.4
Gross capitaltormation                             ..     2.4      -8.5         14.3
Imports of goods andservices


Note:2005 dataare preliminaryestimates.
This tablewas producedfromthe DevelopmentEconomics LDB database.
'Thediamonds showfour keyindicators inthecountry(in bold)comparedwith its income-groupaverage.H dataare missing,thediamondwill


                                                       - 49 -




