                                    Document of
                                The World Bank


                                                         Report No:
                                                                      66118 v1



                            RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                                       ON A

                     PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                                       OF
                    ENERGY SERVICES DELIVERY PROJECT
                                     GRANT
                     IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 1.64 MILLION
                         (US$2.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
                                  JUNE 28, 2007


                                     TO THE

                  DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF TIMOR-LESTE


                               DECEMBER 21, 2011




Timor-Leste, Papua New Guinea & the Pacific Islands
Sustainable Development Department
East Asia and Pacific Region
                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CFL    compact florescent lamp
EDTL   Electricidade de Timor-Leste
GoTL   Government of Timor-Leste
IDA    International Development Association
LV     low voltage
MoF    Ministry of Finance
MoI    Ministry of Infrastructure
MV     medium voltage




          Regional Vice President:       James W. Adams
                Country Director:        Ferid Belhaj
                Country Manager:         Luis F. Constantino
                  Sector Director:       John A. Roome
                Sector Managers:         Charles M. Feinstein
                                         Vijay Jagannathan
                                     2
                      Task Team Leader:         Joel J. Maweni
                      ENERGY SERVICES DELIVERY PROJECT

                              P095593, GRANT H3170-TP
                              RESTRUCTURING PAPER


                               Extension of Closing Date

1.      The Project has experienced implementation delays due to capacity constraints
mainly related to management of procurement. In addition some activities for
rehabilitation of the Comoro power plant could not be implemented because they
required some units of the plant to be shut down for prolonged periods of time and this
proved infeasible given the much higher increase in power demand than the forecast at
appraisal. These activities have, therefore, been deferred for implementation at a later
time with EDTL’s own resources after augmentation of the power plant’s capacity. With
respect to the institutional capacity building component it turned out that more upstream
work was required to build consensus and client ownership in the envisaged reforms.

2.      Despite the lack of progress on three of the four components, some good progress
has been made towards achieving the development objectives of the project by
significantly reducing system losses and increasing revenue collection under the
rehabilitation and upgrading of the distribution system component. The Government has,
therefore, requested a scale up of this component through a reallocation of the remaining
funds for the other three components. The scale up of the rehabilitation and upgrading of
the distribution component has the potential to improve the project’s prospects for
achieving (fully or partially) its efficiency improvement objectives.

3.      The Borrower has also requested an extension of the grant closing date (letter
dated October 28, 2011) by six months from December 31, 2011 to June 30, 2012 to
allow enough time for completion of the rehabilitation and upgrading component of the
project. This Restructuring Paper covers the extension of Grant closing date. A second
RP for a level 2 restructuring will be submitted for management approval by January 15,
2012.

4.     There are no overdue audit reports and quality issues related to Interim Financial
Reports are being addressed with intensive support from the project’s financial
management specialist. There are also no outstanding safeguards and fiduciary issues.

5.     This would be the first extension of the Grant’s closing date. The Borrower has
submitted a satisfactory action plan for completion of the remaining activities within the
six months proposed extension period.




                                            3
