                                    Document of
                                The World Bank


                                                        Report No: 66424




                            RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                                       ON A

                    PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING

                                      OF THE

                    ENERGY SERVICES DELIVERY PROJECT

                                      GRANT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 1.64 MILLION
                        (US$2.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                  JUNE 28, 2007

                                     TO THE

                  DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF TIMOR-LESTE




                               FEBRUARY 10, 2012




Timor-Leste, Papua New Guinea & the Pacific Islands
Sustainable Development Department
East Asia and Pacific Region
                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CFL    compact florescent lamp
EDTL   Electricidade de Timor-Leste
GoTL   Government of Timor-Leste
IDA    International Development Association
LV     low voltage
MoF    Ministry of Finance
MoI    Ministry of Infrastructure
MV     medium voltage




           Regional Vice President:     Pamela Cox
                 Country Director:      Ferid Belhaj
                 Country Manager:       Luis F. Constantino
                   Sector Director:     John A. Roome
                 Sector Managers:       Charles M. Feinstein
                                        Vijay Jagannathan
                 Task Team Leader:      Joel J. Maweni
                                                     TIMOR-LESTE

                              ENERGY SERVICES DELIVERY PROJECT



                                                         P092055
                                                        CONTENTS



                                                                                                                                 Page

A.   SUMMARY ........................................................................................................................... 1

B.   PROJECT STATUS .............................................................................................................. 1

C.   PROPOSED CHANGES ...................................................................................................... 3

D.   APPRAISAL SUMMARY.................................................................................................... 6




ANNEX 1: RESULTS FRAMEWORK AND MONITORING ................................................ 7
                               TIMOR-LESTE
                     ENERGY SERVICES DELIVERY PROJECT

                              RESTRUCTURING PAPER


A.     SUMMARY

1.      This Restructuring Paper (RP) is in response to a request from the Government of
Timor-Leste (GoTL) to use the remaining US$1.6 million of the IDA Grant to scale up
the successful component for rehabilitation and upgrading of the Dili power distribution
system under Part 2 of the Project. The proposed restructuring (level 2) does not involve
any change in the project development objective; but includes a minor reallocation
among disbursement categories (one and half percent), some changes in outcome
indicators, and a reallocation of a substantial portion of the grant funds from activities
under parts 1, 3 and 4 of the project to Part 2. The GoTL’s request was first
communicated to the Bank’s supervision mission in April 2011 and subsequently
confirmed through a letter dated October 28, 2011 from the Ministry of Finance (MoF).
The letter also requested an extension of the Grant’s closing date from December 31,
2011 to June 30, 2012. The Bank approved the extension of Grant’s closing date to June
30, 2012 on December 21, 2011.

B.     PROJECT STATUS

2.      Background. The objectives of the Project are to assist the Recipient to stabilize
power services in Dili, by restoring or improving operational efficiency, reliability, safety
and availability of power supply, and to promote long-term sustainability of the power
sector. These would, in turn, contribute to the social stability and economic development
of the country. The Project consists of the following components:

       Part 1:   Emergency Repair and Maintenance of Comoro Power Station
       Part 2:   Rehabilitation and Upgrading of Dili Power Distribution System
       Part 3:   Distribution of Energy Efficient Light Bulbs
       Part 4:   Institutional Capacity Building

3.    The Project is financed by the International Development Association (IDA) and
the GoTL. It was approved by the World Bank Board of Directors on June 28, 2007, and
became effective on August 13, 2007.

4.     Summary of Implementation Progress: The Project has been experiencing
implementation delays due to procurement and other implementation constraints, though
there have been steady improvements in these areas in the past year. In addition, the
much higher load than the forecast at appraisal caused some project components to be
suspended, which caused further delays. Despite that, the Project has been making
modest progress towards achieving its development objectives by significantly reducing
system losses and increasing revenue collection under the rehabilitation and upgrading of

                                             1
the distribution system component. The Project still has potential to achieve the
objectives of this particular component and would, therefore, benefit from a scale up.

5.      Under Part 1: Emergency Repair and Maintenance of Comoro Power Station.
This component comprises three activities as follows: (i) rehabilitation of the Mark II
radiator which has been completed and is operating satisfactorily; (ii) rehabilitation of the
switchgear; and (iii) installation of firefighting equipment. The Comoro generating plant
continues to be overloaded and to suffer from numerous equipment failures, frequently
requiring load shedding. Due to the limited generation capacity in the Dili power system
the Borrower has decided not to rehabilitate the switchgear at present as this would entail
shutting down the generation units at Comoro power station for extended periods of time,
thus impacting all customers in the Dili area. EDTL plans to carry out the switchgear
rehabilitation in future using its own funds, outside the scope of this project, after
augmentation of the generating plant capacity has been completed.                    During
implementation the design of the firefighting component was found to be inadequate for
the envisaged expansion of the Comoro power plant and a redesigned subcomponent was
considered more costly than funds available under the Grant. Therefore, EDTL requested
to drop these two activities as part of the restructuring and to use the funds previously
intended for implementation for the distribution materials under Part 2 of the Project.

6.     Under Part 2: Rehabilitation and Capacity Upgrades of Dili Distribution System.
Dili continues to suffer from frequent power outages due to the poor and overloaded
condition of its power distribution network. At project appraisal it was assessed that
overloaded transformers needed to be replaced and upgraded with larger ones together
with a reconfiguration and expansion of medium voltage (MV) and low voltage (LV)
networks. The much higher power load than the forecast since then has worsened the
overloading conditions which are the main reason for high technical losses.

7.     Customer service conductors for the majority of residential customers are under-
sized and have been extended from one house to another. These improperly installed
service conductors are easily tapped for illegal connections by customers, thus further
contributing to high total system losses.

8.      Addressing system losses has been hampered by the lack of materials for repairs
exacerbated by delays in the Ministry of Infrastructure (MoI)’s procurement approval
processes. In addition, poor law and order and security conditions in some parts of Dili
have contributed to the slow implementation of rehabilitation, repair and upgrading
works. Nevertheless, the installation of concentric service cable and the re-installation of
pre-paid meters program have had the significant impact of reducing total system losses
(technical and non technical), in the Dili area, from about 62 percent in January 2008 to
about 48 percent in August 2010 and 41.7% in September 2011. Although the Bank-
financed activities ended in June 2010, EDTL believes that reinstallation of conventional
meters and installation of pre-paid meters, including replacement of service cable
connections with concentric cable have been the most effective measures in reducing
non-technical losses and would like to continue the program with Bank financial support.



                                             2
9.      Part 3: Distribution of Energy Efficient Light Bulbs was originally intended to
promote energy conservation and demand reduction through free distribution of Compact
Florescent Lamps (CFLs) to residential customers in Dili. However, the local price of
CFLs obtained by the shopping methods was significantly higher than prices obtainable
elsewhere in the region. In view of this and given the higher priority needs for
rehabilitation of the Dili system and for continuing the work on theft proofing revenue
meters, it was agreed not to rebid and implement this activity, but to shift the small
allocation for this component (US$46,000) to the rehabilitation and upgrading of the
distribution network component.

10.      Part 4: Institutional Capacity Building used a small amount of funds for
operating costs. This component was deferred to allow time for a policy consensus on
institutional reforms of EDTL to be forged.

11.  Disbursements: As of January 17, 2012, the IDA Grant had disbursed
US$955,068 and US$ 1,610,532 remained undisbursed.

12.     Fiduciary and Safeguards: There are neither overdue audits, nor outstanding
financial management and safeguards issues regarding the project.

C.     PROPOSED CHANGES

13.     Purpose: The purpose of the restructuring is to use the remaining IDA Grant of
US$1.6 million to scale up the successful rehabilitation and upgrading of Dili power
distribution system subcomponent by procuring distribution materials. The scale up is
consistent with the original objectives of the project. Installation of the distribution
materials will be financed with EDTL’s own resources and the Bank task team will
continue to supervise the project up to completion.

14.     Rationale: The Project’s implementation was delayed for the following major
reasons. First, the GoTL’s procurement capacity has been limited, leading to lengthy
bidding processes and, at times, unsuccessful bidding outcomes. Second, the frequent
failures of the power plant accompanied by much higher load increases than the forecasts
at project appraisal made it difficult for EDTL to rehabilitate the switchyard as the
rehabilitation would require a shutdown of the Comoro power plant and extended periods
of power outages in Dili. Third, the design of the firefighting component at appraisal was
considered inadequate for the envisaged expansion of the Comoro power plant and a
redesigned subcomponent was considered more costly than funds available under the
Grant. Fourth, Part 4 was for free distribution of Carbon CFLs, but could not be
implemented due to the failure of the procurement process (local shopping) which
resulted in bid prices much higher than those obtainable from regional markets. The
capacity building component has also hardly been utilized because there has been limited
consensus within GoTL on the oversight arrangements for EDTL. Although procurement
capacity has improved recently there is not enough time to restart all the activities that
have stalled and still complete them by the Grant closing date of June 30, 2012.



                                            3
15.    However, under the rehabilitation and upgrading of the distribution system
component the Project has made major contributions to the efficiency of the system by
reducing total network losses as described in para.8 above. Therefore, EDTL has
proposed using the remaining funds to scale up this component, thus enhancing the
prospect of and achieving the project’s objectives.

16.      Proposal: EDTL and the GoTL proposed priority activities for utilization of the
remaining US$1.6 million to the Bank’s supervision mission in April 2011. The
activities involve scaling up the rehabilitation and upgrading of the Dili power
distribution system through procurement and installation of distribution materials. The
Grant will be used specifically to procure materials for: (i) securing customer connections
against theft and meter tempering; and (ii) upgrading/rehabilitation of the distribution
system. EDTL will finance installation works at an estimated total cost of US$0.63
million. To mitigate the risks of delays in procurement all the goods and materials were
pooled in one bidding document in five lots, thus reducing the bidding to one
international competitive bidding process. The five contracts awarded and already signed
are shown in Table 1 below.

                  Table 1: Contracts for Distribution Materials (Scale up)
   Lot 1: Supply of Transformers and Load Break Switch              US$      331,242
   Lot 2: Supply of Cables and medium voltage Conductors            US$      219,295

   Lot 3: Supply of 12 meters Steel Poles                           US$      240,000

   Lot 4: Supply of Arresters, Cut-out Fuse and Cross Arms for 20   US$      210,225
   kilovolt medium voltage lines
   Lot 5: Supply of low voltage Concentric Cable                    US$      588,000
       Total                                                        US$ 1,588,762

17.    The task team discussed EDTL’s proposal with Bank management and
management committed (letter dated 2011) to extend the closing date by six months to
June 30, 2012 provided the bidding was successfully completed and all the contracts
awarded by October 31, 2011. After meeting the agreed milestone, the Borrower
formally requested restructuring of the Project, including a six months extension of the
Grant Closing date in a letter dated October 28, 2011. The Grant closing date extension
was approved by the Bank on December 21, 2011

18.    There are no changes proposed to the project development objective.             The
proposed level 2 restructuring entails the following three changes:

   Project Components

   Part 1, 3, and 4 will be dropped, except the radiator installation that has already been
   completed under Part 1 of the Project. Part 2 will be scaled up to utilize the
   remaining US$1.6 million IDA Grant. Five contacts under Part 2 have been already
   signed by October 2011, totaling nearly US$1.6 million (US$ 1,588,762).
                                              4
   Results/indicators

       Indicators for Part 1, 3, and 4 will be dropped and some target values of
       continuing indicators will be revised as detailed in Annex 1.

   A Minor Reallocation of Grant Proceeds

       A minor reallocation will be made from categories 2 and 3 (Training and
       Incremental Operating Costs respectively) to category 1 (Goods, Works and
       Consultants Services for the Project). The total amount of the reallocated funds is
       SDR25, 318 (Table 2). Among the components a substantial shift of resources to
       scale up Part 2 will be made (US$1,418,741) from the Institutional and Capacity
       Building component (US$795,338), Contingencies (US$357,843), Emergency
       Repairs for Comoro Power station (US$219,360), and CFL (US$46,200). These
       are shown in Table 3 below.

   The project’s implementation schedule was revised according to the restructured
   project components and the revised plan, which is available in the project file, was
   provided to the Bank together with the request for extension of the Grant closing date.

                        Table 2. IDA Summary of Eligible Expenditure

   Category of Expenditure                    Allocation (in XDR)            % of Financing
                                       Current                Revised
(1) Goods, works and consultants’         1,600,000              1,625,318            100%
services for the Project
(2) Training                                    20,000                  0             100%
(3) Incremental Operating Costs                 20,000              14,682            100%
TOTAL AMOUNT                              1,640,000              1,640,000

                             Table 3. Summary of Estimated Project Costs
                                                    Original Budget IDA Grant
                  Category                                                        Proposed
                                                       in Project Paper 2007
A-1 Emergency Repair of Comoros PS                 350,000                      130,640
A-2 Install Add distribution transformers          158,160                      1,000,762
A-3 Construct new LV lines                         282,519
A-4 Upgrade Conductors on existing LV lines        134,439
A-5Theft proofing of Revenue meters                250,000                      1,398,096
A-6MV Feeder reclosers & kWh meters                65,000                       0
A-7 Install new customer services                  90,000                       0
A-8 CFLs                                           46,200                       0
Capacity Building ( Advisors/Audit; etc)           835,000                      39,662
Physical contingencies                             68,816
Price contingencies                                289,027
Total                                              2,569,160                    2,569,160

                                               5
D.     APPRAISAL SUMMARY

19.     Economic and financial analysis: Economic and financial analysis of Distribution
of Energy Efficient Light Bulbs component Part 3 in the Project Paper on June 7, 2007 is
no longer applicable the entire component will be dropped. Economic and financial
analysis of Power Distribution System Rehabilitation component Part 2 will be updated
in the Implementation Completion Report.




                                           6
                                                                                  ANNEX 1:
                                                                      Results Framework and Monitoring
                                                            TIMOR-LESTE: ENERGY SERVICES DELIVERY PROJECT

Project Development Objective (PDO): To assist the Recipient to stabilize the power services in Dili, by restoring or improving operational efficiency, reliability, safety and availability of
power supply, and to promote long-term sustainability of the power sector. These would, in turn, contribute to the social stability and economic development of the country.



Revised Project Development Objective: Same as above.



                                           D=Dropped
                                                                                                   Cumulative Target Values**
                                           C=Continue
                                    Core




      PDO Level Results                    N= New           Unit of                                                                                           Data Source/      Responsibility for
                                                                           Baseline                                                            Frequency
        Indicators*                        R=Revised        Measure                         YR 1          YR 2       YR 3          YR4                        Methodology        Data Collection

Indicator One: System losses               R                Percenta   55.9%                            40.0%                  35.0%           Quarterly      EDTL              EDTL
                                                            ge                                                                                                Performance
                                                                                                                                                              Report
Indicator Two: Power supply                D : Power        Percenta   Power generation                 98%; 99%               99.5%;          ditto          ditto             ditto
reliability                                generation       ge         99.5%; Power                                            99.5%
                                           C: Power                    distribution :
                                           distribution :              Average System
                                           Average                     Availability Index
                                           System                      98.9%
                                           Availability
                                           Index
Indicator Three: Power                     C                Percenta   (i) Number of                    1; 4                   0.5; 2          ditto          ditto             ditto
supply safety                                               ge         major accidents
                                                                       per year - Not
                                                                       known (ii)
                                                                       Number of minor
                                                                       accidents per year
                                                                       - Not known
Indicator four: Power supply               D                kW         0                                500kW                  500kW           ditto          ditto             ditto
capacity increase (as a result of
repair of Comoro Power
Station): Cumulative




                                                                                                    7
                                          D=Dropped
                                                                                                      Cumulative Target Values**
                                          C=Continue




                                   Core
     PDO Level Results                    N= New          Unit of                                                                                               Data Source/     Responsibility for
                                                                          Baseline                                                                  Frequency
       Indicators*                        R=Revised       Measure                             YR 1               YR 2      YR 3         YR4                     Methodology       Data Collection

Indicator five: HR plan for               D               Qualitati   HR plan                               HR plan                Relevant         Quarterly   Policy           Policy Advisor
MNRMEP prepared and                                       ve          (including HR                         developed              newly                        Advisor’s work
implemented satisfactorily                                            needs) not yet                        ,                      recruited                    plan and HR
                                                                      developed                             recruitme              staff                        plan and these
                                                                                                            nt initiate,           participate in               progress
                                                                                                            and                    review                       reports.
                                                                                                            guidance               meetings
                                                                                                            note for               and report to
                                                                                                            new staff              the Minister
                                                                                                            policies               on financial
                                                                                                            prepared               and
                                                                                                                                   technical
                                                                                                                                   performance
                                                                                                                                   of EdTL
Intermediate Result indicator             R               Number      0                                     15                     30               Quarterly   Project          EDTL DPU unit
One: Number of additional                                                                                                                                       Progress
transformers installed                                                                                                                                          Report
Intermediate Result indicator             R               Km          0                                     18                     25
Two: Km of additional LV
lines on which conductor size
upgraded
Intermediate Result indicator             R               Km          0                                     6                      8
three: Km of existing LV lines
on which conductor size
upgraded
Intermediate Result indicator             R               Number                                            10,000                 16,400
four: No of customers on which
revenue meters installed in
accordance with theft resistance
standard
  Intermediate Result indicator           D               Mh                                                1,630                  1,630
   five:: Annual energy savings
 (MWh) implied by the number
       of CFLs distributed to
            customers
Intermediate Result indicator             R               Number                                            4000                   7100
six: No. of new customers

                                                       *Please indicate whether the indicator is a Core Sector Indicator (see further http://coreindicators)
                                                        **Target values should be entered for the years data will be available, not necessarily annually.

                                                                                                        8
