Document of
The World Bank
Report No: ICR2153
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
(IDA-H3170)
ON A
GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 1.64 MILLION
(US$2.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF TIMOR-LESTE
FOR A
ENERGY SERVICES DELIVERY PROJECT
March 31, 2013
Timor-Leste, Papua New Guinea & the Pacific Islands
Sustainable Development Department
East Asia and Pacific Region


﻿CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = US$
US$1
FISCAL YEAR
January 1    -   December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASAI         Average System Availability Index  kV           kilo voltage
ASTAE        Asia Sustainable and Alternative   kVA          kilovolt ampere
Energy Program
CAIDI        Customer Average Interruption      kW           kilowatt
Duration Index
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy        kWh          kilowatt hour
DGCS         Directorate General for Corporate  LV           low voltage
Services
DO           Development Objectives             M&E          Monitoring and Evaluation
EDTL         Electricidade de Timor-Leste       MNRMEP       Ministry of Natural Resources,
Minerals and Energy Policy
EOCK         Economic Opportunity Cost of       MoF          Ministry of Finance
Capital
EMP          Environmental Management Plan      Mol          Ministry of Infrastructure
ESDP         Energy Services Delivery Project   MOPW         Ministry of Public Works
FEP          Foreign Exchange Premium           MS           Moderately Satisfactory
FM           Financial Management               MTR          Mid-term review
FY           Fiscal Year                        MU           Moderately Unsatisfactory
GDP          Gross Domestic Product             MV           medium voltage
GoTL         Government of Timor-Leste          kW           megawatt
HU           Highly Unsatisfactory              NCB          National Competitive Bidding
ICB          International Competitive Bidding  NDWEP        National Directorate for Water and
Electricity Policy
IDA          Intemational Development           O&M          operations and maintenance
Association
IFI          Intemational Financial Institution  PDO         Development Objectives
IFR          Interim Financial Report           SAIDI        System Average Interruption
Duration Index
IP           Implementation Progress            SAIFI        System Average Interruption
Frequency Index
ISR          Implementation Status and Results  TA           Technical Assistance
Report
Vice President: Axel van Trotsenburg
Country Director: Franz R. Drees-Gross
Country Manager: Luis F. Constantino
Sector Director: John A. Roome
Sector Managers: Michel Kerf and Charles M. Feinstein
Project Team Leader: Joel J. Maweni
ICR Team Leader: Natsuko Toba


﻿TIMOR-LESTE
Timor-Leste Energy Delivery Services Project
CONTENTS
Data Sheet
A. Basic Information
B. Key Dates
C. Ratings Summary
D. Sector and Theme Codes
E. Bank Staff
F. Results Framework Analysis
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
H. Restructuring
I. Disbursement Graph
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design...................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes   ................  ..... 5
3. Assessment of Outcomes         ........................................... 14
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome.    ....................    ..... 20
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance        .........     ............... 21
6. Lessons Learned            ........................................   ...... 24
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ..... 25
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing                      ................................. 26
Annex 2. Outputs by Component          ...............................  ..... 27
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis  ............................. 38
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ...... 46
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results                       ..........................  48
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results....................... 49
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ....    ..... 50
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders  .   .......... 56
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents       ..........................  ..... 57
MAP: IBRD 33496


﻿
﻿A. Basic Information
TP: Energy Services
Country:             Timor-Leste          Proj ect Name:
'Delivery Project
Project ID:          P095593               L/C/TF Number(s):   IDA-H3170
ICR Date:            03/26/2013           ICR Type:             Core ICR
THE GOVERNMENT
Lending Instrument:  ERL                  Borrower:
OF TIMOR LESTE
Original Total
XDR 1.64M            Disbursed Amount:     XDR 1.61M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:      XDR 1.64M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Infrastructure
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
B. Key Dates
Revised / Actual
Process           Date            Process       Original Date
Date(s)
Concept Review:     12/08/2005   Effectiveness:       08/13/2007       08/13/2007
12/21/2011
Appraisal:          05/21/2007   Restructuring(s):
02/10/2012
Approval:           06/28/2007   Mid-term Review:     06/30/2009
Closing:             12/31/2011      06/30/2012
C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                 Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:              High
Bank Performance:                         Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                     Moderately Unsatisfactory
C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
Bank                Ratings             Borrower               Ratings
Moderately                                Moderately
Quality at Entry:                         Government:
Unsatisfactory                            Unsatisfactory
. .Implementing Moderately
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory         .
Agency/Agencies:     Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank         Moderately           Overall Borrower      Moderately
Performance:         Unsatisfactory       Performance:          Unsatisfactory


﻿C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
Implementation                          QAG Assessments
Indicators                                Rating
Performance                                (if any)
Potential Problem Project                 Quality at Entry
YesNone
at any time (Yes/No):                     (QEA):
Problem Project at any                    Quality of
Yes                                    None
time (Yes/No):                             Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before       Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:  Satisfactory
D. Sector and Theme Codes
Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                        35
Power                                                    65               100
Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Climate change                                            17
Infrastructure services for private sector development    33               50
Other public sector governance                            17               50
Rural services and infrastructure                         33
E. Bank Staff
Positions                   At ICR                      At Approval
Vice President:        Axel van Trotsenburg           James W. Adams
Country Director:      Franz R. Drees-Gross          Nigel Roberts
Sector Manager:       Michel Kerf                    Junhui Wu
Project Team Leader:   Joel J. Maweni                 Selina Wai Sheung Shum
ICR Team Leader:      Natsuko Toba
ICR Primary Author:    Natsuko Toba
F. Results Framework Analysis
Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objectives are to stabilize the power services in Dili, by restoring or improving
operational efficiency, reliability, safety and availability of the power supply, and to
promote long-term sustainability of the power sector. These would, in turn, contribute to
the social stability and economic development of the country.


﻿Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
Project Development Objectives were not revised.
(a) PDO Indicator(s)
Original Target  Formally      Actual Value
Values (from     Revised      Achieved at
Indicator Baseline Value.
approval        Target     Completion or
documents)       Values      Target Years
Indicator 1 :System losses
Value
quantitative or 55.9%               25%              35%          60.26%
Qualitative)
Date achieved  12/31/2006           12/31/2011       02/10/2012   06/30/2012
The higher system losses in 2012 (60.26%) are due to the lack of sales data for
Comments      1
Co     s     the expanded services area around Dili and the increased power flow from the
(mncl. %
d.        new power plant. Before the plant came online, system losses were 36.7% in
achievement)
201 1
Indicator 2:  Power Supply Reliability: Power generation
Value                                                Dropped at
quantitative or 99.5%               99.5%           rthe          N.A.
Qualitative)                                         estructuing
Date achieved  12/31/2006            12/31/2011      02/10/2012   03/25/2013
Comments
As power plant component was cancelled at the project restructuing, this
(incl. %
.e   e     indicator was dropped. Only radiator was installed.
achievement)
Indicator 3: Power Supply Reliability: Power Distribution ASAI
Value
quantitative or 98.9%               99.5%                         99.42%
Qualitative)
Date achieved  12/31/2006           12/31/2011                    06/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %      Nearly revised target was achieved in 2012 (99.92% of the revised target)
achievement)
Indicator 4:  Power Supply Safety: Number of major accidents per year
Value
quantitative or Not known           0.5                           N.A.
Qualitative)
Date achieved  12/31/2006            12/31/2011                   06/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %      Data was not available.
achievement)
Indicator 5: Power Supply Safety: Number of minor accidents per year
Value
quantitative or Not known           2                             N.A.
Qualitative)
Date achieved  12/31/2006            12/31/2011                   06/30/2012
Comments      i
Data was not available.
(incl. %


﻿achievement)
Power Supply Capacity Increase (as a result of repair of Comoro Power Station):
Indicator 6:
Cumulative
Value
. Dropped at the
quantitative or 0                    500                           N.A.
restructuing
Qualitative)
Date achieved  12/31/2006            12/31/2011       02/10/2012   03/25/2013
Comments      i
As power plant component was cancelled at the project restructuing, this
(incl. %i
acievemen    indicator was dropped. Only radiator was installed.
achievement)1
Indicator 7:  HR plan for MNRMEP prepared and implemented satisfactorily
Relevant newly
recruited staff
participate in
review meetings
Value
l     HR plan (including HR  and report to the  Dropped at the
quantitative or                                                    N.A.
.      needs) not yet developed Minister on    restructuing
Qualitative).
financial and
technical
performance of
EdTL
Date achieved  12/31/2006            12/31/2011       02/10/2012   03/25/2013
Comments
(incl. %      Capacity building component was cancelled at the project restructuring.
achievement)
Indicator 8:  Number of additional transformers installed
Value
quantitative or 0                    13               30           18
Qualitative)
Date achieved  12/31/2006            12/31/2011       02/10/2012   06/30/2012
Comments
60% of the revised target was achieved in 2012. The achieved value in 2012
(incl. %
ac)        exceeded the original target.
achievement)
Indicator 9: Kim of additional LV lines on which conductor size upgraded
Value
quantitative or 0                    25                            4.2
Qualitative)
Date achieved  12/31/2006            12/31/2011                    06/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %      16.8% was achieved in 2012.
achievement)
Indicator 10: Km of existing LV lines on which conductor size upgraded
Value
quantitative or 0                    20               8            6.8
Qualitative)
Date achieved  12/31/2006            12/31/2011       02/10/2012   06/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %      85% of the revised target was achieved in 2012.
achievement)
Indicator 11: No of customers on which revenue meters installed in accordance with theft


﻿resistance standard
Value
quantitative or 0                   4,000            16,400       N.A.
Qualitative)
Date achieved  12/31/2006           12/31/2011       02/10/2012   06/30/2012
Comments
Data was not available. However, 27,672
(incl. %
revenue meters have been reinstalled by 2012.
achievement)
Annual energy savings (MWh) implied by the number of CFLs distributed to
Indicator 12 :
,customers
Value
Dropped at the
quantitative or 0                    1630 MWh                     N.A.
restructuring
Qualitative)
Date achieved  12/31/2006            12/31/2011      02/10/2012   03/25/2013
Comments
This component was dropped at the project restructuring due to lack of
(incl. %
.e   e     reasonable prices of CFLs available during procurements.
achievement)
Indicator 13: No. of new customers
Value
quantitative or 0                   1,200            7,100        11,957
Qualitative)
Date achieved  12/31/2006           12/31/2011       02/10/2012   06/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %      168% of the revised target was achieved.
achievement)
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)
Original Target                Actual Value
Formally
Values (from                  Achieved at
Indicator       Baseline Value                       Revised
approval                   Completion or
Target Values
documents)                   Target Years
Indicator 1:  Number of additional tranformers installed.
Value
(quantitative  0                    15
or Qualitative)
Date achieved  12/31/2006            12/31/2011
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
Actual
Date ISR
No.                         DO                     IP             Disbursements
Archived
(USD millions)
1    06/05/2008        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                 0.00
2    06/30/2009   Moderately Satisfactory  Moderately Satisfactory        0.25
3    06/29/2010   Moderately Satisfactory     Moderately                  0.88


﻿Unsatisfactory
Moderately
4    06/28/2011   Moderately Satisfactory                                 0.94
Unsatisfactory
Moderately
5    03/17/2012   Moderately Satisfactory                                  1.96
Unsatisfactory
6    06/26/2012   Moderately Satisfactory  Moderately Satisfactory        2.25
H. Restructuring (if any)
ISR Ratings at   Amount
Board     Restructuring Disbursed at
RestrucRestruc   Board                                  Reason for Restructuring &
1Approved                  Restructuring
Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
PDO Change    DO      IP      in USD
millions
To allow enough time for
completion of the scaled-up
rehabilitation component, the
12/21/2011       N         MIS   MU           0.94.
Government requested a six
months extension of the Grant
closing date to June 30, 2012.
In order for the Project to meet
the development objective in a
timely manner as possible, the
Government requested the Bank
through a letter dated October
28, 2011 to restructure the
ESDP by scaling up the better
performing component for the
02/10/2012        N        MIS    MU          0.94.
rehabilitation and upgrading of
the Dili distribution system
under Part 2 of the Project and
using the remaining USD1.6
million of the IDA Grant for
this component and dropping
the outstanding activities under
parts 1, 3 and 4.


﻿I. Disbursement Profile
Original   Formally Revised -- Actual
3-
2.5-
2-
.2 1.5-
1-
0.  -
r


﻿
﻿1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
1.1 Context at Appraisal
1.    At appraisal, Timor-Leste was emerging from a period of civil unrest that began in 2006,
and which caused substantial population displacement, deaths, property destruction, weakened
institutions, and a volatile and dangerous security environment. The crisis had reversed much of
the progress that had been made in recovering from the even greater violence and destruction that
preceded Timor-Leste's 1999 independence, and the achievement of formal statehood in 2002.
2.   The Government of Timor Leste had estimated the economic cost of the 2006 crisis at 7-8
percent of GDP. This impact was partially offset by the economic activity generated by the
influx of international forces and United Nations (UN) personnel to support peace efforts. The net
impact was a 1 percent growth in GDP for 2006 compared to a pre-crisis estimate of 5 percent.
3.   In addition the crisis deeply disrupted the functioning of government and the delivery of
services. State agencies, with the exception of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Labor
and Community Reinsertion (responsible for emergency relief), operated at much reduced levels
until after the national elections in 2007.
4.   The power sector utility, Electricidade de Timor-Leste (EDTL), was no exception. EDTL
had been set up by the U.N. Transitional Administration for East Timor (UNTAET) after the
departure of Indonesia's National Power Corporation (PLN) and most of its management and
technical staff in 1999. By 2006, with intensive efforts and the assistance of various development
partners, the Government of Timor Leste (GoTL) had made progress in a number of areas,
including: (a) developing a power sector strategy that identified the priority short-term
investments presented in a Sector Investment Plan (SIP) in 2003; and (b) restoring nominal power
generation capacity close to its former level.
5.    The focus of system restoration efforts had begun to shift from rebuilding of the power
stations to repair and rehabilitation of damaged distribution networks. Attention had also begun to
focus on increasing the commercial orientation of EDTL, through the engagement of a
management contractor. However, the crisis disrupted the progress triggering a sharp increase in
illegal power connections and resulting in wasteful consumption. Breakdowns in power-
generating units occurred due to poor and/or disrupted maintenance, non-optimal operation, and
the lack of spare parts.
6.   A timely economic response was essential to halting the deterioration in human capital and
infrastructure. Given the need for a timely response, the Energy Services Delivery Project
(ESDP) was the first one prepared by the Bank in Timor Leste using OP/BP 8.00 (Rapid
Response to Crises and Emergencies). The Project was designed to respond to requests from the
GoTL and from stakeholder consultations confirming the urgent need to reverse the deterioration
of power services by restoring or improving the availability, reliability, and safety of power
supply.
7.   The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) approved by the Board on July 19, 2005 (Report
No. 32700-TL), recognizing the important role of access to energy services for growth and
poverty reduction had proposed this project as part of the Bank's assistance program in Timor-
Leste. This operation came under one of the CAS's three pillars for its lending and advisory
services program in the country, "delivery of sustainable key services for growth and
1


﻿development". In addition, the Bank had extensive experience in providing similar support in
other countries.
1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators
Project Development Objectives
8.   The objectives are to stabilize the power services in Dili, by restoring or improving
operational efficiency, reliability, safety and availability of the power supply, and to promote
long-term sustainability of the power sector.
9.   The PDO in the Project Paper (PP) included an additional sentence: "These would, in turn,
contribute to the social stability and economic development of the country." However, this was
not part of the PDO in the Financing Agreement or in the Results Framework in the PP, because
it is not a project-level objective, but rather a statement of the higher-level impacts to which the
project objective is expected to contribute. As such, it is not a goal that can be achieved by or
attributed to the project activities, and is not monitorable within the scope of the project.
Key Indicators
10.  There were discrepancies in the lists of original outcome indicators within the PP. These
inconsistencies were mainly of an organizational rather than substantive nature. For completeness
and transparency, a detailed explanation is included in Annex 2. During supervision, the project
used the PDO Indicators identified in the detailed Results Framework and Monitoring Plan in
Annex 2 of the PP:
a) System losses - measured by monitoring the ratio (energy generated - energy for EDTL
own use - energy billed) / (energy generated).
b) Power supply reliability - (i) power generation; and (ii) power distribution as indicated
by Average System Availability Index (ASAI).
c) Power supply safety - measured by monitoring the number of major and minor electric
accidents on power distribution system supplied from the Comoro Power Plant.
d) Increase in power supply capacity (as a result of repair for Comoro Power Station).
e) Human resource (HR) plan for Ministry of Natural Resources, Minerals and Energy
Policy (MNRMEP) prepared and implemented satisfactorily.
Due to an editorial oversight, a shorter summary of the PDO indicators in Annex 2 of the PP
included an indicator for "customer satisfaction surveys" rather than power supply increase. The
customer satisfaction survey indicator did not appear in any other place in the project documents,
while power capacity did, along with specific targets and causal relationship to project outputs.
The project used the power increase indicator during supervision.
Another summary list of the PDO indicators, in the main text of the PP, mentioned the HR plan as
an intermediate rather than PDO indicator, and also included two PDO indicators that were
captured elsewhere as intermediate indicators:
a) Number of connections to new customers
b) Energy savings implied by the number of Compact Fluorescent Lights (CFLs) distributed
to metered customers
2


﻿The other intermediate indicators, detailed in Annex 2, mostly reported physical outputs such as
transformers, distribution lines, and meters installed.
1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification
11. The PDOs were not revised.
12.  The key performance indicators were formally revised as part of the project restructuring
approved on February 10, 2012. The main revisions were to (a) drop indicators related to safety,
power generation, and institutional capacity, and (b) set a more realistic target for system losses
(35% rather than 25%). These indicators were dropped since most of the related activities were
dropped as part of the restructuring.
13. The revised KPIs were:
a) System losses-same indicator, but end target changed from 25% to 35%.
b) Power supply reliability-power distribution reliability unchanged, but generation
reliability dropped.
14.  The following KPIs were dropped:
a) Power supply safety.
b) Increase in power supply capacity.
c) Human resource plan for MNRMEP.
d) Power supply reliability (power generation sub-indicator only).
15. Most intermediate, physical output targets for distribution system and metering investments
were increased, mainly to reflect the shift in project resources to those investments (see Section
2.3 and Annex 2 for details). An indicator related to the small ($46,200), discontinued compact
fluorescent bulb (CFL) component was also dropped.
1.4 Main Beneficiaries
16. The primary beneficiaries were new and existing electricity consumers in Dili, who would
have better quality, more reliable, safer, and more sustainable access to power. Since a large
number of consumers were either not metered or accessing electricity by illegally tapping power
lines, in the short to medium term there would also be negative impacts on some because they
would have to pay for services or go without them.
17.  Reducing unmetered consumption (nontechnical losses) would increase revenue and
sustainability for the power utility EDTL and the central government, which are secondary
beneficiaries of the project. Power production and supply costs and de facto subsidization of
power consumption would decrease as both technical and nontechnical losses were reduced,
providing efficiency gains and fiscal benefits. Institutional capacity building would also benefit
the utility directly, and consumers (the primary beneficiaries) indirectly, by reducing costs and
improving efficiency and sustainability.
3


﻿1.5 Original Components (as approved)
Part 1: Emergency Repair and Maintenance of Comoro Power Station ($350, 000)
18. This subcomponent supported the government's emergency response to breakdowns and
unscheduled repairs of generation units, including purchase of spare parts. It included three main
investments: (a) replacement of a radiator, (b) electrical upgrade of the substation switchboard in
the Comoro substation, and (c) improvement of the firefighting system in Comoro station. The
radiator and switchboard investments would increase the plant's power generating capacity by
500 kW, with a net saving of about $78,000 compared to purchasing a new generator. The
firefighting system would improve safety at the power station, and also reduce risk of damage and
power supply disruption caused by fires.
Part 2: Rehabilitation and Upgrading ofDili Power Distribution System (US$1,170,223)
19. This component was intended to address the deficiencies in the existing distribution system,
such as overloaded transformers and transmission lines, excessively long circuits on low-voltage
(LV) and medium-voltage (MV) lines, and improperly installed service conductors (linking
distribution lines to households) that were unsafe and easily tapped by illegal users. The
objectives and investments of the component were to: (a) reduce technical system losses and
improve power quality through installation of distribution transformers and upgrading of LV
conductors; (b) reduce both technical and non-technical losses and improve reliability and safety
of power supply through construction of new LV lines and replacement of service conductors; (c)
reduce non-technical losses through reinstallation of prepaid meters and provision of kWh meters
on MV feeder lines based on theft proofing standards; (d) improve reliability of power supply by
installing reclosers on excessively long MV feeders; and (e) expand access and reduce illegal use
by installing connections to new customers.
Part 3: Distribution of Energy Efficient Light Bulbs (US$46,200)
20. This component would purchase and distribute about 38,500 CFLs to metered customers.
Consumers would benefit from increased effective power availability at peak hours, lower utility
bills, and savings due to longer life of CFL light bulbs. The power utility would save about
$70,000 per year in generating costs (based on the costs at appraisal), and the CFLs would also
effectively increase peak load capacity by 1 MW in the form of more efficient use of the available
power.
Part 4: Institutional Capacity Building (US$835,000)
21. Technical assistance and training under this component would play an important role in
enhancing capacity in EdTL and MNRMEP and help lay the groundwork for increased
commercial orientation and long-term sustainability of the power sector. The component, which
would support both direct project implementation and longer-term capacity building, had two
main parts: Strengthening EdTL and Strengthening MNRMEP. The specific investments and
activities included (a) support to EDTL for project construction supervision and distribution
system design; (b) policy advisory services and monitoring of the management contractor; (c)
annual performance audit of management contract; (d) procurement and implementation support
to MRNMEP/Mol; and (e) office equipment/training/incremental operating costs. If component
costs were lower than expected, additional strategic and analytic activities would be carried out
related to areas such as cost modeling, pricing strategies, and demand forecasting.
4


﻿1.6 Revised Components
22. During implementation the switchboard and firefighting equipment investments of
Component 1 (Comoro Power Station) were dropped and only the radiator installation remained.
Component 3 (CFLs) was dropped entirely. The strategic and longer-term capacity building
activities of Component 4 (Capacity Building) were dropped and the component, renumbered as
Component 3, continued with only small residual implementation support activities. Component
2 (Distribution) was scaled up to increase upgrades to power lines, transformers, metering, and
new connections.
23. The main intent of the restructuring was to cancel activities that were non-performing and
to optimize use of resources by focusing on the distribution and rehabilitation component that was
performing well. The Bank's processing and approval of the restructuring was conditioned on a
successful design of the restructuring and achievement of pre-agreed milestones in the
procurement process. Thus, the restructuring was not approved until February 10, 2012, after the
milestones had been achieved and GoTL had formally requested the restructuring in late October
of 2011.
1.7 Other significant changes
Closing Date Extension
24.  Shortly before approval of the restructuring described above in Section 1.6, the project
closing date was extended by six months, to June 30, 2012, to allow enough time for the
restructured activities to be completed.
Changes in Implementation Agencies
25. In August 2007 the newly created the Ministry of Infrastructure (Mol), the successor
organization to the Ministry of Natural Resources, Minerals and Energy Policy (MNRMEP)
assumed all project implementation responsibilities. Two of the three directorates (NDAF which
was renamed Corporate Services and EDTL) which had implementation roles for the project were
absorbed by MOI. The overall project implementation role which had previously been exercised
by the National Directorate for Water and Electricity Policy (NDWEP) was reassigned to EDTL;
the same entity that was also expected to operate and manage the project activities after the end of
the project. While no amendment was made to the Financing Agreement at that time, references
to specific agencies and directorates were revised in the February 2012 amendment to the
Financing Agreement.
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
26. Sectoral analysis and plans. The energy sector assessments included the GoTL's Electricity
Sector Policy Paper (2002), a long-term Power Sector Development Plan (2003) prepared with
assistance from the Asian Development Bank, and a shorter-term Sector Investment Plan (SIP)
for the power sector that was issued in 2003 (and was to be updated annually). In addition to the
sectoral analysis the multi-donor Trust Fund for East Timor (TFET), established as the primary
financing mechanism for donor-supported projects during that period had financed the Power
Sector Priority Investments Project, which included a new generator at Comoro, as well as a CFL
5


﻿distribution program. The ESDP specifically sought to continue key priorities of the SIP and to
build on the progress made under the Bank's first project as well as under projects financed by
other development partners, including further strengthening and expansion of generating capacity
at the Comoro Power Station, improvements to the electricity distribution system in Dili, and the
CFL program. The project's fourth main component, strengthening institutional capacity,
emerged as a very important priority following the 2006-07 crises.
27. Rationale for Bank intervention. As noted earlier (Section 1.1), the Bank's CAS for
FY2006-08 included an energy project under the pillar on delivery of sustainable key services for
growth and development in recognition of the important role of access to energy services. The
Bank's involvement was decided taking into account the paucity of development partners in the
Timor Leste's energy sector and the Bank's extensive experience in providing similar support in
other countries.
28. Processing under emergency procedures. While to some extent the relevance and priorities
of the 2006-08 needed to be reassessed in light of the most recent crisis, given the continuing
fragility of the government and uncertainty related to upcoming elections in June 2007, preparing
a new interim CAS prior to appraisal was unrealistic. Thus, the ESDP, whose concept review had
taken place before the 2006 crisis (in December 2005), was redesigned and processed as the first
Bank operation in Timor Leste under OP/BP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies) to
help halt the deterioration in human capital and infrastructure.
29. Lessons. Two of the key lessons incorporated from this analysis and from the Bank's
previous experience in Timor-Leste specifically and in the power sector and emergency response
operations in general were the importance of (a) speedy intervention to ensure effective
emergency recovery assistance, and (b) the need to address the limited capacity of the
government and the power utility. The investments were designed to help improve power service
delivery in a cost-effective manner and within a relatively short time, with relatively simple and
straightforward applications having negligible technological risks.
Assessment ofproject design
30.  Objectives. As mentioned above the objectives were highly relevant at appraisal and were
based on the GoTL's prior sectoral priorities and strategies as well as the need for rapid response
to the 2006-07 crisis. The power generation, distribution, CFL and institutional capacity activities
were designed to help quickly stabilize power services in Dili by making the system more reliable
while also improving efficiency, reliability, safety, and availability of the system in the medium-
term, and sustainability of the power sector in the longer term.
31. Design. The project design from the original concept was simplified and the investments
were scaled down considerably to support high-priority "quick-win" investments for
rehabilitation of the existing power distribution system in Dili, while less critical elements such as
"greenfield" investments for rural electrification and renewable energy were dropped from the
final design. The first phase was expected to be completed by about December 31, 2008, and the
second phase investments, as well as the overall project, were expected to be completed by about
December 31, 2010.
32. Capacity of implementing agencies. Capacity of the implementing agencies was both a
consideration in designing implementation arrangements and support, as well as an objective of
the project itself. Technical assistance (TA) and training was included to enhance the capacity of
6


﻿both MNRMEP and EDTL in project implementation and in overall power sector policy and
institutional reforms to help lay the ground for long-term sustainability of the power sector.
33. Supervision and safeguards. Intensive Bank supervision efforts were planned, estimated at
about 10 staff weeks for at least the first two years of project implementation. As far as
practicable, supervision was to be carried out by staff in the Dili office and other Bank offices in
the East Asia and Pacific Region. Relatively minor social and environmental safeguards were
identified and were appropriately assessed.  The arrangements for the management and
monitoring of the environmental and social safeguards during the project implementation phase
were appropriate.
Risks
34.  The overall risk was rated substantial and the highest rated category was country risks
related to potential political and social instability and security problems that could have a
significant impact on project implementation. The project's design was made simple and flexible
enough to accommodate and mitigate most risks specific to the project. The closing date,
December 31, 2011, was set a full year beyond expected completion of project investment to
allow for potential delays caused by security problems.
35.  Three other risks were identified as substantial: (a) capacity, (b) customer non-payment,
and (c) cost overruns. Capacity-related risk was to be mitigated by TA and training in project
management, engineering, procurement and project construction supervision as well as "turnkey"
contract for the supply and installation of equipment. Customer non-payment risk was to be
mitigated by the hiring of a qualified management contractor for EDTL, with reduction of non-
technical and commercial losses as key performance indicators in the calculation of its
performance-based management fees. In addition, TA was to be provided to the Ministry in its
monitoring and auditing of the management contractor's performance. Cost overrun risk related
to possible inclusion of country risk premiums in bid proposals was designed to be mitigated by
the provision of unusually high price contingencies (20 percent) in the project cost estimates,
flexibility in reallocation of IDA funding, and identification of potential additional funding from
the government in later phases of project implementation.
36.  Two risks that were not identified at appraisal stage had a substantial impact during project
implementation. First, the lack of GoTL commitment to implement the strategic parts of the
institutional reform component (i.e. those related to commercialization of EdTL and policy
reforms) was not flagged; these activities were ultimately dropped during the project restructuring
precisely because the GoTL did not hire the policy and technical advisers and did not carry out
the annual audits of the management contractor's performance. The PP did not document any
consensus building activities that fed into the design of the reform elements of the institutional
capacity building component. Second, even though there was a solid body of analytical work that
confirmed the GoTL's sector strategy and the project design as relevant and appropriate, the risk
of a change in government strategy does not appear to have featured in the risk analysis; a
subsequent change in government strategy resulted in diminished attention being paid to the
project.
Government commitment and stakeholderparticipation
37. Government commitment in preparation was good despite the fragile and uncertain
conditions previously described. A series of public consultations with key stakeholders were
carried out in February 2007 to gather information on perceptions of the project's benefits as well
7


﻿as stakeholder issues and concerns. The series consisted of separate focus group discussions with
the representatives of the local government units of Dili, NGOs (Haburas Foundation Luta
Hamutuk, Ai- Bon), women's association, (Fokupers), a business group (Forum dos Empresario
de Timor-Leste), and local residents. The results of the consultations confirmed the project's
assessment of reliability, safety, and availability problems as priorities for beneficiaries and
reaffirmed the relevance of project investments. They also identified needs that were not
financially practical such as putting power lines underground, or were outside the direct scope of
the project such as lower electricity costs for the poor (analysis of customer class, subsidies, and
pricing strategies was mentioned as a possible activity under Component 4, but tariffs were
already roughly two-thirds less than generation costs).
2.2 Implementation
Institutional capacity constraints
38. Although institutional capacity was identified as both an urgent need and a key risk for the
project, the challenges were greater and mitigation measures were less successful than anticipated.
This played a role in the inability of EDTL to complete installation of the distribution system
materials purchased under the project before grant closure, and perhaps the failure to implement
other project components, including the capacity building component itself. Mol was also
expected to hire a policy and a technical adviser to provide advice on policy, planning and sector
supervision issues, including supporting a Utilities Board that was to be established to monitor
the performance of EdTL's management contractor. In addition, grant funds were not used to
undertake annual audits of the management contractor's performance. Instead, the Ministry of
Finance hired an external contractor to audit EDTL and the report was not shared with the Bank.
The implementing agency did not produce required project reports, interim financial reports and
audits were routinely late or not done, monitoring and evaluation was extremely weak, and
safeguards capacity and training were also inadequate. The institutional capacity building
component ultimately was cut back to include only the activities related directly to project
implementation, with more fundamental capacity building and strategic planning related to longer
term sustainability essentially dropped.
Government commitment, sector strategy, and oil and gas revenues
39. A major development during implementation was the growth of the Petroleum Fund of
Timor-Leste and its effect on government sector strategy and priorities. The fund was established
in August 2005 to invest and sustainably manage the country's quickly growing oil and gas
revenues. At the time of project concept review in December 2005 (prior to the 2006 crisis), the
fund capital stood at about $370 million. By approval in June 2007 it had grown to nearly $1.4
billion, and by the original project closing date in December 2011 it was $9.3 billion.
40. With these increasing revenues, the government was in a position to address power supply
constraints in the short term. Thus, shortly after the project became effective the GoTL ordered
11 new high-speed generators and financed them from its own resources at the same time that the
Bank task team was working on a proposal for a reallocation of funds for the same purpose. The
generators helped to alleviate Dili's critical short-term needs to some extent but did not close the
demand supply gap, thus allowing the project to continue with its original investment plan. The
Government then set about expanding its power system capacity by adding new generators at the
Comoro site (Comoro II), and constructing new power plants at Hera (120MW, commissioned in
May 2012) and Betano (130MW scheduled to commence operation in 2013), and building an
extensive 150kV transmission system around the country.
8


﻿41.  This large power system expansion did not adversely affect the relevance of the project for
long-term efficiency and sustainability goals. The distribution system investments will be more
critical than ever given the greater loads being produced by the Hera plant. However, it was clear
that these much larger system expansion investments were outcompeting ESDP for MoI/EDTL
managers' attention.
Procurement hurdles
42. Inability to agree on procurement methods for the distribution component and for CFLs
caused delays in the former and led to the latter being ultimately dropped during the Project
restructuring. Procurement capacity and execution also contributed to delays in some other
investments, such as the Comoro firefighting equipment, which was eventually dropped for
different reasons (para. 45).
Switchgear rehabilitation at Comoro
43. The Comoro generating plant continued to be overloaded and to suffer from numerous
equipment failures, and as a result frequently resorted to load shedding or rolling blackouts when
demand exceeded capacity. Rehabilitation of the switchgear would have required shutting down
all the generation units at Comoro Power Station for extended periods of time, resulting in power
outages for all Dili customers. The difficulties of rehabilitating the switchgear could have been
foreseen and considered at project design stage. EDTL, therefore, decided to postpone
rehabilitation of the switchgear to a later time when it would use its own funds outside the scope
of this project, after generation supply had improved through development of generating capacity
from sources other than Comoro.
Restructuring and closing date extension
44. By mid-2010 it had become clear that some project outputs and outcomes were jeopardized
by serious implementation delays, primarily due to procurement problems. Procurement problems
affected virtually all components (differences between the GoTL and the Bank on procurement
methods affected the CFL and distribution components; capacity issues affected the institutional
and power generation components), With the exception of the rehabilitation of the Dili
distribution system (Component 2), all other components had come to a standstill.
45. Thus, initially the fire-fighting and switchyard components were affected by MOI
procurement capacity constraints for updating cost estimates and preparing bid documents. Only
later (early/mid 2010) did it become clear that implementation of the switchyard component
required shutting down Comoro Power Plant and disrupting services to Dili for extended periods
of time and was, therefore, not practical. It was also around that time that the GoTL's plans to
add more units at Comoro (Comoro II Power Plant) became apparent which meant that the
enlarged power plant would require a much larger and more costly fire-fighting equipment
package than had been envisaged under the project. By the time of the restructuring discussions,
it was already clear that these activities were not moving forward. Had the switchyard been
rehabilitated it would have contributed to the stability of the power supply for a short period only
as the GoTL moved quickly install additional units at Comoro II and later commissioned Hera
Power Plant in 2012.
46. On the other hand significant progress had been made (under Component 2,) in reinstalling
pre-paid meters using concentric service cable to prevent illegal tapping, reduce nontechnical loss,
increase revenue, and decrease safety risk. This program called the "Return to User Program" was
9


﻿considered highly successful and was credited with reducing total system losses (technical and
nontechnical), in the Dili area, from about 59.0 percent in 2007, to about 46.5 in 2009, and 36.7
percent in 2011 (six months before the project closed).
47.  To target project resources (62% of the grant remained undisbursed at that stage) at the
investments that were performing the best, and also had the most potential for improving
reliability and safety, and reducing losses EDTL and the Bank agreed to refocus project activities
on the purchase of additional distribution system and metering equipment under Component 2,
which the government would install before closing, but with its own budget resources.
48. Unfortunately, due to capacity constraints, EdTL was not able to propose a restructuring
plan. Ultimately the Bank team helped EdTL to prepare a detailed restructuring and
implementation plan, including draft bidding documents. By the time the plan was ready, in May
2011, the Bank indicated that it agreed in principle with the plan, but because of past delays and
procurement problems, final approval was conditioned on award of the new contracts by October
31, 2011.
49. To allow time to complete procurement and installation of the equipment, the closing date
was extended by 6 months, to June 30, 2012. While all the new materials were delivered by the
closing date, only about 15% were actually installed. Substantially more was installed by the end
of 2012 (see Annex 2), and the rest should be in service by the end of 2013.
Mid-term review
50. The originally planned date for the midterm review was pushed back due to the slow start-
up, and the project never had a formally designated midterm review. However, several missions
carried out during the planning and preparation of the restructuring did the kind of comprehensive
analysis, stocktaking, and reassessment of implementation arrangements and objectives typical of
an MTR, and could reasonably have been designated as such.
Project at risk status
51.  Mainly as a result of the delays and performance issues mentioned previously, the project
was considered in problem status from June 2010 until just before closing in June 2012. From
September 2009 through June 2010 the project was not in problem status, but was at-risk because
it had automatic risk flags for country environment and country record, then picked up a third flag
for disbursement delay as implementation fell further behind schedule. At various times it also
had risk flags for project management, M&E, and procurement. The measures to address the at-
risk status focused mainly on resolving procurement delays and implementation arrangements in
the early stages, and then through restructuring, as described above.
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
Design
52. Regarding the M&E design, the first four PDO-level result indicators were straightforward,
logically linked project activities to output and objectives, and were measureable and attributable
to the project. However, while the fifth indicator, for a "Human Resource plan for MNRMEP
prepared and implemented satisfactorily," was an important link between capacity building
activities and the project's long-term sustainability objectives, the details of how it would be
monitored and measured were not clearly explained in the Project Paper. Its target values were to
10


﻿a large extent subjective, and responsibility for its monitoring was delegated to a Policy Advisor
hired by the project as a consultant, in the interest of maintaining objectivity. All other M&E
arrangements were the responsibility of the implementing agency, and were considered to be
within its capacity.
53.  The intermediate indicators measured appropriate secondary or intermediate outputs from
the components, and mostly reflected progress on physical outputs such as equipment installation
and customer connections, that were logical steps toward delivery of the outcomes measured by
the PDO indicators. A few, such as energy savings or new customer connections, could
potentially be PDO-level indicators if the objectives were framed in the appropriate terms.
54. While the design had some modest shortcomings, it was fundamentally sound, except that
in some cases the requirements apparently exceeded the implementing agencies capacity or were
not routinely tracked in its data systems.
Implementation
55. During implementation the M&E system was not fully implemented, some indicators are
not monitored as planned, and while the implementing agency could produce monthly reports on
request for missions, they did not submit quarterly reports to the Bank as required. Since all the
indicators were standard for electricity utilities around the world, EdTL should not have
encountered difficulties in collecting these indicators through their management contractor who is
an international utility. Furthermore, although the contract between the management contractor
and the GoTL was not available to the Bank team, at least some of the project indicators should
have been included as contractual performance indicators in the contract. However, at the end of
the management contract, it was extremely difficult for EdTL to provide information on the
project indicators. The ICR mission team worked with the EDTL to calculate some technical
indicators', to establish these indicators as much as possible.
56.  The project restructuring dropped indicators related to the activities that were discontinued,
thus reducing the PDO-level indicators from five to two. The generation reliability sub-indicator
was also dropped. The safety indicator was dropped because there was no system for collecting
data on major/minor accidents, even though some of the activities related to safety of the power
supply were not dropped. The system loss target was revised from 25% to a more realistic 35%,
even though the activities most directly related to reducing losses were scaled up. Target values
of the remaining intermediate indicators measuring distribution system installation and outputs
were increased.
Utilization
57.  Three of the original PDO indicators dropped during project restructuring (safety, human
resource plan and increase in power supply) were not monitored and, therefore, not utilized. The
system loss and reliability indicators, combined with intermediate indicators on new connections
and reinstallation of prepaid meters helped evaluate the performance and outcomes related to the
distribution system investments, and influenced the decisions to scale up these activities as the
most efficient means of maximizing the achievement of related objectives. The sharp increase in
1 For example, the System Average Interruption Frequency Index (SAIFI), System Average Interruption
Duration Index (SAIDI), Customer Average Interruption Duration Index (CAIDI), Average System
Availability Index (ASAI), etc.
11


﻿revenues and reduction of system losses confirmed the efficiency of metering in reducing
nontechnical losses.
2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Safeguards Compliance
58.  The project triggered O.P/B.P.4.01 (Environmental Assessment) and O.P/B.P4.12
(Involuntary Resettlement). To comply with 0.4.01, the project disclosed an Environmental
Mitigation Plan that covered three minor environmental issues: (a) possible presence of
Polychlorinated Biphenyl (PCB) in transformers in the Comorro-1 plant; (b) trimming and cutting
of trees; (c) civil works related to the installation of distribution poles. While no or very minimal
land acquisition was expected under the project, the government submitted a Resettlement Policy
Framework as good practice.
59. Bank supervision and ICR missions visually inspected the transformers at Comoro-1 Power
Plant, in EDTL's warehouse, and on the distribution poles and interviewed the power plant
manager and other EDTL personnel. The inspections and interviews did not reveal the presence
of PCBs in the transformers. Moreover, the second hand transformers at Comoro-I were
manufactured seven years after PCBs had been banned. The transformers in the EDTL warehouse
and those installed on distribution poles have been procured within the last five years and do not
use PCBs. In addition to PCBs, inspection was conducted on the pipes of the remaining, non-
operational engines in Comorro-1 for asbestos use. No asbestos was found.
60.  Civil works associated with the distribution poles have not been as extensive as planned
because the initial delivery of the poles did not meet specifications and those subsequently
delivered under a new contract have yet to be installed. Disruption of existing vegetation,
therefore, has been minimal.
61.  Goods procured under the project such as the load breaker switches, transformers,
conductors were installed on existing or new distribution poles and did not require land
acquisition. The installation of project-procured distribution poles entailed no or very little
private land acquisition, as this was done within the existing alignment of the power distribution
line.
62. All ISRs showed that legal covenants related safeguards were "complied with" except one
ISR that noted "not yet due". Although EDTL's monitoring and management of safeguards of
the project was weak there were no material problems in relation to hazardous substances or
impingement of land or property rights in the installation or upgrading of distribution lines.
Financial Management
63.   The GoTL complied with the financial management (FM) conditions outlined in the
Financing Agreement and required under OP/BP 10.02, but usually with significant delays
(including the last four quarterly IFRs, which are still outstanding). The main shortcomings were
lack of timely financial information (through delays in submitting regular reports on expenditures
from the Designated Account and long outstanding interim unaudited financial reports). Despite
these shortcomings, FM performance in all the ISRs was rated as Satisfactory.
64. As of January 2013, all required audits of the Project's financial statements were received,
albeit none of them were received by the due date. All audit opinions were unqualified. All audits
12


﻿were accepted by the Bank. However project management failed to address most of the findings
and recommendations raised by the auditors in their management letter as evidenced by the same
points being raised each year, and did not respond to the management letters. The final audit of
the Projects financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 are not due until 30 June
2013. The Borrower has been reminded of their obligation to submit this final audit.
65. The Bank did not conduct FM missions as frequently as originally planned, and reviewed
the project's financial records only once in the last two years of implementation because of the
unavailability of the client's FM staff. Although the Project became effective on August 13,
2007, the Bank had not provided a format for interim financial reports (IFRs) to the GoTL until
2010. On its part the Borrower did not hire a project implementation advisor to assist with the
discharge of its financial management responsibilities as had been envisaged at project appraisal.
66. In January 2013 the balance of the advances to the Designated Account (DA) were repaid
to the World Bank. The Project only adopted the use of country systems in two FM areas, that of
the Project's planning and budgeting and external auditing. Full use of country systems for
accounting, internal controls, internal audit, treasury, and reporting were not adopted due to a
combination of deficiencies identified in the FM assessment and borrower's preferences.
2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
67. When the project was restructured a six months extension of the Grant Closing Date was
considered adequate for the supply and installation of distribution materials. However, there was
a risk of delays resulting in EdTL failing to complete installation by the revised closing date of
June 30, 2012. Thus, the restructuring plan was based on the Bank financing the procurement of
materials while the GoTL financed the installation works so that in the event of delays, EdTL
could still complete the installation works with its own resources after Grant Closing date.
68. Implementation turned out to be slower than expected and as of May 2012 about 15% in
aggregate of the materials had been installed. Installation was expected to reach about 70% by
October 31, 2012. However, for a number of reasons, including the departure of the management
contractor for EdTL in August, 2012, and counterpart funding constraints the overall rate of
completion is about 50-60%. Details of the installation of distribution materials are available in
Annex2. Given its institutional capacity constraints, EdTL has prioritized the installation of the
materials in order to realize benefits as quickly as possible, but to complete installation of all
remaining materials in 2013.
69.     The GoTL is appreciative to the Bank for the support in implementing the ESDP and in
particular, for the technology, modernization, global knowledge and expertise that the Project
helped to bring to Timor Leste's power sector. It has also expressed interest in continued
collaboration with the Bank to promote the sustainable development of the energy sector. In
addition, MoPW is interested in receiving support from the Bank for capacity building of
financial management, procurement and audit functions. The CPS for FY2013-17, approved by
the Board n March 19, 2013 envisages a program for strengthening country systems, which could
provide the entry point for institutional capacity building support for the energy sector.
13


﻿3. Assessment of Outcomes
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
70. By 2006 the GoTL had managed to restore power supply to pre-1999 levels and had begun
to focus on rehabilitation of the distribution network and longer term institutional and commercial
issues. However, the 2006 crisis refocused the GoTL's attention on stabilization of power supply
services in Dili to improve operational efficiency, reliability, safety, availability of the power
supply, and promote long-term stability. These became the objectives of ESDP and combined
short term emergency support with medium term system improvements and institutional capacity
building. These objectives were highly relevant in the fragile and power-constrained environment
that existed at appraisal. A start on strengthening the institutional capacity of EdTL and
MNRMEP/Mol was an important step on the road to efficient power service delivery and longer-
term sustainability.
71. The GoTL decision at an early stage in the implementation to install new high-speed
generators at Comoro to address Dili's most urgent power supply needs did not change the
fundamental rationale for the project because, even with these additions, the system remained
supply constrained, and the system's need for efficiency improvements (through loss reduction
and distribution equipment upgrading) and safety improvements remained valid.
72. However, subsequently the government's sector strategy shifted more toward a massive
expansion of generation and transmission capacity using revenues from its rapidly growing
Petroleum Fund. The 120 MW Hera Power Plant became operational in 2012, dwarfing the
output of the aging Comoro plant that had been the target of emergency rehabilitation under the
ESDP, and Comoro was shut down shortly before the project closed.
73. Another 130 MW power plant is expected to be operational in 2013 at Betano, and various
150kV transmission line links have been commissioned recently while others will become
operational in 2013. Before these new facilities, the total power capacity of Timor-Leste was
only about 40 MW, about 20 MW of which served the capital, Dili. With these projects under
implementation and clear prioritization of large new infrastructure over cost recovery, efficiency,
and fiscal sustainability, some aspects of the project (such as strategic planning and policy
advisory services under the institutional component) were bound to receive less attention.
However, investments in the Dili distribution system are still important to reduce losses and
maintain distribution reliability, particularly with larger loads now being delivered through the
system. Capacity building for EDTL and MOI (now MoPW) remains highly if not more relevant,
to effectively manage the larger system as well as the assets built under the ESDP.
74. Therefore, with its major system investments nearly completed, the government is now
beginning to turn its attention back to the cost recovery and sustainability aspects of the power
sector. Hence, while some aspects of project design became less relevant towards project closure
others continued to be relevant even as the government's focus shifted toward expansion, and the
PDO is still relevant to the current energy sector in Timor Leste. The emergency stabilization
objective, partly by its nature, is no longer a priority as the immediate crisis has passed and
government's vision has shifted from short-term recovery toward longer term development.
75. The Bank's CPS for FY2013-2017 approved by the Board in March 2013 does not propose
additional Bank-financed power sector investments. However, it envisages a program for
strengthening country systems which could include support for energy sector institutions. This is
consistent with the GoTL's own interest in collaborating with the Bank on building energy sector
14


﻿institutions rather than on investment lending. Adequate and quality power supply remains an
important priority for the government, as reflected its National Strategic Development Plan for
2011-2030, which highlights that "Access to reliable electricity supplies is vital to improve the
quality of life in Timor-Leste and to support urban and rural jobs growth and development."
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
76.  The objectives were to stabilize the power services in Dili, by restoring or improving
operational efficiency, reliability, safety and availability of the power supply, and to promote
long-term sustainability of the power sector.
77. As explained in Section 1.2, the second sentence of the PDO in the Data Sheet of the
Project Paper (contributing to social stability and economic development) was intentionally
deleted from the PDO in the Financing Agreement, and for the reasons previously outlined, is
considered a higher level impact of the project rather than a monitorable and attributable project
objective.
Stabilization ofpower services in Dili
78. While this objective has both short- and medium-term implications, since the project was
processed as an emergency reconstruction loan, the primary assessment of this objective will be
on the basis of meeting short-term needs. The investments most directly related to stabilization of
power services in the short-term are the emergency repairs at the Comoro Station, the CFL
distribution, and improvements to the distribution system aimed at reducing technical losses, and
metering to the extent that it rationalize energy use decision and reduce demand by illegal users.
79. The Comoro emergency repairs would have the most direct effect, as they would improve
reliability of generation by preventing disruptions caused by breakdowns and fire damage, and
would increase generation capacity by repairing broken or inefficiently operating generators and
system components. The target was to maintain the baseline power generation reliability of
99.5% (against a projected counterfactual rating of 75% without the project), and to increase
generating capacity by 500 kW. However, only one part of the emergency repairs were actually
carried out (MAK II radiator replacement), and it was not completed until more than 18 months
after approval. The other two activities (switchyard and fire equipment replacement) were not
carried out and were later dropped at restructuring; hence they did not contribute to the objective
of stabilizing power supply in the short -term.
80. In summary, other than the Return to User Pay Program and the rehabilitation of the
radiator at Comoro Power Station, rest of the rest of activities did not contribute stabilization
objective either because they were not implemented or were implemented outside the time frame
of an emergency response.
Operational efficiency, reliability, safety, and availability ofpower
81. Improvement in operational efficiency as measured by reduced system losses (mostly non-
technical) was very clear, because reinstallation of prepaid meters and installation of new
connections were the main reasons that revenues increased and unbilled electricity decreased. The
annual electricity system loss of 59.0 percent at the start of the project in 2007 was reduced to
15


﻿46.5 percent by 2009, and 36.7 percent in 20112. This final value is close to the revised target (35
percent), but well short of the original target (25 percent).
82.  System losses would be expected to decrease significantly below 36.7 percent with the
installation of distribution materials purchased under the restructured project (particularly the
outstanding installation of concentric cable which accounts for more than a third of the funds
disbursed after restructuring or about US$600,000). However, these impacts are technically not
creditable to the project since the installation is after project closure.
83. There is evidence of improvement in power distribution reliability, based only on available
data for 2007 and 2012. The materials contributing to this improvement were purchased under the
restructured project and were largely installed after the project was formally closed. Therefore,
these positive outcomes are not considered attributable to the project.
84.  The results framework for the project included only one measure of distribution reliability,
the average time service is available to the customer (ASAI), which had a baseline of 98.9 percent,
a target of 99.5 percent, and an achieved value of 99.4 percent (compared to the without-project
assumption of 97 percent). Annex 2 includes several other measures of reliability (number,
average annual duration) that provide a clearer picture of how reliability changed. Average
number of interruptions of customers per year (SAI) dropped from 62 in 2007 to only 25 in
2012. The average duration of interruptions per customer per year (SAIDI) also dropped, from
105 hours/customer to 50 hours/customer. The caveat is that the results arose from equipment
financed by the project, but installed mainly after the project had closed.
Long-term sustainability
85.  The Project Paper linked the long-term sustainability goal directly to improving the sector's
commercial orientation and strengthening the institutional capacity of EDTL and MNRMEP
(later MOI), and it is therefore assessed in that context. The implicit premise is that achievement
of these capacity gains would leverage improvements in areas such as efficiency, revenue
collection, and fiscal sustainability.
86.  There was very little progress in the capacity building outcomes as the most relevant
activities were cancelled at restructuring (except for the ones directly related to project
implementation support). The only specific capacity building indicator, preparation and
implementation of an HR plan with four specific reporting and assessment areas that staff would
participate in, was also dropped.
87. There were significant shortcomings in the performance of the EDTL and MOI during
implementation, including problems with procurement, financial management, monitoring and
evaluation, and safeguards monitoring. There were also some significant capacity gains as
reflected in improvements in metering, increased revenue collection and cost recovery, and
2 Although the reported system losses in 2012 jumped to 60 percent, this was because the calculation was
based on generation sent out from the 120MW Hera power plant to both Dili and the "expanded service
area" the capital, but only captured billing data for the Dili core service area. In addition the large load
inflows resulting from the commissioning of the Hera power plant would have increased technical losses as
well. In any case, the more relevant and attributable value is for 2011
16


﻿reduced system losses. However, sustaining these improvements and phasing out the current level
of subsidization (power rates are about a third of the cost of power supply) requires the type of
institutional capacity strengthening that was envisaged at project appraisal.
3.3 Efficiency
88. Economic analysis was conducted by comparing two scenarios: (a) "with" the Bank project
and (b) "without" the Bank project.
89. The main economic benefits of the Project were derived from: (a) improved reliability and
availability of electricity services and (b) increased new legal consumers with electricity
connections. Due to the reduction of non-technical loss of the electricity distribution system, there
was a transfer payment from the previously non-paying illegal consumers to tax payers through
the Government budget. Costs were the IDA Grant disbursed amount of US$2.44 million and
GoTL finance of US$0.76 million. Incremental operation and maintenance (O&M) costs of the
Project were assumed to be 1 percent of the investment costs. Detailed assumptions, methodology
and sensitivity analysis are presented in Annex 2.
90. The result showed a net present value (NPV) of US$406,977 in 2008 prices at 11.76
percent discount rate of EOCK. An economic internal rate of return was 16 percent.
11.76 % discount rate of Base case
EOCK
NPV in 2008 prices     US$406,977
EIRR                   16 percent
91.   This result compared with the project appraisal's EIRR of 28 percent. An NPV was not
presented at the project appraisal, but using the same EOCK, the NPV was US$ 540,758.
92. Table below shows the distribution of the economic NPV. The Government and Economy
are the biggest gainers because EDTL's increased revenues accrued to the Government. Other
revenues to the Government are taxes. The previously non-paying consumers are the largest
losers. Poverty impact ratio is 60.8 percent. Fifty six percent of increased Government revenues
were assumed to be spent for more targeted poverty reduction activities. This is because if the
Government spends about fifty four percent, the poverty impact will become negative. Therefore,
the poverty impact of this Project is dependent on the Government's efforts to target their
spending on the poor.
93. The breakdown of the NPV between the two main classes of project benefits, namely
improved service reliability and supply at US$1,528,591 and increased energy supply for new
legal consumers at US$1,021,065, are presented in the distribution table below. Since these are
estimates neither based on actual market transactions nor primary surveys in Dili areas, there is a
need for careful interpretation of the value of results. More comprehensive assessment of the
benefit of distribution system loss reduction based on actual surveys in Dili would benefit the
GoTL to consider appropriate measures.
17


﻿Total net benefit Previous non- New         Consumers from  Local     Government    Abroad
(NPV) in   2008  paying        consumers    reduced         Labor    and Economy
prices           consumers                  outages/interrupti
on
$406,977         $(22,872,483)  $1,021,065  $1,528,591      $95,921   $18,587,123  $2,046,759
100%             -5620%        251%         376%            24%      4567%         503%
Of which   poor $(11,436,241)   $510,533     $764,296        $-       $10,408,789   -
(based on 50%
poverty incidence,
except GoTL spend
56%)
Poverty  impact 60.8%
ratio
94. Financial value of NPV (in view of EDTL) was US$$9,625,365 in 2008 prices and IRR
was 293 percent. Costs included capital and O&M costs, which included taxes, and costs to fill
the gap between the actual cost of electricity services and tariff rates for electricity generations
for new consumers and increased hours of generation available owning to the reduced
interruption and outages. Benefits included increased revenues due to non-technical loss
reductions.
95. Fiscal value of NPV (in view of Government) was US$$9,713,119 in 2008 prices and IRR
was 301 percent. Costs included capital and O&M cost, and costs to fill the gap between the
actual cost of electricity services and tariff rates for electricity generations for new consumers and
increased hours of generation available owning to the reduced interruption and outages. Benefits
included increased revenues due to non-technical loss reductions and taxes.
96.   Stakeholder impacts of externalities of the project, which is a difference between economic
NPV and financial NPV, are presented in the table below. Previously non-paying consumers are
the largest losers. New consumers gain because their willingness to pay is assumed to be
US$0.15/kWh and they are paying US$0.12/kWh, and furthermore, the estimated actual cost of
electricity services is US$0.4/kWh. Similarly, consumers from reduced outages/interruptions also
gain because although their VOLL is US$0.39/kWh and the estimated cost of actual electricity
services is US$0.4/kWh, they are paying only US$0.12/kWh. Local labor has no impact because
cost of labor is assumed to be equal to the opportunity cost, i.e., they can find job elsewhere at the
same or similar payment. The Government and economy have some gains due to the increased
revenues from electricity payment, which would have been paid by tax payers or curtailment of
other essential Government services, although the revenues are still below the actual cost of
electricity services (i.e., revenue of US$0.12/kWh versus actual cost of electricity services of
US$0.4/kWh). Foreign countries have some benefit due to FEP of equipment and materials.
Economic NPV-Financial  Previously   New        Consumers    Local   Government   Abroad
NPV                     non-paying    consumers  from        Labor   and Economy
consumers                reduced
outages/inter
ruptions
$(9,218,388)            $(22,872,483)  $1,021,065  $1,528,591  $-     $11,084,164  $20,274
100%                   248%          -11%        -17%        0%      -120%        0%
Of which poor (based on  $(11,436,241)  $510,533  $764,296    $-      $6,207,132   -
50% poverty incidence,
except GoTL spend 56%)
Poverty impact ratio   -42.9%
18


﻿3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
97. Although the PDO was not formally revised, the outcome rating is based on the split
assessment formula in Appendix B of the ICR Guidelines because of the significant changes to
project components, indicators, and key targets toward the end of the project.
98. Major changes in components were: (a) the dropping of two of the three activities of the
emergency repair for the Comoro Power Plant; (b) the dropping of CFL component; and (c) the
dropping of the bulk of the institutional and capacity building activities that were critical for
improving commercial orientation and long-term sustainability of power sector operations.
99. Changes in PDO Indicators: The PDO-level indicators were reduced from five to two, one
of which lost a sub-indicator as well. The target for one of the remaining PDO indicators, for
reduced system losses, was changed from 25% to a more realistic target of 35%.
100. At completion the project had disbursed $2.44 million. $0.94 (38%) was disbursed at the
time of restructuring, and $1.53 million (62% afterwards). The spilt assessment evaluation
formula requires that the Project performance during the pre- and post- restructuring phases be
weighted according to this formula.
101. Thus, an unsatisfactory rating for the pre-restructuring phase weighted at 38% and a
Moderately Unsatisfactory (MU) rating for the post restructuring phase combines to give an
overall MU rating. The post restructuring phase performance rating is assessed MU because: (a)
the installation of distribution materials that was meant to improve the loss reduction and
reliability targets did not take place until after the grant closed, and even then has not yet been
completed including the highly effective use of concentric cable for prepared meters; and (b) the
non-renewal of the management contract for EdTL soon after grant closure combined with the
earlier non-implementation of the institutional capacity building component has considerably
weakened the project's long-term sustainability outcome.
102. While the restructured project has significantly contributed to the PDOs with respect to the
system loss reduction and reliability, the target values have not been achieved. The targets could
have been achieved if the distribution materials had been fully installed prior to Grant closure and
the Project had been credited with the results.
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
103. The Project's poverty and social impacts are likely to have arisen from: (a) reductions in
system losses; and (b) improvements in reliability. While reductions in non-technical losses
resulted in increased power availability to paying consumers, others who had enjoyed free power
through theft found themselves without access due to affordability problems or unwillingness to
pay. The latter group would have resorted to using firewood and/or kerosene for cookstoves with
their attendant risks of causing a variety of respiratory illnesses, including tuberculosis.
19


﻿104. Benefits from the improvements in reliability measured by the reduction in power supply
interruption duration would have significant impacts on production and on the delivery of social
services (medical, education) although there is no specific information beyond anecdotal evidence.
105. Although EdTL has not maintained statistics on the number of minor/major accidents
improvements in safety would have occurred due to installation of distribution materials.
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
106. The Project's implementation on capacity building component appeared to have been
focused on establishing a Utilities Board, which was moving slowly and eventually was dropped.
The focus on the Utilities Board was due to the fact that the previous management contractor had
failed and the lesson of experience and recommendation by an independent consultant was to
have sound monitoring. Furthermore, the Minister of Finance also showed a strong interest in
establishing the Utilities Board.
107. This component could have financed many other key TAs and training to enhance capacity
in EDTL and Mol and help lay the groundwork for increased commercial orientation and long
term sustainability of the power sector. A new management contractor would have been
supplemented by IDA-funded consultants to strengthen the EDTL to upgrade financial and
management systems and capacities within EDTL, in particular the ability of EDTL to plan and
supervise capital expenditure programs. TA and training would have also been provided to Mol
for procurement, financial management and other project implementation support activities.
However, despite the task team's efforts to discuss with EDTL and Mol the project funding
available for capacity building and training, EDTL and Mol did not appear to be actively
interested and committed until the very late stages of the Project, i.e., the last two missions in
April 2012 and January 2013. During the discussions on the restructuring, their priority also
appeared to have been on reallocating the resources to the power distribution component.
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
Not applicable.
3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
Not applicable.
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: High
108. Timor Leste's power system has expanded in the past 7 years from about 40MW to over
300MW, including the Betano Power Plant which will be commissioned this year. An extensive
150kV system is being commissioned in phases around the country and there are plans to build an
extensive distribution network outside Dili to use the generation capacity and electrify the whole
country.
109.  In addition to this huge agenda challenges remain for EdTL to: (a) modernize the current
distribution system (which is now 30 years old); (b) further reduce system losses in the Dili
system; (c) improve customer services to facilitate payment services, including pre-paid meters;
20


﻿(d) develop strategic and corporate planning capabilities; (e) improve cost recovery and revenue
collection; and (f) build an adequate human resource base.
110. The departure of EdTL management contractor in August 2013 has brought to the
forefront EDTL's institutional constraints to effectively manage, operate and maintain its power
assets, including those financed and commissioned under ESDP. These constraints have
manifested themselves in the very slow installation of distribution materials after the expiration of
the management contract and the lack of information and data on project and operational matters.
Hence, the GoTL is very keen to collaborate with the Bank to build EdTL's institutional
capabilities and over time transform it into a commercial entity.
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
111. The Bank responded appropriately to the country's crisis situation by prioritizing the goal
of stabilizing power supply in parallel with institutional and capacity building for long term
sustainability. The need for capacity building and implementation support was rightly identified,
and incorporated from key lessons learned. About one third of the total project cost was allocated
for TA mainly for policy and technical support, project implementation support, and for
monitoring and auditing the management contract at EDTL. Timeframe was also prudently set
although this was somewhat inconsistent with another key lessons learned noted in the Project
Paper, i.e., the speed is essential. The project schedule included contingencies for delays due to
the political fluidity and high security risks.
112. Nevertheless, there were a number of project design weaknesses. First, the selection of
indicators (particularly reliability indicators) and the arrangement for M&E did not adequately
factor in the limited capacity of EDTL and MNRMEP/Mol. Instead reliance was placed on the
hiring and funding by the GoTL of a management contractor and the provision of advisers by the
Bank even though a previous management contract had failed. Second, there was a failure to
adequately assess the GoTL commitment to implement the strategic aspects of the institutional
capacity building component and this proved to be a major problem resulting eventually in the
component being largely dropped during project restructuring. Finally, as part of the activities to
increase power supply the project included rehabilitation of the switchyard at Comoro Power
Plant, but did not consider the impact of shutting down the plant on power supply to Dili while
the repairs were implemented. This turned out to be impractical as Dili had no alternative source
of supply until towards the end of the project when Hera was commissioned, but by which time
Comoro was no longer needed.
113. In summary the project interventions were highly relevant to the needs of Timor Leste at
the time. However, due to the noted weaknesses in project design quality at entry is rated
moderately unsatisfactory.
21


﻿(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
114. There were significant shortcomings in the Bank's supervision efforts especially in the
early stages, but also some very intense efforts in later stages to support the Borrower in moving
the project towards achieving its objectives.
115.  The shortcomings included: (a) rating project performance as satisfactory in the first three
years of implementation even though very little implementation had taken place; (b) staffing
constraints in the areas of financial management, including failure to provide support from the
country office and/or through other regional offices; and (c) delayed recognition of the need to
restructure the project.
116. Early in the implementation phase, the Bank supervision efforts were also was handicapped
in conducting dialogue with the Government due to sensitivities regarding other large investments
in the sector. The task team's partial knowledge and information on the sector limited its ability
to assess the implications of other sector developments on the ESDP.
117. Despite these shortcomings, from mid-2010 Bank staff worked very closely with the GoTL
and made considerable efforts to be flexible to meet the Borrower's needs. When it became clear
that the project had reached a standstill and differences over procurement appeared
insurmountable, the task team proposed a restructuring of the project to address the most critical
priorities while at the same time providing room for a different approach to the procurement
issues that had beset the project. The task team, with management concurrence, worked closely
with the Borrower and helped to develop a restructuring and implementation plan. A creative
approach to the procurement problem involved bundling all the five contracts for distribution
materials under one bidding document and one international competitive tender process, thus
significantly reducing the staffing demands on Mol and EdTL.
118. Thus despite the shortcomings described above due to the highly supportive role played by
the supervision team in the late stages of implementation and the achievements that were made as
a result of these efforts (including disbursement of 62% of the Grant which would otherwise have
been cancelled), the Bank's overall supervision performance is rated moderately satisfactory.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
119. Overall Bank performance is assessed moderately unsatisfactory given the deficiencies in
the quality at entry and supervision as described above.
5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
120. The Borrower had a very clear strategy for the power sector at appraisal and contributed
very substantially to the analytical work that underpinned the design of the Project. However,
during implementation as the GoTL strategy shifted towards large scale expansion of generation
22


﻿and transmission facilities, the level of attention paid to the ESDP appeared to decrease. Initially
information was not openly shared with Bank teams which made it difficult for the teams to
appreciate the impact of these other investments on the ESDP.
121. While, at appraisal there had been broad agreement on the importance of institutional
capacity building for the development of the Timor Leste power sector, during implementation
the Government appeared to lack commitment and never hired the technical and policy advisers
who were meant to support strategic planning, advise on policy changes and work with the
Utilities Board (itself never set-up) and to support performance monitoring of the management
contractor. The Borrower did not carry our annual audits of the management contractor, but
independently hired an external auditor whose report was not shared with the Bank. In the end
the strategic parts of the institutional component had to be deleted from the project at
restructuring (leaving only the elements that had to do with physical implementation support).
122. Mol could also have used more of the technical assistance support provided under the
institutional component to support its financial management and procurement functions.
Without this support and with limited internal capacity IFRs and audits were always submitted
late and the semi-annual project reports required in the Financial Agreement were never produced
and submitted to the Bank. Project data and information were not well maintained and organized.
For example, information of some procurement work that was carried out for Mol by consultants
financed by the Asian Development Bank appears not to be available to Mol.
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
123. EdTL was assigned overall responsibility for project implementation and was supported on
financial and procurement matters by Mol's the Directorate of Corporate Services. EdTL's
project implementation responsibilities were largely carried out by the management contractor.
There were some key shortcomings in the performance of the IA that had a bearing on project
outcomes: (a) coordination of technical and fiduciary functions was weak (e.g. the non-provision
or slow provision of technical information (cost estimates, terms of reference to the Directorate of
Corporate Services for preparation of bid documents); (b) inadequate technical staff in EdTL ( e.g.
one distribution engineer is supervising the installation of distribution materials; and (c)
inadequate systems for project monitoring.
124. Although EDTL produced monthly reports, the data only partially covers the project
performance indicators in the Project Paper. Also, these monthly reports were only available at
the request of Bank missions. The monthly reports should have been integrated in the semi-
annual Project Reports agreed in the Financial Agreement. The semi-annual Project reports
would have integrated monitoring and evaluation indicators, including technical, procurement,
and financial management and safeguards matters. These reports would have been useful for
both the Bank team, EDTL and MOI to review the project progress and discuss the areas of
improvement and the Bank would have provided guidance how to improve producing these
reports.
125. The absence of well-organized and consistent data made it extremely difficult to prepare
the ICR. What data had been available had apparently been destroyed by a computer virus before
the ICR mission and EdTL had no back-up. The departure of the management contractor on
completion of his assignment prior to the ICR mission further complicated the mission's work.
23


﻿126. EdTL did hire contractors for implementation of the Return to User pay Program, and
closely supervised them ensuring an impressive increase in the number of metered installations
and inspection of installations to identify and address instances of power theft However, given
the above noted weaknesses EDTL's overall performance is rated moderately unsatisfactory.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
As discussed above, overall borrower performance is moderately Unsatisfactory.
6. Lessons Learned
127. Effective Bank project support in fragile and conflict and/or post conflict states requires
intensive on the ground implementation support. The design of this operation appropriately
included substantial institutional capacity building for implementation support as well as for
strategic planning and policy advice. It was appropriately envisaged that the implementation
support was going to be provided primarily by staff on the ground in Dili and/or in the Region.
However, in reality, there was only one junior procurement staff for a limited time followed by an
operations officer, also for a short duration. The presence on the ground of more experienced staff
could have helped to unblock many of the constraints that affected implementation. Even though
fiduciary staff were based in the region in Sydney, still there was a shortage of FM staff which
limited the support the Bank could provide to the Borrower.
128. Ideally policy reform components should not be handled through investment lending, but
where this is unavoidable because for example a policy action is closely related to an investment
and/or for lack of an alternative vehicle, Borrower ownership and commitment should be assured
at design stage and should be managed and monitored during implementation. The risk of
Borrower's lack of commitment to the strategic planning and reform elements of the institutional
and capacity building component were not explicitly identified at project design stage. Not much
was done to monitor Borrower commitment at early stages in the project until it was too late and
there was not time to try and help build consensus around the issue of commercialization of EdTL.
Thus, in the end this component had to be dropped, although interestingly the GoTL is now
showing a keen interest to reform its power sector.
129. Even though a Bank financed project is confined to a small segment in a sector, knowledge
and information of the overall sector environment and ongoing investments is critical to be able
to appreciate and adjust to factors that may impact the Bank supported operation. As the GoTL
shifted its focus towards large scale system expansion, initially the information was not shared
with the Bank. As time progressed it became apparent that MNRMEP/MOI and EDTL's senior
management attention was focused on the large system expansion that the Government had
embarked on and reduced attention was being given the ESDP.
130. A flexible partnership with Borrowers and the exercise of sound judgment are critical for
achieving results. When US$ 1.6 million out of US$ 2.5 million of IDA Grant needed to be used
up effectively before the project closing within one year, the decision was made based on sound
prioritization of sector needs and practical considerations and within the scope of the original
development objectives.
24


﻿7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
131. The Borrower did not provide written comments on the Bank's ICR, but submitted its own
evaluation report which is in Annex 7 of this report. The Borrower's comments on the Bank's
and on its own performance are also reflected in the Bank's own evaluation.
(b) Co-financiers
(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
Not applicable
25


﻿Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing
(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
Appraisal    Actual/Latest Percentag
Estimate    Estimate Total   e of
Components                            (US$ million)  (US$ million)3 Appraisal
1. Emergency Repair and Maintenance       0.35         0.13           37%
of Comoro Power Station
2. Rehabilitation and Upgrading of Dili   1.17
Power Distribution System
3. Distribution of Energy Efficient Light  0.05        0               0%
Bulbs
4. Institutional Capacity Building        0.84
Total Baseline Cost     2.40                         0%
Physical Contingencies                    0.08                         0%
Physical Contingencies                    0.33                         0%
Total Financing Required     2.81          3.22          115%
Note: With the February 2012 restructuring, Component 3 was dropped and Component 4 was renumbered,
but the table reflects the original numbering.
(b) Financing
Appraisal   Actual/Lates
Estimate     t Estimate  Percentage
Type of       (USD          (USD          of
Source of Funds           Cofinancing    millions)     millions)  Appraisal
Borrower                                        0.31         0.75      249%
International Development
.2.50                                     2.44        98%
Association (IDA)
Government of Norway     Pooled
Total Financing                       2.81         3.22      115%
3 Cost breakdown is not available.
26


﻿Annex 2. Outputs by Component
Part 1 - Emergency Repair and Maintenance of Comoro Power Station
This component of the Project was originally designed to address the stability and reliability of
power supply and improve safety through the (i) rehabilitation of the radiator of Mark II
generating unit, (ii) rehabilitation of the switchgear, (iii) installation of firefighting equipment at
Comoro Station. The rehabilitation of the radiator has been completed and satisfactory operated
until the Comoro Station was shut down in May 2012. The radiator is still in installed at the
Comoro Power Station when visited by the mission on 24 January 2013. The switchgear and
firefighting equipment were dropped with the Project Restructuring.
The Project having suffered delays in procurement of materials and equipment and the switchgear
and firefighting equipment subcomponents were subsequently dropped from the during the
project restructuring.
Another power station is ready to operate (32.5 MW Comoro II). Currently, the power supply to
Dili Distribution System comes solely from Hera Power Station with Comoro II on standby. The
two stations are best to be operated in parallel under a synchronized Power Grid instead of
"standby mode" of operation from point of view of reliability. Comoro II could provide a
Spinning Reserve (instead of providing back-up capacity only). In spinning reserve mode of
operation, Comoro II could immediately pick-up the load in case the Hera Station shuts down on
forced outage since Comoro II is already running and synchronized in the power grid. This
operation will avoid the loss of load due to outages in power generation system. However, it will
require a strong transmission interconnection between the two stations and establishing a load
dispatching control center which is yet to be completed.
The ICR mission that visited the power station and had the general impression that the plant not
being maintained and mothballed in accordance with good industry practice since its shutdown
thereby facing the risk of further deterioration. The value of the power plant is still substantial but
if it continues to deteriorate, it may become expensive to revive it in the future. It is
recommended that the Comoro power station be mothballed properly to save the value of the
asset so that it would still be valuable in case the GoTL decide to operate it in the future or sell
the assets to other countries.
Part 2 - Rehabilitation and Upgrading of Dili Power Distribution System
During the Implementation Supervision missions, it was concluded that the Rehabilitation and
Upgrading of Dili Power Distribution System component of the Project has more value added and
has a higher chance of success. The implementation of this component in spite of the delays had
shown that the system loss reduction objective was being achieved and the distribution system
reliability could be improved. Thus, it was decided during the Project restructuring to use the
remaining USD 1.6 million project funds to scale-up the improvement of the distribution system.
The Table below shows the summary of the quantity and date of materials ordered and delivered
under the Project. All quantities of the materials had been ordered by 20 December 2011 and the
last delivery date was 21 June 2012. It was noted that the Poles under Lot 3 were the last to be
delivered and in installment basis. This was due to the substandard and out-of-specification
materials delivered by the supplier which was rejected by the Project Implementation team. There
27


﻿has been no variation on the quantities planned under the restructuring plan, ordered and
delivered.
QTY
Ordere   Date         QTY         Date
Lot 1   Description                   Qty.     Units    d        Ordered      Delivered   Delivered
1       Transformer, 315 kVA          12      Units     12       12/20/2011   12          2/14/2012
2       Transformer, 250 kVA          12       Units    12       12/20/2011   12          2/14/2012
3       Load Break Switch, 24 kV      13       Units    13       12/20/2011   13          2/14/2012
Lot 2   Description                  oty.      Units
Cable NYY IX, 120 mm,
1       600V/1000V                   3,420    Meters    3,420    11/24/2011   3,420       1/10/2012
Cable NYY IX, 95 mm,
2       600V/1000V                    3,960    Meters   3,960    11/24/2011   3,960       1/10/2012
3       Twisted Cable NFA 2X-T        9600     Meters   9600     11/24/2011   9600        1/10/2012
4       Conductors, AAAC-S            12,000   Meters   12,000   11/24/2011   12,000      1/10/2012
Lot 3   Description                  oty.      Units
1       Steel Poles, 12 m., 200 DaN  400      Units     400      6/15/2011    74          5/22/2012
80          6/11/2012
80          6/15/2012
84          6/18/2012
82          6/21/2012
400         Total
Lot 4   Description                   oty.     Units
1       Arresters, 21-27 kV          300      Sets      300      11/24/2011   300         1/10/2012
2       Fuse Cut-outs                 300      Sets     300      11/24/2011   300         1/10/2012
3       Single Cross Arms             1,320    Sets     1,320    11/24/2011   1,320       1/10/2012
4       Duble Cross Arms              300      Sets     300      11/24/2011   300         1/10/2012
Lot 5   Description                   oty.
Concentric Cable,
Cu/XLPE/PVC, 10/10/10 mm2,
1       1 kV                         84,000   Sets      84,000   11/24/2011   84,000      1/10/2012
28


﻿The table below shows the unit and total costs of the materials and equipment procured by the
Project. Practically, only Lot 3 (Poles) has variations in actual purchased costs against the
approved budget. The US$ 2,000.00 difference in cost is 0.83 percent lower than the budget
for the item and 0.13 percent of the total budget.
Lot 1  Description            Qty.     Units   Bud2et        Unit Cost     Total Cost    Variations
1      Transformer, 315 kVA   12       Units                  $  1,340.80  $  136,089.60
2      Transformer, 250 kVA   12       Units   $ 331,242.00   $ 10,010.90  $  120,130.80
3      Load Break Switch, 24 kV  13    Units                  $ 5,770.90   $   75,021.70  0.00%
Subtotal     $ 331,242.10
Lot 2  Description            Qty.     Units
Cable NYY IX, 120 mm,
1      600V/1000V             3,420    Meters                 $    19.37   $   66,245.40
Cable NYY lX, 95 mm,                    $ 219,295.00
2      600V/1000V             3,960    Meters                 $     15.17  $   60,073.20
3      Twisted Cable NFA 2X-T  9600    Meters                 $     5.46   $   52,416.00
4      Conductors, AAAC-S     12,000   Meters                 $     3.38   $   40,560.00  0.00%
Subtotal     $ 219,294.60
Lot 3  Description            Qty.     Units
Steel Poles, 12 m., 200
1      DaN                    400      Units   $ 240,000.00   $   595.00   $ 238,000.00  0.83%
Subtotal     $ 238,000.00
Lot 4  Description           _Qy.      Units
1      Arresters, 21-27 kV    300      Sets                   $    81.25   $   24,375.00
2      Fuse Cut-outs          300      Sets    $ 210,225.00   $   268.75   $   80,625.00
3      Single Cross Arms      1,320    Sets                   $    55.00   $   72,600.00
4      Duble Cross Arms       300      Sets                   $    108.75  $   32,625.00  0.00%
Subtotal     $ 210,225.00
Lot 5  Description            Qt.      Units
Concentric Cable,
Cu/XLPE/PVC, 10/10/10                   $ 588,000.00   $     7.00   $ 588,000.00  0.00%
1      mm2, 1 kV              84,000   Meters
Subtotal     $   88,000.00
TOTAL                                          $ 1,588,762.00              $ 1,586,761.70  0.13%
29


﻿In terms of installation of the delivered materials, the Table below shows the quantities installed
as of December 2012. The 250 kV distribution transformers were utilized 100 percent since it was
adopted by EDTL as a priority to address the overloaded smaller transformers which has potential
of explosion (safety hazard) and long duration of interruptions. The remaining six (6) 315 kVA
transformers will be installed this year to replace the other small transformers that were identified
to be overloading or near overloading. Installation of the 250 kVA transformer visited by the
mission indicates good industry practice that will ensure safety in the installations.
Lot 1         Description           Qty.    Units   OTY       QTY      QTY        Percent
Delivered  Installed  Remainint  Untilization
1      Transformer, 315 kVA       12        Units   12        6        6          50%
2      Transformer, 250 kVA        12       Units   12        12       0           100%
3      Load Break Switch, 24 kV   13        Units   12        8        4          67%
Lot 2         Description           Qt3L    Units
Cable NYY 1X, 120 mm,
1      600V/1000V                 3,420     Meters 3,420      1,200    2,220      35%
Cable NYY 1X, 95 mm,
2       600V/1000V                3,960     Meters 3,960      1,400    2,560      35%
3      Twisted Cable NFA 2X-T     9600      Meters 9,600      9,600    0           100%
4       Conductors, AAAC-S         12,000    Meters  12,000   3,600    8,400       30%
Lot 3         Description           Qty.    Units
1      Steel Poles, 12 in., 200 DaN  400    Units   400       32       368        8%
Lot 4         Description           Qty.    Units
1      Arresters, 21-27 kV        300       Sets    300       240      60         80%
2      Fuse Cut-outs              300        Sets   300       300      0           100%
3       Single Cross Arms          1,320     Sets   1,320     600      720        45%
4      Double Cross Arms          300        Sets   300       120       180       40%
Lot 5         Description           Qty.    Units
1      Concentric Cable,
Cu/XLPE/PVC, 10/10/10       84,000   Meters   84,000      0       84,000       0%
mm2, 1 kV
The Concentric Cable (Lot 5) is supposed to be the second priority but this component is tied to
the availability of the pre-paid meters which is the counterpart of GOTL. The installation of this
type of cable has the highest value added because it makes the bypassing of meters (conventional
or pre-paid) more difficult. The EDTL Project Implementation Team decided that the Concentric
Cable will be used in association with the pre-paid meters either for replacing existing service
connection (i.e., conversion of existing meters to pre-paid meters) and for connecting new
customers. This strategy is considered sustainable as it prevents pilferages now and will continue
to prevent (i.e., make it difficult) to steal electricity after connection.
The Load Break Switch which was utilized at 67 percent, fuse cutouts (100 percent utilization)
and lightning arresters (80 percent utilization) which addresses the reliability issues is second
priority in the installation strategy. Fuse cutouts addresses both frequency and duration of
interruptions to customers while load break switches dramatically reduces duration of
interruptions. Sample installations visited during the mission also indicated that they were
properly installed.
The steel poles and conductors (other than the concentric cables) for the rehabilitation of
undersized low voltage distribution lines was given the last priority in the implementation by
30


﻿EDTL mainly due to delay in delivery of the poles. The conductors and the poles go together to
form the distribution lines. Hence, even if the conductors have been delivered much earlier
(January 2012), they will not be utilized anyway since the poles were delivered much later (June
2012). Compounding the situation is the fact that EDTL Distribution department has only one (1)
Distribution Engineer supervising only 12 Linemen who are in-charge of all construction,
operation and maintenance.
It was noted that the steel poles that EDTL purchased and eventually delivered after rejecting the
first batch are consistent with the standard of EDTL. The Project could have also introduced
another value in improving the standard of materials and equipment through the use of galvanized
zinc-coated steel poles that can last long due to its resistance to corrosion. These poles are widely
used especially in countries like Timor Leste where many of the roads are constructed following
the sea shore (i.e., coastal roads). This may not have been part of the design of the Project and is
mentioned here as observation and may be useful for consideration by EDTL or in the future
projects.
EDTL expects to install all the remaining materials procured under lots 1-5.
Part 3 -Distribution of Ener2y Efficient Li2ht Bulbs
The Distribution of Energy Efficient Light Bulbs was originally intended to promote energy
conservation and demand reduction through free distribution of Compact Fluorescent Lamps
(CFLs) to residential customers in Dili. This was also dropped in the Project Restructuring due to
the significant difference in price through the shopping method (local shopping) against what
could have been obtained elsewhere in the region.
Part 4 - Institutional Capacity Buildin2
Part 4 of the Project Activities was designed to build the institutional capacity building,
particularly the 'Strengthening of EDTL' for planning and supervising capital expenditures to
complement the expected capacity building through the transfer of technology and know-how by
the Distribution Management Contractor who was expected to build management systems and
demonstrate best practices. This part also includes the 'Strengthening of Ministry of Natural
Resources, Minerals and Energy Policy (MNRMEP), which is now MOPW' through the
engagement of an experienced advisor to build up the capacity within the Ministry and provide
advice on policy, planning and sector supervision issues, including monitoring of the performance
of the Management Contractor at EDTL. Both Project activities were dropped during the
restructuring to allow time for a policy consensus on institutional reforms of EDTL to be forged.
31


﻿Key Performance Indicator: Overall Performance (System Loss and Reliability)
The System Losses of Dili Distribution System from 2007 - 2010 is shown in Table below. It can
be observed that at the start of the Project in 2007, the annual system was 59 percent. The
Prepaid-metering and introduction of concentric cable for service drop of the customers have
lowered the system loss to 36.7 percent in 2011. The system loss increase to 60 percent was
because in 2012, 120MW Hera power plant increased its service areas outside Dili; although the
data on the amount of power generation covering both Dili and expanded areas were
available, the billing data were not available in the areas outside Dili. The large load
inflows resulting from the commissioning of the Hera power plant would have increased the
losses as well. Nevertheless, it can be observed that the system loss have been dramatically
reduced in spite of the tariff increases.
Energy        Total       Total                                    Average
Delivered to  Sales/      Distribution   Annual System  Average    Costs
Year    Distribution  Billing    System Losses  Loss (%)       Revenue    /Generated
System (kWh)  (kWh)      (kWh)                         (US$/kWh) (US$/kWh)
2007    88,117,419    36,119,579  51,997,840    59.01%         N.A.       N.A.
2008    106,093,548   46,052,915  60,040,633    56.59%         0.05159    N.A.
2009    126,440,943   67,594,239  58,846,705    46.54%         0.06201    0.2688
(Jan-June)
2010    134,350,657   79,223,305  55,127,352    41.03%         0.07556    0.3
2011    134,456,354   85,108,231  49,348,123    36.70%         0.09480    N.A.
2012    227,763,148   90,520,454  137,242,694   60.26% (due to  N.A.      N.A.
(excluding    lack of data on
expanded       expanded
service areas)  service areas)
The number of consumers who has been actively purchasing prepaid meters increased from about
2,000 consumers in January 2008 to close to 18,000 by March 2010. This number of about 18,000
consumers had been still maintained up to the latest data available on July, 2012, although the
number has some fluctuations. During 2009-2011, 27,672 prepaid meters have been re-installed.
This compares the fact that during the Project preparation, approximately 75 to 80 percent of
about 24,500 pre-paid meters installed in residential and small consumers were estimated to have
been by-passed or tampered by December 2006.
The table below shows the dramatic increase of concentric cable and pre-paid meter installation.
The reductions in these numbers in 2009 were due to lack of stock and in 2012 was due to lack of
stock of pre-paid meters, which should be installed with concentric cables. EDTL is planning to
purchase of 50,000 pre-paid meters under the 2013 budget. The budget is expected to be
approved by March 2013. EDTL expects to use up all the remaining concentric cables procured
under the Project restructuring in 2013.
32


﻿No. of Prepaid  No. of Cony.  Total No. of  Cumulative  Length of     Cumulative
YEAR    Meters        Meters        Meters        No. of Meters  Concentric   Length Since
Installed     Installed     Installed     Installed since  Cables     2007
2007          Installed
2007   0              0             0             0             0             0
2008    5,792         0             5,792         5,792         47,285        47,285
2009   624            0             624           6,416         5,716         53,001
2010   5,693          0             5,693         12,109        32,912        85,913
2011   4,988          0             4,988         17,097        31,366        117,279
2012                              1 0             17,097                      117,279
Table below shows the number of meters that were reinstalled, totaling 27,672 during 2009-2011.
Year         No. of Cony. Meters Reinstalled     No. of Prepaid Meters Installed   Total
2009                     0                                 14,996                 14,996
2010                     0                                  7,706                  7,706
2011                     0                                 4,970                  4,970
Total                    0                                 27,672                 27,672
The analysis of actual outage and interruptions report at EDTL for December 2007 and December
2012 indicated the accomplishment of the Project which can be directly attributed to the Load
Break Switches, Lightning Arresters and Fuse Cutouts under Lot 1 an Lot 4. Shown in Table
below is the estimate of annual reliability performance of Dili Distribution System with 6 feeders,
227 distribution transformers. Based on an average 150 customer-connection per transformer, the
System Average Interruption Frequency Index (SAIFI) or the average number of interruptions of
customers in one year was 62 in 2007. In 2012, SAIFI has dropped to only 25 customer-
interruptions/customer-yr. The duration of interruptions in 2007 measured by SAIDI (System
Average Interruption Duration Index) was 105 hours in 1 year. SAIDI has improved by 100
percent as it was now 50 hours/customer per year. It should be noted however that the Customer
Average Interruption Duration Index or CAIDI which measure the average time that power is
restored for every interruption increased from 1.68 hours to 2.04 hours. This is associated with
the manpower of EDTL after the management contractor has left. EDTL has only one (1)
Distribution Engineer supervising 12 Linemen with an enormous task to construct, operate and
maintain a City's distribution system. It was noted that the number of outage events in 2012 was
higher than in 2007 (144 events in 2007 to 235 events in 2012). The outage data indicated that in
2012, the interruptions were triggered mainly by faults in the LV lines particularly
disconnected/burned service drop. This is an indication that the meters are being by-passed by LV
customers. There was a report that a few weeks ago, some customers tampering the service
connection were electrocuted and died.
For these reliability indices, since the virus in the EDTL's computer destroyed all data stored in
the computer, these percentages could only be calculated for the years for which raw data in hard
copies were available. Coincidentally, these years were 2007 and 2012, when the Project began
and closed.
33


﻿Reliability
4      2007       2012      Units             Remarks
Index
SAIFI       62         25        Cust-Int/Cust-Yr  Ave. No. of Interruptions of
Customers in 1 year
Ave. Duration of Interruptions of
SAIDI       105        50        Hrs/Cust-Yr       Cutmr.n1ya
Customers mn 1 year
Ave. Time of Power
CAIDI       1.68       2.04      Hrs/Cust-Int      Retoratiof Inter
Restoration/Interruption
Ave. Percent of Time Service is
ASAI        98.79%     99.42%    % Availability    Ave      to   Tmer
Available to a Customer
The Project estimate of the availability of the distribution system in 2006 was 98.9 percent
(baseline). The estimate by the mission for year 2007 based on outage data of EDTL puts the
Average System Availability Index (ASAI) at 98.79 percent. By 2012, the availability reached
99.42 percent which is close to the target ASAI of 99.5 percent by the end of the Project.
Key Performance Indicator: Intermediate Results Indicator
As of end of December 2012, the Project has contributed 18 distribution transformers that have
avoided the imminent overloading of transformers. Should these transformers been not installed
in time, the transformers could have been damaged and resulted in more and longer customer
interruptions. In addition to reliability, overloaded transformers are among the large contributor
of technical loss since the technical loss is proportional to the square of the load (i.e., doubling the
load will quadruple the loss). The accomplishment so far is only 60 percent of target of the
Project (30 units of installed transformers at the end of Project).
Indicator                                                       Qty.     Units
1   Number of Installed Distribution Transformers                   18        Units
2   Kilometer of Additional LV Lines Constructed                    4.2       km
3   Kilometer of Existing LV Lines on which conductor size upgragded  6.8     km
4   No. of Customers on which Revenue Meters Installed              N.A.      N.A.
A total of 4.2 kilometer of additional LV lines had been constructed by the Project. This
translated to about 840 new household connections which has increased the annual consumption
by 1.9 MWh of electricity. An additional 6.8 kilometer of lines that are undersized were also
upgraded to reduce the technical losses.
The number of customers connected from 2007 to 2012 is shown in Table below. After the
Project started, the number of consumers had increased dramatically. The number of new
consumers between 2007 and 2012 was 11,957, which was 150 percent increase of the number of
consumers.
4 SAIFI = System Average Interruption Frequency Index = how often the average customer experiences a
sustained outage over a predefined period of time.
SAIDI = System Average Interruption Duration Index = the total duration of interruption for the average
customer during a predefined period of time.
CAIDI = Customer Average Interruption Duration Index = the average time required to restore service.
ASAI = Average System Availability Index = the fraction of time that a customer has received power
during the defined reporting period.
34


﻿YEAR       No. of         No. of          No. of          No. of         No. of
Customers,      Customers,     Customers,      Customers,      Customers,
Domestic        Social         Commercial      Government      Total
2007       22,851          126            1,003           22             24,002
2008       23,017          131            1,044           22             24,214
2009       28,361          136            1,125           24             29,646
2010       31,228          140            1,302           25             32,695
2011       33,095          145            1,551           26             34,817
2012       34,030          151            1,752           26             35,959
2007-      11,179         25              749             4               11,957
2012
Table 1 below shows the Results Framework Monitoring. The target values were revised at the
project restructuring. Although many indicators did not meet the targeted value and also were not
available, the above analyses indicate that the Project contributed significantly meeting the PDO.
35


﻿Table 1: Results Framework Monitoring
C=Contie                                   Cumulative Target Values**                         Actual Achieved
PDO Level Results          N= New        Unit of     Baseline
Indicators*         0   R=Revised     Measure               YR1      YR 2      YR        YR 4       2008      2009      2010       2011      2012
Indicator One: System losses   R            Percentage  55.9%              40.0%            35.0%           58.4%     48.7%     41.7%      39.1%     N.A.
O
Indicator Two: Power supply    D: Power     Percentage  Power              98%; 99%         99.5%; 99.5%    98.79%    99.69%    N.A.       N.A.      99.42%
reliability                    generation               generation                                          (2007
99.5%;                                              value)
C: Power                 Power
E   distribution:            distribution
Average                  : Average
System                   System
Availability             Availability
Index                    Index
98.9%
Indicator Three: Power         C            Percentage  (i) Number         1; 4             0.5; 2          N.A.      N.A.      N.A.       N.A.      N.A.
supply safety                                           of major
accidents
per year -
Not known
(ii) Number
of minor
accidents
per year -
Not known
Indicator four: Power supply   D            kW          0                  500kW            500kW           N.A.      N.A.      N.A.       N.A.      N.A.
capacity increase (as a result
of repair of Comoro Power
Station): Cumulative
Indicator five: HR plan for    D            Qualitative  HR plan           HR plan          Relevant newly  N.A.      N.A.      N.A.       N.A.      N.A.
MNRMEP prepared and                                     (including         developed        recruited staff
implemented satisfactorily                              HR needs)          ,                participate in
not yet            recruitme        review meetings
developed          nt initiate,     and report to the
and              Minister on
36


﻿guidance          financial and
note for         technical
new staff         performance of
policies          EdTL
prepared
Intermediate Result indicator    R            Number       0                   15               30               N.A.      N.A.      N.A.        N.A.       18
One: Number of additional    E
transformers installed
Intermediate Result indicator    R            Km           0                   18               25               N.A.      N.A.       N.A.       N.A.      4.2
Two: Km of additional LV
lines on which conductor size
upgraded
Intermediate Result indicator    R            Km           0                  6                 8                N.A.      N.A.      N.A.        N.A.      6.8
three: Km of existing LV lines
on which conductor size
upgraded
Intermediate Result indicator    R            Number                           10,000           16,400           N.A.      N.A.      N.A.        N.A.      N.A.
four: No of customers on
which revenue meters installed  E
in accordance with theft
resistance standard
Intermediate Result indicator   D            MWh                              1,630            1,630            N.A.      N.A.       N.A.       N.A.       N.A.
five:: Annual energy savings
(MWh) implied by the number
of CFLs distributed to
customers
Intermediate Result indicator    R            Number                          4000              7100             212       5644       8693       10815      11957
six: No. of new customers
Definitions:
Average System Availability Index (ASAI) The average degree of service continuity experienced by customers served during a year (measured
in percent)
Major Accident An accident caused by unsafe conditions on electrical system resulting in death or injury requiring hospitalization for more than
one day or property damage over US$50,000
Minor Accident An accident caused by unsafe conditions on electrical system resulting in minor injury not requiring hospitalization for more
than one day or property damage of less than US$50,000
37


﻿Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
1. Methodology
Economic analysis was conducted by comparing two scenarios: (a) "with" the Bank project and
(b) "without" the Bank project.
The main economic benefits of the Project were derived from (i) improved reliability and
availability of electricity services and (ii) increased new legal consumers with electricity
connections. Due to the reduction of non-technical loss of the electricity distribution system, there
was a transfer payment from the previously non-paying illegal consumers to tax payers through
the Government budget.
Costs were the IDA Grant disbursed amount of US$2.44 million and GoTL finance of US$0.76
million. Incremental operation and maintenance (O&M) costs of the Project were assumed to be 1
percent of the investment costs.
The above explanations could be presented in the following formula:
AW = AC+AB, where,
AW = Change in welfare
AC = Investment and O&M costs
AB = Benefits (improved reliability and availability of electricity services, and new customers
receiving electricity services)
The above formula showed that the net present value of change in welfare level as a whole was
the sum of the net present value of change in costs and benefits between (a) "with" the Bank
project and (b) "without" the Bank project.
2. Assumptions
Following assumptions are made in this analysis.
Improved reliability and availability of electricity services
Benefits of increased reliability and availability of electricity services were estimated using the
data on SAIFI, SAIDI, CAIDI and ASAI in the Annex 2. The analysis of actual outage and
interruptions report for December 2007 and December 2012, which were obtained from EDTL,
indicated the accomplishment of the Project can be directly attributed to the load break switches,
lightning arresters and fuse cutouts. These materials were delivered in January - February 2012
and most of the materials had been installed. Based on these data, value of lost load (VOLL) was
estimated.
Initially, a proxy method was considered to estimate VOLL, employing a ratio of Gross Domestic
Product (GDP) and the quantity of electricity consumed in Timor Leste. In 2010, estimates of
non-oil GDP compositions by sector were agriculture - 28 percent, industry and services - 33
38


﻿percent, and public sector excluding United Nations - 39 percent. This method was considered
to constitute an upper bound for the overall interruption costs. Even assuming that the agricultural
sector does not use electricity, using this method of non-oil GDP/kWh resulted in VOLL ranging
from US$ 4.19/kWh to US$ 4.89/kWh during 2008-2011.
Therefore, a recent estimate of VOLL in the Philippines that used a choice modeling method was
adapted to this ICR.6 This estimate was for Luzon grid outside the significantly developed areas
of the National Capital Region and nearby areas served by the Manila Electric Company
(Meralco). The consumer profiles of residential, industrial and commercial consumers of the
Philippine study were almost identical with those of Dili as in the table below. Therefore, the
estimate was considered reasonable to apply to Dili. In 2007, an average duration of one outage
was 1.7 hours in Dili. In 2012, it was 2.0 hours in Dili. The Philippines study estimated one hour
outage of VOLL at US$0.31, a four hour outage at US$0.55, and an eight hour outage at US$0.75.
From these estimates, a two hour outage in this Philippines study was estimated at US$0.39/kWh
to be used for this ICR. Another recent study of firms in 12 countries in Africa used a revealed
preference method which allowed for incomplete backup to mitigate the damages because
sometimes mitigation measures could fail. Its estimates ranged between US$0.46 and US$1.25
per kWh for an eight hour-outage7 . But this study in Africa only assessed the eight hour-outage.
The major reasons of using the methodology and the estimate of VOLL in the Philippines are
because (i) the methodology of estimation of VOLL was not available in the economic analysis at
Project appraisal as VOLL was not included in the analysis and (ii) the above proxy of VOLL
employing the ratio of GDP and the quantity of electricity consumed in Timor Leste was too high.
Electricity consumption share of the Philippines study area  Customers Annual Energy Sales
Residential                                      94.4%             54.3%
Commercial                                        5.4%             27.5%
Industrial                                        0.2%             18.2%
Total                                           100.0%            100.0%
Electricity consumption share of Dili area (2012) Customers Annual Energy Sales
Residential                               95.1%             51.8%
Commercial /industry                       4.9%             48.2%
Total                                    100.0%             100%
Reduction of electricity distribution system non-technical loss
The benefits of reductions of non-technical losses were transfers of payment to non-paying
consumers from tax payers through the Government budget or Government's curtailment of other
essential public services. There has been a large supply shortage until Hera power plant become
online in late 2011 and a rapid growth of demand for electricity. An average electricity generation
' State Budget 2012, Budget Overview Book 1. Ministry of Finance. Democratic Republic of Timor Leste.
November 2011.
6 The Value of Loss of Load of Luzon Grid in a Restructured Power Industry. Danilo C. Guinto Jr.
University of the Philippines. 2012.
Power Outages and the Costs of Unsupplied Electricity: Evidence from Backup Generation among Firms
in Africa. Musiliu 0. Oseni. Judge Business School, University of Cambridge. 2012.
39


﻿growth rate for 2007-2011 was 11.1 percent. As Hera power plant became available in late 2011,
the generation growth from 2011 to 2012 was as much as 69.4 percent. Therefore, the freed up
amount of power from the loss reduction was assumed to be consumed. The increased collection
of payment would increase the Govermment revenue since EDTL's revenue is retained in the
Government budget as revenue. Government provides EDTL with the annual government budget.
For example, in 2010, the actual Government revenue from EDTL was US$10 million and the
Government budget allocation for EDTL in 2012 was about US$109.5 million. Before Bank
financed the return to user pay program in late 2008, EDTL's revenue for 2005-2008 was about
US$ 5-6 million per year. After that the revenue drastically increased from US$ 5.5 million in
2008 to US$15.8 million in 2012.
According to the EDTL, most of the non-paying consumers are residential consumers and
government institutions. The Project's key contribution to reducing non-technical loss of the
electricity distribution system has been through the installation and re-installation of prepaid-
metering and concentric cable for electricity consumers. 8 Residential consumers share the
majority of electricity consumptions with prepaid meters; for example, in 2012, 78 percent of
total prepaid meter based electricity consumption was shared by residential consumers and
government institutions shared only 0.01 percent of the total prepaid meter based electricity
consumption. Therefore, it was assumed that most of the electricity service revenues that were
recovered through reduction of the system loss were attributed to the residential consumers.9
New electricity consumers
As a result of the non-technical loss reduction of the electricity distribution system, it would be
possible that many of new legal electricity consumers would be low income consumers who were
previously illegal non-paying consumers. Surveys by EDTL in 2010 found that 79 percent of
electricity users in a low income area in Dili were illegal users with regular cable compared to
only 10 percent in a higher income area with concentric cable. Therefore, the amount of
willingness to pay (WTP) for electricity services of these previously non-paying consumers
would be equal or less than US$0.12/kWh of tariff rate. Other new consumers who are not poor
could have higher value of WTP than US$0.12/Wh. Monthly consumption for metered residential
customers was 187 kWh/month, which was estimated from EDTL's data. In 2011, monthly non-
8 Due to the poor collection efficiency for electricity bills, Norwegian grants financed replacement of conventional
meters with prepaid meters in Dili starting in September 2003. A vast majority of the residential and small commercial
meters (totaling about 24,500) had been changed over to pre-paid meters. However, inadequate attention was paid to
reducing or eliminating the possibility of electricity theft under the existing prepaid meter installation. The incidents of
meter by-passing by customers increased sharply after the start of social unrest in April 2006. By December 2006,
approximately 75 to 80 percent of the pre-paid meters in Dili were estimated to have been by-passed or tampered with.
Virtually all of the revenue meters needed to be reinstalled following a new standard, using a concentric neutral LV
cable. At the Project appraisal in 2007, the Norwegian grant financed contractor was planning to adopt the new
standard for replacing of remaining revenue meters, but sufficient funds were not available to reinstall the previously-
installed meters.
9 For electricity tariff rate for residential customers, churches and local NGOs, the first 20 KWh within a month is 5
cents/KWh and over 20 KWh within the month is 12 cents/KWh. For commercial customers, small commercial
customers (monthly average less than 1,000 KWh) will pay 15 cents/KWh, medium commercial customers (monthly
average more than 1,000 KWh and less than 3,600 KWh) will pay 20 cents/KWh, and large commercial customers
(monthly average more than 3,600 KWh) will pay 24 cents/KWh. Although EDTL does not have accurate data on the
cost of electricity service in 2010, EDTL estimates the cost of service to be on average 30 cents/KWh. During January -
June, 2009, an average cost of service of EDTL was 26.88 cents/kWh. "Timor-Leste Key Issues in Rural Energy
Policy" published in December 2010 noted that EDTL's cost of generation and distribution is about US$0.27-
0.35/kWh. In 2012, an estimate was US$ 0.4/kWh. These cost of electricity services were more than any of the current
and past tariff rates.
40


﻿oil GDP per household was about US$433. With US$0.12/kWh for consumption of
187kWh/month, electricity consumption expenditure would share about 5 percent of monthly
non-oil GDP per household. Therefore, it was assumed the willingness to pay of new consumers
at US$0.15/kWh, which is about 6 percent of the monthly non-oil GDP per household. This
would be a conservative estimate given that normally, 5-10 percent share of electricity
consumption expenditure within household income is assumed to be acceptable.
Economic opportunity cost of capital
The economic opportunity cost of capital (EOCK) was estimated to discount the economic
resource flow statement. 10 EOCK could be measured as a weighted average of the rate of return
on displaced investment, the rate of time preference to savers, and the cost of additional foreign
capital inflows. From 2006-2011, commercial 12 months deposit rate was 1.28-1.34 percent. The
rate of return on capital/investment was estimated to be 13.2-19.3 percent for 2006-2010. The
marginal rate of foreign borrowing is estimated as an average of Commercial Interest Reference
Rate (CIRR) and United States' treasury rate, which was 9.3 percent for the same period. An
investment weight was estimated from the fixed capital formation at 31.7 percent, and the
residual is estimated as a foreign borrowing weight at 60.6 percent. As a result, the EOCK of
Timor Leste for 2006-2010 was estimated as 10-11.9 percent. For this ICR, an average value of
EOCK for 2008-2010, 11.76 percent was used for this ICR.
Foreign exchange premium
The economic opportunity cost of foreign exchange, i.e., foreign exchange premium (FEP), was
estimated for use in the economic analysis instead of the financial cost to reflect the true resource
cost of a unit of foreign exchange. Trade and foreign exchange markets are affected by two major
types of distortions: trade taxes (typically import duties, export taxes and subsides) and domestic
indirect taxes (typically consumption taxes). An FEP reflecting the difference between the value
of the economic and financial exchange rates is a function of two components: trade distortion
premium + the domestic consumption tax premium. All tradable goods and tradable good
components of the resource flows are increased by the foreign exchange premium. Using the
import and export data from the Ministry of Finance and Central Bank of Timor Leste and an
estimated value for developing countries", FEP was estimated at 6.7 percent.
Other assumptions of the economic analysis included the following:
* Import duty is 2.5 percent of the customs values of the goods, and sales tax is 2.5
percent of the customs value of the goods imported into Timor-Leste. (these are excluded
in economic prices)
* Income tax is 10 percent in Timor Leste (this is excluded from economic prices)
* The poverty rate in Timor-Leste is close to 50 percent;12 13
10 Glenn P. Jenkins, 2008. Program on Cost-Benefit Analysis on Economic Analysis/Project Appraisal.
" Glenn P. Jenkins, 2008. Program on Cost-Benefit Analysis on Economic Analysis/Project Appraisal;
Graham Glenday, 2011. Program on Project Appraisal And Risk Management May 15-June 10, 2011,
Economic Opportunity Cost of Foreign Exchange, Duke Center for International Development.
12 Gender-disaggregated data from the 2011 Household Income and Expenditure Survey is not yet available.
However, the most recent data from the 2007 Living Standards Survey shows higher poverty rates among
women and female-headed households.
13 Draft FY2013 - 2017 Country Partnership Strategy, The Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste.
41


﻿*   Local labor for this Project are mostly skilled engineers either EDTL staff or contractor.
Therefore, it was assumed that even without the Project, they could find the job at the
comparative salary.
*   Project analysis period is 2008-2023, which is consistent with the project appraisal.
International Monetary Fund's (IMF's) projection of GDP in Timor Leste up to 2016 was
used. In 2016, IMF's annual GDP growth estimate was 11.5 percent. After that, IMF's
estimates of GDP were not available. Therefore, it was assumed that GDP growth in 2017
at 10 percent, 2018 at 9 percent and for 2019-2023 at 8 percent per year. Electricity
generation was assumed to follow the same GDP growth rate.
It was assumed that "without" the Bank project, i.e., without Bank financing, this Project would
not have happened and the resulting benefits would not have been materialized. This assumption
was made based on the following views from EDTL, MOPW and the management contractor
who left EDTL in April 2012.
*   Even if EDTL had the funding for the Project, they would not have the technology,
modernization and global knowledge and expertise that the Bank brought in.
*   Even if GoTL had financed the Project, the funding amount would have been much less
than the actual funding provided by the Bank.
*   Since the management contractor did not have the level of influence that Bank has on
GoTL, it would not have been able to obtain the Government funding to improve the
distribution system. Until recently, it was observed that GoTL had been focused on
power supply and system expansion and the concept of obtaining revenues from
electricity services appeared to be new to the GoTL.14 EDTL requested US$ 4 million for
distribution improvement for 2012 budget, which was not approved.
Furthermore, the Infrastructure Development Fund was established only in 2011. The total
budget of the fund for 2011 was US$ 599.3 million and three-quarters (US$ 477 million) of this
was allocated for the electricity sector. However, the majority of the allocated amount to the
electricity was spent on foreign contracts to build the Hera and Betano power plants and national
transmission network, and the rest would been spent to build new distribution network outside
Dili. For 2012, US$ 282 million was allocated for power plants and grid.15
Methodology and assumptions used at the project appraisal
The methodology and assumptions used in this ICR are different from those were used at the
project appraisal, because the economic analysis at the appraisal made a conceptual analysis of
US$600,000 investment, which included the impacts of non-technical and technical losses of the
electricity distribution system but did not include impacts of interruption and outages (VOLL)
and FEP. In addition, the value of the discount rate used in the analysis was not presented.
The assumption of willingness to pay (WTP) value at US$ 0.25/kWh employed at the project
appraisal was not used. It would not be valid to use the appraisal's justification of this estimate of
14 An Aide Memoire for May 10-19, 2009 also noted the need for counterpart funding of the Project.
15 State Budget 2012, Budget Overview Book 1. Ministry of Finance. Democratic Republic of Timor
Leste. November 2011; and IMF Country Report No. 12/24, Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste: 2011
Article IV Consultation-Staff Report; Informational Annex; Debt Sustainability Analysis; and Public
Information Notice.
42


﻿US$0.25/kWh by reference to the cost of high cost alternative sources such as kerosene lamps
and back-up generators. Monthly consumption for metered residential customers was 187
kWh/month, which was estimated from EDTL's data. Therefore, it could hardly justify that
consumers would be willing to pay these costs for as much as the average consumption of 187
kWh per month.    They would be willing to pay a high rate for a much lower amount of
consumption. For example, a low income consumer would be unlikely to consume more than 10
kWh a month of lighting from a kerosene lamp.    In this case, valuing this 10 kWh at
US$0.25/kWh could be possible. Valuing 187 kWh a month at $0.25/kWh means monthly
electricity consumption expenditure of US$46.75, which would amount to an 11 percent share of
monthly GDP per household. This could breach the low consumer's budget constraint.
3. Results
The result showed a net present value (NPV) of US$406,977 in 2008 prices at 11.76 percent
discount rate of EOCK. An economic internal rate of return was 16 percent.
11.76 % discount rate of Base case
EOCK
NPV in 2008 prices     US$406,977
EIRR                   16 percent
This result compared with the project appraisal's EIRR of 28 percent. An NPV was not presented
at the project appraisal, but using the same EOCK, the NPV was US$ 540,758.
Table below shows the distribution of the economic NPV. The Government and Economy are the
biggest gainers because EDTL's increased revenues will be the Government revenue. Other
revenues to the Government are taxes. The previously non-paying consumers are the largest
losers. Poverty impact ratio is 60.8 percent. Fifty six percent of increased Government revenues
were assumed to be spent for more targeted poverty reduction activities. This is because if the
Government spends about fifty four percent, the poverty impact will become negative. Therefore,
the poverty impact of this Project is depending on the Government's efforts to target their
spending on the poor.
The breakdowns of the NPV between the two main classes of project benefits, namely improved
service reliability and supply at US$1,528,591 and increased energy supply for new legal
consumers at US$1,021,065, are presented in the distribution table below. Since these are
estimates neither based on actual market transactions nor primary surveys in Dili areas, there is a
need for careful interpretation of the value of results. More comprehensive assessment of the
benefit of distribution system loss reduction based on actual surveys in Dili would benefit the
GoTL to consider appropriate measures.
43


﻿Total net benefit Previous non- New       Consumers   from  Local    Government  Abroad
(NPV) in   2008  paying       consumers   reduced           Labor   and
prices           consumers                outages/interruption       Economy
$406,977         $(22,872,483)  $1,021,065  $1,528,591      $95,921  $18,587,123  $2,046,759
100%             -5620%       251%        376%              24%     4567%        503%
Of which   poor $(11,436,241)  $510,533    $764,296          $-      $10,408,789  -
(based on 50%
poverty incidence,
except GoTL spend
56%)
Poverty  impact 60.8%
ratio
Financial value of NPV (in view of EDTL) was US$$9,625,365 in 2008 prices and IRR was 293
percent. Costs included capital and O&M costs, which included taxes, and costs to fill the gap
between the actual cost of electricity services and tariff rates for electricity generations for new
consumers and increased hours of generation available owning to the reduced interruption and
outages. Benefits included increased revenues due to non-technical loss reductions.
Fiscal value of NPV (in view of Government) was US$$9,713,119 in 2008 prices and IRR was
301 percent. Costs included capital and O&M cost, and costs to fill the gap between the actual
cost of electricity services and tariff rates for electricity generations for new consumers and
increased hours of generation available owning to the reduced interruption and outages. Benefits
included increased revenues due to non-technical loss reductions and taxes.
Stakeholder impacts of externalities of the project, which is a difference between economic NPV
and financial NPV, are presented in the table below. Previously non-paying consumers are the
largest losers. New consumers gain because their willingness to pay is assumed to be
US$0.15/kWh and they are paying US$0.12/kWh, and furthermore, the estimated actual cost of
electricity services is US$0.4/kWh. Similarly, consumers from reduced outages/interruptions also
gain because although their VOLL is US$0.39/kWh and the estimated cost of actual electricity
services is US$0.4/kWh, they are paying only US$0.12/kWh. Local labor has no impact because
cost of labor is assumed to be equal to the opportunity cost, i.e., they can find job elsewhere at the
same or similar payment. The Government and economy have some gains due to the increased
revenues from electricity payment, which would have been paid by tax payers or curtailment of
other essential Government services, although the revenues are still below the actual cost of
electricity services (i.e., revenue of US$0.12/kWh versus actual cost of electricity services of
US$0.4/kWh). Foreign countries have some benefit due to FEP of equipment and materials.
Economic NPV-      Previously    New         Consumers from  Local   Government  Abroad
Financial NPV       non-paying    consumers  reduced         Labor   and
consumers                outages/interrupti       Economy
ons
$(9,218,388)        $(22,872,483)  $1,021,065  $1,528,591    $-       $11,084,164  $20,274
100%                248%          -11%       -17%            0%      -120%        0%
Of which poor (based  $(11,436,241)  $510,533  $764,296       $-      $6,207,132  -
on 50% poverty
incidence, except
GoTL spend 56%)
Poverty impact ratio  -42.9%
44


﻿Sensitivity analyses were conducted in following selected variables shown in the following tables.
For example, the first table below examines changes in VOLL. When the VOLL becomes
equivalent of willingness to pay used in this ICR, i.e., US$ 0.15/kWh, an NPV becomes negative,
US$(951,771). Switching value (SV) is 18 percent and sensitivity indicator (SI) is 5.43. For the
NPV to be zero, VOLL needs to be US$ 0.318/kWh. These analyses indicate that the economic
returns are more sensitive to the value of new consumers' willingness to pay than to the value of
VOLL.
VOLL US$/kWh     0.39      0.15
NPV              $406,977  $(951,771)
SV               18%, US$0.318/kWh
EIRR             16%       -1%
SI               5.43
New consumers' benefit US$/kWh  0.15  0.12
NPV                          $406,977  $(614,088)
SV                           8%, US$0.138/kWh
EIRR                         16%      5%
SI                           12.54
45


﻿Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes
(a) Task Team members
Names                           Title                 Unit     Responsibility!
Specialty
Lending
Bernard Baratz              Consultant                        MNSEG
David Michael Chandler      Sr Financial Management Specialist  EAPCO
Junxue Chu                  Senior Finance Officer             CTRLN
Joao Jose Augusto Gomes     Procurement Specialist             EAPPR
Enno Heijndermans           Consultant                         EASIN
Norma L. Leon               Temporary                          CFPTO
Roch Levesque               Senior Counsel                     LEGES
Eka Zarmen Putra            Operations Officer                 EACIF
Melissa Ortega Sanchez      Temporary                          EASIN
Barry Trembath              Consultant                         EASIS
Farida Zaituni              Consultant                         EASIS
Yuling Zhou                 Lead Procurement Specialist        EAPPR
Youxuan Zhu                 Consultant                         EASCS
Supervision/ICR
Jonas Garcia Bautista       Consultant                         EASPS
Joao Jose Augusto Gomes     Procurement Specialist             EAPPR
Eric Ian Groom              Consultant                         WBIPP
Stephen Paul Hartung        Financial Management Specialist    EAPFM
Victoria Florian S. Lazaro  Operations Officer                 EASPS
Shawn Swaranjit Otal        Consultant                         EASIN
Eka Zarmen Putra            Operations Officer                 EACIF
Selina Wai Sheung Shum      Consultant                         EASIN
Natsuko Toba                Senior Economist                   EASWE
Frederic Asseline           Senior Energy Specialist           EASCS
Joel Maweni                 Operations Advisor                 EASSD
Simon Peter Gregorio        Safeguards Consultant              EASPS
Jacinta Paula Bernardo      Consultant                         EACDF
Olivio Euclides dos Santos  Program Assistant                  EACDF
Reinaldo Goncalves Mendonca Consultant                         MNSED
Ly Thi Dieu Vu              Consultant                         EASVS
David Bruce Whitehead       Financial Management Specialist    EAPFM
Stephen Paul Hartung        Financial Management Specialist    EAPFM
Evelyn Villatoro            Senior Procurement Specialist      EAPPR
Teri G. Velilla             Program Assistant                   EASIN
Rowaldo del Mundo           Power Engineer Consultant          EASWE
Maria Isabel Alda Da Silva  Operations Analyst                 EACDF
46


﻿(b)   Staff Time and Cost
Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                              USD Thousands (including
No. of staff weeks
travel and consultant costs)
Lending
FY06                                 5.53                  67.23
FY07                                12.35                   82.99
FY08                                 0.00                   0.00
Total:                                150.22
Supervision/ICR
FY06                                                        0.00
FY07                                                        0.05
FY08                                 8.08                  111.63
FY09                                  5.63                  66.92
FY10                                  3.58                  82.11
FY11                                  5.09                  79.00
FY12                                  5.76                  90.72
FY13                                  1.28                  33.14
Total:          28.82                 463.57
47


﻿Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
Not applicable.
48


﻿Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
Not applicable.
49


﻿Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
1.1  Context at Appraisal
After Timor-Leste gained its independence in 2002 there were lots of infrastructure need to be
repaired and constructed. Among priorities set by Government of Timor-Leste at the beginning
was providing sustainable electrification especially in remotes areas. However, it was not until
2007 that the real action was taken into implementing its initiatives. GoTL had decided to use its
oil revenue to finance infrastructure projects mainly electrification. The GoTL believed that by
investing as earlier as possible in electricity Timor-Leste would not only enjoy 24 hour of
electricity but also it could improve business opportunities in the country.
Most of electricity infrastructure in Timor-Leste was built during Indonesian Occupation and
suffered severe damaged in 1999. In Dili, the electricity distribution was very low and often
power outage happened while most people in Dili were paying their token of pre-paid meters.
Unlike Dili the electricity distribution in districts area was operating only 6 hours per day with
only 2 amperes meters for each house. Insufficient power distribution had caused many technical
issues as result of lacking of capacity and equipments. This had impacted into slowly economic
development for some early years in Timor-Leste.
1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators
The objectives of the project at initial is to assist GOTL to stabilize the power services in Dili, by
restoring or improving operational efficiency, reliability, safety and availability of power supply,
and to promote long-term sustainability of the power sector with hopes that in turn it can
contribute to the social stability and economic development of the country.
1.3 Main Beneficiaries
The project aimed to benefit people in Dili District and EDTL as electricity services provider.
1.4 Original Components
As Timor-Leste develops its electrification system, there has been a tremendous help and support
from international donors. The World Bank (WB) has put a significant investment towards
electricity distribution system in Timor-Leste. A project which involves funds from IDA Grant of
the WB is Energy Services Delivery Project (ESDP). The project was co-financed with GOTL
funds to implement 4 different components as follows:
Part 1: Emergency Repair and Maintenance of Comoro Power Station
Part 2: Rehabilitation and Upgrading of Dili Power Distribution System
Part 3: Distribution of Energy Efficient Light Bulbs
Part 4: Institutional Capacity Building
1.5 Revised Components
50


﻿As the project became effective on August 13, 2007, these project components mentioned inthe
above Section 1.5 could not be fully implemented due to delays in procurement and project
implementation constraints. These issues could not be fully anticipated when the project started.
During the implementation of ESDP, EDTL as the implementing agency could only concentrate
in the Part 2 of the ESDP project Component. This is because the project encountered significant
delays and the grant became near to its closing dates. Therefore, to execute the unallocated
budget under the grant (around US$1.6 million) EDTL initiated to use the remaining funds to
scale up the Part 2 - Rehabilitation and Upgrading of Dili Power Distribution System. EDTL
proposed that by expanding and rehabilitating the distribution system in Dili:
* they can avoid further theft and non-technical loss which happen often in Dili
*      increase the number of active buying customer to 20,000+ customers
*      reduce the number of illegal customers in Dili
*      Increase revenue collection by 15%
*      Reduce power outages caused by lack of maintenance
*      Rehabilitate feeder presently required for future building growth
2.   Key Factors Affecting Implementation
After ESDP restructuring, there were two main programs proposed by EDTL which the World
Bank agreed to finance using the remaining budget of nearly US$ 1.6 million. EDTL proposed
that WB would finance only supply materials while EDTL would also finance some of supply
materials and all installation of materials under ESDP. This option for financing the project
should have been reviewed in depth as even EDTL was willing to finance the installation part of
the project, some part of installation works could have been shared using the Bank's remaining
funds. However, due to the time required to procure and installthe materials, the Bank could not
cover the cost of installation because the extended Project closing date was June 30, 2012
andmost of the materials were delivered close to June 30, 2012. Therefore, the Project extended
closing date could have much later than June 30, 2012.
The proposed program consists of Commercial program and Distribution Program. Under
Commercial Program, the World Bank has approved funding for the purchase of 70,000 meters of
concentric cable for the "Return to User Pay" program in Dili through Energy Services Delivery
Project (ESDP) funding in 2008. The concentric cable makes it more difficult for customers to by
pass the prepaid meters and it has proven to be successful over the past 18 months. The number
of "Active Paying" customers has increased from about 2000 in early 2008 to the current 18,000
in nearly 2011. Approximately 15,000 premises have been rewired at the end of March 2011. The
remaining stock would be enough for another 3000 premises. Our current estimate for the total
number of customers' premises within Dili city is 29,000; therefore EDTL would need additional
70,000 meters of concentric cable in order to complete the rewiring program in Dili. By
proposing this to the WB EDTL was confident that it would reduce the number of illegal
connections; increase revenue and minimized the non-technical power loss by mid 2012.
Under Distribution Program, EDTL proposed to WB so that the remaining funds could also be
utilized to purchase the distribution lines materials which were out of stock for such a long time.
Since there were limited stocks to not only cover Dili but also other parts in Timor-Leste, EDTL
suggested that this distribution program would benefit the expansion of distribution lines
especially in Dili.
Cost Estimate made by EDTL in its proposal to the Bank include
51


﻿a. Commercial
*  The estimated cost of the 70,000 meters of concentric cable is US$630,000 (funded
by the WB)
*  The estimated cost of the accessories required is US$ 200,000 and this component
funded by EDTL
*  The estimated cost of the contractor is US$115,000; funded by EDTL
b. Distribution
*  Cost of Materials required for Distribution Work is estimated about US$1,036,84
funded by the WB after adjusting some items which already available
*  Cost of Labor: approx. US$ 150,0000 funded by EDTL
In supporting the cost Estimation noted above EDTL also provide commercial requirement and
distribution requirement as follows:
a. Commercial Requirement
Source of       Item                            Unit
funding     Description                        Cost
Materials     Concentric    Meters   70,000     9         290,892.88
(funded by    Cable
WB) in 2008
Accessories   NYM    Cable Meters    17,500     2         35,000
(funded by    (2.5mm)
EDTL)
Cable Gland   EA       7,700      3         23,100
(PJ 13.5)
Cable Gland   EA       7,700      3.5       26,950
(PJ 13.5)
Cable         Box      5,300      2.5       13,250
Clamps
(12m)
Burndy        EA       24,000     7         168,000
Connectors
(yhd-400)
Burndy        EA       24,000     $5        120,000
Connectors
(yhd-400)
Insulting     EA       24,000     $2        48,000
Cover    2<"
Long
Insulting     EA       24,000     $2        48,000
Cover     2a
Long
Labor         Contractor    Premise  11,000     $12       132,000
Contractor
52


﻿(Financed by
EDTL)
Total                             1,244,300
b. Distribution Requirement
Estimate
Description     Unit        Qty.      Unit Cost   Total Cost
(US$)
Materials  As per       as per      as per       as per      1,036,000
(Financed  description in  description  description  description  less the
by WB)     the          in the       in the      in the      items
commercial   commercial   commercial commercial   financed
requirement  requirement requirement requirement and
covered by
EDTL and
after
quantities
adjustment,
the total
cost is US$
982,000
Labor      15%       of
Contractor material cost
(Financed
by EDTL)
Total                              1,132,000
EDTL through its management contractor was fully in charge of implementing Operations &
maintenance (O&M) while DGSC-MOI is responsible in implementing the procurement of the
project and ensuring that the project achieved its main goals.
It is known that lack of communications between superiors at EDTL, the management contractor
and DGSC had caused in one sided decision making that the project should drop its three other
main components Part 1, 3 and 4 instead of boosting them. EDTL seemed to overlook the project
and handed over all the project administration to the management contractor which resulted to
only Part 2 components was implemented. In view of this, EDTL should have been able to utilize
the Part 4 of ESDP component - Institutional Capacity Development where its sub-components
included training and project implementation support including procurement, financial
management, audit, etc. as well as institutional and policy improvements to help lay the
groundwork for increased commercial orientation and long term sustainability of the power
53


﻿sector. As building the capacity of government staff remains as high priority among government
objectives and this must be highlighted in the projects which require specific technical approach.
During the implementation of the project the procurement methods applied were International
Competitive Bidding (ICB), Single Source Selection, Shopping, Direct Contracting, and
Individual Consultant ITB. The project tender documents for the reallocated funds to the Part 2 as
a result of the Project restructuring were divided into 5 different Lots which include the
following.
Contracts for Distribution Materials (Scale up)
Lot 1: Supply of Transformers and Load Break Switch             US$     331,242
Lot 2: Supply of Cables and medium voltage Conductors           US$     219,295
Lot 3: Supply of 12 meters Steel Poles                          US$     240,000
Lot 4: Supply of Arresters, Cut-out Fuse and Cross Arms for 20 kilovolt US$  210,225
medium voltage lines
Lot 5: Supply of low voltage Concentric Cable                   US$     588,000
Total                                                       US$   1,588,762
As part of Government agreement all the procurement methods used to procure works, goods and
services under the grant must follow WB's guidelines. Mol admitted that it was not easy as the
Bank required prior review on each step starting from making the bid receipt until contract award.
During tender process there were 22 bidders' submission received at MOI. Only 19 bidders were
qualified to proceed with post-qualification. However, it was also Bank's requirement that all
qualified bidders must submit their last three years of bank statement. MOI wrote to the Bank on
25 June 2011 and requested the Bank to change this requirement and to allow the qualified bidder
to submit only three months bank statement as normally request through most tender done by the
GoTL. Mol expressed it concerns to WB that it could put the local firms away from the
competition as they were likely to lose in term of financial management for the last years of their
operation and this might result in international firm who would win the bids
3.   Project Outcomes
The project has impacted significantly to the operation of power distribution in Dili. EDTL was
able to reduce the non-technical loss as result of illegal connection. Installation of new feeders
across Dili city has contributed to the stability of power generation with minor power outage
compared to the situation prior ESDP was implemented. It can be seen that more business
operation increase considerably in Dili and is expected to increase in the coming years as the
GoTL continue to develop its power generation. In order to increase efficiency of power
distribution adding EDTL technical staff for operation and maintenance is important and further
assessment on project outcomes must ensure that it covers current situation of operation and
maintenance of power distribution in Dili.
4.   Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
4.1 Bank Performance
54


﻿The World Bank's contribution toward Energy Service Delivery project has supported the overall
operation of the project. The grant provided by the World Bank was all successfully disbursed to
finance the project cost. However it was not easy to follow most of Bank's requirements since
there had been lacking of technical assistance provided by the WB during the project and GoTL
staffs were not encouraged to follow the World Bank procedure on project implementation or
disbursement of project funds as it was confusing and not easy. It is important that administrative
support from the World Bank office in Dili need to be sufficient and continuously to avoid
lacking of communication in completing interim financial reports and implementation and
completion reports of future energy projects.
4.2 Government of Timor-Leste Performance
During procurement of works, goods and services MOI through DGSC has managed numbers of
Procurement of National Projects and few of Bilateral Projects. DGSC appeared in the MOI
organizational structure since 2009 to assist the MOI in procuring works, goods and services.
Since then DGSC continue to struggle with the management of procurement as the capacity of its
staff is limited and language used in the contract document mostly is in English which is adding
to more difficult work flows. The ability of DGSC staff to handle the complexity of the
procurement for the project was underestimated at earliest. Line coordination between Bank Staff
and the Government staff was very limited because both Bank staff and Government staff were
overloaded with other projects as well. However, these issues were not brought up to attention
during the project preparation and project design stage which could result in high project risk.
EDTL has also limited capacity to manage the project but the management contractor was
assigned to carry out the management of the project. After the management contract ended in
August 2012, EDTL hardly received any project related documents.
5.   Lesson Learned
Few lessons which can be drawn from ESDP are as follows
1. Encourage The World Bank to invest in the capacity building of staff in procurement,
financial management and technical instead of investing in the supply materials or
installation work of any future energy project in Timor-Leste.
2. Ensure better planning prior to project implementation which clearly indicate GoTL staff
responsible to the project and prepare all relevant reports of the projects as requested by
the World Bank
3. The World bank need to provide GoTL staff thorough understand regarding its guidelines
on procurement and disbursement.
4. There is an importance to involve international consultant in the financial management
which could guide GoTL financial staff in monitoring disbursement of project funds.
5. Future arrangement: Support for Operations and Maintenance of Dili Distribution
System. Technical Assistance in financial management, procurement and project
implementation unit.
6. Improve Communication between the World Bank office in Dili with the GoTL. The
World Bank needed to add more local staff who can communicate better with the GoTL.
It is also suggested that GoTL needed to appoint its designated procurement staff and
technical staff from its technical agency within Ministry of Public Works to be involved
in the project continuously until the project is completed.
55


﻿Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
Not applicable.
56


﻿Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents
All documents filed in IRIS, WBDocs and Project Portal, such as aide memoires, reports, email
correspondences, etc.
Democratic Republic of Timor Leste, 2011. State Budget 2012, Budget Overview Book 1.
Ministry of Finance. Democratic Republic of Timor Leste. November 2011
Democratic Republic of Timor Leste, 2011. The 2011 Household Income and Expenditure
Survey
Democratic Republic of Timor Leste, 2007. The 2007 Living Standards Survey.
Duke Center for International Development, 2011. Program on Project Appraisal and Risk
Management May 15-June 10, 2011, Economic Opportunity Cost of Foreign Exchange, Duke
Center for International Development.
Fankhauser and Tejic, 2006. "Can poor consumers pay for energy and water: an affordability
analysis for transition economies." European Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
http://www.ebrd.com/downloads/research/economics/workingpapers/wp0092.pdf. Accessed on
January 24, 2013.
Guinto, D.C. 2012. The Value of Loss of Load of Luzon Grid in a Restructured Power Industry.
Danilo C. Guinto Jr. University of the Philippines. 2012.
International Finance Corporation 2011. 2011 IFC Doing Business Report.
International Monetary Fund, 2011. IMF Country Report No. 12/24, Democratic Republic of
Timor-Leste: 2011 Article IV Consultation-Staff Report; Informational Annex; Debt
Sustainability Analysis; and Public Information Notice.
Oseni, M.O. 2012. Power Outages and the Costs of Unsupplied Electricity: Evidence from
Backup Generation among Firms in Africa. Musiliu 0. Oseni. Judge Business School, University
of Cambridge. 2012.
World Bank, 2012. Timor-Leste Key Issues in Rural Energy Policy. December 2010
World Bank, 2013. Draft FY2013 - 2017 Country Partnership Strategy, The Democratic
Republic Of Timor-Leste.
57


﻿124' E                                           125 E                                            1 6°E                                            127' E
Wetar
Island
INDONESIA
1l0  N                                                                                                                                                                     1 0° N
Ronang
\R                                                                                                                                  Island
LESTE
Atauro  / 9iquele-
Island                                                  t
Alor                                   QAtouro                            r      t
Island                           Bera                               eCape Tei
D- -a                                                      L  lautem      om Mehååa  Tutuala
Rantar                                                                                                                                       Mainal            Cape Cutchå
Island                                                                                                               .Baucau                                     Jaco
ML tin,r,    Manatuto                       Laga                Ullr            Island
narovemseAå              u                     lr      Lospalos
Liquiça                                    taleio     Manufou
Maubora       dllkcMe                                                  iUTi
Cpe,           -BzreeVenilale                                                  Bagioi   Ouin
Corimbala  LIQUICA    Railoco    AILEU
Sa va      Sea                       Atabae   Fotu Beso o Erer   Mabis n-. dbar
I    p    Tuntal               -   ilor              Alabi
Batugade  B080NARO    Atsabe   A 1aetle                                       OB C
M--   M a lia n a                                                 Cape D evd\ubunede               or
9°Ni.nBalib63   naro Same       Welaluhu  Natarbara                                                       9°N
Folu Bem o---?bero                                       55r
Sau   Sa                      Fataluli             ZVmalIHatLud
Pante Macassar                                           [t             Makts  BetUoa
Of(CUSSI  BqiX                                COVA LIMA     Be<o         Catec
Bir n au                                       a N itib e  B a q  u iaT
o         Böbometo     0                            Sual
1 27° E
PasNbe                             Kuaa         CapelTafnara                                                 Capo
-io                                                                        SaTIMOR- LESTE
INDONE SIA
o    MAIN CITIES AND TOWNS
@    DISTRICT CAPITALS
o 10 20 30 Kilometers
LJLJ                                                                   ®     NATIONAL CAPITAL
0      10     20     30Mies
8OMAIN ROADS
Thkhan  a crs deoaitao.  ad  othe norm aln=                                     =  DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
Pshown an this map do not imply, an the part tf The World Bank
Group, ay judpment an the lngei stalts oh ary territary nr rany           -  -- INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES       8
1    4  F125                                                    endorsemenat or acceptance of sach boundaries.  1  65
o  124~                           1?ECapo0


