Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13006-PAK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PAKISTAN
PRIVATE SECTOR ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
OCTOBER 28, 1994
Energy and Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department III
South Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of September 1994)
Currency Unit = Pakistan Rupee (Rs)
US$1.00 = Rs 30.80
Rs 1 = US$0.03
Rs 1 = 100 paisas (Ps.)
GOP Fiscal Year
July 1 - June 30
MEASURES AND EOUIVALENTS
1 Kilometer           -      0.6214 miles
1 Ton                 -      1,000 kilograms
1 Kilovolt            -      1,000 volts
1 Megawatt (MW)       -      1,000 kilowatts
1 Kilowatt Hour(kWh)   -     1,000 watt hours
BCDF                   -     Billion cubic Feet per Day
BOPD                   -     Barrels of Oil Per Day
MCF                    -     Thousand Cubic Feet
TCF                    -     Trillion Cubic Feet
TPY                    -     Tons per Year
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB       -   Asian Development Bank
APL       -   Asia Petroleum Limited
BOO       -   Build-Own-Operate
CDC       -   Commonwealth Development Corporation
CIDA      -   Canadian International Development Agency
CMU       -   Cofinanciers' Memorandum of Understanding
COFACE  -   Compagnie Francaise d'Assurance pour le Commerce Exterieur (France)
ECAs      -   Export Credit Agencies
ECC       -   Economic Coordinating Committee
ECO       -   Expanded Co-financing Operation
ENERCON -   National Energy Conservation Center
ERG       -   Energy Review Group
ESL       -   Energy Sector Loan
ESMAP   -   Energy Strategy Management Assistance Program
ESSA      -   Environmental and Social Soundness Assessment
EUAD      -   Environment and Urban Affairs Division
FAS       -   Fuel Adjustment Surcharge
FSA       -   Fuel Supply Agreement
Fund      -   Private Sector Energy Development Fund



- 1i -
FERI      -   Foreign Exchange Rate Insurance
GDR       -   Global Deposit Receipts
GOP       -   Government of Pakistan
HESS      -   Household Energy Strategy Study
HPC       -   Hub Power Complex
HUBCO   -   Hub Power Company
JEXIM     -   The Export-Import Bank of Japan
KESC      -   Karachi Electric Supply Corporation
LES       -   Long-Term Energy Sector Strategy
LOS       -   Letter of Support
LRMC    -   Long Run Marginal Cost
LTCF      -   Long Term Credit Fund
MCF       -   Thousand Cubic Feet
MHW       -   Ministry of Housing and Works
MITI      -   Ministry of International Trade and Industry (Japan)
MPNR    -   Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Resources
MOP       -   Ministry of Production
MPD       -   Ministry of Planning and Development
MWP       -   Ministry of Water and Power
NCS       -   National Conservation Strategy
NDFC      -   National Development Finance Corporation
NRL       -   National Refineries Limited
ODA       -   Overseas Development Administration (United Kingdom)
OECF      -   Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (Japan)
OGDC      -   Oil and Gas Development Corporation
O&MA    -   Operations and Maintenance Agreement
PED       -   Private Energy Division
PMDC    -   Pakistan Mineral Development Corporation
PP        -   Petroleum Policy
PPA       -   Power Purchase Agreement
PPIB      -   Private Power and Infrastructure Board
PPC       -   Private Power Cell
PSEDP I  -   Private Sector Energy Development Project (Ln. 2982-PAK)
PSO       -   Pakistan State Oil Company
SA        -   Shareholders Agreement for Hub Power Company
SACE      -   Sezione Speciale per l'Assicurazione del Credito all Esportazione (Italy)
SAP       -   Social Action Program
SBP       -   State Bank of Pakistan
SNGPL    -   Sui Northern Gas Pipeline Company, Ltd.
SSGC      -   Sui Southern Gas Corporation
TKC       -   Turnkey Construction Contract
TPY       -   Tons per Year
USAID    -   United States Agency for International Development
WAPDA   -   Water and Power Development Authority






- iii -
Table of Contents
I.  INTRODUCTION   .........................................  1
II. THE ECONOMY AND THE ENERGY SECTOR .....................                                              3
A. The Economy ....................................    3
B. The Energy Sector .................................    5
III. POLICIES AND INSTITUTIONS SUPPORTING PRIVATE INVESTMENT IN THE
ENERGY  SECTOR  .......................................   17
A. Policies for Promotion of Private Investment in Energy   ...                 .......  17
B. Private Sector Energy Development Fund  ...................  23
C. Institutional Framework ..............................  24
IV. THE PROJECT               ...................                 ......................  26
A. Project Setting  ...................................  26
B. Project Objectives  .................................  27
C. Project Description   ................................  28
D. Project Cost and Financing Plan   ........................  31
E.  Sources of Replenishment for the Private Sector Energy
Development Fund  ................................  33
F. Onlending Interest Rate    .............................  34
G. Repavment Terms for Onlending  ........................  37
H. Forecast of Sources and Applications of Funds   ...............  38
I. Appraisal and Supervision of Subprojects   ...................  39
J. Procurement .....................................  41
K. Disbursements   ...................................  44
L. Envirornental and Resettlement Aspects   ...... .                .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  46
M.  Reporting and Accounts  ...........                ..        ................  47
N. Institutional Refinements  .............................  47
V. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION                           ..................................   51
A. Project Rationale  ..................................  51
B. Benefits  ........................................  51
C. Economic Justification and Economic Rate of Return   ..... .                 .  .  .  .  .    .  52
D. Risks             .........................................   52
VI. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION  ..... .  .  .  .  .  .   . 54
A1NNEXES:
1. Hub Power Project .58
2.   Post Qasim  - Khalifa Point Fuel Oil Pipeline Project .107
3.   Fund: Sources and Application of Funds Statement .117
4. Map .119
This report was prepared by Mr. I. Elwan (Manager), Mr. M. Cassam (Consultant,
Institutional), Ms. N. Elreedy (Consultant, Finance) and Mr. W. Al-Mazeedi
(Consultant, Petroleum). Financial projections for the Fund were prepared by Mr.
C. Gavino (Financial Analyst). Peer reviewers were Messrs. J. Balkind (Senior
Country Officer), E. Dalla (Principal Financial Specialist).






- lv -
PAKISTAN
PRIVATE SECTOR ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT H
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:           Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Beneficiaries:       Private sector borrowers who would design, finance, construct, own
and operate energy and energy related infrastructure facilities; and GOP
for consulting services.
Amount:              US$250 million
Terms:               20 years, including five years grace, at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate.
Cofinanciers:        Export-Import Bank of Japan US$110 million and the Govermnent of
France US$10 million.
Onlending Terms:    In the case of the subloan for the Hub Power Project: (i) during the
construction of the Investment Project for which the Subloan has been
made, a fixed rate of 14% per annum; (ii) after completion of
construction of such Investment Project but before all loans other than
the Subloan for the Investment Proiect which are senior to the subloan
have been reraid, a variable rate, to be reviewed annually, equal to the
greater of: a. the sum of the prevailing One-Year United States
Treasury Note rate plus the Foreign Exchange Rate Insurance (FERI)
Margin plus a spread of 300 basis points, and b. the sum of the
prevailing World Bank Lending Rate plus the FERI Margin plus a
spread of 250 basis points; and (iii) after repavment of such senior
loans and until the Subloan has been fully repaid, a variable rate, to be
reviewed annually, equal to the greater of: a. the sum of the prevailing
One-Year US Treasury Note rate plus the FERI Margin plus a spread
of 400 basis points, and b. the sum of the prevailing World Bank
Lending Rate plus the FERI Margin plus a spread of 350 basis points.
In the case of all other subloans: (i) during the construction of the
Investment Projects for which the Subloans have been made, a fixed
rate equal to the greater of: a. the sum of the prevailing Five-Year US
Treasury Note rate plus a spread of 200 basis points, and b. the sum of
the prevailing World Bank Lending Rate plus a spread of 150 basis
points; (ii) after completion of construction of such Investment Projects
but before all loans other than the Subloans for the Investment Projects
which are senior to the Subloans have been repaid, a variable rate, to
be reviewed annually, equal to the greater of: a. the sum of the
prevailing One-Year US Treasury Note rate plus a spread of 300 basis
points, and b. the sum of the prevailing World Bank Lending Rate plus



- v -
a spread of 250 basis points; and (iii) after repavment of such senior
loans and until the Subloans have been fully repaid, a variable rate, to
be reviewe^' annually, equal to the greater of: a. the sum of the
prevailing .Ae-Year US Treasury Note rate plus a spread of 400 basis
points, and b. the sum of the prevailing World Bank Lending Rate plus
a spread of 350 basis points.
Project
Description:         The proposed Project will: (a) replenish the Private Sector Energy
Development Fund (the Fund) to provide subordinated long-term loans
to private sector entities to finance goods, services, and associated costs
required for the implementation of: (i) a power generation subproject
currently under construction which would be owned and operated by
HUBCO, a private sector company; (ii) the pipeline to be constructed,
owned, and operated by Asia Petroleum Limited (APL) for the
transportation of fuel oil from Port Qasim to Point Khalifa; and
(iii) other private power generation and energy related infrastructure
subprojects currently at an advanced stage of preparation. Priority in
receiving financing would be accorded to subprojects which would
achieve financial close in at most six months from the effectiveness of
the proposed Project; (b) fund the continued operation of the Private
Power and Infrastructure Board (PPIB) and the Fund, covering staff,
consulting services, training, and facilities and equipment; and
(c) provide consulting services to: (i) assist GOP to outline the mandate
for the PPIB, its management and reporting structure; (ii) assist the
Fund to: a. formulate its mandate operate as an autonomous,
commercially oriented Long Term Credit Fund (LTCF); b. develop the
guidelines for the Fund/LTCF to allow for its financing of energy
related infrastructure subprojects; and c. develop environmental and
resettlement assessment guidelines for the Fund/LTCF, and strengthen
its capabilities for monitoring compliance with these guidelines during
the construction and operation phases.
Benefits
and Risks:            The proposed Project will ensure that the Hub Power Subproject, the
first private power plant to be financed by the Fund, is brought to
financial close. The proposed Project will also be instrumental in the
implementation of about another 700 MW of privately built, owned and
operated power generation plants that are being prepared on a fast
track. It will also partly finance the first petroleum transport pipeline
to be owned and operated by the private sector (APL). In addition, the
proposed Project will assist GOP in strengthening the institutions
responsible for the approval, negotiations and financing of private
sector energy subprojects. This will streamline the process and reduce
the time required for achieving financial close and hence contribute to
the achievement of Government's policy for promoting a greater role
for private sector in energy.



- vi -
The risks depend on the component involved. The financing being
provided for Hub Subproject involves very little risks as equity and
debt, both senior and subordinate, are fully committed and construction
of the power plant is about half way to commissioning. As for the
component earmarked for APL's pipeline, detailed engineering is
underway, and consents and agreements, tariffs, construction
arrangements and financing plan have all been negotiated and finalized.
The only major risk associated with this component relate to delays in
commissioning. Measures have been taken to allow the contractor to
accelerate construction by compressing the time required for clearances,
and allowing him to take full responsibility for mobilizing the
remaining gap in debt financing. Regarding the component covering
potentially new power generation subprojects, the risks relate mainly to
GOP's commitment to maintaining the enabling environment and
negotiating Security Packages (SP), including tariff and indexation, that
would allow the subprojects to be bankable. In order to mitigate this
risk, a number of covenants have been agreed with GOP for the
periodic review of policies to ensure that the negotiated agreements for
the new subprojects are financiable. Moreover, priority in accessing
the resources earmarked for new subprojects under the proposed Project
will be given to those that satisfy the Bank that their equity and senior
debt are fully subscribed or underwritten to allow for financial close to
take place at most 6 months from the effectiveness of the proposed
Project.
Estimated Cost
Table 1.1
Local                  Foreign              Total
USS million -
Hubco                                    170*                     1,662              1,832
APL                                       20                        80                100
Other Projects                            90                       357                447
TA                                         3                         8                 11
TOTAL COST                               283                      2,107              2,390
' Includes revenue during construction.
Pnvate sector power projects are free of taxes and duties



- vii -
Financing Plan:
Table 1.2
Local         Foreign                 Total        %
-(USS million)
Proposed Bank Loan (PSEDP II)                                 250                250         10.5
PSEDP I                                                       399                399         16.7
Cofinanciers                                                  124                 122        5.2
Foreign Commercial Banks                                      463                463         19.4
Local Commercial Banks                       140                                  140        5.8
Export Credit Agencies                                        385                385         16.1
Multilateral Agencies                                          23                  23        0.9
Foreign Equity                                                462                462         19.3
Local Equity                                   87!'                               87         3.6
Internally Generated Funds                    57                                   57        2.4
TOTAL                                        284            2,106               2.390        100
I/  Includes USS 3 million equivalent of contribution by GOP to PPIB.
Estimated Bank
Disbursements:
Table 1.3
FY95                  FY96                FY97                FY98
----US$ million-------
Fiscal Year             98                    89                  38                   35
Cumulaiive              98                    177                215                   250
Economic Rate
of Return:                   Subprojects in the power subsector are expected  to yield an internal
financial rate of return, of about 17% expressed in US Dollars.
Consistent with GOP's Petroleum Policy, subprojects in the energy
related infrastructure would be expected to yield a financial rate of
return of 25%.
Povertv Category:              Not applicable.



PAKISTAN
PRIVATE SECTOR ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT H
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
L INTRODUCTION
1.1      In 1988, the Government of Pakistan (GOP) initiated a program to restore fiscal and
monetary balance, and liberalize the economy. The program, among other things, called for the
rationalization of public sector expenditures. Budgetary allocations for the revenue earning
public sector entities were reduced. Investment financing for these enterprises was to be secured
through internally generated funds and borrowings from the domestic and international capital
markets. This had a profound impact on the energy sector, which historically had accounted for
over 33% of annual development allocations, as internally generated funds and projected
borrowings fell short of the investments needed to meet the forecast demand. In response, GOP
outlined a strategy for rationalizing the consumption of energy, and increasing the role of the
private sector in energy to fill the gap left by the reduction in public sector investments.
1.2       GOP requested Bank assistance in identifying the constraints to greater private sector
involvement in energy, and in preparing a plan for addressing these constraints. The Bank,
assisted by consultants financed by USAID, identified three key constraints: (a) the absence of
policy framework for private sector, i.e. incentives, fiscal treatment, repatriation of profits and
capital, availability of foreign exchange, pricing, etc.; (b) the lack of long term finance for
projects with relatively long gestation and economic life; and (c) the inadequacy of the
institutional structure for the review, negotiation and approval of private sector projects.
1.3       The Bank, USAID, ODA and the Government of Japan assisted GOP in addressing
the policy and institutional constraints, and in setting up a facility, the Private Sector Energy
Development Fund (the Fund) to provide partial long term subordinated debt financing for
energy investments. In 1988, the Board approved the Private Sector Energy Development
Project (PSEDP I, Ln. 2982-PAK) which provided US$150 million for financing the Fund. The
loan was co-financed in the amount of US$314 million by USAID, Nordic Investment Bank, and
the Governments of France, Italy, Japan and the United Kingdom. National Development
Finance Corporation (NDFC) manages the Fund for GOP. The Fund was structured to allow
for its possible detachment from NDFC when its staff becomes fully trained and subprojects
financed provided revenues to cover the cost of its operations.
1.4       At the time the Board approved PSEDP I, a number of potential power generation
subprojects were under consideration by GOP. The Hub Power Subproject (4x323 MW) was
the most advanced in its negotiations. It was expected to start construction within a year of the
Board's approval of PSEDP I. Negotiations and mobilization of financing for the Hub were
delayed by about four years because of: (a) six changes in government, which at times required
renegotiation of key agreements; (b) the withdrawal of two of the main subcontractors, Kumagai
Gumi for civil works and Toshiba for turbo generators, which caused a seven-month delay to
reconstitute the construction consortium; (c) the Gulf War which suspended all activities in the
development of the subproject for almost fourteen months; and (d) the declaration of interest on
loans illegal by the Federal Shariat Court (an issue that took another seven months to resolve).



- 2 -
(As the Hub Power Subproject was the first private power investment to be considered by GOP,
progress of other subprojects slowed down pending finalization of agreements and the
mobilization of financing for Hub.)
1.5       When PSEDP I was designed, subordinate debt financing by the Fund was expected
to provide the comfort required by commercial lenders to finance subprojects under limited
recourse. Mobilizing the commercial debt financing for Hub has proven difficult in practice as
lenders were not prepared to assume non-commercial risks in Pakistan because of the lack of
track record in private infrastructure. In response, the Bank and the Japan Export Import Bank
(JEXIM) structured together a co-guarantee, under the newly created Extended Co-financing
Operation (ECO), to extend direct cover to a syndicate of commercial banks against risks
associated with the failure by GOP and its public sector enterprises in meeting their obligations
to the subproject company, the Hub Power Company (HUBCO). The Board approved the
framework for the ECO Guarantee in October 1991, where the coverage of risks associated with
the Hub would be shared with the private sector. Lenders and investors would assume all
commercial risks during construction and operation phases, and GOP, through its guarantees
backstopped by the ECO guarantee and the guarantees to be provided by the Export Credit
Agencies (ECAs), would assume political and sovereign risks. The financing guaranteed by the
ECO, JEXIM and the ECAs would together constitute the senior debt facility which would
complement the subordinated debt facility to be financed under PSEDP I and the proposed
Project.
1.6       In conjunction with its approval of the framework for the ECO, the Board also
concurred with the recommendation for the disbursement of a mobilization financing to cover
the initial and scheduled payments for the Turnkey Construction Contract (TKC) prior to
financial close. This disbursement, which fixed the TKC price, was financed by the sponsors,
the Bank, and the Italian and French Governments. The disbursement of the initial tranche
under the mobilization financing was made in April 1993. This froze the TKC price and
committed the contractors to commissioning the first unit by June 30, 1996. As of June 30,
1994, construction was ahead of schedule and commissioning of the power plant is expected
earlier than agreed. At the time the Board approved the framework for the ECO Guarantee, the
total financing requirements of the Hub Subproject was US$1,560 million. Since then, the
overall financing requirement of the subproject has increased to US$1,832 million. The increase
of US$272 million covers the adjustment to the TKC price required to compensate for increases
in the components of the TKC between July 2, 1991, when this contract was first signed and
April 12, 1993 due to: (a) inflation in the countries providing the major equipment; (b) the
appreciation of the Japanese Yen, and the depreciation of the Pakistani Rupee. In addition, the
financing for the subproject was increased to accommodate the higher contingencies and standby
financing, from US$150 million to US$251 million, required by the senior lenders to
successfully complete the syndication of commercial debt.
1.7       Despite the higher financing requirements, the Hub Subproject continues to be
competitive. The increase in its TKC cost since the ECO framework was approved, net of the
standbys, contingencies and interest during construction, amounts to approximately 2% per
annum. This increase was offset by shortening the construction period to reduce interest during
construction and by improving, on the financial side, the matching of available currencies with
the disbursements to reduce currency hedging costs. These measures have succeeded in
minimizing the increase in tariffs, with the average tariff for the first ten years of USC4.4/kWh.



- 3 -
In addition, the cost/KW of installed capacity based on the TKC price is about US$762 which
is among the lowest for thermal plants of its size and type currently under construction anywhere
in the world.
1.8       The commercial banks consider their commitrnent under the ECO Guarantees and
ECAs to represent the maximum exposure to commercial risk that they are prepared to assume.
As a result, the increase in the financing requirements for the Hub is covered through a higher
injection of equity from the sponsors and investors, and of subordinated debt to be provided by
the Fund. The equity would be raised from US$323 million to US$372 million, and the
subordinated debt would be increased by US$221 million, from US$381 million at the time the
ECO was approved to US$602 million. Of the US$602 million, about US$377 million would
be provided under PSEDP I and US$225 million would be provided under the proposed Project
by the Bank (US$115 million) and JEXIM (US$110 million).
1.9       The extensive review and refinement by the international financial community of
agreements and provisions pertaining to the Hub Power Subproject, referred to as the Security
Package, has provided the basis for a tested and market approved structure for limited recourse
financing of Build-Own-Operate (BOO) energy projects in Pakistan. This structure, with
significant reduction in the support required through the Fund and GOP guarantees, is being
adopted for use in financing other energy subprojects. The Port Qasim-Khalifa Point fuel oil
pipeline (paras 4.10 - 4.12 and Annex 2) would be the next subproject to be financed by the
Fund, through financing made available under the proposed Project. This support would be
provided following appraisal by NDFC and the appraisal report is approved by the Bank and
cofinanciers. A number of private power subprojects are either under implementation or are at
an advanced stage of preparation (Table 4.1). In addition, the response of the international
financial community to the Hub after the approval by GOP of its Security Package and tariff has
stimulated the interest of other international power plants developers, and so far GOP has given
preliminary approvals for proposals totalling 5000 MW. Most of these proposals are seeking
support from the Fund in the form of subordinated debt that would cover between 10% to 30%
of total costs. Proceeds under the proposed Project earmarked for new power subprojects would
be allocated to those proposals that show evidence of firm commitment for equity and senior
debt which together with the financing through the Fund would ensure financial close within 6
months of the effectiveness of the proposed Project.
H. THE ECONOMY AND THE ENERGY SECTOR
A. The Economy
2.1       In 1988, Pakistan embarked on a comprehensive economic reforn program which
contributed to strong growth in GDP and exports, and increased domestic and foreign
investment. Successive governments have maintained their commitment to the reform program
by implementing measures to improve the enabling environment for the private sector,
liberalizing the external trade and payments system, lowering import tariffs and reducing
restrictions on foreign and domestic investment, including residents' holdings of foreign
currency. In parallel, measures were taken to deregulate the financial sector, decontrol financial
intermediation and move towards indirect control of the monetary sector. An economy wide



- 4 -
privatization program was launched, and activities such as power generation, banking and
domestic aviation that historically had been reserved for public sector were opened to private
sector. Despite these achievements, however, fiscal performance was weak: the budget deficit
placed a heavy burden on monetary policy and inflation remained at an annual average rate of
10%.
2.2       The newly elected government that took office in October 1993, is continuing the
reforms initiated by its predecessors, placing special emphasis on fiscal adjustment, the
broadening of structural reforms, and improving basic social services. Measures to restore fiscal
balance include: tax reform, containment of nonproductive expenditures, and increased
allocations to basic social services and infrastructure. Fiscal adjustment, consistent with greater
reliance on private sector-led growth, is expected to contribute to more effective monetary
policy. The government has strengthened the structural reform significantly by adopting a three-
year trade policy reform program which will further reduce tariff rates and trade restrictions,
and liberalize the exchange regime. These measures, together with appropriate exchange rate
policy, aim at improving the economy's efficiency and international competitiveness. To address
Pakistan's serious shortfalls in basic social services, the government is also implementing a
comprehensive Social Action Program (SAP) which would increase the share of resources
allocated to basic education, health, family planning and rural water supply. It would also
improve effectiveness, quality and coverage of social services, and promote the participation of
local communities, the private sector and non-governmental organizations in the provision of
social services. The Bank is supporting this program with the Social Action Program Project
(Cr. 2593-PAK) which was approved by the Board in March 1994.
2.3       Pakistan's economic performance has shown a marked improvement in the first three
quarters of FY94. Progress is being made in reducing the budget deficit, and gross external
reserves have increased markedly. These results are all the more remarkable as they occur in
a more difficult macroeconomic environment than anticipated, due primarily to continued
infestation by a cotton virus and a drought. As a result, GDP growth in the current fiscal year
is expected to be 5 %, compared to the target of 7.5 %. These adverse exogenous factors are also
expected to affect the current account balance of payments, the government's budget deficit and
the rate of inflation. However, macroeconomic management has remained strong, allowing the
government to meet the March 1994 performance criteria for the ongoing International Monetary
Fund (IMF) program.
2.4       Implementation of the structural reforms has also been satisfactory. In February
1994, the National Assembly approved the extension of the wealth tax to agriculture and
legislated increased autonomy of the Central Bank, both important measures for the successful
implementation of fiscal and monetary policies agreed with the Bank and the IMF. As regards
privatization, the new government is putting greater emphasis on ensuring the transparency of
the privatization process and accelerating its pace of implementation. It has begun re-bidding
the remaining 34 units on the original list of 103 industrial units, and is preparing two of the
remaining public banks for privatization. It is also proceeding with privatization of the Water
and Power Development Authority (WAPDA), the Karachi Electric Supply Company (KESC),
and the Pakistan Telecommunications Company (PTC). The new government has also shown
strong commitment to improving Pakistan's social services through the SAP. Important policy
decisions such as hiring primary school teachers and permitting co-education, have been taken,
although budgeted increases in sectoral expenditures still need to be disbursed.



- 5 -
B. The Energy Sector
2.5       The development of the energy sector in the past was constrained because: (a) the
maintenance of energy prices at levels well below their equivalent border prices or costs of
production which failed to provide adequate internally-generated funds to finance investments;
(b) absence of a regulatory framework needed to provide the parameters for the operation and
management of all enterprises, public and private; and (c) inadequacy of project implementation
capabilities and operational inefficiency on the part of public sector enterprises.
2.6       In an effort to address these issues and set the sector on its growth path, GOP, with
the assistance of the Bank, formulated in 1985 the Long-Term Energy Strategy (LES), covering
the period 1986-2010. LES provided the broad objective for the sector, which is to meet
demand forecast for energy at least cost, while reducing the extent of dependence on imports.
These were to be achieved by accelerating the development of energy resources; improving the
efficiency of energy consumption, transport and delivery; providing full autonomy to the energy
enterprises to allow them flexibility in deploying the resources and generating the surpluses
needed for financing the future development of the sector; and moving gradually towards greater
reliance on the private sector for mobilizing additional financial resources, and harnessing its
technical and managerial expertise. The Bank supported the implementation of the first seven
years of LES through two Energy Sector Loans, ESL I (Ln. 2552-PAK) in 1985 and ESL II
(Ln. 3107-PAK) in 1989, and several investment loans.
2.7       Under these operations, reforms have been implemented, and progress has been
made in addressing each of the major issues. In particular, some of the main institutions in the
sector have been restructured, energy pricing reforms have been implemented, and the financial
performance of the sector has considerably improved. In addition, GOP has introduced, with
the assistance of the Bank, a program to increase the role of private sector in power generation.
Implementation of this strategy was initiated in FY89 under PSEDP I, the details of which are
presented in Chapter 3.
2.8       Despite GOP's effort to reform the sector, the pace of their implementation has been
relatively slow. As a result, energy supply shortages continue. Load-shedding reached about
21 % of peak demand for electricity in FY92. Severe shortages of gas led to frequent and
prolonged supply interruptions. Recognizing the urgent need for major changes, GOP decided
to pursue more aggressive policies for privatization and deregulation. This culminated with the
announcement in March 1994, of a comprehensive energy policy (para 2.29). The policy calls
for greater reliance on market forces and private sector involvement within a streamlined
institutional and regulatory framework in the sector. Particular emphasis is placed on improving
the efficiency of the sector through the implementation of more aggressive demand-side
management measures, loss reduction programs and the establishment of targets for increasing
the operational efficiency of enterprises.
The Bank's Assistance Strategy in the Energy Sector
2.9       The Bank's strategy is to support these actions through a series of lending
operations. The proposed Project, which is consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy
discussed with the Executive Directors on March 31, 1994, would continue the support to
private sector power generation under limited recourse financing. It complements the Power
Sector Development Project (Ln. 3764-PAK), approved in June 1994 by the Board, which would



- 6 -
support WAPDA's restructuring and privatization program, and set in place a deregulated market
where public and private sector enterprises would compete in the supply and distribution of
electricity.
2.10      The Bank's assistance strategy is geared to supporting recently approved policies for
petroleum and power (para 2.29). Lending would be aimed at: improving economic efficiency
and financial autonomy in the sector by encouraging least-cost planning and tariffs that provide
acceptable levels of self-financing; ensuring compliance with international environmental
standards; and strengthening local capabilities for implementation. Key investments to increase
domestic energy resources and to implement reforms would be supported. In line with the
government's strategy for opening the sector to private investments, more recent lending has
focussed on supporting the government's privatization program. The Bank's future lending
program will further develop and enhance the participation of private sector. Accordingly, in
the petroleum sector a future operation will support the privatization of OGDC, and the
development and implementation by the private sector of a hydrocracker project, to increase
production of high-value petroleum products. In the power sector, the recently approved Power
Sector Development Project (Ln. 3764-PAK) is expected to accelerate the privatization of
WAPDA, and the proposed Project would replenish the Private Sector Energy Development
Fund to extend subordinated loans to private energy development subprojects.
Institutional Settin
2.11      The responsibility for the energy sector is shared by four ministries: the Ministry
of Petroleum and Natural Resources (MPNR), the Ministry of Planning and Development, the
Ministry of Water and Power (MWP), and the Ministry of Production (MOP). A high-level
Cabinet Committee on Energy (CCE), chaired by the Prime Minister, is responsible for the
review and approval of all plans, policies and projects in the energy sector, while the
implementation of the approved projects is under the control of the respective ministries and
entities. An Energy Review Group provides coordination among the entities and ministries and
monitors the progress of ongoing projects, programs, policy actions and issues. In addition, the
Environment and Urban Affairs Division (EUAD) in the Ministry of Housing and Works is
responsible for formulating and monitoring the implementation of GOP's environmental policies,
including those for the energy sector. -
2.12      The management of day-to-day operations in the energy sector is vested in a number
of public and private sector entities. The public sector entities are: (a) WAPDA, which is
responsible for developing Pakistan's water resources and for the construction, operation and
maintenance of power generation, transmission and distribution facilities throughout the country,
except the Karachi area; (b) the Oil and Gas Development Corporation (OGDC) for exploration
and development of oil and gas; (c) the Pakistan Mineral Development Corporation (PMDC),
for the exploration and development of mineral resources; and (d) the State Petroleum Refmiing
and Petrochemical Corporation which owns the National Refinery Limited (NRL), for processing
crude oil.
2.13      Also involved in the energy sector are a number of semi-autonomous entities in
which GOP has a controlling interest either directly or through public institutions. These are:
(a) KESC, which is responsible for the construction, operation and maintenance of power
generation, transmission and distribution facilities in the Karachi area; (b) Sui Northern Gas
Pipeline Limited (SNGPL) and Sui Southern Gas Corporation (SSGC) which are responsible for



- 7 -
the transmission and distribution of natural gas; and (c) Pakistan State Oil Limited (PSO) which
is responsible for marketing and distribution of petroleum products.
2.14      Private sector entities include a large number of Pakistani coal mining companies,
two refineries and five oil and gas development companies. All public and semi-autonomous
operating entities are under the jurisdiction of MPNR, except WAPDA, KESC, NRL and
Pakistan Refineries Limited (PRL). MWP has jurisdiction over WAPDA and KESC, and MOP
over NRL and PRL.
Energy Resource Endowment
2.15      Pakistan's commercially exploitable energy resources consist of hydropower, natural
gas, oil and coal. In addition, the country has a large base of traditional fuels in the form of
fuel wood and agricultural and animal waste, which provide a major share of rural consumers'
energy needs. Given its favorable geographical location, Pakistan enjoys a high level of
insolation.
2.16      The hydropower potential in Pakistan is estimated at about 27,000 MW under
average hydrological conditions. As of June 1994, only 4,825 MW (18%) of this capacity had
been developed or committed. A large number of medium and large sized hydroelectric sites
have been studied to varying levels of analyses.  Detailed engineering studies have been
completed for two major hydro projects, Ghazi Barotha (1,400 MW) and Kalabagh (3,600 MW).
Also steps are being taken to initiate the feasibility study for the Basha hydro project (3,300
MW).
2.17      Current estimates of remaining recoverable reserves of oil amount to about 27.3
million tons. Pakistan's major oil fields (Dhulian, Balkassar and Meyal) have largely been
exploited, with production having increased from 39,300 BOPD in FY86 to about 60,000 BOPD
in FY93, resulting in a reserves to production ratio of only nine years. The 1994 Petroleum
Policy is designed with a view to improving the incentives for exploration and reversing the
declining reserve/production ratio. The policy allowed for more expeditious procedures for
awarding exploration licenses; the elimination of discount mechanism for producer price of oil;
and the deferment of duties orrimported equipment for activities ranging from exploration to
production (para 2.29).
2.18      Pakistan has substantial gas reserves that have not been adequately exploited.
Proven recoverable reserves of gas are estimated to be about 22.8 TCF including 1.8 TCF of
associated gas reserves, of which 9.6 TCF were discovered during the last 5 years, mainly at
the relatively large new fields at Qadirpur (3.9 TCF) and Kadanwari (1 TCF). Gas production
has also increased from about 1.0 BCFD in FY86 to about 1.6 BCFD in FY93. Despite the
recent discoveries, gas exploration has proceeded at a slower rate of development than the
resources warrant, in part due to the generally limited interest by the oil industry in gas
exploration under the prevailing incentive structure. The new Petroleum Policy, in addition to
the above-mentioned reforms common for oil and gas exploration, modified the gas producer
formula in favor of the producers mainly by eliminating the discretionary discount mechanism
on the gas producer prices, decreasing government participation during the exploration and
production phases, and reducing the income tax rate.



2.19      Domestic proven reserves of coal and lignite as of FY93 are estimated at about 734
million tons, of which 432 million tons are recoverable. In FY93, the production was only 3.3
million tons of which about 46,700 tons were used for power generation. Given the poor quality
of domestic coal, and in order to increase its utilization in power generation, WAPDA has
commissioned the development of coal at Lakhra to supply 150 MW (3x50 MW) of fluidised bed
power plants which are currently under construction. Prospects for further development of coals
are promising, given the preliminary results of ongoing exploratory activity financed by USAID,
in the lower part of the Thar desert in Sindh Province.
2.20      Most of the renewable energy is obtained by direct burning of biomass, while the
use of solar energy and biogas remains insignificant. Given that the household sector accounts
for over 80% of the biomass consumption, and in face of the rapid increase of the population,
greater pressure is expected on the already dwindling stock of forest resources.  Reliable
statistics on the use of renewable energy have been developed under the recently completed
Household Energy Strategy Study (HESS) carried out by GOP in collaboration with Energy
Strategy Management Assistance Program (ESMAP). The study is expected to provide the basis
for an integrated program of assistance.
Energy Demand and Supplv
2.21       Pakistan's consumption of commercial energy for the period FY83-93 increased at
an average annual rate of about 6.6%, from 11.1 million tons of oil equivalent (TOE) to 21.1
million TOE. This was due mainly to: (a) the growth of the economy at an annual rate of 5.7%;
(b) increased access to commercial energy resources by the population and the underpricing of
household energy during the first part of the decade; (c) increases in the energy intensity of the
agriculture sector; and (d) rapid growth in the industrial sector. IP FY93, the shares of
commercial energy consumed in the main sectors of the economy were: 38.9% industrial, 33.0%
transport, 18.5% residential, 3.9% agriculture, 3.8% other government entities and 2.9%
commercial.
2.22      In terms of the shift in contribution of the various energy resources to the overall
supply of energy during the period FY83-93, the share of gas dropped from 43.6% to 37.7%,
principally due to supply constraints, and the share of oil and petroleum products increased from
34.1 % to 40.2%. Despite the sharp increase in the domestic production of crude oil, its share
remained at 8.5 % of total energy supply. Imports of crude oil and petroleum products in FY93
accounted for over 30%  of total energy supply.  Of this, imports of petroleum products
amounted to 49%. The share of hydroelectricity has remained constant during the period at
about 15%. In order to meet the sharp increase in electricity consumption, thermal power
generation increased at the average annual rate of 12.8%. This, in turn, resulted in a larger
utilization of gas and petroleum products!'. The share of coal, although showing a slight
increase, was lower than expected, given the fact that no new major users of coal have emerged.
Table 2.1 summarizes the commercial energy supplies of the country.
I/    Thermal power generation has consumed about 7.1 million TOE of commercial fuels (mainly gas, fuel oil and
high speed diesel (HSD)) in FY93 compared to about 2.5 million TOE in FY83.



2.23      Energy Demand Forecast. The forecast of unconstrained commercial energy
demand, recently completed by the Bank with the collaboration of Energy Wing as part of the
preparation of the Bank's Energy Options Study, calls for an average annual increase of about
6.7% up to FY2008. This forecast is conservative, as it assumes continued adjustment in energy
prices and an aggressive demand management and conservation program.  It assumes
improvement in energy efficiency where the energy coefficient is expected to decrease from 1.1
for the period FY83-93 to 1.03 for FY93-2008. Investments required to meet the forecasted
demand are within the policy framework agreed with GOP under the medium-term
macroeconomic adjustment program (para 2.4).
2.24      Energy Supply Forecast. In order to meet the forecast demand at least cost, the
supply of domestic energy is expected to increase, although its share of total energy supply is
expected to decrease from 68% in FY93 to about 62% in FY2003.  The contribution of
hydropower to the overall supply would decline in relative terms even with the implementation
of Ghazi Barotha. The share of oil and petroleum products is expected to rise from the present
level of 31.7% to 44.1 % of total energy supply by FY2003. This share could be reduced
substantially by increasing the supply of gas through development of new gas fields and the
pipeline infrastructure, and importing gas by pipeline.  A study to determine the most
economical options for increasing the supply of gas has been recently completed by ESMAPV'.
The study concluded that the forecasted shortfall in gas supply could be met through increased
domestic production in the short to medium term, and major gas imports in the longer term.
In the absence of new domestic or imported gas, the share of gas would decline from 37.7% to
as little as 24.2%. This shortfall would be made up through increased imports of petroleum
products which would increase as a percentage of total energy supply from 31.7% in FY93 to
53.3% in FY2003.
Energy Prices
2.25      Under ongoing operations, GOP has agreed to adjust domestic petroleum product
prices to maintain their levels at import parity with border prices. Producer prices for domestic
oil will continue to be pegged to international prices of crude, but under the PP, the
discretionary discount applied by GOP on the full parity price has been eliminated to provide
better and more consistent incentives for increased production. In order to attract risk capital
for exploration, the producer price for natural gas, which was pegged to fuel oil prices, is now
linked to a range of 67.5-77.5% of the international price of crude oil. The size of the discount
is dependent on the complexity of the geology where exploration is to be undertaken. This
eliminates the previous practice of pegging the price of domestic oil to the border price of fuel
oil which have been decreasing because of softening demand due to environmental
considerations. Consumer prices of petroleum products are above the corresponding import
prices, adjusted for inland transportation and distribution margins. Consumer prices of natural
gas were increased in August 1993, as a result of which gas prices for the general industry,
cement, power and commercial sectors are close to parity with the domestic price of fuel oil.
An exception is the fertilizer sector where gas is treated as feedstock rather than a source of
energy, and prices are set lower, ranging between 20-35% of the domestic price of fuel oil, as
gas. This subsidy to the fertilizer industry is a subject of an ongoing dialogue with the Bank.
Gas used by fertilizer plants as a source of energy is priced at parity with the domestic price of
fuel oil. GOP has recently completed under the ESL II (Ln. 3107-PAK) a comprehensive study
2/    Pakistan, Natural Gas Reserve Assessment and Imports Strategy, Green Cover Report, UNDP, March 1994.



- 10 -
Table 2.1: CommERciAL ENERGY SUPPLEs FY83 FlY93
(Thousand TOE)
FY83   (%)          FY88                  FY93   (%)
Gross Primary                     17,170   (100)     24,627    (100)       32,916    (100)
Energy Supply
Oil & Petroleum Pr.                5,855   (34.1)      9,560   (38.9)      13,211    (40.2)
Domestic Oil                     550   (3.2)        2,094    (8.5)       2,800    (8.5)
Imported Oil                    3,625   (21.1)      3,757   (15.3)       3,937    (12.0)
Imported Products               1,680   (9.8)       3,709   (15.1)       6,474    (19.7)
Natural Gas                        7,486   (43.6)      9,231    (37.5)     12,411    (37.7)
Coal                               1,062   (6.2)       1,791    (7.2)       2,116    (6.4)
Domestic Coal                     720   (4.2)       1,230    (5.0)        1,462    (4.4)
Imported Coal                     342   (2.0)         561    (2.2)         654    (2.0)
Primary Electricity                2,767   (16.1)      4,045    (16.4)      5,178    (15.7)
Hydro                           2,713   (15.8)      3,984   (16.2)       5,039    (15.3)
Nuclear                            54   (0.3)          61    (0.2)         139    (0.4)
&.urce: Hydrocarbon Development Institute of Pakistan
to determine the impact of higher gas prices on the ex-factory prices of fertilizer.  The
recommendations of the study are presently under review. Under ESL II and subsequently under
the Public Sector Adjustment Loan (Ln.3645-PAK, also Cr. 2542-PAK), GOP agreed to raise
gas prices for residential consumers to 80% of the border price of fuel oil by April 1994, 90%
by September 1994, and 100% by April 1995. As these prices are now set at over 80% of the
equivalent border price of fuel oil, only small increases would be required to comply with the
above covenant. As for gas consumed by the power sector, tariffs for raw gas (low BTU
content) are between 60-85 % of the domestic fuel oil price, as a first step to achieving full parity
by FY95, as agreed under ESL II.   -
Environment and Energy Conservation
2.26        Responsibility for environmental protection in Pakistan is vested in the EUAD. The
framework for the country's environmental protection was established in 1983 with the passage
of the Pakistan Environmental Protection Ordinance. EUAD has prepared updated standards for
protection against air and water pollution, and guidelines for environmental impact statements
for energy-producing activities and has submitted these to the Pakistan Environment Protection
Council for approval. The Ministry of Labor is developing improved health, safety and
emergency management standards for surface and underground coal mining activities.



- 11 -
2.27        The government has recently approved a comprehensive National Conservation
Strategy (NCS)3', prepared with the assistance of the Canadian International Development
Agency (CIDA), UNDP and the International Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural
Resources (IUCNNR). NCS sets out the government's priority objectives and plans for
promoting effective environmental and natural resource management. It proposes to achieve
these objectives through a broad-based program which is directed towards encouraging greater
public participation in development and environmental management, merging environment and
economic decision making, and promoting durable improvements in the quality of life.
2.28        As regards energy  conservation, the National Energy  Conservation  Center
(ENERCON) has, in accordance with its mandate, initiated information and outreach programs
for enhancing awareness about energy conservation prospects; assisted in policy formulation and
planning; developed investment projects and proposals for the promotion of energy conservation
activities; and irnplemented pilot programs aimed at demonstrating the viability and benefits of
such activities. The major activities completed to date include: (a) a draft National Energy
Conservation Law and a National Building Energy Code; (b) detailed energy audits for 59 large
industrial plants which have identified possible average savings of 22%; (c) pilot tune-up
programs for industrial boilers and automobiles, and retro-fitting of tubewells; and (d) training
programs for private and public sector managers, engineers and technicians.
Energy Strategy
2.29        The Prime Minister constituted in October 1993 a high-level Task Force on the
Energy Sector, which included representatives from all main private and public sector companies
operating in the energy, industrial and financial sectors. Its main objectives were to outline a
new energy policy aimed at the elimination of load shedding; recommend a plan for mobilizing
resources for the sector and promoting private sector investment; and enhance indigenous gas
and oil production. The recommendations of the Task Force were submitted to the government
in February 1994, and culminated in March 1994 with the announcement of a comprehensive
Petroleum Policy and a Policy Framework and Package of Incentives for Private Sector Power
Generation in Pakistan. The GOP has devised a multi-pronged strategy for the sector in the
Eighth Five-Year Plan, consisting of:
(a)   restraining energy demand growth by introducing an aggressive demand side
management program to control and regulate the growth of the unproductive
component of demand, and discourage wasteful and expensive patterns of
consumption;
(b)   reducing losses in the production, transportation and distribution of energy;
(c)  improving the operational efficiency of the main public sector enterprises;
(d)  increasing private sector participation in power generation and in oil and gas
exploration and production activities by introducing an international-competitive
policy package for attracting overseas and local private investments;
3/     Apart from CIDA and UNDP, a number of donors, including the Bank. have supported GOP's efforts to
prepare and implement the NCS: the Bank through the proposed Environmental Protection and Resource
Conservation Project; Asian Development Bank (ADB) through a technical assistance grant for strengthening
the primary environmental institutions at the federal and provincial levels; and a number of bilateral donors
through specific projects for improving watershed management, forestry development, and the introduction of
professional training in environmental management at the university level.



- 12 -
(e)  accelerating the efficient development of domestic energy resources, and the
infrastructure required for the transportation and distribution of energy;
(f)  streamlining the process of restructuring and privatizing the main public sector
enterprises, in particular, PARCO, PSO, NRL, and OGDC, in conjunction with the
ongoing privatization programs for SNGPL, SSGC and WAPDA; and
(g)  establishing a transparent regulatory framework to provide the necessary comfort
to private investors. In addition, to encourage the implementation of co-generation
projects, the policy advocates the introduction of an appropriate legislation, along
the lines of the U.S. Public Utility Regulatory Policy Act (PURPA) of 1978.
2.30      In o.eder to ensure adherence with implementation targets, the energy policy provides
for the formulation of a monitoring program. Each ministry would be responsible for evaluating
periodically the performance of the public sector enterprises against the announced targets. In
particular, the monitoring function would emphasize reduction of losses, operational
improvements, demand side management and adherence to the scheduled implementation of
energy projects. In addition, a high level committee would be appointed to monitor progress
in private sector participation, and propose modification to the package of incentives if
necessary.
2.31      The level of investments in the power sector for the period FY94-98 is expected to
be consistent with the targets and financial requirements for the public sector investment
program. GOP's medium-term macroeconomic adjustment and structural reform program,
which has been supported by the IMF and the Bank, envisages a level of public sector
investment of around 7.5 % of GDP, consistent with the achievement of the fiscal deficit target.
This would require high levels of public sector investment for the next few years as the
privatization program of the energy sector will take time to fully materialize.
Power Subsector
2.32      As of December 1993, WAPDA accounted for over 90% of the total installed hydro
and thermal power generation capacity of about 10,000 MW, while supplying approximately
88% of the country's electricity consumption. The power systems of WAPDA and KESC are
connected by a 220-kWh double circuit transmission line.
2.33      The Power Market. The electricity market has grown at a very rapid pace over
the past two decades. Consumption of electricity increased from 6,097 GWh in FY73 to about
36,635 GWh in FY93, representing an average annual rate of growth of over 9.4%. Real GDP
growth rate has been at an average annual rate of 5.7%, showing a coefficient of growth in
electricity consumption to growth in GDP of 1.6. Over the years, the domestic sector has
emerged as a major electricity consumer, accounting for 36% of total consumption in FY93,
compared to 11.7% in FY73. The industrial sector whose share has declined from 50.1% in
FY73 to 35.6% in FY93. During the same period, the agricultural and commercial sectors have
decreased their share in the overall consumption. The growth of consumption by households
was due to a five-fold increase in the number of connected households, equivalent to an average
of over 380,000 new domestic connections per year. Despite this progress, only half of



- 13 -
Pakistan's population of about 121 million have access to electricity service, and the per capita
electricity consumption (about 300 kWh/capita) remains low both in absolute terms and relative
to other countries at a similar level of development4'.
2.34      The reliability of electricity supply, however, is not encouraging. Since the early
1980s the country has been experiencing wide-spread power shortages, principally due to
insufficient power facilities (generation, secondary transmission and distribution systems), wide
variations in hydro flows, and irrigation constraints. In FY92 power shortages reached a level
of about 21 % of peak demand and the overall impact of load shedding on the economy amounted
to about US$800 million.  The proposed Project would assist in reducing the power
supply/demand gap by attracting private sector investment for power generation.
2.35      Demand-Side Management. WAPDA, through its Energy and Load Management
Cell, and in collaboration with ENERCON, is actively pursuing load management measures.
They include non-operation of tubewells during peak hours, staggering of weekly holidays,
voluntary 25% reduction of the load by continuous process industries and textile mills and
stoppage of steel melting furnaces during peak hours. Under the ongoing Private Tubewell
Development (Cr. 2004-PAK, 1989) and the Rural Electrification (Ln. 3148/Cr. 2078-PAK)
projects, WAPDA is implementing a pilot program among 27,000 tubewells to control and
restrict tubewell operations through ripple control, time switches and splitting and controlling
residential and tubewell load in phases. In addition, WAPDA also has initiated the installation
of time-of-day meters for 300 (plus a plan for additional 100 time-switches) of the largest
industrial consumers to introduce peak/off peak pricing. With the assistance of ADB, a power
factor improvement program has been initiated by ENERCON in collaboration with WAPDA.
It has been estimated that these measures will lead to 81 MW of demand savings at customer
level, and 50 MW at generation level. In addition, WAPDA conducts energy audit reviews in
all sectors of the economy, with particular emphasis on the industrial sector.
2.36      The new energy policy calls for a more aggressive approach to demand-side
management programs through: (a) extension of peak/off-peak pricing to the remaining
industrial, large commercial and residential customers, and incentives for industrial consumers
for shifting their consumption from peak to off-peak periods; restriction of supply for
agricultural tubewells to off-peak periods (no supply during evening peak hours);
(c) introduction of fiscal incentives to promote customer preference for energy-efficient
fluorescent lamps vis-a-vis incandescent lamps; and (d) promoting the manufacture and use of
energy efficient motors for tubewells, pumps and compressors. These measures, if successfully
implemented, could reduce peak demand by some 1,000 MW by FY2002.
2.37      Electricitv Demand Forecast. The forecast of demand for electricity through
FY2018 was recently finalized by WAPDA. It was prepared by Acres International (Canada)
and funded by CIDA. The forecast was reviewed by the Bank and found satisfactory.  The
introduction of load management, conservation measures and a gradual increase in tariffs
towards economic costs have been taken into account in this forecast. As a result, demand for
electricity is projected to increase at an average annual rate of 8.2% over the Eighth Plan period.
Given the supply constraint experienced in recent years, load shedding is expected to continue
for a number of years into the future until a number of major private power generation projects
come on stream.
4/    In 1990, the average electricity consumption per capita for the Asia region as a whole, was about 1,235 Kwh.



- 14 -
2.38       Electricit' Tariffs. Electricity tariffs are proposed by WAPDA and approved by
the government. The current tariff structure classifies consumers under the following categories:
domestic, commercial, industrial, agriculture, bulk consumers and others. Tariffs within each
category are subdivided accoriing to the level of consumption. Tariffs levied on industrial,
some bulk and a small number of agricultural consumers are composed of two parts, a demand
charge and an energy charge. These consumers also pay a Fuel Adjustment Surcharge (FAS),
except those who are charged flat rate tariffs, varying from Ps. 7/kWh (USCO.22/kWh) for the
lower two levels of the domestic consumers to Ps. 75/kWh (USC2.36/kWh) for other domestic,
industrial, commercial, bulk supplies and other consumers. FAS is based on WAPDA's average
fuel cost incurred in the twelve-month period ending two months prior to the month of billing,
and allows it to recover at least 95% of its fuel cost. Other consumers pay a single tariff
incorporating the two charges. Flat rates are paid by: (a) the majority of the agricultural
consumers (based on the water pump horsepower level); and (b) domestic consumers in the
Federally Administered Tribal Areas (FATA).
2.39        Since 1985, electricity tariffs have been increased annually to enable WAPDA to
finance 40% of its investment from internal sources5'. As a result, the average revenue has
increased from Ps. 63.8/kWh (USC2/kWh) in FY85 to Ps. 144.7/kWh (USC4.52/kWh) in
FY94, representing an average annual increase of about 2 % in real terms. The average revenue
is now at about 75 % of the Long Run Marginal Cost (LRMC) which is estimated at about
USC6/kWh. The government has taken steps to gradually eliminate the cross-subsidies in its
tariff structure.  During the last tariff increase in August 1993, tariffs were raised for all
consumer categories by Ps. 25/kWh, thus increasing the tariffs of domestic and agricultural
consumers by a greater percentage than for other consumer categories. Domestic tariffs were
raised by 25 % compared to the average increase of 20%, while overall agricultural tariffs were
raised by 21%. Furthermore, subsidies for consumer connection for agriculture have been
gradually reduced from Rs. 30,000 per connection in FY88 to zero in FY94. However,
domestic and agricultural tariffs continue to be below their cost of supply. Table 2.2 below
gives a summary of the current level of tariffs compared to their estimated economic level.
2.40        As indicated by a Tariff Study completed in 1991 by WAPDA with the assistance
of consultants financed by ADB, there is still a need for further refinement to the tariff structure.
Measures are expected to be introduced under ongoing agreements between GOP and ADB to
rationalize the structure of electricity tariffs.  These include: (a) a time-of-day tariff for
WAPDA's industrial consumers with maximum demand in excess of 40 kWh; and (b) a gradual
increase in the FAS on domestic consumption between 150 and 300 kWh per month. WAPDA
has also agreed under the Power Sector Development Loan to include a metered energy charge
component in all flat tariffs charged for tubewells, starting September 30, 1995.
2.41        Finally, in line with its objective to privatize the power sector, GOP has recognized
the need to revise electricity tariffs to ensure that their levels would provide rates of return that
would attract private investments. Accordingly, under the Power Sector Development Project,
a study will be carried out to develop proposals and an action plan to improve electricity tariffs
5t    The 40% internal cash generation level is considerably above the average level of 12% achieved by power
utilities in 1991 in a large number of developing countries recently reviewed by the Bank.
6/    In addition, consumers paid a surcharge of 10.4% collected by WAPDA on behalf of the Government for
payment of hydro-electric profits.



- 15 -
Table 2.2: SUMMARY OF WAPDA's CuRRENT TARrFFS AND LRMC ESIMATES
Percentage          Average                          Tariff as
of total            Rate               LRMC        Percentage
Category         consumption         Rs./kWh            Rs./kWh      of LRMC
Residential         34.9%           0.9221                                47%
Conmmercial          4.3%           3.3301                               168%
Tubewells           19.3%           0.598 > average:   1.977              30%
Industrial LV       16.6%           2.3701                               120%
Bulk Supply LV       1.3%           1.9251                                97%
Others               0.9%           2.366 1                              120%
Industrial MV       18.6%           1.948 >average:   1.892              103%
Bulk Supply MV       4.1%           1.7881                                95%
Weighted Average  100.0%            1.447              1.958              74%
LV = Low Voltage; MV = Medium Voltage
Source: WAPDA and mission estimate.
in terms of their ability to provide competitive and attractive returns to private investors. The
recommendation of the study would be implemented by September 19962'. GOP also intends
to continue its effort to reduce the cross-subsidies in connection with future tariff increases
required to meet the internal cash generation (ICG) covenant.
C. Bank Group's Role in the Energy Sector
And Experience with Past Lending
2.42       The Bank Group's involvement in Pakistan's energy sector started in 1955, with
a loan to KESC for the construction of a thermal power station. Since then, it has assisted in
the implementation of projects in all energy subsectors. Prior to 1985, the Bank Group had
made 16 loans/credits to Pakistan for energy projects. In the power subsector, the Bank had
participated in the Indus Basin Development Projects, and provided a series of four credits/loans
to KESC and three to WAPDA. In the petroleum subsector, the Bank's involvement included
five loans to SNGPL for the expansion of the infrastructure for the transmission and distribution
of gas, three to OGDC for exploration and development of oil and gas and the Refinery
Engineering and Energy Efficiency Project (Ln. 2218-PAK, 1982) for restructuring product
output and streamlining existing system. All of these projects have been completed, and the
respective PCRs issued.
2.43       In 1985, the Bank's strategy for supporting the sector was broadened to address the
sectoral policies in addition to investments. The new emphasis on sectoral policies was intended
7/    Given the decentralization of the power sector envisaged by the Strategic Plan, the study will also develop
transfer pricing principles for exchange of electricity at the wholesale level between generation and transmission,
and transmission and distribution, which can be effectively regulated.



- 16 -
to address the issues that cut across the energy sector, i.e., power, coal, oil and gas, etc. to
ensure that consistency in policies is maintained throughout the sector. In addition, the sectoral
policies launched a broad program for structural reform in the sector with the principal
objectives being to identify the key investments needed to meet the energy needs of the
economy; remove the distortions in energy prices and promote efficient use of energy; strengthen
the institutions in the sector to move them towards financial and administrative autonomy; and
deregulate the sector and create an enabling environment for private sector to assume a greater
role in the production and delivery of energy. Two Energy Sector Loans were then made (ESL
I and ESL II) that provided an overall policy framework for Bank's lending in the energy sector.
2.44      In addition to the above mentioned Energy Sector Loans, the Bank has made eleven
loans in the energy sector since 1985. These include WAPDA IV and V (Ln.s 2499-PAK and
2556-PAK) for the least-cost expansion and reinforcement of the secondary and high voltage
transmission grid; the Petroleum Resource Joint Venture Project (Ln. 2553-PAK) to assist GOP
in mobilizing private sector involvement in exploration and development of oil and gas; the Kot-
Addu Combined-Cycle Power Project (Ln. 2698-PAK) to add another 250 MW of generating
capacity through the conversion of combustion turbines to combined-cycle operation; the Power
Plant Efficiency Improvement Project (Ln. 2792-PAK) for the rehabilitation of existing power
plants and conversion of combustion turbines to combined-cycle operation at Kotri and
Faisalabad; the Refinery Energy Conservation and Modernization Project (Ln. 2842-PAK) for
improving energy efficiency at the National Refinery Ltd.; the Private Sector Energy
Development Project (Ln. 2982-PAK), the first of its kind to be approved by the Bank, and
which provides for a fund to assist financing energy projects in the private sector; the
Transmission Extension and Reinforcement Project (Ln. 3147-PAK) to extend WAPDA's
transmission grid; the Rural Electrification Project (Ln. 3148-PAK/Credit 2078-PAK) which is
the first Bank's operation to support the extension of the distribution network in rural areas; and
the Corporate Restructuring and System Expansion Project (Ln. 3252-PAK) which provides for
the privatization of SNGPL as well as expansion in its infrastructure. The most recent Bank
operation in the sector is the Domestic Energy Resources Development Project (Ln. 3500-PAK),
signed on October 1, 1992, which supports the development of the country's oil and gas
resources.
2.45      Overall, the Bank has provided ten credits/loans to WAPDA. The first six have
been completed and the remaining three are being implemented satisfactorily. The Project
Performance Audit Report (PPAR) and the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Third
Power Project (Ln. 968-PAK and SAC 39-PAK) were distributed to the Executive Directors in
April 1989. The PPAR concluded that the project not only improved the supply of electricity,
but also all aspects of WAPDA's operations including administration, technical and financial.
However, despite these achievements, the Project was completed three years behind schedule
because of delays in the appointment of consultants, the award of contracts and clearance of
Project Concept (PC1) documents, as well as the periodic scarcity of local funds. Similar delays
were also experienced in the two previous projects. In order to minimize delays in start-up, the
Bank, under subsequent operations, has assisted WAPDA in preparing standard bidding
documents and has provided training to its staff in the Bank's procurement procedures.
Moreover, through the sectoral approach to lending, which was initiated under ESL I, and
continued under ESL II, the Bank has also been able to assist in mobilizing resources and
reducing slippage in project implementation.



- 17 -
2.46      The Power Sector Development Project, (PSDP) which was approved by the Board
in June 1994, was the first to support the implementation of a comprehensive strategy for the
privatization of the power subsector in Pakistan. Due to the medium and long-term nature of
the proposed privatization program for WAPDA, and the chronic shortages of electricity supply,
the Bank through PSDP, would assist WAPDA in financing a time-slice of its interim investment
needs. Under the proposed Project, the Bank will support the construction of privately owned
and operated power generation plants and related fuel transporting and handling facilities, thus
assisting in the implementation of the government's program for the privatization of the power
sector.
m. POLICIES AND INSTITUTIONS SUPPORTING PRIVATE INVESTMENT IN
THE ENERGY SECTOR
3.1       As discussed earlier (para 2.2), GOP's macroeconomic reform program calls for the
rationalization of public sector expenditures and the allocation of relatively higher proportion of
available resources to social sectors. It also promotes a greater role for private sector in the
revenue earning sectors of the economy. The objectives for increasing private investments are
to: (a) supplement public sector investments which are being curtailed to reduce the fiscal
deficit; (b) mobilize additional resources in the form of equity and debt financing, secured under
minimum guarantees; (c) improve the overall efficiency of the sector by tapping the private
sectors's proven and market tested technical and managerial capabilities in project design,
finance, implementation and operation; and (d) create an environment which fosters competition
and promotes efficiency in both private and public enterprises.
3.2       GOP, with the assistance of the Bank and consultants financed by USAID, identified
the constraints to a greater role for private sector in energy. In 1988, a program was put in
place with a set of measures that consisted of: (a) policies for the promotion of private sector
investment in energy; (b) creation of a vehicle to provide long-term financing for private energy
projects; and (c) establishment of new institutions for the evaluation, negotiation and approval
of private energy investment. PSEDP I was designed to support the implementation of these
measures.
A. Policies for Promotion of Private Investment in Energy
3.3       In the four years of negotiating the Hub Subproject, GOP recognized the need to
strengthen and fine-tune the measures put in place in 1988 for the promotion of private energy
to take into account the feed-back received from private investors and the international financial
community. Refinement was also needed to make Pakistan internationally competitive in
attracting financial resources, and to integrate in these measures the actions taken by
governments to deregulate the economy, and increased reliance on the private sector. The Task
Force on Energy recommended in February 1994, a new policy for private energy which
integrated all the measures, amendments and refinements introduced since 1988 under PSEDP I
on an ad hoc basis in connection with the negotiations of the Security Package for the Hub. In
addition, the new policy moved to market based pricing as a basis for negotiation and approving
private power generation projects. The new policy is summarized below (para 3.5-3.19). It was
promulgated in March 1994 and incorporates the original policies introduced in 1988 together
with the amendments made since. GOP has agreed to closely monitor and evaluate the



- 18 -
experience of a new policy regarding private power generation. and will submit to the Bank its
recommendations regarding further refinements in the policv not later than June 30. 1996.
6. 1 (a)).
3.4        The policies for the creation of an enabling environment for private sector involved
four components: (a) criteria for the consideration of private projects by GOP; (b) fiscal and
financial treatment of private energy projects; (c) incentives for investors and lenders; and (d)
a structure for the agreements, provision and facilities needed to safeguard the interests of GOP,
lenders and investors.
Criteria for the Consideration of Private Project Proposals by GOP
3.5        The criteria to be met by private investments are: (a) integrabilitv: which requires
private projects be consistent with the national least cost plans for the subsector involved i.e.,
power, gas, petroleum, etc.  This would ensure that private and public investments are
complementary in meeting future energy requirements; (b) competitiveness: stipulates that
private projects be selected through a competitive process, measured in terms of prices for
output being at or lower than the economic cost of supply or avoidable cost; (c) viability:
requires that the proposed projects should have an internal economic rate of return equal to or
greater than the opportunity cost of capital; and (d) limited recourse financine: specifies that
commercial loans secured by project sponsors should be under limited recourse where investors
and lenders assume project risks.
Fiscal and Financial Treatment of Private Projects
3.6        Taxes and Duties: Taxes, duties and import levies on equipment typically raise
investment costs by 40%, and substantially increase the local cost financing requirements,
particularly as infrastructure investments require long term maturities not available from local
financial institutions. GOP has responded to these concerns by eliminating all taxes and duties
on imports of equipment, machinery, materials and other items for oil and gas exploration and
production, pipelines, refineries, liquified petroleum gas, compressed natural gas and energy
conservation projects. Private power companies are also exempt from corporate income tax,
customs duties, sales taxes, flood relief and other surcharges, and can register anywhere in
Pakistan to minimize stamp duties and registration fees. Foreign lenders are now exempt from
tax on interest income. The taxes and duties were removed for three reasons. The first is to put
Pakistan on an equal footing with other countries competing for private capital for power
generation, such as Malaysia, India, Philippines, etc. The second is to reduce the financing
requirements, particularly local costs during the development phase of private power, which can
overwhelm the limited resources available in the local financial market. The third is to ensure
consistency in treatment relative to WAPDA and KESC, which are not required to pay corporate
income tax and, hence, their cost of electricity supply would be lower than the cost of privately
supplied electricity if the latter is to pay corporate income tax, which would affect the
dispatchability of private generating units.
3.7        There is also a justification for exempting private power companies from paying
custom duties, surcharges and import tax during the development phases to reduce their claim
on the limited financing capabilities of the local capital and credit markets. However, if the
same levies are rolled over and capitalized at appropriate interest rates, and then paid as a part
of the capital cost component of the tariffs, their impact on the tariffs would be relatively



- 19 -
insignificant. This approach to recovering the taxes would have the beneficiaries, namely
electricity consumers, bear the burden of the taxes. As for corporate income taxes, there is
merit for exempting private power companies if WAPDA and KESC are exempt from paying
these taxes to ensure competitiveness in terms of pricing between public and private sectors.
The essential question, however, is whether energy companies should be exempt in light of the
need for GOP to broaden its tax base and institute a consistent tax policy. Since the new energy
policy has just been introduced, and given the fact that the process for the privatization of
WAPDA and KESC is about to be launched, changes in the income tax policies concerning the
power sector could undermine investor confidence. It is, therefore, prudent to postpone the
issue of corporate income tax for the power sector for another year or two until the ongoing
privatization and private power programs are set on their course, and to examine the issue in the
context of reviewing with GOP future measures for tax reform and resource mobilization. GOP
has agreed to review as part of its assessment of the overall policy regarding private energy
generation the exemption of the power sector from corporate income tax and the potential for
rolling over and capitalizing customs duties. Igra and import taxes. and recovering these from
the private enterprises in the energy and energy related infrastructure during the operating phases
(para 6.1 (b)). GOP has also confirmed that all taxes, duties and levies should they be imposed
in the future on private energy and energy related infrastructure companies. would be treated
as nass through items to be reflected in the tariff and collected from consumers of electricity
(para 6.1 (c)).
3.8       Avoidable Costs and Indexation: Prior to the introduction of the new policy, the
procedures for approving private power investments involved the negotiation of a bulk tariff for
each project, requiring a detailed determination of: (a) the competitiveness of capital costs, (b)
the efficiency criteria to be used in constructing and operating the facilities; and (c) a rate of
return (IRR) to investors of 18%, assuming a 60% load factor. This led to a long process of
negotiations. The new policy shifted the approach from a rate of return to a market-based
pricing where the avoidable cost for the power system is set a priori and the decision is left to
investors to select the equipment for power generation, structure of financing and its sources,
and the operating criteria that together would maximize their returns. GOP would now evaluate
investments for technical viability, letting the sponsors decide whether the avoidable cost tariff
offered yields their required return.  The average avoidable cost for the first ten years of
operation has been set at US6.5/kWh plus a premium of USCO.25/kWh for plants above 100
MW that are commissioned by the end of 1997.
3.9       The reliance of GOP on the avoidable cost as the main criterion for approving
private power generation projects represents a major step in streamlining the process for review,
negotiation, and approving private power. The estimated level for the avoidable cost of USC6.5
cents is reasonable though not quite as competitive with rates awarded to private power projects
approved in Malaysia, Philippines and India. The tariffs awarded to private power projects in
these countries are relatively higher and involve no convertability risks. In the Philippines tariffs
are paid in US dollars, and in India the Central Bank guarantees convertability of local currency
for debt service and returns on equity. In Malaysia, the currency is fully convertible and foreign
exchange reserves are at levels that pose no convertability risks. In Pakistan, the tariff of US
C6.5/kWh would be paid in Rupees and now that the foreign exchange insurance scheme has
been cancelled, lenders as well as investors would need to rely on a set of indices to adjust all
components of the tariff to ensure that the erosion in the value of the Rupee is compensated for
in the tariff to generate the Rupees required to service the debt and provide the returns on
equity. Lenders and investors in power projects in Pakistan would still bear convertability risks.



- 20 -
3.10       The announcement of an avoidable cost for power of USC6.5/kWh is based on the
assumption of fixed interest rates for debt, a cap on insurance, and a predetermined and fixed
level for front end fees, commitment charges, and foreign exchange insurance premia. This
approach to setting the tariff, while it went quite a distance in resolving the issue of approval,
does not fully take into account the lessons learned from the negotiations of the Hub Power
subproject. A review of the tariffs agreed with private power projects approved recently shows
that the sponsors are concerned about the bankability of these tariffs, but are prepared to move
forward for now, letting the commercial lenders raise the issue of tariffs later on. Lenders and
investors need to be protected against risks that are beyond their control. Changes in interest
rates, insurance premia, front end fees and commitment charges cannot be assumed by lenders
unless the project companies secure larger standbys and financing for contingencies to cover
increases in these costs. Furthermore, the avoidable cost is based on a fixed onlending rate from
PSEDF of 14% and a financing of 40% of total cost which are now inconsistent with the
changes for variable interest rates, not of foreign exchange insurance fee, and financing of upto
30% agreed under the proposed loan (paras 4.26 and 4.28). A more effective approach for
structuring the avoidable cost is to set the parameters on which this cost is based, and treat any
change, whether up or down, as a pass-through item to be adjusted at financial close for each
private power project.  Thereafter a set of indices should be agreed upon which would
automatically adjust the benchmark tariff fixed at financial close to compensate for changes in
the tariff's components, without discouraging cost containment. Moreover, there is a need to
examine the potential for providing incentives within the structure of the avoidable cost for
increasing the level of utilization of power plants thus reducing the average tariff for sales to
WAPDA and KESC. At the outset GOP has agreed to provide a statement clarification on how
GOP's tariff policy for private sector is applied. Furthermore. GOP having set the benchmark
tariff for the purchase of electricity at high voltage from the private power generators at the
equivalent of USC6.5/kWh inclusive of foreign exchange insurance premia has agreed to
thereafter adjust every six months to reflect changes in the costs of commercial borrowing.
foreign exchange risk cover. O&M and fuel. It will continue to provide an explicit outline of
the indices to be used for adjusting the benchmark tariff of USC6.5/kWh. the methodology used
in deriving these indices, and the approach to be used for their application. and declare as part
of its policy measures that the return on investment components of the tariff for private sector
projects in energy and energy- related-infrastructure would be indexed annually to compensate
for the depreciation of the Rupee relative to the US dollar. (paras 6.1 (d). 6.1 (e). and 6.1 (fl).
Incentives to Investors and Lenders
3.11       Return to Investors: The new energy policy's base tariff of USC6.5/kWh available
to new power generators potentially offers competent operators attractive rates of return.
Sponsors now have the incentives to minimize cost, thus maximizing their returns within the
tariff offered by GOP for private power, as there is now no 18% cap on the investors' IRR.
Returns are not guaranteed. Investors are expected to take the risk of lower or no return in the
event their plants failed to operate as initially agreed. Foreign investors are assured full
repatriation and rupee convertability of dividends, principal and expenses. GOP has confirmed
its intentions to continue to allow full repatriation of dividends and principal capital by foreign
investors, and compensate investors for loss of dividends, initial capital investments and capital
appreciation in the event of default by public institutions in their obligations under the Security
Package or in an event of political force maieure involving Pakistan (para 6.2(g)).



- 21 -
3.12      Debt Seniority: The Fund provides subordinate debt financing for private sector
subprojects as a catalyst in attracting investors' equity and commercial loans. The rights of
senior lenders vis-a-vis the Fund/LTCF in the event of liquidation was not clearly spelled out
before the new policy was announced. GOP has declared loans from the Fund/LTCF to be
subordinated to senior lenders' loans in both debt service and security (para 6.2(h)).
3.13      Debt Service Reserve Escrow Accounts: GOP will allow the creation of escrow
accounts which may vary from one transaction to another to be funded either at the outset of the
financing plan or from the revenues generated by the subproject companies after commercial
operations (para 6.2(i)).
3.14      Financing of Energv Projects: The funding criteria agreed under PSEDP I have
been fine-tuned as follows: (a) total costs includes the costs of goods and services and other
provisions necessary to mobilize commercial financing under limited recourse; (b) the maximum
debt: equity ratio for subproject companies would be 80:20, though higher equity ratios would
be preferred; (c) the normal limit of its subordinate debt will be 30% of the overall costs,
although in exceptional cases the Fund could finance up to 40% of the overall costs with special
concurrence from the Bank; preference would be given to investments requiring minimum
support from PSEDP; and (d) the commercial debt financing required under limited recourse
should be at least 40% of the overall financing.
3.15      Financial Instruments for Private Energy: Restrictions on the ability of private
energy companies to issue bonds and equity to local and foreign investors have been removed.
The markets would determine how best lenders and investors should finance their projects. To
facilitate the creation and encouragement of a corporate debt securities market to raise local
financing, the following provisions have been made for energy companies: (a) permission to
issue corporate bonds; (b) permission to issue discount shares at more than the current 10% limit
stipulated by law, to enable venture capitalists to obtain higher rates of return commensurate to
the risk and market conditions; (c) permission to foreign banks to underwrite the issue of power
company shares and bonds; (d) permission for non-residents to purchase securities issued by
Pakistanis without need for State Bank permission; and (e) abolition of the 5%  limit on
investment an energy company can have in the equity of an associated undertaking. The
establishment of an independent bond rating agency to help investors make informed decisions
has also been authorized.
3.16      Structure of the Security Package: Since GOP requires that private projects be
implemented under limited recourse, lenders and investors would be entitled to guarantees from
GOP only for specific risks which the private sector could not bear or where measures to
mitigate these risks are beyond its means, i.e. political force majeure, sovereign default, etc.
Outside these risks, lenders have to look to the projects themselves for recourse, namely to the
revenues and assets of project companies. Access of lenders and investors to the revenues and
assets of project companies are specified in a set of inter-related agreements that spell out the
right and obligation of GOP, the project companies, lenders, investors, operators and
shareholders. These agreements, together with the provisions to mitigate the various non-
commercial risks, comprise the Security Package which also identifies risks associated with
projects and allocates them accordingly to GOP, lenders and investors.
In order to accelerate the process of negotiations and approval of private energy investments,
GOP has issued standardized Implementation, Fuel Supply and Power Purchase Agreements



- 22 -
which guarantee the obligations of government agencies and the public sector utilities under the
Security Package. Protection against specific force majeure risks and changes in taxes and duties
have also been incorporated into these agreements.
3.17       Energy Related Infrastructure Facilities: The new Petroleum and Power Policies
have largely addressed the main impediments to private sector participation in the development
of Pakistan's energy sector. These policies need supplementing to cover energy related
infrastructure such as pipelines, port facilities and terminals, storage facilities for petroleum
products, and power transmission as the translation of these policies into specific guidelines
covering tariffs, fiscal treatment, incentives in terms of repatriation of dividend, etc., has not
been addressed. Infrastructure facilities are similar to power generation in a number of aspects:
(a) investments are characterized by long gestation periods; and (b) revenues are in local
currencies and depend on a single customer rather than on a competitive market thus exposing
private sector companies to currency conversion and availability risks, and sovereign risks.
Failure to develop the infrastructure for handling, storing and transporting petroleum products,
and transmitting electricity, would undermine the government's program for accelerating the
involvement of the private sector in the energy sector. Moreover, successful power generation
projects require efficient, reliable, and economic systems for the delivery of fuel. Success in
attracting private sector to invest in infrastructure not only requires attractive returns on
investment, but also a framework for setting tariffs and for extending the necessary protections
against depreciation of the Rupee, inflation, availability of foreign exchange etc..
3.18       It is therefore proposed that energy related infrastructure, to be developed by private
sector be treated on the lines already accorded to power generation investments. This would
cover pricing principles, taxes, duties, indexation, foreign exchange availability, repatriation of
dividends, etc. Of particular importance for equity and debt financing by the private sector
development is the framework for setting tariffs under the pricing principles which are based on
established commercial practices, covering: (a) principal and interest on foreign and local loans;
(b) fixed and variable operation and management (O&M) costs; (c) insurance costs required by
lenders and equity investors; (d) wages, salaries, benefits and mandatory social contributions;
(e) project company development costs; (f) fuel cost, if the facilities require heating or cooling;
and (g) a real and competitive return on equity.
In addition, in view of the fact that the tariff would be paid in Rupees whose value could
depreciate relative to foreign currencies, there is a need for exchange rate indexation to
compensate for erosion in the value of the Rupee. Also, loans secured on the basis of variable
interest rates would need to reflect the interest rate component of tariffs. Finally, the return on
investment components which would be paid in Rupees also would need to be adjusted annually
to offset any depreciation or appreciation in the local currency to maintain the return in real
terms. Announcement by GOP that it will extend the incentives and safeguards currently
available to private power to energy related infrastructure facilities such as terminals. ports,
pipelines. storage facilities and power transmission lines, is a condition for the effectiveness of
the proposed Bank loan (para 6.3 (a)).



- 23 -
B. Private Sector Energy Development Fund
3.19        The second set of the measures for the promotion of private energy involved the
creation of a vehicle to provide long-term subordinated loan financing and to cover provisions
such as escrow accounts and contingencies required for financing under limited recourse. Under
PSEDP I, the Private Sector Energy Development Fund (the Fund) was created to mobilize
financing from bilateral and multilateral institutions for onlending to private energy subprojects
that meet the eligibility criteria and the Fund's guidelines. A total of US$564 million was
mobilized. Loans or mixed credits made to GOP from the Bank (US$150 million), JEXIM
(US$150 million), Italy (US$50 million), the United Kingdom (US$44 million), and the Nordic
Investment Bank (US$13 million) totalled US$407, and USAID committed a grant of US$130
million. The Governments of France, Germany and Canada expressed interest.in participating,
provided that the subprojects originating in these countries were approved by GOP.
Subsequently only the Government of France maintained its interest and provided US$27 million
for the Hub Power Subproject.
3.20        Since PSEDP I was approved, the development assistance priorities of a number of
the cofinanciers have changed, altering the magnitude and cost of resources available to the
Fund. USAID cancelled its grant of US$130 million and replaced it with US$7 million grant
to be mixed with US$13 million of commercial loans to be guaranteed by US Eximbank. The
Overseas Development Administration (ODA) cancelled its contribution. The net effect of these
changes was to decrease the Fund's resources by US$163 million (29%) to $399 million. Table
3.1 shows the initial and current commitments and their corresponding interest rates.
Table 3.1: Status of Contributions to the fund Under PSEDP I
(US $Million Equivalent)
Initial       Current            Current
Initial        Interest       Amount             Interest
Source          Commitment        Rate (%)      Committed           Rate (%)
World Bank"            150      -   7.72           150                7.43
JEXIM i                150          5.80           150                5.80
Italy                   50          1.50            50                1.50
U.K.                    44          5.50             -
Nordic Investment       13          5.00             -
Bank
USAID/                 130          5.50            7s
US Eximbank                                        13k'                5.5
France                  27           2.1           29"                 5.8
TOTAL:                 564         5.64-d'         399               5.76Y
a] From PSEDP 1, US$5 million of the Bank loan was used for technical assistance.
b/ Based on OECD guidelines. USAID grant (35 %) plus US Eximbank loan (65 %) based on 6 months LIBOR + 0.2%.
Avcrage rate of 5.5% as of September 1994.
cl To be disbursed in French Francs under mixed credit.
d/ Average weighted interest rate.
3.21        The average interest rate of borrowing by GOP on the US$399 million was about
5.6%. The onlending interest rate to subprojects was set at 14% in Rupees, fixed for the
duration of the subloans. This interest reflected the prevailing rate in the financial market of



- 24 -
Pakistan at the time. It was to cover the cost of the funds to GOP plus the weighted cost of the
foreign exchange insurance premium required at that time for all foreign loans. This cost was
estimated to be about 3.8%. This brought the average cost of loans to the Fund to about 9.4%,
leaving a spread of about 4.6% to cover the cost of administration of the Fund by NDFC. The
onlending interest rate for these new loans was to be reviewed annually to re-align it with the
market rates. In the last three years, reforms in the domestic financial sector have moved it
closer towards market determined interest rates. Consequently, the basis for setting the Fund's
onlending rate has been reconsidered to reflect the deregulated nature of the financial sector in
which it operates. This issue is addressed under the proposed Project (paras 4.24, 4.56).
C. Institutional Framework
3.22      The third set of measures for the promotion of private energy involved the creation
of institutions for the review, negotiation and approval of private proposals. Under PSEDP I,
MWP was assigned responsibility for reviewing and approving power proposals, and MPNR for
reviewing oil/gas and coal development proposals.  WAPDA  was entrusted with the
responsibility for negotiating and administering power purchase agreements and integrating the
operation of private power plants within its system. Each of these agencies set up new units
specifically charged with supporting private energy investments. MWP set up the Private Power
Cell which became the Private Power Board, WAPDA the Private Power Organization, and
NDFC the Private Energy Division. MPNR was to set up the Coal Mining Cell, but because
of low interest in coal mining at the time, GOP decided, in agreement with the Bank, not to
create this unit.
Private Power and Infrastructure Board
3.23      In 1988 MWP created the Private Power Cell to provide an institution that would
evaluate and negotiate private power projects on behalf of GOP. It has been at full complement
since 1993 with a Director General supported by a Director for Mechanical Services, assisted
by two engineers, a Director for Finance with two Financial Analysts, and a System Analyst.
Until May 1993, the Cell was supported by consultants from IRG of the USA, whose team of
long and short term advisors were drawn from EBASCO for environmental services, ESI for
plant operations, John T. Boyd for coal mining, and Hunton and Williams for legal services.
This team provided technical assistance and training, developed guidelines for project evaluation,
financial models for verifying private proposals, and established procedures for project
evaluation. Core funding for staff, except for the Director General, the training and consultants
was provided by a USAID grant which terminated on June 30, 1994. In an effort to streamline
the institutional structure for private power, the new energy policy called for PPC to be
designated as the Private Power and Infrastructure Board (PPIB) to function as a single-stop
investment window and assume the full responsibility on behalf of GOP for negotiating all
private sector power. PPC was so designated in June 1994, and funding for its operation,
covering staffing, consulting services, training, and facilities and equipment would be covered
under the proposed Project. Internationally respected consultants would be recruited under the
proposed Project to assist the Board to detail its mandate, organizational structure, staffing,
recruitment of key personnel, financial performance criteria, budget and auditing procedures and
systems (para 4.5(b)).



- 25 -
The Fund at NDFC
3.24      Under PSEDP I, NDFC was designated the Administrator of the Fund. In June
1988, NDFC created the Private Energy Division specifically for this purpose. It is structured
to allow for its future detachment from NDFC. NDFC's management of the Fund is governed
by an Administrative Agreement between the Corporation and GOP, signed in January 1989.
It details the establishment and staffing of the Fund as well as NDFC's responsibilities for the
preparation of guidelines for its operations, and the appraisal and supervision of subprojects
approved.
3.25      A core staff was recruited and trained, and suitable consultants hired to support its
operation in the early years. The Fund now has a competent staff of young professionals with
extensive and specialized training abroad. Training and staff support has been well provided by
internationally recruited consultants. The Fund is headed by a Senior Executive Vice President
who reports directly to the Chairman of NDFC. Under the Senior Executive Vice President are
two Senior Vice Presidents each heading a department of financial and technical experts. There
is also a Vice President for Management Systems and Credit Lines. Operational support has
been provided by a consulting team led by Price Waterhouse, with RCG/Hagler Bailly and
Brown & Root as economic and technical advisors, and Latham and Watkins as legal advisors.
These consultants have helped the Fund develop its institutional capability. Coopers and
Lybrand (U.K.) developed the appraisal guidelines. Financing for technical assistance and
training was provided by USAID grants, the technical assistance component under PSEDP I, and
the Government of Japan. The operations manuals have been approved by NDFC, GOP and the
Bank, and brochures describing the Fund's objectives and the guidelines for its lending policies
have been published.
3.26      The Fund was set up as a self-contained unit. It is expected to reach its own
independent decision as to the technical and financial viability of subprojects presented for
financing, after they have been approved by the Private Power Cell of MWP. In this respect
it undertakes for each subproject an assessment of the adequacy of each agreement under
Security Package; the structure of the financing plan; implementation and construction
contracting arrangements; the insurance arrangements; and cash generation. In addition, the
Fund coordinates all of its activities during project implementation and future operation with the
senior lenders. The Fund has successfully undertaken all of the pre-construction activities in
connection with the appraisal of the Hub Power Subproject. Its appraisal report was reviewed
by the Bank and found satisfactory, and suitable as a basis for the release of the mobilization
payment to launch the implementation of the subproject (para 1.6). The decision on detaching
the Fund from NDFC and establishing it as an independent financial institution, as agreed under
PSEDP I, was postponed by GOP, with the concurrence of the Bank and cofinanciers, until the
first subproject is launched. Now that the Hub Power Subproject is expected to reach financial
closure by September/October 1994, the issue of detachment and its timetable implementation
would be addressed under the proposed Project (para 4.52).
WAPDA Private Power Organization
3.27      WAPDA created the Private Power Organization under a Managing Director, with
a General Manager, four Directors and six Assistant Directors, and the support of IRG and
Putnam, Hayes. USAID grant funds covered all operating costs, staff training, consultants
contracts and the appointment of staff. The Organization's original function was to coordinate



- 26 -
all the WAPDA units involved in load dispatch, system operation, finance, system planning,
etc., to handle the complex issues of negotiating tariffs and power purchase agreements, and
outline contractual and technical aspects for the integration of private sector supplies into
WAPDA's system. The new policy has phased the Organization out of this role (para 4.49),
leaving these functions the sole responsibility of PPIB.
3.28      In 1993, WAPDA  assigned its Private Power Organization the additional
responsibility for planning the privatization of its assets, in accordance with GOP policy for the
divestiture of its operating units (para 2.46). It therefore has a major role in the implementation
of the recently approved Power Sector Development Project, particularly with regard to the
reorganization and corporatization of WAPDA into a holding company with decentralized
generation, transmission and distribution subsidiaries operating as discrete autonomous profit
centers. The Organization has also developed guidelines for purchasing power from captive
industrial plants and co-generation units, from which it is obliged to purchase power at rates set
by the new policy.
Lessons from Previous Bank Operations
3.29       The experiences gained so far from PSEDP I (Ln. 2982-PAK) and the processing
of the ECO coguarantee for Hub can be summarized as follows: (a) the speed by which
infrastructure projects can be successfully financed is largely country specific. In some countries
the presence of the Bank and of ECAs does not necessarily mean that commercial lenders are
willing to assume country and sovereign risks, unless the multilateral institutions are involved
in mitigating certain sovereign risks; (b) the ECAs' willingness to guarantee commercial loans
is tied to the size of the contract awarded and to the limit on exposure of the country involved,
irrespective of how financially and economically attractive the projects are; (c) the availability
of subordinated debt is useful and in some countries essential for mobilizing commercial debt,
particularly for infrastructure projects whose revenues are denominated in local currencies and
dependent on the performance of a small number of public enterprises and agencies; (d) the
coordination of cofinancing for private projects is extremely time consuming, particularly in
harmonizing procurement rules and disbursements of funds and in integrating the available
currencies with those required for project implementation, implying the need for relatively few
cofinanciers; (e) private power and infrastructure projects typically require numerous regulatory
and procedural changes and it is essential to identify potential bottlenecks and constraints at an
early stage; and (f) it is preferable to limit project size, to enable ready substitution if a key
participant drops out; among other advantages, this permits the Bank and the borrower to take
a more hands-off role. Nonetheless, experience to date on subsequent subprojects indicates that
all parties have learned lessons that are resulting in much faster processing. This also indicates
that investor confidence in Pakistan's power sector is growing as a result of Bank support, and
that in the future private power would need proportionally less subordinated debt financing.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Setting
4.1        The increased reliance of Pakistan on the private sector for energy development has
been broadened to include a range of infrastructure facilities. The shift from public to the
private sector reflects the policy makers' recognition that resources needed for the development



- 27 -
of infrastructure could not be financed through budgetary allocations. The preparation of the
Hub provided Pakistan substantial expertise in structuring complex BOO projects financed under
limited recourse. This provided the basis for GOP to apply the same principles for the
development of infrastructure i.e., pipelines, terminals, airports, port facilities, bridges and toll
roads. The constraint to greater involvement of private sector in infrastructure is principally the
absence of enabling environments in terms of regulations, commercial codes, pricing, taxation,
returns, etc. These are essential if the private sector is to assume the role envisaged by GOP.
In addition, the institutions responsible for appraising, negotiating and financing private
infrastructure projects need to be strengthened, their guidelines amended and their staff trained
and increased to cope with the number of projects involved.
4.2       The Hub Power Subproject is Pakistan's flagship in terms of the development of
internationally credible private power projects. Despite the support of every government that
has taken office since 1988, the staying power of the sponsors and contractors, and the
involvement of the Bank and major donors, financial closure for the subproject has been delayed
by about four years. This has increased the financing required for the subproject, primarily to
accommodate the adjustment in the TKC price, which was caused by the appreciation in the
value of the Japanese Yen and the depreciation of the Pakistani Rupee, and inflation in Japan,
France and Italy where the major share of equipment is being procured. In addition, the senior
lenders have insisted on higher contingencies and standbys to buffer the subproject during the
construction against foreign exchange risks, interest rate risks and cost overruns. The increase
in the financing requirements of the subproject would be covered through higher equity and more
debt financing from CDC, and from ECA guaranteed commercial loans. The rest, amounting
to about US$200 million, would have been provided by the banks under the ECO/JEXIM
Guarantee. However, as financial close got delayed and costs increased, the banks were
unprepared to assume the risks originally contemplated, and asked that the Fund increase its
subordinated financing from US$381 million, representing 26% of the overall financing for Hub,
to US$602 million, amounting to about 33 %. Unless the level of support through subordinated
debt is met by the Fund, financial close by the Hub would not be possible.
4.3       After PSEDP I was approved, a number of private power projects which were
concurrent with the Hub either dropped out or slowed their pace of development as they waited
the progress on Hub, which has been used as a vehicle to fine tune the legal framework, the
Security Package, the tax structure and the foreign exchange insurance scheme to accommodate
financing projects under limited recourse.  The lessons learned through Hub have been
incorporated in GOP's new energy policy announced in March 1994. The new policy together
with the initiation of construction and the launching of the commercial debt syndication for Hub
has stimulated the interest of the private sector. Seven proposals totalling 1970 MW involving
major international developers and operators have been given preliminary approved by GOP.
Some of these proposals require some financing from the Fund in the form of subordinated loans
to attract senior commercial debt. The financing sought, however, is in many cases much lower
than was required for the Hub, partly due to the higher tariffs offered and partly due to the
investors' growing confidence resulting from the progress on Hub.
B. Project Objectives
4.4        The objective of the proposed Project is to assist GOP increase the private sector's
role in the development, ownership and operation of power and related infrastructure facilities
by providing: (a) long term financing through the Private Sector Energy Development Fund (the



- 28 -
Fund), presently administered by the National Development Finance Corporation, for subprojects
that are either under implementation or are shortly to be launched; and (b) strengthen the newly
created institutions responsible for the review, negotiation, approval and financing of such
private sector investments.
C. Project Description
4.5        The proposed Project will:
(a)  replenish the Fund to provide subordinated long-term loans to private sector entities
to finance goods, services, and associated costs required for the implementation of:
(i) the oil-fired Hub Power plant to be constructed, owned and operated by
HUBCO (paras 4.6-4.9); and
(ii) the pipeline network for the transportation of fuel oil from Port Qasim to the
existing and new power generation plants such as Hub Power, Ben Qasim
(1,260 MW) and Fauji (350 MW Phase 1) at Point Khalifa. The pipeline
network would be constructed, owned, and operated by APL
(paras 4.10-4.12).
(iii) maintain financial resources in the Fund to provide subordinated long term
loans to private power generation and energy related infrastructure subprojects
currently at an advanced stage of preparation, provided each meets the
guidelines of the Fund and the environmental standards of the Bank (para
4.13, and Table 4.1). Priority in accessing the Fund's resources financed
under PSEDP I and the proposed Project for subprojects other than the Hub
Power Subproject would be accorded to those that show evidence of
completed equity and firm commitment for senior debt which together with
the subordinated debt to be provided under the proposed Project will allow for
financial close within at most 6 months from the effectiveness of the proposed
Project;
(b)  fund the continued operation of the Private Power and Infrastructure Board,
covering staff, consulting services, training, and facilities and equipment; and
(c)  provide consulting services to:
(i) assist GOP to outline the mandate for the PPIB, its management and reporting
structure; staffing plan and compensation package; financing plan and
financial performance indicators; environmental and resettlement capacity
building plan and guidelines; and its monitoring, evaluating and reporting
system;
(ii) formulate the mandate for the Fund to operate as an autonomous,
commercially-oriented LTCF; its organizational structure and management;
staffing plan and terms of reference for the various positions; financing plan
and financial performance indicators and financial monitoring systems;
(iii) develop the guidelines for the Fund/LTCF to allow for its financing of energy
related infrastructure subprojects, i.e., oil terminals, pipelines, transmission
systems, refineries, etc; and strengthen the staff capabilities to deal with such
investments; and
(iv) develop environmental and resettlement assessment guidelines for the
Fund/LTCF, and strengthen its capabilities for monitoring compliance with
these guidelines during the construction and operation phases.



- 29 -
Under the proposed Project all subprojects other than the Hub Power Subproject, which has been
already appraised by the Fund and approved by the Bank, would require appraisal by the
Fund/LTCF and Bank approval of the appraisal reports and subloan documents before
disbursement.
Hub Power Project
4.6       The Hub Power Subproject is comprised of 4x323 MW oil fired power generation
steam units. It is Pakistan's first private sector BOO power project and when completed it
would account for 12 % of total installed capacity. It would be owned and operated by HUBCO,
a joint stock company owned by Pakistani and foreign investors. Its shares would be traded in
the international capital markets and the Karachi Stock Exchange. The power plant is being
constructed under a fixed lump sum TKC by an international consortium led by Mitsui and
Company of Japan, with IHI of Japan supplying the boilers, Ansaldo of Italy providing the
turbogenerators and overall engineering, and Campenon Bernard of France executing the civil
works. Xenel Industries of Saudi Arabia is the sponsor responsible for the development of the
subproject and a major, together with National Power of the United Kingdom which is the plant
operator. Other major investors on the Board come from Singapore, Saudi Arabia, East Asia,
Europe and North America, and the rest of the equity comes through Global Deposit Receipts
(GDRs) raised on the world markets.
4.7       The financing of the Subproject follows the guidelines of the Fund which require
a minimum debt:equity ratio of 80:20. Debt would be divided into subordinated debt, which
would be covered by the Fund, and senior debt, which would be provided by a syndicate of
foreign commercial banks, Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) and a syndicate of
local banks. The senior foreign debt, with the exception of the financing provided by CDC,
would be guaranteed against sovereign risks and political event of force majeure by the Bank and
JEXIM under the ECO Guarantee, and by guarantees of the export credit agencies of France
(COFACE), Italy (SACE), and Japan (MITI-EAD).
4.8       The construction of the Hub started on December 12, 1993 when the first tranche
of the mobilization payment was made (para 1.6). Progress in the construction is ahead of
schedule by over three months. The first unit (1x323 MW) is expected to be commissioned by
June 1996 at the latest, and the remaining three units would follow in sequence at three month
intervals each.
4.9       Commitment for subordinated debt financing has been provided by the Bank, JEXIM
and the Government of France, as well as by the Fund using its PSEDP I and other resources.
Senior debt financing is being mobilized through a syndication led by Citibank, Bank of Tokyo,
Credit Lyonnais, The Sakura Bank, Natwest and Mediocredito Centrale. The arranger banks
have agreed with the Bank and Hubco on a strategy for syndicating the ECO/JEXIM facility and
the ECAs facilities together as a package. Market sounding for US$692 million equivalent was
launched in August 1993. Financial institutions in Europe, Japan, North America and the
Middle East were contacted. The syndication has been oversubscribed and the underwriting
became unconditional on September 19, 1994. Names of the financial institutions and the
amounts committed are presented in Schedule D to Annex 1.
4.10      Morgan Grenfell was appointed global coordinator for the outstanding equity amount
and has assembled a syndicate of institutions to ensure a wide investment base. Deutsche Bank



- 30 -
fully and unconditionally underwrote the outstanding equity amount as of September 1994.
HUBCO's shares have been offered in the form of Global Depository Receipts (GDRs), which
are listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange. US$30 million equivalent will also be offered
to investors in Pakistan, where Hubco secured a listing on the Karachi Stock exchange. In order
to overcome the current weaknesses in the absorbative capacity of the equity market in Pakistan,
Morgan Grenfell pre-placed US$25 million of equity with the Overseas Economic Cooperation
Fund of Japan (OECF). OECF sub-underwrote the equity and will hold it during the
construction period, then it will gradually divest itself of it. Small local investors can then
acquire this equity. This would broaden the ownership base of the plant and provide local
investors with the opportunity to hold equity. Details are presented in Annex 1.
APL Fuel Oil Pipeline
4.11      Pakistan lacks an efficient petroleum products transportation infrastructure to
transport fuel oil from the Karachi area to thermal power generating centers across the country.
Currently, the dominant mode of fuel oil supply is trucking by road which entails substantial
environmental risks, especially where trucking routes cross densely populated areas. Pipelines
are the most efficient and reliable mode of transporting petroleum products, and establishing
pipeline networks has become a priority for GOP, which has earmarked their development to
the private sector. The highest priority is a pipeline connecting Port Qasim to the Hub Power
Complex, Fauji Power Plant and Balochistan Power Plant, all located at or around Khalifa Point
about 25 kms west of Karachi in the province of Balochistan.
4.12      The proposed pipeline would be 77 kms long and transverse in a northwestern
direction from the private sector oil terminal at Port Qasim8', which is on the eastern edge of
Karachi, and circumvent the city to terminate at the site of the Hub Power Subproject. A special
purpose company, Asia Petroleum Limited (APL), would be responsible for the design,
fmancing, construction, commissioning, operation, maintenance and ownership of the pipeline
under a limited recourse financing. APL's shareholders would include PSO, Asia Infrastructure
Limited (AIL) of Singapore, VECO Engineers & Constructors of the USA, the Independent
Petroleum Group (IPG) of Kuwait, CDC and the IFC21. AIL, Veco and IPG have collectively
entered into a joint venture agreement with a view to owning a controlling 51 % interest in APL.
PSO would subscribe for 30% of the equity, and the remaining 19% equity would be held by
IFC, which will place 10% on the Karachi Stock Exchange through an Initial Public Offering
(IPO) when the subproject is commissioned.
4.13       Basic design was undertaken by Fluor Daniel Williams Brothers of the USA acting
as a subcontractor to Enar Petrotech of Pakistan (Enar) who are the overall design and
engineering consultants. The consultants recommended that the pipeline be insulated, with a 14"
diameter for a design capacity of 3.0 million tons per year. Required throughput from Port
Qasim to both the Hub and Fauji power plants is expected to be 2.0 million tons per year, which
corresponds to a pipeline utilization factor of 60%, leaving adequate capacity to serve the other
planned power plants. Detailed engineering and specifications for equipment and materials has
been undertaken by Enar which also conducted the initial right-of-way survey.  The
8/        The terminal, which is under construction, will be owned and operated by FOTCO,
a joint venture between the Fauji Foundation and major international investors.
2/        IFC's participation is still to be confirmed.



- 31 -
environmental impact assessment was made by EBASCO of the USA under terms of reference
approved by the Bank, which has reviewed and approved it. Promet Private Limited (Promet),
a Malaysian/Singaporean engineering and contracting company with a proven track record in the
process industries, would undertake the overall management and implementation of the
subproject under a limited recourse financing structure where it would guarantee a fixed lump-
sum turnkey contract and assume both the completion and performance risks. Promet has agreed
with the Bank and NDFC to procure all goods and services, including construction works, under
Bank procurement guidelines. Promet's shareholders are also major shareholders in the Hub
Power Subproject and in AIL. Details are presented in Annex 2. The issuance of the consents,
the clearance for the acquisition of the right-of-way, and approval of the Security Package of the
APL subproject would be conditions of effectiveness for the proposed Loan (para 6.3 (e)).
Disbursement for APL would not take place until NDFC appraises the subproject and the Bank
approves the appraisal report.
Other Potential Energy Subproiects
4.14      A number of power subprojects are currently at various stages of preparation, of
which the larger ones are expected to seek financing from the Fund (Table 4.1). Standardizing
the agreements under the Security Package and requiring firm commitments for equity and
strong letters of support for debt financing would reduce the time needed for achieving early
financial closures for these subprojects, as does the fact that levelized tariff for the first ten years
for each of these subprojects, which is fixed by GOP at USC6.5/kWh, plus US$0.25/kWh of
commissioned before December 31, 1997. Complicated negotiations on tariffs and rates of
return, which initially encumbered the Hub Subproject, are no longer required, further
streamlining the decision process.
4.15      Allocating the proposed project's uncommitted resources for other energy
subprojects without earmark would foster competition among sponsors to accelerate the process
of the securing debt and equity financing in order to have early access to the Fund's un-allocated
resources. Priority in accessing these resources would be given to those subprojects which reach
financial close within a year of the effectiveness of the proposed Project. This would guard
against delays experienced with the Hub Power Subproject, and hence the subsequent slow pace
of disbursements under PSEDP I.
4.16      Subprojects financed under the proposed loan would be appraised by the Fund and
the appraisals approved by the Bank prior to disbursement. The subprojects would need to meet
the technical, economic and financial criteria already agreed with the Bank under PSEDP 1, and
the sponsors must undertake environmental impact assessments that would require Bank
approval.
D. Project Cost and Financing Plan
4.17      The estimated total cost of the Project is estimated to be about US$2,388 million of
which 11 million is for technical assistance and US$2,377 million is for subprojects.
A summary is presented in Table 4.2. The Hub Power Subproject would account for US$1,832
million and the APL pipeline US$100 million. The remaining US$445 million would be for
power subprojects which are currently at an advanced stage of negotiations. Technical assistance
of US$11 million would also be provided to cover consultancy services, training and equipment
to the Fund/LTCF and PPIB, and equipment and materials for the PPIB. US$6 million would



PAKISTAN
PRIVATE SECTOR ENERGY DEVELOPMENT FUND 11
Table 4.1 STATUS OF OTHER SUBPROJECTS
(As of August 31, 1994)
UCH1              Rousch Power       Kabirwala         Habibullah         Power Gen         FEPCO
Capacity (MW)              584                370                144                104                116              350
Technology                 Combined Cycle   Combined Cycle   Combined Cycle   Combined Cycle   Gas turbine              Steam
Fuel                       Gas (low btu)      Oil                Gas                Gas               Oil               Oil
LOI Issued                 5/19/94            6/22/94            5/19/94            6/14/94           5/19/94           5/19/94
LOS Issued                 6/22/94            8/8/94             6/30/94            7/17/94           6/27/94           6/28/96
Commission Date            12/31/96           12131/96           9/30/97            111/97             9/20/95           12/1/97
ESSA                       Completed          In Process         Completed          In Process         In Process       In Process
Cost (million)             660                510                175                109                80               481
Security Package           Finalized*         In Process         In Process         In Process         In Process       In Process
LOI =   tter oT ntent
LOS   Letter of Support
ESSA = Environmental and Social Soundness Assessment
* With the exception of one issue which is pending on the Gas Supply Agreement.



- 33 -
come as a loan from the proposed Project, US$2 million from Japanese Government Trust Funds
administered by the Bank, and US$3 million from GOP. The proposed Bank loan to the Fund
(US$244 million), together with the loans from JEXIM (US$110 million) and the Government
of France (US$10 million) would provide a total of US$364 million to finance goods, works,
consultants' services and financial costs as described in this report (paras 4.32-4.46). A certain
amount of the Bank loan will be used to finance, via standby facilities, goods, works and related
services provided by the sponsors and lenders. The rest of the financing would be provided by
subordinated debt (US$399 million) from PSEDP I, financed by the Bank and cofinanciers under
Loan 2982-PAK; local and foreign equity (US$519 million); senior foreign debt (US$871
million); senior local debt (US$140 million) and subproject revenues US$57 million. While the
figures for the Hub (US$ 1,832 million) and APL (US$100 million) are firm, those for other
subprojects are illustrative. The distribution of these funds by subprojects is described below.
4.18      Hub Power Subproiect: The proposed Project would provide subordinate debt
financing of US$114 million for the Hub Subproject to supplement US$110 million being
provided by JEXIM and US$377 million under PSEDP I, which is also funded by the Bank Loan
2982-PAK and cofinanciers (Table 3.1 and paras 3.20, 3.21). The rest of the financing is
arranged as follows: US$372 million in equity, US$802 million in senior foreign and local debt,
and US$57 million in revenues earned during construction. The total estimated costs for the
Hub Subproject are US$1,832 million.
4.19      APL Pipeline Subproject: The proposed Project would contribute US$30 million
in subordinate debt financing to the Asian Petroleum Limited (APL) for the implementation of
this subproject. The total cost of this subproject is US$100 million, of which US$40 million is
in equity and US$30 million in senior foreign debt. The equity is being provided by PSO, Asia
Infrastructure Limited (AIL) of Singapore, Independent Petroleum Group of Kuwait (IPG) of
Kuwait, AFIC, (the private sector window of ADB), NDFC and VECO of the U.S.. The
foreign debt is being provided by Asia Infrastructure Limited, IPG, IFC and NDFC.
4.20      Other Energy Subprojects:   Because these subprojects are still under
preparation,and no ready for final negotiations with the Fund, the figures presented here are
preliminary and illustrative. It is envisaged that, given the Fund's commitments to Hub and
APL subprojects, the proposed Project would contribute US$100 million and cofinanciers US$10
million in subordinate debt financing to power subprojects which are at an advanced stage of
preparation. Another US$22 million of subordinated debt would be provided under PSEDP I.
Senior debt of about US$179 million would be provided by foreign commercial banks, export
credit agencies and local commercial banks, with the remaining US$134 million to be provided
in equity. The senior debt and equity estimates are preliminary figures to be adjusted at the time
the subprojects reach financial close.
E. Sources of ReRlenishment for the Private Sector EnerEy DeveloDment Fund
4.21      The replenishment of the Fund would be financed through loans amounting to
US$364 million made to and guaranteed by GOP. The Bank would provide a loan of US$250
million, of which US$244 million would be for the replenishment of the Fund, JEXIM a loan
of US$110 million, and the Government of France a soft loan equivalent to US$10 million. A
summary of the terms for replenishing the Fund is presented in Table 4.3. The Fund would
onlend the resources made available by these loans for private sector energy and related



- 34 -
infrastructure subprojects that meet its eligibility criteria (para 3.5). The Government of France
and JEXIM have confirmed their intentions to provide US$120 million in cofinancing with the
Bank. In order to ensure that the funds needed for the replenishment of the Fund are available
for timely disbursement for approved private sector subprojects. the signature of the loan
agreements between GOP and the Government of France and JEXIM and the fulfillment of
conditions precedent to their effectiveness is a condition for the effectiveness for the proposed
Bank loan. (para 6.4(b)). The Bank is actively supporting GOP in its efforts to attract additional
contributions to the Fund. Recently, the Governments of Korea and Germany have expressed
interest in participating as cofinanciers of the Fund. The documents for the proposed project
have been forwarded to the Korean Development Bank and the Government of Germany. The
financing offered by both Korea and Gernany would be tied to contracts awarded to their
respective national companies for the implementation of subprojects for which the sponsors have
received letters of support and have paid their performance bonds.
4.22       Under PSEDP I, the procedures for coordination among the cofmanciers, including
the Bank, is detailed in a Cofinanciers' Memorandum of Understanding (CMU). The CMU
outlines the processes involved in monitoring and, where applicable, approving NDFC's decision
to finance subprojects; clear bidding documents; approve contract award recommendations;
recommend disbursements: reporting pro formas; and annual audit arrangements.  The
Government of France and JEXIM have signed the CMU under PSEDP I. Amendments to the
CMU would be made to reflect the cofmancing provided for the proposed project by the
Government of France and JEXIM, and the Governments of Korea and Germany, if they decide
to participate in financing the Fund/LTCF.
Table 4.3: TERMS AND CONDITIONS FoR FINANCING THE FuND
(US$ million equivalent)
Source                               Amount         Weight    Interest Rate%
Bank                                      244          0.67         7.43
JEXIM!'                                   110          0.30         4.70
France                                     10          0.03         2.64
TOTAL:        364         1.00b/        6.47b/
a/ The Board of JEXIM will consider its loan to PSEDF 11 in November 1994, subsequent to the approval by the Bank's Board.
Interest rate set at Long Term Prime - 0.2%  applied at time of disbursement.
bt Weighted average.
F. Onlending Interest Rate
4.23       Until recently, the State Bank of Pakistan offered a foreign exchange insurance
scheme. Under this scheme, the foreign exchange premia are locked once loans are taken, and
apply annually to undisbursed amounts. This guarantees the borrowers a fixed exchange rate
for the Rupee with respect to the currencies in which the loans were taken. If the pooled premia
for all of the outstanding loans fail to cover the total cost of maintaining the guaranteed
exchange rate, GOP bears the difference which has had negative impact on the budget. As a
result, in sustaining its emphasis on deregulating the economy and fostering competition while



PAKISTAN
PRIVATE SECTOR ENERGY DEVELOPMENT
Table 4.2: ESTIMATED PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
(US$ million)
SUBORDINATED DEBT                                 SENIOR DE:BT                      EQUITY  REVENUE  T(YAL
PSEDP I   Proposed   Project                  Foreign  Local   Export  Other          Local Foreign    Local bt
(Bank)      (Cofinanciers)        Conun.  Conim. Credit   Multi-
JEXIM  +              Banksa/ Banks  Agencies laterals
GOFrance
Subprojects
Hub Power          377          114          110                  383       84      335                 30       342           57         1,832
APL Pipeline                    30                                 30                                    16       24                        100
Other Projects      22          100          l0c/                  50       36       50      23          34      100             -          445
Subtotal        399         244           120                  463      140      385      23         80       466           57         2,377
Technical                        6             2                                                          3                                  11
Assistance
TOTAL              399         250           122                  463      140      385      23          83      466           57         2,388
a/ Foreign commercial banks providing debt under the World Bank ECO and JEXIM co-guarantee plus IFC and CDC.
b/ Revenue during constuction from Units 1, 2 and 3.
c/ Subsequent co-financing additions would permit a leveraged increase in the amnount of debt and equity in total project funding at the following ratios: Subordinate debt 30%; Senior Debt 50%
and Equity 20%



- 36 -
reducing the fiscal deficit, GOP no longer provides foreign exchange insurance through the State
Bank of Pakistan. Instead, the private sector and revenue earning public sector companies would
ha ve the option of either securing yearly coverage through the commercial banks at market
determined rates and having these rates reflected in the tariffs; or have the foreign currency
loans components of the tariffs adjusted annually to compensate for the erosion in the value of
the Rupee relative to the US Dollar. Under the new policy, the private sector would have
sufficient Rupees at the end of every year to convert to foreign exchange to service the debt.
The risk to borrowers in this case would be the availability of foreign exchange from local banks
in Pakistan. GOP could guarantee the availability of foreign exchange at market rate at the time
it is bought. This would provide the comfort required for financing the subprojects.
4.24      Pakistan is phasing out artificial trade barriers and price controls to make its
economy more market oriented. Liberalization in the financial sector has given the State Bank
of Pakistan increased autonomy, while competition in the financial sector is being promoted
through privatization and the licensing of new private sector banks. Interest rates are moving
towards market determined levels and their term structure is being realigned with those in the
international financial markets. Under the proposed project, the Fund would become the LTCF
and operate along commercial standards. Consequently, the arrangements agreed under PSEDP
I for setting and reviewing the onlending rates (para 3.21) need to be recast for all new
subprojects to accommodate the movement to competitive markets. The onlending rates would
henceforth be set and adjusted periodically to reflect benchmark interest rates determined in the
international capital markets for both the Hub and other subprojects.
4.25      In the case of the subloan for the Hub Power Project; (a) during the construction
of the Investment Project for which the Subloan has been made, a fixed rate of 14% per annum;
(b) after completion of construction of such Investment Project but before all loans other than
the Subloan for the Investment Project which are senior to the Subloan have been repaid, a
variable rate, to be reviewed annually, equal to the greater of: a. the sum of the prevailing one-
year United States Treasury Note rate plus the FERI Margin plus a spread of 300 basis points,
and b. the sum of the prevailing World Bank Lending Rate plus the FERI Margin plus a spread
of 250 basis points; and (c) after repayment of such senior loans and until the subloans has been
fully repaid, a variable rate, to be reviewed annually, equal to the greater of: a. the sum of the
prevailing one-year US Treasury Note rate plus the FERI Margin plus a spread of 400 basis
points, and b. the sum of the prevailing World Bank Lending Rate plus the FERI Margin plus
a spread of 350 basis points.
4.26      In the case of all other subloans: (a) during the construction of the Investment
Projects for which the Subloans have been made, a fixed rate equal to the greater of (i) the sum
of the prevailing Five-Year US Treasury Note rate plus a spread of 200 basis points, and (ii) the
sum of the prevailing World Bank Lending Rate plus a spread of 150 basis points; (b) after
completion of construction of such Investment Project but before all loans other than the
subloans for the Investment Projects which are senior to the Subloans have been fully repaid,
a variable rate, to be reviewed annually, equal to the greater of: a. the sum of the prevailing
One-Year US Treasury bond rate plus a spread of 300 basis points, and b. the sum of the
prevailing World Bank Lending Rate plus a spread of 250 basis points; and (c) after repayment
of such senior loans and until the subloan has been fully repaid, a variable rate, to be reviewed
annually, equal to the greater of: a. the sum of the prevailing One-Year US Treasury Note rate
plus a spread of 400 basis points, and b. the sum of the prevailing World Bank Lending Rate



- 37 -
plus a spread of 350 basis points. The intermediation spread will be retained by the Fund/LTCF
for onlending to future subprojects, less 25 basis points allocated to PPIB for its services (para.
4.58).
4.27       There is a constraint in setting a variable onlending rate for the Fund during the
construction period of subprojects, as larger standby facilities to cover fluctuations in US
Treasury Note rate and in the foreign exchange premia would be required. This would increase
the Rupee funding requirement of private sector subprojects, and add another burden on the local
financial market. Therefore, for each private sector subproject to be financed by the Fund, the
onlending rate should be rolled over and capitalized, and be fixed for the construction period at
a rate equal to the Five-Year US Treasury Note rate, plus a spread of 200 basis points. Based
on these principles and given the prevailing rates in the market in September 1994, the onlending
interest rate would comprise 7.2% (the Five-Year US Treasury Note rate) plus 200 basis points.
4.28       This results in an onlending rate of about 9.2% during construction period. GOP
agreed to set the onlending rate for eligible subprojects as follows: in the case of the subloan for
the Hub Power Subproject: (a) during the construction of the Investment Project for which the
subloan has been made. a fixed rate of 14% per annum: (b) after completion of construction of
such Investment Project but before all loans other than the subloan for the Investment Project
which are senior to the subloan have been repaid. a variable rate, to be reviewed annually, egual
to the greater of: a. the sum of the prevailing one-year United States Treasury Note rate plus
the FERI Margin plus a spread of 300 basis points, and b. the sum of the prevailing World Bank
Lending Rate plus the FERI Margin plus a spread of 250 basis points: and (c) after repavment
of such senior loans and until the subloan has been fully repaid, a variable rate, to be reviewed
annually. equal to the greater of: a. the sum of the prevailing one-year US Treasurv Note rate
plus the FERI Margin plus a spread of 400 basis points, and b. the sum of the prevailing World
Bank Lending Rate plus the FERI Margin plus a spread of 350 basis points (para 6.1 (i). In the
case of all other subloans: (a) durinz the construction of the Investment Projects for which the
Subloans have been made, a fixed rate equal to the greater of (i) the sum of the prevailing Five-
Year US Treasury Note rate plus a spread of 200 basis points, and (ii) the sum of the prevailing
World Bank Lending Rate plus a spread of 150 basis points: (b) after completion of construction
of such Investment Projects but before all loans other than the Subloans for the Investment
Projects which are senior to the Subloan have been repaid. a variable rate, to be reviewed
annually. equal to the greater of: a. the sum of the prevailing One-Year US Treasurv bond rate
plus a spread of 300 basis points, and b. the sum of the prevailing World Bank Lending Rate
plus a spread of 250 basis points: and (c) after repavment of such senior loans and until the
Subloans have been fully repaid, a variable rate, to be reviewed annually. equal to the greater
of: a. the sum of the prevailing One-Year US Treasurv Note rate plus a spread of 400 basis
points, and b. the sum of the prevailing World Bank Lending Rate plus a spread of 350 basis
points (para 6.1 (k). The intermediation spread will be retained by the Fund/LTCF for
onlending future subprojects. less 25 basis points allocated to PPIB for its services (para 6.1
(h)).
G. Repavment Terms for Onlending
4.29       The repayment period for loans made by the Fund for eligible private sector
subprojects would be up to 23 years, including grace periods of up to eight years.



- 38 -
H. Forecast of Sources and Applications of Funds
4.30      Table 4.4 summarizes the forecast of sources and applications of -unds. The
forecast interest income, repayments and loan fees to the Fund amount to a Lal of about
US$992 million over the period (FY95-2005): these numbers are currently being revised. The
capital raised amounts to about US$751 million, representing loans made available to GOP and
administered by the Fund (PSEDP I and the proposed project). Additional income would be
generated through appraisal fees of $6 million and commitment fees of $20 million on
undisbursed subloans. Interest income of US$39 million over the period would be realized from
the equity reserve balances resulting from the excess of inflows over outflows from the Fund
each year. Disbursements for the Hub, APL and other energy subprojects amount to about
US$786 million. Debt service including interest and repayment of each loan flowing into the
Fund would amount to about US$651 million over the period, and operating expenses would
amount to about US$26 million. This results in accumulated net income into the Fund in the
form of equity reserves of about US$53 million over the eleven year period. Approximately
US$400 million in foreign exchange premia would be collected by the State Bank of Pakistan.
4.31      The equity reserves would allow the Fund to make Rupee denominated senior loans
for eligible subprojects in the future. After retaining US$21 million (40 % of the equity reserves)
to ensure a financially sound balance sheet, an average of about US$3.5 million would be
generated annually as interest income. This equity would also enable the Fund to leverage
additional funds each year through bonds and other long-term debt instruments to provide local
cost financing. Details are in Annex 3.
I. Aporaisal and SuDervision of Subprojects
4.32      The Bank procedures and criteria for review, approval and implementation of private
energy projects were established under PSEDP I and incorporated in the loan documents
(including subsequent amendments). These are summarized in Box 4.1. GOP reconfirmed that
the key covenants under PSDEP I would apply also to PSEDP II subprojects (para 6.3).
4.33      Approval of the subprojects by GOP and completion of the negotiations of Security
Package does not imply commitment of financing by the Fund. Financing of subprojects would
be contingent on satisfactory appraisals of feasibility studies by the Fund/LTCF. These studies
would be carried out in accordance with the Fund's guidelines, and would cover project design,
engineering, cost estimates, implementation arrangements, specifications of equipment and
goods, financing plan, prices, financial projections, environmental impact assessment,
resettlement plans, etc. and all initialed agreements of the Security Package. The Fund's staff
would be assisted in the appraisal of subprojects by engineering consultants and financial
advisory firms. The engineering consultants would inter alia review: (a) suitability of site;
(b) availability of inputs; (c) appropriateness of, and experience with, the technology offered;
(d) project design; (e) detailed engineering; (f) construction strategy; (g) cost estimates;
(h) procurement arrangements; (i) proposed subproject operation and maintenance; and
(j) compliance with Bank and Pakistani environmental and resettlement guidelines, whichever
are more stringent. The financial advisors would review: (i) the financing plan; (ii) the
projected financial performance of subprojects over their expected lives; (iii) the commercial
viability of Security Package; (iv) the corporate structure of the subproject company; (v) the
equity underwriting arrangements; (vi) the commercial debt and syndication strategy; and
(vii) the evaluation of the arrangements under the intercreditor agreements.



- 39 -
Table 4.4: Summarv Forecast of Sources and Applications of Funds (FY95-20051*
Sources                   US$ Million
Interest Income                   963                      50
Repayment Received                 98                       5
Loan Fee                           38                       2
Sub-total                     1099                      57
Capital Raised                    751                      40
Other Income
Commitment Fee                  20                        1
Appraisal and Other Fees         6                        0
Interest Income on
Equity Reserves                 39                       2
Sub-total                     65                       3
Total Sources                    1915                     100
Applications
Disbursements                   785                       41
Debt Services                   651                       33
Operating Expenses               26                        1
Equity Reserves                  53                        3
Foreign Exchange Premia         400                       22
1,915                     100
D Details in Annex 3
4.34      The Fund would prepare comprehensive appraisal reports, which with its
recommendations, would be sent to the Bank for review on behalf of the cofinanciers before
financing for each subproject is approved. In order to ensure that subprojects supported bv the
Fund/LTCF are technically and financially viable. GOP agreed that all subloans to subprojects
would be subject to prior review and approval by the Bank and cofinanciers (para 6.1 (o)).
4.35      As the Fund is expected to deal with a relatively small number of subprojects, it
would maintain a small core team of highly skilled professional staff for appraisal and
supervision of subprojects, drawing upon specialized consultancy firms for technical services in
the appraisal and supervision of the subprojects. Similarly, it will contract as required financial
advisors to assist in the specialized review of the financing plans and Security Package as agreed
under PSEDP I (para 6.2 (b))



- 40 -
Box 4.1
Under the original policies and amendments, the following covenants were agreed for
PSEDP I and will be repeated under PSEDP II
(a)   appraisal, approval and supervision of subprojects will be carried out according to standards
acceptable to the Bank and the cofinanciers;
(b)   technical consultants and financial firms, if required, will be appointed under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, to assist the Fund in the appraisal and supervision of
subprojects;
(c)   subprojects approved for loans by the Fund witl comply with the environmental guidelines and
resettlement requirements of the Govemrnment and the Bank, whichever are more stringent, and
the issuance of enviromnental clearance by the Bank should be a condition of disbursement for
all subprojects;
(d)   GOP will fumish to the Bank: (i) quarterly progress reports in a format satisfactory to the
Bank; (ii) annual financial statements audited by an independent auditor acceptable to the
Bank, no later than six months after the end of each financial year; (iii) and within six months
of the completion of the proposed project, a Implementation Completion Report in a format
acceptable to the Bank;
(e)   GOP will require that (i) subprojects should be technically, economically and financially
viable; (ii) prices offered for the products of private subproject will be: for electricity, not
more than the avoidable cost i.e. being the incremental cost that Pakistan would have incur in
generating an additional unit of electricity, adjusted for financing terms available to private
sector; for coal, equal to or less than the econornic cost of supply (long run average
incremental cost of supply expressed in terms of thermal equivalency); and for gas, equal to
cif price of fuel oil expressed in thermal equivalency; and that (iv) commercial debt finance be
under limited recourse;
(f)    GOP will (i) issue Letters of Support to the sponsors and thereafter execute an Implementation
Agreements with each subproject company; and (ii) cause each subproject company to enter
into an Energy Purchase Agreement, Fuel Supply Agreement, Construction Agreement,
Operation and Maintenance Agreement, when applicable, and any other agreement required for
the implementation and operation of the subproject.
(g)   GOP will mandate all investors in subprojects to be financed by the Fund/LTCF to: (i) if
required, assign to the lenders/creditors the performance guarantee furnished to private
subproject company by the main contractor responsible for implementation of the subproject to
which such lenders and creditors could have recourse in the event of delay in the
implementation of the subproject; (ii) provide for the private subprojects' lenders and
creditors to have recourse to the subprojects assets; and (iii) if required, assign to their
lenders/creditors the performance guarantee furnished to the subproject companies by the
operator, to which such lenders/creditors will have recourse;
(h)   where the purchasing entity is a government-controlled body, GOP will be the guarantor of the
energy purchasing agreements;
(i)    where the fuel supplier is a government controlled body, GOP will be the guarantor of the fuel
supply Agreement;
(j)    GOP will provide up to 80% of the additional financing needs arising from an increase in the
agreed costs of subproject, through loans from the Fund, provided the remaining 20% of the
additional financing is funded by investors' equity and without affecting the provisions agreed
under the Implementation Agreement and Energy Purchase Agreement.



- 41 -
J. Procurement
General Guidelines for Procurement
4.36      As is the case under PSEDP I, procurement under the proposed Project would be
as follows:
(a)  goods, works and services financed from the proceeds of loans made by the Bank
and JEXIM would be procured in accordance with the Bank's guidelines, subject to
the proposed exception referred to in para 4.31 below; and
(b)  goods and services financed from the proceeds of loans and mixed credits made by
a bilateral or multilateral agency or a co-financing government would be procured
in accordance with the procurement rules and procedures of the bilateral agency or
the multilateral co-financier;
4.37      GOP's emphasis on promoting private sector involvement in the energy sector is
attributable, among other things, to its desire to reduce reliance on public sector funding. As
a result, its policy calls for subprojects to be financed on the basis of limited recourse where
lenders would have recourse only to the revenues of subprojects and their assets without recourse
to government. In order to reduce their risk of financial exposure in the event of delays in the
implementation of subprojects which would result in cost overruns and increased interest
payments, lenders require both base and standby financing to be fully funded.  More
importantly, lenders insist that subproject companies have access to standby financing to meet
any unanticipated financial obligations, and that it is available for deployment as needed rather
than being tied to specific procurement packages. The more complex the procedures for the
deployment of standbys, the larger the size of the standbys to mitigate delays in accessing
earmarked funds.
4.38      The Fund was created to provide long-term subordinated loans for subprojects in
energy, and fmance standbys that are required to assure the mobilization of senior debt under
limited recourse. Standbys cover the consequences of external macro risks such as exchange
rate variations, increases in interest rates, insurance, premia, and material, goods and services
that might be required and variation orders that could occur during construction. Typically, as
in the case of the Hub power project, construction is carried out under a date-certain, fixed-price
turnkey contract (TKC). The up-front, unconditional commitments by project sponsors and
lenders to provide standby financing are essential to reduce the risks associated with the project
and its overall costs. Such guaranteed availability of funding in case of unforeseen events
provide comfort to lenders as well as to contractors. In practice this funding is an overborrowing
to cover financial contingencies under an unallocated category and in a pooled arrangement. It
is not a special commitment and, in the case of funds provided for this purpose out of the
proposed Bank and JEXIM loans, will be subject to Bank suspension provisions. If not used,
it is cancelled and the funds revert to the Fund, to finance other subprojects.
4.39      Standbys are provided by the major equity holders and both senior and subordinated
lenders. They are drawn down on a pani passu basis irrespective of the cause of the cost
overrun, on the basis of a strong economic rationale. If the stand-by commitments of different
lenders were earmarked for different project components, the "law of averages" would not apply
and the total amount of standbys will have to be increased to provide of risk protection. This



- 42 -
of course would increase therefore overall project financing cost. Furthermore, if cost overruns
occurred and the Fund (and the Bank) did not participate equally in the stand-by facilities, the
commercial banks would have to finance a higher percentage of the project. They would increase
the risk premium incorporated in their interest rate, so the overall cost of the project would go
up, and its viability decrease.
4.40      The actual amount of standbys provided for through the Fund would be based on
a case by case assessment taking into account the risk profile of the subproject. In the case of
the Hub Subproject, US$165.7 million out of the US$601.5 million committed under PSEDP
I and II would be earmarked for standbys. This represents 28% of the Fund's commitment to
Hub, and would be divided equally between JEXIM and the World Bank, with each contributing
US$24.4 million under PSEDP I and US$58.5 million under PSEDP II. The US$165.7 million
provides 66% of the total US$250.7 million in standbys for Hub, the rest being covered by the
senior lenders (34%). However, the likelihood that a significant proportion of this standby
would be drawn is extremely small. The fixed-price, date-certain TKC is about four months
ahead of schedule on the civil works, with all foundation works completed. Contracts for major
equipment are also under a fixed lumpsum price and their manufacture is also three months
ahead of schedule. Despite the progress made in implementing the Hub, the lenders still insist
that an untied standby facility be in place for successful debt syndication and equity mobilization.
4.41      The provision of stand-by facilities and the pan passu draw down of these facilities
are essential to ensure the overall economy of the project. Failure to do so would invariably
lead to greater difficulties in mobilizing the total financing and in a higher cost of the sub-
projects financed through the Fund. The standby financing provided by the Bank would be
disbursed against goods, works and related services. Some of these funds might be disbursed
against the same items that are covered under the subproject's base financing and which shall
have been procured strictly under the Bank's procurement rules. However, because of the
pooled nature of the standbys, part of the standby financing might cover cost increases on items
that have not been procured following the Bank's guidelines. It is proposed that the proceeds
of the proposed Bank loan be used for such eoods and works so long as certain safeguards are
applied. These safeguards are that the disbursements be for contracts that have been awarded:
(a) in accordance with sound commercial practices: (b) with due attention to economy and
efficiency: and (c) in accordance with the Bank's eligibility requirements. In addition, such
disbursement would not be made against goods and services provided by a subproject sponsor
or shareholder. As a general rule, the maximum percentage of Bank funds eligible for standbys
for any subproject would not exceed 20%. This proposed exception to existing procurement
rules would apply to other future subprojects that are financed or guaranteed on a limited or non-
recourse basis. However, this proposal is consistent with recent discussions by the board on
procurement arrangements that apply to guarantee operations.
4.42      Proceeds from the proposed loan would also be used to finance insurance that is
procured competitively off-shore. This follows limited recourse project finance practices which
places major emphasis on the identification, allocation and mitigation of risks in a transparent
manner. In order to ensure that the potential proceeds of any claims would be available to the
lenders and that the cover is adequate, the commercial banks typically insist that the owner
procures all the insurance for the construction phase (rather than relying on the insurance cover
normally obtained by contractors and suppliers). To obtain the lowest possible price, insurance
financed under the proposed loan would be procured through LIB from firms that have the



- 43 -
highest ratingL'. In the case of Hub, all of the marine cargo, about 98% of the contractors
all risk, and all the related delays during start-up insurance would be procured directly by Hubco
under LIB. About 2 % of the construction phase insurance would be placed with local companies
in accordance with Pakistani law. Since this latter insurance would not be competitively
procured, it would not be eligible for World Bank financing.
4.43      As for the APL subproject, procurement would be undertaken in accordance with
the procedures outlined above (para. 4.36). Where financing is being provided under the
proposed Project, would be in accordance with the Bank's procurement guidelines. No standby
financing would be required from the Fund/LTCF as it would be financed by the sponsors.
4.44      The financing plans for the other subprojects potentially suitable for financing by
the Fund/LTCF are still general in nature to determine the allocation between base financing and
standbys. However, the standbys would not exceed 20 % of the overall financing being provided
by the Fund/LTCF. The remaining 80% of the financing would be in accordance with the
procedures outlined above (para. 4.36).
4.45      Retroactive financing of US$350,000 will be provided to the PPIB to cover
operating costs from June 30, 1994 when USAID grant funds were exhausted, to November 30,
1994, when the proposed loan is expected to become effective. A sumnmary of the procurement
arrangements for the subprojects to be financed from the proposed Bank loan is given in Table
4.5.
Table 4.5: SUMMARY OF PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
FOR SUBPROJECTS' COMPONENTS FINANCED FROM THE BANK LOAN
Subproject                ICB          LIB             Other         LCB   Tota
HUBCO*                                  30               84"                 114
APL                        30                                                 30
Other Projects            100                             21                 100
T.A                                                       5             1      6
Total                     130           30               89             1    250
* Details are in Annex 1, para 36.
1/ Of which US$60 million for standbys and US$24 million for insurance, fees and interest during
construction.
2/ Exact amount of standbys to be determined at financial close.
1-' Companies should have a Best's Insurance Reports rating of at least "A-" or equivalent, have
an Insurance Solvency International Limited rating of at least "A" or equivalent, or receive the
highest financial condition rating of any other independent insurer rating organization that issues
ratings on not less than five hundred (500) insurers.



- 44 -
K. Disbursements
4.46      The proceeds of the proposed Bank loan would be disbursed as follows:
(a)  for subloans jointly cofinanced with JEXIM: 35% of foreign and local expenditures
for works, 50% of foreign expenditures (CIF costs) and of local expenditures (ex-
factory cost) of equipment, and 50% of insurance procured under limited
international bidding;
(b)  other subloans: 70% of foreign and local expenditures for works, and 100% of
foreign expenditures (CIF costs) and of local expenditures (ex-factory cost) of
equipment and materials;
(c)  100% of interest during construction and other charges accrued on the amounts of
the sub-loans financed out of the proceeds of the Loan;
(d)  for Institution Building: 100% of costs of consultants' services and training, 100%
of foreign expenditures (CIF costs) and local expenditures (ex-factory cost) of
equipment and materials; 70% of other items procured locally; and 90% of
incremental staff costs up to the end of December 1995, and 80% from January 1,
1996 to December 31, 1996.
All procurement would be through ICB, LIB or LCB, or in the case of procurement via the
Bank's share of the standby facilities, in accordance with sound commercial practices with due
attention to economy and efficiency.
4.47      Insurance payments during the construction phase for the Hub are covered when
purchased under LIB by HUBCO. The extent of interest during construction to be rolled up
would be limited for each co-financier, including the Bank, to the interest due on its share of
loans made to subprojects. Private sector subprojects that are eligible for loans from the Fund
are unable to mobilize the local funds to cover interest during construction, in addition to all
other financing that needs to be raised. Commercial banks accommodate interest payments
during construction by allowing their borrowers to roll up and capitalize this interest at
commissioning. Repayments would begin after commissioning when the subproject start earning
revenue. The impact of this arrangement on the financing plan of a new private enterprises
involved in the construction of their first facility was not adequately addressed when PSEDP I
was made.  Under the proposed Project, it is recommended that the guidelines for the
Fund/LTCF be amended to allow for the rolling up of interest during construction for financing
made available to the Fund/LTCF to put it on an equal footing with the practices of the
commercial financial markets. Amendments of the guidelines of the Fund reflect changes agreed
under the proposed Project including the rolling interest during construction are one of the
conditions for the effectiveness of the proRosed PSEDP II. Therefore, in order to streamline
the mobilization of financing for future private sector subprojects. the guidelines for the Fund
will be amended to state that the subloans extended to subprojects would allow for the rolling
over of interest during construction for the contribution of each co-financier to the subloans
made by the Fund (para 6.3 (c). CMU will be amended to allow for interest to be rolled over
and capitalized. Meanwhile, it is proposed that some of the loan funds be utilized to finance the
interest payments to be made on subloans during construction.
4.48      Disbursements for sub-loans would be fully documented.  Each subproject would
be audited annually according to appropriate auditing principles by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank. The standard procedures for auditing financial institutions would apply
to the Fund's operations. The Special Account established in a commercial bank under PSEDP



- 45 -
I would be maintained, however, preference will be given to direct disbursement to contractors.
Disbursements under the institution building component of the Project would be made against
Statements of Expenditure (SOE) for consultant services contracts valued at US$100,000 or less
for firms and US$50,000 or less for individuals; equipment contracts valued at US$200,000 or
less; and for all incremental staffing cost and training. Documentation for which would not be
submitted to the Bank but retained for inspection by supervision missions. A disbursement of
US$350,000 would be made to PPIB to cover its staff and consultancy costs incurred since July
1, 1994. A schedule of disbursements is presented in Table 4.6. The schedule covers a four-
year period, based on the drawdowns spelled out in turnkey contracts for the Hub Power
Subproject and the APL Fuel Oil Pipeline Subproject. Disbursements for other energy projects
under preparation are estimated. The loan closing date would be December 31, 1999.
4.49      JEXIM  is jointly financing with the Bank on a 50:50 basis.  The Bank will
administer the disbursements on behalf of JEXIM for the subloan component. The Co-lender
Agreement between the Bank and JEXIM will reflect the administrative arrangement which
would include a fee in accordance with the existing policy. The disbursement of other
cofinanciers' funds would be made in accordance with their respective guidelines, however
JEXIM's disbursement would follow Bank guidelines.
Table 4.6: Disbursements of PSEDF II
FY95       FY96         FY97         FY98
Annual (US$ Million) -
HUBCO                     79*         35
APL                       20          10
Other projects            8           22          35           35
TA                                    3            3
Sub-total                      107         70           38          35
Cumulative (US$ M)             107        177          215          250
Cumulative (%)                 43          71           86          100
* Includes US$60 million of standby financing available for draw-down from the first day. See
Annex I for details (para 37).
4.50      The disbursements to HUBCO and APL (when it is approved) are based on the
agreed payments called for under their respective TKCs. Construction of the Hub power plant
started December 1992, following the payment of the first tranche under the mobilization
payment (para 1.6). According to the revised TKC, the first unit would be commissioned on
June 30, 1996 and the three other units would follow three months apart. As for APL's pipeline
subproject, implementation is scheduled to begin in FY94 and be completed in FY96. The
implementation timetable has a corresponding disbursement schedule which is firm, and hence
the disbursement schedule shown above is expected to materialize. Disbursements for other
subprojects under preparation should take place within the four year period, as a number of



- 46 -
subprojects, that are now committed irrevocably to achieving financial close within 6 months
from now and paid their security deposits in excess of US$1 million each.
4.51      As the Hub Subproject is being undertaken under limited recourse, senior lenders
require that all standbys be earmarked and set aside at the time of financial closure. In the case
of the Hub subproject, a commitment charge will be paid for the availability of these funds.
Consequently, US$29 million of the replenishment by the Bank would be for standby funding,
to be available at the Bank to be drawn during the disbursement period, if needed. JEXIM
would also earmark the same amount for standby and would disburse funds under this category
on a pan pasu basis. The amounts so earmarked will not be in the nature of a special
commitment and will be subject to the Bank/JEXIM suspension provisions (para 4.364.41).
L. Environmental and Resettlement Aspects
4.52      Environment and resettlement guidelines for the subprojects, outlined in a brochure
issued by GOP, specify the following critical environmental factors to be reviewed and
monitored: permissible pollutant levels; principal control methods; treatment and disposal of
gaseous, liquid and solid wastes; occupational health and safety standards; planning standards
for rehabilitation in case of involuntary resettlement; and procedures for implementing and
monitoring rehabilitation plans. Prior to the issue of letters of support for subprojects, GOP
would conduct a preliminary environmental/resettlement screening to assess the site and
technology alternatives.
4.53      The Fund's development plan to be prepared by consultants to financed under the
proposed project (para 4.5) should include: (a) an assessment of the adequacy of existing
environmental guidelines, environmental screening criteria and procedures in the power and
infrastructure sectors and environmental assessment review capacity procedures of GOP and the
Fund; (b) an assessment of their capacity to monitor implementation and ensure compliance with
GOP and Bank requirements; and (c) recommendations for measures to strengthen environmental
guidelines and procedures, as needed, and develop the Fund's capacity to carry out and
incorporate adequate environmental "due diligence" into its loan appraisal and management
procedures. As agreed under PSEDP I. GOP has reconfirmed that subprojects approved for
loans from the Fund/LTCF will comply with the environmental guidelines and the resettlement
requirements of the Government and the Bank. whichever are more stringent. and the issuance
of environmental clearance by the Bank would be a condition of disbursement for all subprojects.
4.54      For the Hub Power Subproject, an Environmental and Social Soundness Assessment
(ESSA) was prepared by EBASCO (USA) in accordance with Bank guidelines. The study
examined the impact of the project on aquatic resources, socioeconomics, air and water quality.
It also addressed institutional issues relating to employment and public participation, and it
described an operational monitoring program. The ESSA investigated the process of acquiring
the 585 ha project site. 51 percent of this land was privately owned, acquisition of which was
completed by 1992. This land was partly used for dry-land agriculture and grazing, and 506
families were residing on the land. The owners of land were compensated under the existing
land acquisition legislation.  According to the ESSA, no complaints were reported.  In
consultation with World Bank staff, it was decided on October 2, 1992 that land ownership
issues had been properly addressed at the plant site, and that no further investigations needed
to be made regarding tribal issues.
---- -- -------_



- 47 -
4.55      The ESSA for the APL Fuel Oil Pipeline was undertaken in connection with the Hub
and cleared by the Bank. This subcomponent will require acquisition of 7 ha of land along a 77
km right of way (ROW), of which 14 ha is used for agriculture, most of it marginal. The
remaining area is wetland and wild bush and rangeland. The study recommends a change in the
alignment to avoid some existing and planned urban settlements near Karachi (1.35 km of the
ROW). With this solution, the Bank has not asked for a Resettlement Plan. It was assumed that
land owners will be fairly compensated as per legislation, through a process of negotiation with
PSO, and that there are no outstanding issues with respect to land tenure and user rights.
M. Reporting and Accounts
4.56      In order to streamline the process of satisfying the reporting requirements of the
various cofinanciers of the Fund, GOP has requested the Bank to formulate a common reporting
package for all cofinanciers.  In cooperation with the other cofinanciers, the Bank has
recommended that the reporting package include a quarterly progress report on the Fund's and
each subproject's operations, with a statement on utilization of funds from each co-financier;
annual financial statements of the Fund and each subproject duly audited by an independent
auditor acceptable to the Bank; and an Implementation Completion Report within six months
after the completion of the proposed project and each subproject. In order to facilitate Bank
monitoring of the proposed project, GOP reconfirmed as agreed under PSEDP I to furnish to
the Bank: (a) guarterlv progress reports in a format satisfactory to the Bank: (b) annual financial
statements audited by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank. no later than six months
after the end of each financial year: and (c) within six months of the completion of the proposed
project. an Implementation Completion Report in a format acceptable to the Bank (para 6.02
(d)). These would be available to all other cofinanciers of the Fund.
N.  Institutional Refinements
4.57      Despite the progress made to date, the institutional structure developed under
PSEDP I has proven to be complex and slow, involving several repetitive negotiations and
clearances.  This experience, together with the feedback from the private sector and the
examination of similar issues in other countries, provided the basis for GOP to put in place a
new institutional structure that improve efficiency. The new structure builds on the procedures
that have emerged through trial and error over the past five years to streamline the institutions
created under PSEDP I. GOP has recognized the need for an apex organization that would act
as a single window to handle all government inter-face with the private sector. The Private
Power Cell at MWP has been designated the PPIB to coordinate all the government agencies'
input and implement policy to rapidly mobilize private resources for energy development
(para 3.24). PPIB has the full mandate as the GOP agency responsible for the negotiations of
all agreements with private sector. Technical support and advice could be sought from
WAPDA, PSO and other public sector agencies and enterprises as required. The negotiations
of the power purchase agreements by PPIB on behalf of GOP would be totally within GOP's
purview as it is the ultimate guarantor of the performance of WAPDA under this agreement.
GOP has also decided that in view of the synergies gained and the implementation of project
activity, the Fund would be detached and established as an autonomous and independent financial
institution, as agreed under PSEDP I (para 3.26), operating on a commercial basis to provide
long term finance for private sector infrastructure projects.



- 48 -
Private Power and Infrastructure Board
4.58      The PPIB, developed from the PPC and formally operational on June 1, 1994, is
to be autonomous of GOP regulations in terms of its finances and staffing. The day-to-day
operations are the responsibility of a President who reports to a Board of Directors that would
set PPIB's guidelines and approve management's recommendations. The Board directors are
senior representatives from the Ministries of Water and Power, Finance, Communications,
Petroleum and Natural Resources as well as NDFC, WAPDA, KESC and the Pakistan's Board
of Investment. The Special Assistance to the Prime Minister (Economic Sector) is the chairman
of the Board. To ensure its financial autonomy, it is proposed that PPIB be allocated yearly 25
basis points from the spread (para 4.28) and 30% of the commitment charges and front-end fees
to be paid to the Fund/LTCF by each subproject on approval. This would provide a steady
income, independent of the Ministry, to finance legal and technical advisory fees as well as to
pay its staff, which consists of a small, highly qualified professional cadre that works closely
with the private sector in developing the country's energy sector. However, PPIB staff trained
under PSEDP I are being actively recruited by local banking institutions which offer much
higher salaries. Therefore in order to retain this staff and prevent the depletion of GOP's
project-finance capabilities, PPIB needs an independent staffing mandate (i.e., no transfers from
the civil service) and a salary scale commensurate with private sector for career appointments.
GOP has agreed to appoint by March 31. 1995. management consultants satisfactory to the Bank
to outline the structure for PPIB. the profile for its staff and a framework for its financial
performance and autonomy (para 6.1 (m)).
The Fund
4.59       Under PSEDP I, the Fund was created with the understanding that it will develop
in three stages and eventually become independent of NDFC when its staff, and credibility are
established.  The first stage in its development covered the recruitment of staff and the
appointment of consultants to support its operations during the first few years. The second stage
covered the recruitment of consultants to design the organizational structure for the Fund,
prepare the operational manuals, and develop a staffing strategy. The third stage would involve
a study by the consultants to assess the feasibility of establishing the Fund as an autonomous
finance institution, and launch the process of detachment. The first two stages have been
completed successfully and the third stage would be implemented under the proposed project in
a modified form, as described in para 4.63.
4.60       As agreed under PSEDP I, GOP appointed in October 1989 consultants to assess the
merits of establishing the Fund as an autonomous financial institution. Furthermore, GOP had
agreed to review with the Bank by March 31, 1990 the recommendations of the study and agreed
on a timetable for their implementation. In view of the delays in reaching financial closure for
Hub Power Subproject, and the absence of other subprojects, GOP and the Bank agreed that the
study be postponed until financial closure of the first project. In the meanwhile staff received
extensive hands-on training and experience in the appraisal of the Hub Power Subproject, and
had been involved in all aspects from the inception stage and moving with it through the
preparation of the feasibility study; the environmental study; structuring and detailing the
provisions under each of the agreements in Security Package; the financing plan, local equity
and debt mobilization and the structuring of the guarantees under the Bank's ECO facility and
those of the ECAs. Fund staff have prepared the appraisal report of the Hub Power Subproject



- 49 -
in extensive collaboration with the Bank, which provided an unique opportunity for a transfer
of know-how in terms of analysis and appraisal of projects by multilateral institutions in a
modified manner.
4.61      Although slow at times to make decisions concerning the Hub Subproject without
the assistance of the Bank, Fund staff have developed a credible capability to deal with complex
projects, such as the Hydrocracker Subproject which is proposed to be financed by the Fund in
FY95, and in the appraisal and negotiations of other power subprojects. The consensus amongst
the cofinanciers is that the Fund's efficiency and effectiveness is undermined by the environment
in which it operates. The current compensation package for the staff is based on the public
sector pay scale. This tends to undermine enthusiasm and create friction within NDFC when
the pressures and burden involved in the appraisal of major infrastructure projects is compared
with those carried by the rest of the staff who deal with much smaller and simpler projects.
4.62      The Fund's continued presence in NDFC is already leading to its bureaucratic
absorption as another arm of the public sector. Moreover, as NDFC reports to the Ministry of
Finance, Fund activities are reviewed by various departments of the Ministry which frequently
mix private and public sector approaches to project appraisal and negotiation. If the Fund is to
maintain its critical mass and the level of competence it has acquired, its operations should be
separated from the direct control of the Ministry of Finance and NDFC. Its operations should
be based on commercial principles and practices, and its management re-oriented from public
sector practice to that of a profit-making financial enterprise with clear and measurable
indicators. Being a separate private institution would require its presence in Karachi, the
financial center of Pakistan, to inter-relate daily with other local banks, and branches of foreign
international banks that are operating in the country. It could also collaborate with them in the
areas of syndication of local cost financing, developing of new financial instruments and
identifying potential institutional equity investors. The Fund already has an income based on
a fee structure stipulated under PSEDP I, which requires review every three years. The current
structure is as follows: (a) Application Admission Fee: Rs. 50,000 non-refundable to be
submitted at application; (b) Project Examination Fee: 0.25% of the loan amount non-
refundable, payable along with the submission of the feasibility study. Maximum US$250,000;
(c) Legal Documentation Fee: 0.25%  of the loan amount non-refundable; (d) Commitment
Changes: 0.75% per annum on the unutilized amount for the loan, effective 60 days from the
date of loan agreement; and (e) Project Monitoring Fee: Where NDFC is the technical bank or
agent for the lenders 0.75% per annum of the loan for five years (maximum $500,000 per
annum) commencing 30 days from the date of financial close, and thereafter 0.125 per cent per
annum on the loan for five years (maximum $250,000 per annum). In other cases, a lower fee
may be negotiated.
4.63      The Fund was created to provide long term subordinate financing for private sector
infrastructure projects to bridge a gap in the financial intermediation system of Pakistan. With
this feature, the Fund would act as the focal point for mobilizing financing from bilateral and
multilateral and, as its financial strengths develop gradually, seek commercial loans in the
market, securing them against the strength of its balance sheet. Furthermore, it could provide
partial financing for provisions, i.e. standbys, escrow accounts, contingencies, etc., needed to
mobilize equity and commercial debt under limited recourse for energy subprojects. It is agreed
that the process of detaching the Fund from NDFC would begin with the effectiveness of this
proposed Project. As a first step, a Board of Directors would be appointed for the Fund, with
60% of the directors from the private sector, and 40% from the public sector institutions



- 50 -
including NDFC, National Investment Trust and the Ministry of Finance. This Board would
immediately appoint a Managing Director recruited competitively and accf  ale to the Bank and
the cofinanciers. The Managing Director in consultation with the Board and the . ank, would
draw up the terms of reference for the consultants who would be recruited to formulate a
framework for the Fund to operate as an autonomous institution, as described in para 4.64. The
reconstitution of the Fund as an autonomous, commercially oriented LTCF. and appointment of
the Board of Directors and Managing Director acceptable to the Bank. is a condition for the
effectiveness (para 6.3 (d)).
4.64      Consultants would be required to assist the Bank and the LTCF in outlining the
structure of the new Fund, its proposed staff profile and a framework for its operations with the
view to transforming the Fund from its current status as an unit in NDFC to an autonomous, self
sustaining LTCF. The consultants, who should have merchant banking as well as management
credentials, would specifically look at the necessary measures needed to make the proposed
LTCF attractive to the private financial institutions operating in Pakistan to participate in
cofinancing and managing the facility. A consultant team member with environmental expertise
would assess existing "due diligence" capacity and recommend measures to develop such
capacity within the Fund. The cost of this consultancy would be covered by technical assistance
funds provided under the proposed project. GOP agreed that it would mandate the Board of the
LTCF to appoint by March 31, 1995 international consultants with appropriate banking and
management expertise acceptable to the Bank to formulate a framework for the operations of
LTCF as an administratively and financially autonomous institution. The consultants' draft report
be reviewed with the Bank by December 31. 1995 (para 6.1 (n)). The consultants, as part of
their scope of work, would:
(a)  consider the possibilities of using other financial instruments that would wholly or
partly replace the subordinated debt financed indirectly by the government;
(b)  outline an organizational structure, staffing plan and a compensation package for
staff;
(c) recast the guidelines for the Fund/LTCF to allow it to finance energy related
infrastructure subprojects;
(d) set financial performance indicators for the Fund/LTCF, a financial monitoring and
budgeting system, and a financing plan, including full cost recovery; and
(e)  formulate an environmental "due diligence" plan for Fund/LTCF, based on an
assessment of the adequacy of existing GOP environmental guidelines and
procedures, and including screening criteria, environmental data acquisition formats,
evaluation of compliance costs, and a staff training plan.



- 51 -
V. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
A. Project Rationale
5.1       Under its country assistance strategy the Bank has played a major role in creating
the enabling environment for private sector participation in energy. In addition, the Bank has
taken the lead in setting up the institutions required for the evaluation, negotiations and fmancing
of private sector energy projects. Extensive technical assistance has been provided under
financing by USAID, ODA, the Government of Japan and the Bank.
5.2       The Bank also has played a catalytic role in mobilizing cofinancing from bilateral
and other multilateral institutions for the Fund. This role has been critical in providing
additional capital to the Fund, by leveraging in resources of the cofinanciers', which in turn
mobilized funding from private sources in the form of equity and debt secured under limited
recourse. As a result of these efforts, the Fund is now fully functional with capital and
commendable expertise in the area of project-finance.
5.3       Although not anticipated at the time PSEDP I was made, the Bank took the lead in
assisting GOP, the sponsors, the ECAs and the commercial banks in structuring the agreements
under the Security Package and providing the ECO for the Hub Subproject to mitigate risks that
the investors and lenders were unable to assume. Furthermore, to leverage support for the Hub
subproject, JEXIM joined as a co-guarantor with the Bank under the ECO, the first such
operation with a bilateral agency. The Bank also has played an important role in securing
financing from export credit agencies without guarantees from GOP. The Fund and the ECO
Guarantee have been the two vehicles by which the Bank has leveraged its resources to mobilize
additional financing, commercial and official, from various sources to support the
implementation of subprojects under the proposed project.
5.4       The continued support of the Bank under the proposed project would ensure that the
Fund's achievements would not be one-time effort. It would push the frontier of project-finance
further by ensuring that the responsible institutions are strengthened and their mandates sharply
focussed, so that subprojects which contribute to the overall objectives of Pakistan's policy of
economic deregulation and privatization are realized. The proposed project would also set the
stage for a third tranche of financing for more subprojects in the energy sector. A stand alone
loan to be processed through the Fund is currently being prepared for the proposed Hydrocracker
Subproject, which would allow Pakistan to produce higher value products from the fuel oil
currently being produced by the two major refineries in Karachi.
B. Benefits
5.5       The proposed project would bring the Hub Power Subproject to financial closure,
the first private power plant to be financed by the Fund. The Hub Subproject provided the basis
for significant transfer of know-how to the newly created institutions responsible for private
power in Pakistan. It also provided a vehicle for cofinancing private sector subprojects with
commercial lenders, bilateral and multilateral agencies, and investors. The proposed project
would ensure that the lessons learned from Hub are used to quickly bring on-stream two other
subprojects that are at an advanced stage of preparation. The proposed project would streamline



- 52 -
the institutional framework for private energy by capitalizing on the experience gained in
negotiating, processing, and financing the Hub Subproject. Two institutions, PPIB and the
Fund, which will ultimately carry on as lead agencies responsible for facilitating private
investment in energy, would be strengthened. PPIB would be restructured to become a single
stop window for the negotiations and approvals of private power subprojects, and the Fund
would be strengthened to become an autonomous financial institution and Pakistan's first long
term project finance facility to operate commercially. The proposed project would also replenish
the Fund to provide subordinate debt for power subprojects currently at an advanced state of
preparation. The proposed project would contribute to reducing the future size of load shedding
in Pakistan, and stimulate large private investment in the power and petroleum sectors.
C. Economic Justification and Economic Rate of Return
5.6        All subprojects to be financed by the Fund should yield an internal economic rate
of return exceeding 18%, to encourage private investment inflows to fund needed power plant
so that Pakistan can remain competitive with other countries that are offering equivalent or
higher returns.
D. Risks
5.7       Implementation of private sector subprojects involves the same risks associated with
public sector projects. The difference between the two centers around the allocation of those
risks. Under public sector projects, governments or parastatals assume the risks pertaining to
completion, cost overrun, foreign exchange and interest rate fluctuations, and performance.
With private sector projects, these risks are shared. The completion and cost overrun risks are
assumed by turnkey contractors, backstopped by the equity investors and, ultimately, the lenders.
The turnkey contractors, who enter into fixed lump sum contract price, provide both the
completion and performance guarantees. Upon failure by turnkey contractors to perform,
lenders would have recourse to these guarantees, the standby equity and contingencies to fmance
cost overruns attributable to delays, and if further funding is required, investors and lenders
would provide it to ensure projects are completed. Contractors' failure to perform cancels their
profits as well lowering investors' returns.
5.8        As for foreign exchange and interest rate risks, since there is no recourse except for
project companies, lenders and investors require that these costs be incorporated in the overall
financing plan and funded at the outset, and covered in the financing plans through allowances,
contingencies and standbys.  Project companies may mitigate risks associated with foreign
exchange and interest rate risks by hedging and swapping variable for fixed interest rate, if this
option is cost effective. Performance risks following commissioning of projects are also of
concern, and continue for the lenders until debt is retired, and for the shareholders until their
equity is recouped.
5.9        These risks have been at the center of the structure of Security Packages for
HUBCO and APL. Both are implementing their subprojects under lump sum, fixed price
turnkey contracts where contractors provide completion and performance guarantees, ranging
between 10% and 15% of the TKC prices. Contractors for subprojects financed by the Fund



- 53 -
are expected to assume design, construction, procurement and completion risks. Provisions for
contingencies and standbys amount to 15% of total cost of these subprojects. These are in
addition to the guarantees extended by turnkey contractors.
5.10      The possibilities for cost overruns in the case of Hub are extremely small as the
excavation and foundation work have been completed under the mobilization financing.
Currently, the civil contractor is about three months ahead of schedule and most of the
remaining work involves above ground structures where risks are relatively small. Turbo
generators and boilers have been ordered and are currently under construction and supervision
reports also indicate they are ahead of schedule. The risks associated with foreign exchange and
variable interest rates have been addressed in the financing plan by increasing the contingencies
and standbys as currency hedging and interest rates swaps were found to be too expensive, and
extreme care has been given to matching currencies available with financing needs on a monthly
basis to minimize such costs. As for performance after commissioning, one of the sponsors and
a lead shareholder is National Power, a major private power company in the United Kingdom,
will be the operator of the power complex. Another major shareholder, Entergy is one of the
largest investor-owned power utilities in the United States. HUBCO would also have a technical
support contract that draws on international utility expertise in the United Kingdom and the
United States.
5.11      The risk of not securing all the senior debt and equity has been settled with all the
debt and equity underwritings being over-subscribed, signed and made unconditional on
September 30, 1994.
5.12      The APL pipeline subproject has been designed by an internationally reputable firm.
The survey right-of-way is completed, the turnkey contractor has been appointed and preparation
of bidding documents for the supply of pipes, pumps and compressors is underway. The
financing plan is being firmed up by the shareholders who would underwrite any gap in debt
should it arise. The turnkey contractor would provide a fixed lump sum price and liquidated
damage for completion and performance of 15% of the turnkey contract price. Contingencies
and standbys, amounting to 15% of the overall cost, have been provided in the financing plan
to cover completion risks in the event of force majeure, and foreign exchange and interest rate
changes. Performance risks of the pipeline company would be mitigated to the maximum extent
possible by having an internationally reputable operator assume all operations risks as a member
of the consortium which holds the majority shareholding in APL. The consortium also includes
an oil supplier who would guarantee delivery of oil in the quantities and quality required.
5.13      Finally, the component of the proposed project which is earmarked for other power
subprojects currently under preparation is expected to start disbursing within a year of the
proposed loan being made effective. Already six of these potential subprojects have completed
the negotiations of their Security Packages, and the finalization or award of the turnkey contracts
are underway. This will allow them to move shortly to the stage of mobilizing debt as their
equity is almost fully taken.



- 54 -
VI. SUIMMARY OF AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1        GOP has agreed that it will:
(a)  closely monitor and evaluate the experience of a new policy regarding private
energy generation, and submit to the Bank its recommendations regarding further
refnements in the policy not later than June 30, 1996 (para 3.3);
(b)  review as part of its assessment of the overall policy regarding private energy
generation the exemptions of the power sector from corporate income tax and the
potential for rolling over and capitalizing customs duties, Iqra and import taxes, and
recovering these from enterprises in the energy and energy related infrastructure
during the operating phases (para 3.7);
(c)  declare that all taxes, duties and levies should they be imposed on future private
power and energy related infrastructure enterprises would be treated as pass through
items to be reflected in the tariff and collected from consumers of electricity (para
3.7);
(d)  set the benchmark tariff for the Pakistan power system  for the purchase of
electricity at the high voltage from private sector at the equivalent of USC6.5/kWh,
inclusive of the foreign exchange insurance premia. This tariff should be adjusted
every six months by the changes in the costs of commercial borrowing, foreign
exchange risk cover, O&M and fuel (para 3.10);
(e)  continue to provide an explicit outline of the indices to be used for adjusting the
benchmark tariff of USC6.5/kWh, the methodology used in deriving these indices,
and the approach to be used for their application (para 3.10);
(f)  declare as part of its policy measures that the return on investment components of
the tariff for private sector projects in energy and energy related infrastructure
would be indexed annually to compensate for the depreciation of the Rupee relative
to the US dollar (para 3.10);
(g)  (i) allow full repatriation of dividends and principal capital by foreign investors; and
(ii) compensate investors for loss of dividends, initial capital investments and capital
appreciation in the events of default by public institutions in their obligation under
the Security Package or an event of political force majeure involving Pakistan (para
3.11);
(h)  declare that loans from the Fund to be subordinated to senior lenders' loans in both
debt service and security (para 3.12);
(i)  allow private sector subproject companies to create escrow accounts and fund them
either at the outset of the financing plan or from the revenues generated by the
subproject companies after commercial operations (para 3.13);
(j)  in the case of the Subloan for the Hub Power Subproject, set the onlending interest
rate:
(i) during the construction of the Investment Project for which the subloan has
been made, a fixed rate of 14% per annum;
(ii)  after completion of construction of such Investment Project but before all
loans other than the Subloan for the Investment Project which are senior to
the Subloan have been repaid, a variable rate, to be reviewed annually, equal
to the greater of: a. the sum of the prevailing One-Year United States
Treasury Note rate plus the FERI Margin plus a spread of 300 basis points,



- 55 -
and b. the sum of the prevailing World Bank Lending Rate plus the FERI
Margin plus a spread of 250 basis points; and
(iii) after repayment of such senior loans and until the Subloan has been fully
repaid, a variable rate, to be reviewed annually, equal to the greater of (a.)
the sum of the prevailing one-year US Treasury Note rate plus the FERI
Margin plus a spread of 400 basis points, and (b.) the sum of the prevailing
World Bank Lending Rate plus the FERI Margin plus a spread of 350 basis
points (para 4.28).
(k)  in the case of all other subloans set the onlending interest rate:
(i) during the construction of the Investment Projects for which the Subloans
have been made, a fixed rate equal to the greater of (a.) the sum of the
prevailing five-year US Treasury Note rate plus a spread of 200 basis points,
and (b.) the sum of the prevailing World Bank Lending Rate plus a spread of
150 basis points;
(ii) after completion of construction of such Investment Projects but before all
loans other than the Subloans for the Investment Projects which are senior to
the Subloans have been repaid, a variable rate, to be reviewed annually, equal
to the greater of: a. the sum of the prevailing one-year US Treasury bond rate
plus a spread of 300 basis points, and b. the sum of the prevailing World
Bank Lending Rate plus a spread of 250 basis points; and
(iii) after repayment of such senior loans and until the Subloans have been fully
repaid, a variable rate, to be reviewed annually, equal to the greater of (a.)
the sum of the prevailing one-year US Treasury note rate plus a spread of 400
basis points, and (b.) the sum of the prevailing World Bank Lending Rate plus
a spread of 350 basis points (para 4.28);
(l)  following commercial operations of each subproject, the onlending rate for the Fund
would be reviewed in April of every year to reflect the prevailing market interest
rates and the new onlending rate would be implemented effective July 1, of every
year, and that the revised interest rates would be reflected automatically in the tariff
for the sale of electricity. The intermediation spread for onlending would be retained
by the Fund for re-lending to future private sector subprojects less 25 basis points
allocated to PPIB (para 4.28);
(m)  recruit management consultants satisfactory to the Bank by March 31, 1995 to
outline the structure for PPIB, the profile for its staff and a framework for its
financial performance (para 4.58);
(n)  mandate the Board of the LTCF to appoint by March 31, 1995 international
consultants with appropriate banking and management expertise acceptable to the
Bank to formulate a framework for the Fund to operate as an administratively and
financially autonomous LTCF, and that the consultants' draft report be reviewed
with the Bank by December 31, 1995 (para 4.64); and
(o)  subject all loans to prior review and approval by the Bank and cofinanciers (para
4.30).



- 56 -
6.2       The following covenants are repeated from  PSEDP I (Box 4.1) and GOP
confirmed its agreement that:
(a)  appraisal, approval and supervision of subprojects will be carried out according to
standards acceptable to the Bank and the cofinanciers;
(b)  technical consultants and financial firms will be appointed under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, to assist the Fund in the appraisal and
supervision of subprojects;
(c)  subprojects approved for loans from the Fund will comply with the environmental
guidelines and the resettlement requirements of the Government and the Bank,
whichever are more stringent, and the issuance of environmental clearance by the
Bank would be a condition of disbursement for all subprojects;
(d)  it will furnish to the Bank:
(i)  quarterly progress reports within six weeks of the end of each quarter and in
a format satisfactory to the Bank;
(ii)  annual financial statements audited by an independent auditor acceptable to the
Bank, no later than six months after the end of each financial year; and
(iii)  within  six  months of the completion of the proposed  project, an
Implementation Completion Report in a format acceptable to the Bank;
(e)  it will require that:
(i)  subprojects be technically, economically and financially viable;
(ii)  prices offered for the products of private subproject will be: for electricity,
no more than the avoidable cost i.e. being the incremental cost that Pakistan
would have to incur in generating an additional unit of electricity, adjusted for
financing terms available to private sector; for coal, equal to or less than the
economic cost of supply (long run average incremental cost of supply
expressed in terms of thermal equivalency); and for gas, equal to cif price of
fuel oil expressed in thermal equivalency; and that
(iii) commercial debt finance be under limited recourse;
(f)  it will:
(i) issue a Letter of Support to the sponsors and thereafter execute an
Implementation Agreement with the subproject company; and
(ii)  cause the subproject company to enter into an Energy Purchase Agreement,
Fuel Supply Agreement, Construction Agreement, Operation and Maintenance
-Agreement, when applicable, and any other agreement required for the
implementation and operation of the subproject;
(g)  it will mandate all investors in subprojects to be financed by the Fund to:
(i)  if required, assign to the lenders/creditors the performance guarantees
furnished to any private subproject companies by the main contractors
responsible for subproject implementation to which such lenders and creditors
could have recourse in the event of delays in the subproject implementation,
and;
(ii) provide for the private subprojects' lenders and creditors to have recourse to
the subprojects' assets;
(iii)  if required, assign to their lenders/creditors the performance guarantee
furnished to the subproject companies by the operator, to which such
lenders/creditors will have recourse;
(h)  where the purchasing entity is a government-controlled body, GOP will be the
guarantor of the energy purchasing agreements;



- 57 -
(i)   where the fuel supplier is a government controlled body, GOP will be the
guarantor of the fuel supply agreement;
(j)  it will provide up to 80% of the additional financing needs arising from an increase
in the agreed costs of subproject, through loans from the Fund, provided the
remaining 20% of the additional financing is funded by investors' equity and
without affecting the provisions agreed under the IA and EPA.
6.3       As a condition for effectiveness of the proposed loan. GOP agreed that:
(a)  it will announce that the incentives and safeguards currently available to private
power generation would be extended to energy related infrastructure facilities such
as terminals, ports, pipelines, storage facilities and power transmission lines (para
3.18);
(b)  it will obtain the signature on the loan agreements between itself and the
Government of France and JEXIM and the fulfillment of their conditions precedent
(para 4.21);
(c)  it will amend the guidelines for the Fund to state that the subloans extended to
subprojects would allow for the rolling over of interest during construction, for the
contribution of each cofinancier to the subloans made (para 4.47);
(d)  it will reconstitute the Fund as an autonomous, commercially oriented LTCF and
appoint a Board of Directors and a Managing Director acceptable to the Bank and
cofinanciers (para 4.63); and
(e)  it would issue the consents clear the acquisition of the right-of-way, and approve the
Security Package for the APL subproject (para 4.13).
Recommendation: Subject to the above conditions, the project is suitable for a Bank loan of
US$250.0 million equivalent.



- 58 -
Annex 1
Page 1 of 22
PAKISTAN
PRIVATE SECTOR ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT H
Hub Power Subpro*ect
I.  HSTORICAL DEVELOPMENT
1.        In 1987 GOP requested private sector proposals to design, finance, construct, own and
operate power plants to supply the national grid, and received 20 submissions ranging in capacity
between 2 MW and 600 MW. GOP accepted two proposals, from Xenel Industries (Saudi Arabia)
and Hawker Siddeley Power Engineering (United Kingdom), of 600 MW each. Xenel Industries's
proposal was to construct its plant (2 x 300 MW) at Zairat Hassan Shah Island off the port of
Karachi, and the Hawker Siddeley proposal was to construct its plant (4 x 150 MW) in Nooriabad
34 km north of Karachi. After review of the Xenel proposal, GOP decided that the location of the
plant was not appropriate because of environmental considerations, as the level of pollution in
Karachi is already high due to a heavy concentration of industries and power plants. In addition,
the Xenel plant would have required 220-kV lines connecting the proposed station to WAPDA's
network outside Karachi, which would have had to pass through the city's densely populated area.
As for the Hawker Siddley proposal, there were concerns about the higher cost of the 150 MW units
and the economic merit of the delivery of fuel oil to the power plant by PSO using tanker trucks.
These two factors would have resulted in a tariff for Hawker Siddeley's plant higher than WAPDA's
avoidable cost. Consequently, GOP decided to select a new location for both plants which would
provide economies of scale in terms of the supply of fuel and the interconnection with WAPDA's
transmission system.
2.         Several sites were examined in terms of efficiency of delivery of fuel, ease of
interconnection with the national transmission network, and environmental considerations, before the
Khalifa Point site at the mouth of the Hub River in Balochistan on the Arabian Sea, some 40 km
northwest of Karachi, was selected. Fuel can be delivered easily to the site by barges or by pipeline.
Linkage with WAPDA's transmission network would be facile by cutting eastward across
Balochistan's virtually uninhabited desert and connecting with WAPDA's network near Jamshoro in
the Province of Sindh (Map No. IBRD 22535). At this point, Xenel and Hawker Siddeley saw the
merits of combining forces as lead sponsors (LS) to: a) capture the economies in sharing
infrastructural facilities such as fuel, water supply systems, and housing colonies; and b) achieve
better coordination in negotiating with GOP. In order to ensure that the site for the Hub Power plant
would meet environmental standards, an environmental screening study was undertaken by KBN
Engineering and Applied Sciences, Inc. (U.S.), under financing from USAID. The study found
environmental conditions at the site appropriate for an oil-fired power plant of about 1,300 MW.
In addition, the study outlined a program for the installation of monitoring equipment for compiling
data on ground and air pollution, and outlined terms of reference for the environmental impact study.
This provided the basis for the design of the power plant in compliance with the environmental
guidelines of GOP and the Bank. The environmental impact study was completed by EBASCO and
K&M Consultants (U.S.) and approved by the Bank (para 10).



- 59 -
Annex 1
Page 2 of 22
I. SUBPROJECT PREPARATION
3.         A pre-feasibility study was submnitted by LS to GOP in May 1987. The study outlined
the pararneters for the power plant design and operations, the indicative financing plan and financial
costs, and the tariff for sale of electricity to WAPDA. After review by the Bank, WAPDA, and
GOP, the recommendations of the pre-feasibility study were accepted and a Letter of Intent (LOI)
was issued in April 1988. The LOI outlined the responsibilities of LS and GOP, and the tariff for
the sale of power to WAPDA, which was agreed at Rs 0.88/kWh (USC5.0/kWh)>' for the first 12
years of operation, and Rs 0.68/kWh (USC3.9/kWh) for the remaining 18 years. The capital cost
was to be adjusted for inflation, exchange rate fluctuations, and changes in design required by GOP
until the initial payment, amounting to 15% of the turnkey construction contract (TKC) price, is
made to the contractor. Moreover, GOP agreed that increases in costs associated with changes in
design and construction needed to meet GOP's environmental considerations would be treated as pass
through to be reflected automatically in the agreed tariff. Financial costs such as front end fees,
commitment charges and changes in interest rates from those assumed for the agreed tariff would
also be treated as pass through items, whether the net impact results in increases or decreases in the
tariff. These adjustments would be allowed until financial closure. Thereafter, the tariff would not
be renegotiated, but would be adjusted after the commissioning of the power plant on the basis of
agreed indices to compensate for changes in the general domestic price level, wages, O&M costs,
interest and exchange rates. Changes in the domestic price of fuel would be reflected in the tariff
automatically and passed on to WAPDA, which in turn would pass them on to consumers through
the fuel surcharge component in WAPDA's tariffs.
4.        In accordance with minimum functional specifications for the plant, agreed by LS and
WAPDA, a consortium led by Mitsui & Co. of Japan was selected by LS from among four major
international companies who bid for its construction. Mitsui was selected because of: (a) its
competitive price relative to the other three bidders; (b) its willingness to offer a fixed price turnkey
contract, which includes penalties for failure to meet the agreed timetable for the commissioning of
the power plant and for the failure of installed equipment to meet the agreed performance criteria;
and (c) its past performance in the construction of Shajiao B, a 700 MW coal-fired power station
constructed in China under a Build-Operate-Transfer (BOT) arrangement, where the power station
was commissioned twelve months ahead of the agreed schedule. Mitsui put together a consortium
of equipment suppliers and contractors which consisted of Ishikawajima-Harima Heavy Industries
Co. Ltd. (IHI) of Japan for the supply of the boilers, and Toshiba of Japan for the overall
engineering and the supply of the turbo-generators. Both firms were involved in the construction
of Shajiao power plant in China. Kumagai Gumi of Japan was selected for the civil works, in view
of its proven track record in the construction of major civil engineering projects under BOT
arrangements, the most important of which was the harbor tunnel crossing in Hong Kong. The
consortium entered into a lumpsum fixed price contract for the design and construction of the Hub
power plant. Each member of the construction consortium agreed to take several and joint liabilities.
Mitsui, Toshiba, and Kumagai Gumi contributed to the cost of project development, which would
be considered as part of foreign equity.
1/         At an exchange rate of 1 US$ = Rs 17.5



- 60 -
Annex I
Page 3 of 22
5.         LS selected British Electricity International (BEI) of the U.K. and Canadian Utilities
Power (CUP) of Canada to be the operation and maintenance contractors of the power plant. based
on their: (a) international reputation and experience; (b) proven ability in the operation, maintenance
and management of large thermal power stations; (c) financial ability to provide adequate guarantees
for their performance, and for penalties for failure in their performance, and (d) readiness to
participate in project development and provide equity. The operators' early involvement in the
subproject provided comfort to the lenders, investors, WAPDA and GOP, because of their input in
the design of the plant, in the selection of equipment, and in the supervision of implementation to
ensure adherence to agreed standards. LS, the construction consortium, BEI and CU Power formed
the Hub River Power Group (HRPG) to develop the power plant. The obligations of HRPG were
assumed by the Hub Power Company (Hubco) when it was incorporated in Pakistan in April 1989.
The expenditures of HRPG have been audited by Arthur Anderson, approved by GOP, capitalized,
and included as part of the equity in Hubco
6.        In compliance with the guidelines of PSEDP, LS undertook a feasibility study for the
power plant in accordance with terms of reference approved by GOP, the Bank and the cofinanciers.
The study covered engineering, environmental, economic, financial and legal aspects. It was
submitted to GOP and the Bank in November 1988. Since the power plant is to be financed under
limited recourse with guarantee from GOP only against sovereign or public sector default by GOP
with respect to its agreements with Hubco, a set of agreements covering the obligations of GOP, the
sponsors, future investors, the contractors, the senior and subordinated lenders, etc. referred to as
the Security Package (SP), was needed to safeguard the interests of all concerned. Negotiation of
SP was undertaken by a specially appointed GOP committee, comprised of representatives of the
Ministries of Water and Power, Finance, Planning, Communications, Petroleum and Natural
Resources, Law, WAPDA and NDFC. On December 17, 1989, the committee submitted its
recommendations to GOP's Board of Investments (BOI) for approval. BOI approved the negotiated
package, which included all the key agreements and an average tariff of Rs 1.036/kWh
(USc4.9/kWh) for the first 12 years of plant operation and Rs 0.80/kWh (USc3.8/kWh) for the
remaining 18 years!'. The BOI approved package allows for adjustments in the tariff to compensate
for inflation, changes in financing terms, exchange rate fluctuations, as well as adjustments due to
geological and environmental considerations at the site. These adjustments would be negotiated until
financial closure. Thereafter, the tariff would be fixed and adjusted through agreed indices
incorporated in the power purchase agreement.
7.         At the time SP was initialed, site preparation was expected to start by March 31, 1990,
two years after LOI was issued and about 20 months after the construction consortium was formed.
However, several changes in the membership of LS and the construction consortium delayed project
progress. In 1990, Hawker Siddley withdrew from HRPG as a result of changes in the company's
corporate strategy. Xenel took over the role of lead project sponsor at that point. Furthermore,
Toshiba, Kumagai Gumi and CUP, who had committed significant resources to the development
phase of the plant, could not renew their commitment beyond March 31, 1990. Toshiba's inability
2/         Based on an exchange rate of Rs 21.05tUSS. HRPG had offered a tariff of Rs 1.065/Kwh
(USS5.1/Kwh), however, it accepted Rs 1.036/Kwh pending finalization of contracts and securing the financing.



- 61 -
Annex 1
Page 4 of 22
to continue was due to a change in corporate policy which shifted its emphasis for future operations
away from engineering and project management. Kumagai and CUP's withdrawal was due to other
contractual obligations entered into subsequently. This left HRPG with the task of reconstituting its
construction consortium.
8.         As the operation and maintenance were to be shared between BEI and CU Power, the
former agreed to assume full responsibility for future operations of the power plant. As for civil
works, Mitsui called for proposals to replace Kumagai Gumi and Campenon Bernard of France was
selected after two offers were submitted and reviewed with the bidders. HRPG then asked that the
contract for overall engineering and turbine generators, originally assigned to Toshiba, be re-bid in
accordance with the Bank's International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures. Pre-qualification
of firms was completed in June 1990, and the bidding documents were issued to the pre-qualified
firms in July 1990. The bidding procedures provided for competition on the basis of price, and
required bidders to assume joint and several liabilities for completion of construction and
performance of equipment, together with the other members of the construction consortium. These
liabilities are limited to a predetermined level based on a framework for sharing completion and
performance risks and bonuses. The bids were evaluated in December 1990 by Mitsui assisted by
K&M Engineering and Consulting Corporation (K&M) of the USA. The Bank approved Mitsui's
selection of Ansaldo GIE of Italy as the lowest evaluated bidder. The reconstitution of the
construction consortium and the finalization of the TKC were completed in July 1991. Hubco
appointed EBASCO and K&M Engineering to supervise the performance of the turnkey contractor.
9.         Following the finalization of the TKC, HRPG held negotiations with GOP in June 1991
to agree on a revised tariff. HRPG and GOP renegotiated the tariff to accommodate changes in the
TKC since December 1989, following the reconstitution of the consortium. On July 2, 1991, HRPG
and GOP agreed on a tariff of Rs 1.3617 /kWh (USC5.7/kWh) for the first 12 years of operation of
the plant and Rs.0.94/kWh (USC3.9/kWh) for the remaining 18 years3'. The revised tariff adhered
to the reopener and indexation provisions that were outlined in the previous Tariff Agreement. It
was agreed that this tariff would be revised for the last time shortly before financial closure to reflect
changes in the exchange rate, inflation, financial costs, etc. It was further agreed that once the initial
payment is made for TKC, its price would be frozen, and further adjustments at financial closure
would only cover the terms of financing. The costs associated with the openers for subsoil condition
and environment were capped and included in the agreed price for TKC (paras 19-20).
III. SUBPROJECT DESCRIPTION
10.       The Hub power plant is a conventional oil-fired steam power station of 1,292 MW (4
X 323 MW) capacity. Operating at full load as designed, it will have a net output of 1200 MW, as
92 MW would be for its own use, for sale to WAPDA. The Hub power subproject includes the
construction of a 500-Kv substation, a water desalination plant, a housing colony, an access road of
about 7 kilometers to the site from the main route, and a fuel oil tank farm sufficient to store fuel
oil for one month of operation.
3/         At an exchange rate of Rs 24.04/US$.



- 62 -
Annex 1
Page 5 of 22
11.       Fuel oil for the power plant will be supplied by Asia Petroleum Limited (APL), a
special purpose private sector company. APL's shareholders include Pakistan State Oil (PSO), the
Asia Infrastructure Limited (AIL) of Singapore, VECO Engineers & Constructors of the USA, and
the Independent Petroleum Group (IPG) of Kuwait.4' APL would be responsible for the design,
fmancing, construction, commissioning, operation and maintenance of the pipeline providing the oil.
The pipeline would transport the oil from the Port Qasim Oil Terminal to the power station for a fee.
Basic and detailed design for the pipeline was conducted by Fluor Daniel Williams Brothers of the
USA, acting as a subcontractor to Enar Petrotech of Pakistan, which is the overall design and
engineering consultant. The environmental assessment for the project was conducted by EBASCO
of the USA and reviewed and approved by the Bank. Promet Private Limited of Singapore (Promet)
would construct the pipeline under a limited recourse financing structure, where it would guarantee
a fixed lumpsum price TKC of US$70 million and assume completion and performance risks. The
Fund would provide US$20 million in subordinated debt under the proposed Project. (Annex 2 give
the full details on this subproject).
12.       The oil would be imported through the Port Qasim Oil Terminal, currently under
construction by Fauji Oil Terminal Company (FOTCO) of Pakistan, whose shareholders are the Fauji
Foundation, Canamerican Holdings, the Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC), the Asian
Development Bank (ADB), the Asian Financing and Investment Corporation (AFIC); and domestic
investors. The project involves the construction of a tanker berth where tankers would unload the
oil, and buffer tanks to store incoming and outgoing oil. From the buffer storage facilities, the oil
would be transported via pipeline to several sites, including the Hub power plant A fixed lumpsum
price TKC was awarded to Promet Private Limited of Singapore, which is implementing the project
in two phases to be completed in December 1994 and July 1995 respectively. The project is
estimated to cost US$158 million.
13.       The Hub power plant would be connected to the national 500-kv network at Jamshoro
(see map) through two new single circuit 500 Kv transmission lines of about 200 kilometers each.
The transmission lines would be constructed and operated by WAPDA. The design of the lines has
been completed and WAPDA has signe&da contract with Saudi Cable Company Marketing (SCCM)
for detailed design, manufacture and construction of the lines. Total project cost is estimated at
US$82 million in foreign exchange, of which the Islamic Development Bank (IDB) would finance
US$66 million and the Bank would finance the remaining US$16 million under the Transmission
Extension and Reinforcement Project (Loan 3147-PAK). Local costs of Rs. 1,150 million would be
financed by WAPDA. The bidding documents for the project, covering conductors, insulators,
transformers, and towers have been prepared by WAPDA and approved by the Bank. The two lines
are scheduled to be completed by December 31, 1995 and June 30, 1996 respectively.
4/        IFC's participation is being considered.



- 63 -
Annex 1
Page 6 of 22
IV. SUBPROJECT COSTV'
14.       The total cost of the Hub Power plant would amount to US$1,831.6 million, of which
US$1,580.9 million is for base costs and US$250.7 million is for stand-bys. Project development
and implementation costs are US$1,224.7 million and financing costs of US$356.2 million. Details
of the project's costs are presented in Table 1.
15.       Project Development and Implementation Costs: These costs of US$1,224.7 million
include pre-financial closure development costs of US$99.2 million, post financial closure
development costs of US$97.3 million, TKC cost of US$1,008.5 million and startup O&M costs of
US$19.7 million.
16.        Pre-financial closure development costs include the pre-feasibility, the feasibility and
detailed engineering, and the environmental screening and impact studies; site acquisition and
investigation; legal and financial advisory services required for the Security Package; and the costs
associated with Hubco's corporate headquarters in Pakistan. The pre-feasibility and feasibility
studies were carried out in accordance with terms of reference agreed with the Bank. The scope of
the terms of reference was broader than in the case of public sector projects, to include issues such
as the structure of the SP and its agreements, the development of the financial model for the
simulation of revenue generation and financial ratios, the procurement for tied and untied funding,
the structure for equity and the corporate development, and the staffing plan for Hubco.
17.       The Environmental and Social Soundness Assessment (ESSA) study was prepared by
EBASCO of the USA. It examined the impact of the project on aquatic resources, socioeconomics,
air and water quality. The study describes an operational monitoring program which would be
initiated at the start-up of the plant, and which would target aquatic resources, air quality and
community relation issues. The study also covers institutional issues relating to employment and
public participation. The Bank reviewed the study and concluded that it was thorough and of high
quality (paras 73-77).
18.        Post financial closure development costs of US$97.3 million cover construction
insurance premiums of US$27 million, financial hedging costs during the construction period of
US$22.8 million, and Hubco's corporate costs of US$47.5 million covering construction supervision,
procurement expenses, accounting and legal fees and technical services.
19.        The price of TKC, amounting to US$1,008.5 million, represents the major component
of the subproject's costs.  Signed in July 1991, it is a date-specific, fixed, lump sum price,
denominated in ECUs, French Francs, Italian Lire, Japanese Yen, Pakistani Rupees and US Dollars,
and was frozen effective December 12, 1992 when the first mobilization payment was made (paras
24-25). This price can only be increased in the event of force majeure requiring additional work or
5/All financial and corporate information in this report is accurate as of the date of issuance of
Hubco's Supplementary Information Memorandum of September 1994.



- 64 -
Annex 1
Page 7 of 22
due to owners' variations approved by GOP. It is expected that commissioning of the first unit
would take place June 30, 1996, followed by one unit every three months, with the fourth being
completed by March 31, 1997.
20.       TKC provides for the design, procurement, construction, testing and commissioning of
the plant. TKC also provides for penalties for delays, other than those due to force mnajeure, capped
at 10% of the contract value, and penalties for shortfall in capacity and for excess heat rate, each
capped at 5 % of contract price. The overall cap is at 15% of the contract price. The subcontractors
will also provide performance bonds of 10% of the value of each contractor's works, and warranty
bonds of 5% to cover each subcontractor's obligations during the warranty period of two years. For
earlier than scheduled completion, the subcontractors are entitled to receive bonuses of up to US$45
million.
21.       Financing Costs:  Financing costs of US$606.9 million cover interest during
construction (IDC), financial fees, escrow reserve accounts and standbys. IDC is US$204.1 million
and fees and financial charges are US$100.3 (US$57.1 million for debt and equity commitment and
appraisal fees, US$5.6 million for Bank and JEXIM guarantee fees and US$37.6 million for ECA
insurance premia).
22.       Escrow reserve accounts funding of US$51.8 million covers the Guarantee Reserve
Account (GRA), the Rupee Mark-Up Reserve Account (RMRA) and the SACE Collateral Account.
GRA funding of US$19.9 million is required under SP to cover about 13 months of interest due to
senior lenders other than the conmnercial banks covered by the ECAs. This time frame of about 13
months covers the various cure periods agreed with the commercial lenders. The primary reason
for GRAs creation is that the ECO/JEXIM guarantee does not cover interest payments exposure of
lenders, while ECAs' guarantees do. The escrow account would be financed at the time of financial
closure and would remain in place, decreasing over time as the senior debt is retired untill it is all
repaid. Drawings from GRA would be made only to meet interest payments due on ECO/JEXIM
facility. RMRA funding of US$13.5 million fulfills the same role as the GRA account for senior
local debt. It also contains 13 months of interest due to the domestic lenders. SACE's cash
collateral account of US$18.4 million is set up to provide coverage for the 10% of political risk
which is not covered by SACE, in order to put it at the same coverage level as ECO/JEXIM.
23.       Stand-by accounts amount to US$250.7 million, representing 25 % of TKC price. This
ratio is within the reasonable range for projects of this size and complexity to be imnplemented under
limited recourse. They are for contingencies to cover changes in the exchange rates during the
disbursement period, variations orders initiated by Hubco and approved by GOP (or vice versa), and
cost overruns in the event of delays until adequate financing is arranged. Under SP, increases in the
cost of the project attributable to the construction consortium would be absorbed by the contractor
and investors through a lower return on equity. Increases in the cost of the project due to GOP or
force majeure would be covered by GOP and reflected in the tariff.



- 65 -                                       Annex 1
Page 8 of 22
Table 1: Project Cost & Summary Financing Plan at
COSTS                                                              USS million
I. Project Development & Implementation
Pre Financial Closure Development Costs                    99.2
Post Financial Closure Development Costs                   97.3
TKC Cost                                                 1,008.5
Start-Up O&M Costs                                          19.7
Subtotal                                                 1.224.7
II. Financing
IDC & Other Costs                                         304.4
Escrow Reserve Accounts                                    51.8
Stand-bys/Contingencies                                   250.7
Subtotal                                                  606.9
TOTAL COSTS                                                         1,U31.60
SUMMARY FINANCING PLAN
Equity
Local                                                      30.0
Foreign                                                   341.5
Debt
Local                                                      84.1
Foreign                                                  1,319.6
Revenue during Construction                                              56.4
TOTAL                                                                 1,831.6
a/  Amounts m this table are converted to US$ at the forecast exchange rates applicable on the forecast
drawing dates, not at current exchange rates.
V. MOBILIZATION FINANCE
24.          In order to begin construction of the Hub power plant in December 1992, Hubco
arranged for interim funding to pay the turnkey contractors. The mobilization finance amounted
to US$212 million, provided in three tranches. The first tranche of US$92 million equivalent
was provided by Al Rajhi (Saudi Arabia) in the form of an Islamic asset sale and repurchase
transaction. This amount funded an advance payment to the turnkey contractor, in order to
freeze the price of the contract in December 1992. Hubco refinanced this amount when financial
closure was delayed.
25.          The second tranche of US$110 million equivalent was provided by the Fund as an
advance on the subordinate loan facility. The mobilization payment was approved by the Board.
In conjunction with its approval for the framework of the ECO in October 1991, the Board had



- 66 -                             Annex I
Page 9 of 22
also agreed with the recommendation to disburse mobilization financing to cover the initial and
scheduled payments for the first seven months of construction and that TKC price. The
financing was provided by the Government of Italy (US$50 million), the Government of France
(US$30 million) and the Bank (US$30 million). The Bank disbursed its first payment of US$16
million on June 30, 1993. Currently, the entire mobilization tranche amount has been disbursed.
A third tranche amounting to US$10 million was provided by NDFC as a senior loan. This loan
is to be repaid at financial closure. Finally, the Sponsors also provided an additional US$26
million of new equity.
VI. FINANCING PLAN
Overview
26.       The financing plan for the plant fulfills the guidelines of the Fund, which presently
call for a debt:equity ratio of 80:206'. Of the total Hub financing requirements of US$1,831.6
million, US$371.5 million would be in equity, US$1,403.7 million in debt and US$56.4 million
in operating revenue generated before all four units are commissioned. Equity would be injected
in Hubco without any guarantees from GOP and without any guarantees for return on
investment, except for the right of repatriation of initial investments, dividends, and capital gains
after payment of taxes due in Pakistan. As for the debt financing of US$1,403.7 million,
US$852.6 million would be senior debt to be made available by foreign and local commercial
banks and US$601.5 million would be a subordinated loan to be provided by the Fund. A
summary of the financing plan is presented in Table 2 and a more detailed discussion is
presented in paras 29-37.
27.       The debt financing for the plant is based on the principles of limited recourse, where
lenders primarily consider the revenues and assets of the project alone in their decision making
process. There are no direct sovereign guarantees, except for risks which lenders are unable
to reasonably mitigate.
28.       The debt facility involves two broad categories: a) subordinate debt; and b) senior
debt.  Subordinated debt is comprised of two facilities and senior debt is comprised of four
facilities. The subordinated facilities are those of PSEDP I and the financing earmarked for the
Hub under the proposed Project (PSEDP II). The senior facilities described below are the
ECO/JEXIM facility, the Export Credit Agencies (ECA) facility, the Local Debt facility and the
Commonwealth Development Corporation facility.
ECO/JEXIM Facility: This facility is a co-guarantee extended to a syndicate of
commercial banks by the Bank's Expanded Cofinancing Operation (ECO) and by
JEXIM. The ECO facility amounts to US$205.3 million, and the JEXIM facility
6/ The Hub Power Project actually fulfills a higher equity:debt ratio for base financing, alnost
25:75, as the cofinanciers required that all equity be drawn down before financial closure.
During the implementation of the project, if standbys (only debt) are drawn down, the ration may
reach upto 20:80.



- 67 -                              Annex I
Page 10 of 22
amounts to US$119.8 million". The ECO/JEXIM  facility provides direct cover
to the syndicate of commercial banks only against agreed specific sovereign and
political risks. Commercial risks are not covered and are borne by the private
sector.
Export Credit Agencies Facilities: This US$335 million facility has three
components. The SACE (Italy) facility amounting to US$199.7 million, the
COFACE (France) facility amounting to US$46.2 million, and the MITI (Japan)
facility amounting to US$89.1 million. The ECAs cover political and sovereign
risks in varying degrees and some partially cover commercial risks after
commissioning.
Local Commercial Banks: Local commercial bank facilities amount to US$84.1
million and are extended without guarantees for either political, sovereign or
commercial risks.
Commonwealth Development Corporation This facility amounts to US$38 million
and is also extended without guarantees for political, sovereign or commercial risks.
Details of Financing Plan
29.       Foreign Eguity: The project's sponsors, contractors and investors would contribute
US$371.5 million equivalent in equity, of which the project sponsors' contribution is US$148.8
million. A guarantee against political force majeure would be provided by MITI for the equity
contributions of Mitsui and IHI.  Xenel Industries' and National Power International's
contributions are not covered by any guarantee. In addition to the sponsors' contributions,
US$90.6 million equivalent has been committed by the Commonwealth Development
Corporation (US$6.1 million), Pakistan Power Limitedg' (US$37.7 million), Entergy Pakistan2'
(US$37.7 million) and XenergyL' (US$9.1 million).
30.       Morgan Grenfell has been appointed global coordinator for the outstanding equity
amount and has assembled a syndicate of institutions to ensure a wide investment base. The
syndicate includes Morgan Stanley (US), West Merchant Bank (UK), Jardine Fleming and Bear
Stearns International as senior co-lead managers, together with a number of other houses with
specific strengths in equity distribution.  Deutsche Bank has fully and unconditionally
7/ These amounts are at the forecast exchange rates applicable on the forecast drawing date. At
December 31, 1993 rates, these amounts would be US$240 million and US$120 million
respectively.
8/ Pakistan Power Limited is a special purpose company, incorporated in Hong Kong, to hold the
equity investments of a group of Asian investors led by Brian Chang of Singapore.
9/Entergy Pakistan Ltd. is a wholly owned subsidiary of Entergy Corporation of the United
States.
10/ Xenergy is a special purpose company incorporated to hold the investments of certain
employees and associates of Xenel Industries.



- 68 -                             Annex 1
Page 11 of 22
underwritten the outstanding equity amount as of September 1994. Hubco's shares have been
offered in the form of Global Depository Receipts (GDRs), which will be listed on the
Luxembourg Stock Exchange.
31.       Local Equity: US$30 million equivalent will be offered to investors in Pakistan,
where Hubco secured a listing on the Karachi Stock exchange. Jahangir Sidiqui/Bear Stearns,
in association with Amin Issa, have been appointed consultants to Hubco to support the local
issue. In order to overcome the current weaknesses in the absorbative capacity of the equity
market in Pakistan, Morgan Grenfell pre-placed US$25 million of equity with the Overseas
Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan (OECF). OECF sub-underwrote the equity and will hold
it during the construction period, then it will gradually divest itself of it. Small local investors
can then acquire this equity. This would broaden the ownership base of the plant and provide
local investors with the opportunity to hold equity.
32.       Foreign Debt: Foreign debt of US$1,319.6 million is divided into US$718.1 million
of senior debt and US$601.5 million of subordinate debt. The senior debt is mainly composed
of the ECO/JEXIM facility (US$325.1 million) and ECA facilities (US$335 million). CDC is
providing the remaining US$38 million. The ECAs guarantees cover varying degrees of political
and commercial risks, as presented below compared to the ECO/JEXIM guarantee (Table 3).



Annex 1
-69 -                                    Page 12 of 22
Table 2: Financing Plan (US$ million)At
EOUITY                                                           Base        Standby            Total
Sponsors
Xenel Industries                                            40.0                          40.0
National Power International                                90.0                          90.0
Mitsui, IHI, K&M, & others                                  18.8                           18.8
Other Investors
Commonwealth Devp Corp                                       6.1                           6.1
Pakistan Power Limited                                      37.7                           37.7
Entergy Pakistan                                            37.7                          37.7
Xenergy                                                      9.1                            9.1
Morgan Grenfell Syndication                                102.1                          102.1
Subtotal Foreigp Equity                                        341.5                          341.5
Local Eouitv
Local Institutions/OECF                                     30.0                           30.0
Total Equity                                                    371.5                          371.5
DEBT
Foreign Debt
Senior Debt
World Bank ECO Guaranteed Facility                        185.3i2'        40.0           205.3
JEXIM Guaranteed Facility                                   99.8           20.0           119.8
SACE Guaranteed Facility                                   199.7                          199.7
MITI Guaranteed Facility                                    89.1                           89.1
COFACE Guaranteed Facility                                  46.2                           46.2
Commonwealth Dev. Corporation                               38.0                           38.0
Subordinated Debt
PSEDP I                                                    328.4           48.8           377.2
PSEDP II                                                   107.4          116.9           224.3
Subtotal Foreign Debt                                         1,093.9         225.7         1,319.6
Local Debt
Local Financial Institutions                                59.1           25.0            84.1
Total Debt                                                     1,153.0         250.7          1,403.7
Revenue during Construction                                       56.4                           56.4
TOTAL FINANCING                                                1,580.9         250.7          1,831.6
I / Amounts for base financing are converted to USS at the forecast exchange rates applicable on the forecast drawing date,
while amounts for standby financing are converted at December 31, 1993 exchange rates.
12/ In December 31, 1993 exchange rates, the ECO guaranteed facility is equal to US$240 million, of which US$40 million
is standbys, while the JEXIM guaranteed facility is US$120 million equivalent, of which 20 million is standbys.



70 -                             Annex 1
Page 13 of 22
Table 3: Terms of Coverage
Risk                         ECO/JEXIM     COFACE                  MITI
Political Default: Non payment by GOP of 100%  95%       c         95%
its obligations and WAPDA's, PSO's and
SBP's
Commercial Default                         60%*        80%*
Political Default post Commercial Default  100%  60%*  80%*
* Post Completion
ECA Facilities: The ECAs of Japan (MITI/EID), France (COFACE), and Italy
(SACE) would provide export credit guarantees totaling US$335 million to
commercial banks who would finance suppliers from their respective countries.
MITI would guarantee US$89.1 million equivalent toward the contract awarded to
Mitsui/IHI for the boilers, COFACE would guarantee US$46.2 million equivalent
toward the contract awarded to Campenon Bernard for civil works, and SACE
would guarantee US$199.7 million equivalent toward the contract awarded to
Ansaldo for turbogenerators.
ECO/JEXIM Facility: The Bank and JEXIM would provide guarantees for up to
US$360-' million to a syndicate of commercial banks which will provide senior
debt financing to Hubco. The syndicate consists of Citibank, Credit Lyonnais,
Sakura Bank, Bank of Tokyo and NatWest, which have been appointed by Hubco
as the Arranger banks for the facility. Deutsche Bank has also been awarded the
position of co-arranger due to its contribution of US$50 million. These banks
negotiated and finalized the Guarantee Agreements with the Bank and JEXIM,
(Schedule A) setting out the details of the political risks coverage.
33.       The arranger banks have agreed with the Bank and Hubco on a strategy for
syndicating the ECO/JEXIM facility and the ECAs facilities together as a package. Market
sounding for US$692 million equivalent was launched in August 1993. Financial institutions in
Europe, Japan, North America and the Middle East were contacted. The syndication has been
oversubscribed and the underwriting became unconditional on September 19, 1994. Names of
the financial institutions and the amounts committed are presented in Schedule D to this annex.
34.       Subordinate Debt: Subordinate financing will be provided by the Fund, through
PSEDP I and PSEDP Il. Of the US$377.2 million financing to be provided through PSEDP I,
US$328.4 million equivalent would be for base financing and US$48.8 million for standby
financing PSEDP II would provide an additional US$224.3 million in subordinated debt, of
which US$107.4 would be for base financing and US$116.9 million for standbys. This would
bring the Fund's overall fuiancing to US$601.5 million, representing 33% of the total cost of
the Hub Power subproject.
13/ This facility is broken down as follows for the ECO guaranteed portion: US$163 million (of
which US$40 million is standby), ECU 29 million, FF 157 million and 12 billion. The JEXIM
guaranteed portion is 113.4 billion.



- 71 -                              Annex 1
Page 14 of 22
35.       Local Debt: Local debt of US$84.1 million equivalent would be raised in the local
market. Of this amount, US$59.1 million would finance base costs and US$25 million would
be for stand-bys. NDFC is managing a consortium to raise the facility amount and has already
received expressions of interest for a large portion. NDFC was chosen because of its experience
in raising financing for projects in the local markets and its extensive knowledge of Hub through
its role as administrator of the Fund. The State Bank of Pakistan (SBP) has agreed to authorize
the local commercial banks to extend the required financing to the Hub project within the credit
ceiling set under the Bank's Medium Term Assistance Program.
VII. PROCUREMENT & DISBURSEMENTS
36.       Procurement: Procurement of goods, works and services to be financed by the
proposed loan would be in accordance with Fund procurement guidelines, which stipulate that
goods, works and services financed from the proceeds of loans made by the Bank would be in
accordance with Bank guidelines. Fund loans will be used for eligible construction costs and
insurance during construction. Fund financing will also be used to pay rolled-up interest during
construction, stand-bys, Fund and ECO/JEXIM guarantee fees. Details of the procurement
arrangements for the components financed under the Fund loans are presented in Table 4 below,
which includes the procurement arrangements for the entire subproject costsA41.
Table 4: Summary of Procurement Arrangements for the Hub Power Subproject
Project Component    ICB         LIB          Others        NBF         Total
Turmkey Construction   96 (PSEDF 1)  30 (PSEDF 2)           883         1,009
Contract
Insurance                                     12 (PSEDF 1)' 7           27
8 (PSEDP 2)
Other Development Costs                                     169         169
Start-Up O&M Costs                                          20          20
Interest & other Charges                      12 (PSEDF 1)              28
during Construction                           16 (PSEDF 2)
Other Financing Costs1.                                     328         328
Standby Financing                             24 (PSEDF 1)  167         251
60 (PSEDF 2)
14/ PSEDP I loan will be modified so as to have the samne terms as PSEDP II loan, allowing
JEXIM and the Bank to disburse equally against all expenditures.
15/Procured through usual competitive process in the international insurance mnarket.
16/ Including Escrow Reserve Accounts.



Annex I
-72 -                                 Page 15 of 22
37.          Disbursements:   The Fund loans would be disbursed  against expenditures in
accordance with Fund disbursement guidelines. Disbursements from PSEDP I and II are
presented in Table 5.
Table 5: Disbursements of PSEDP I & nI L/
(US$ Million) bL
FY                            1994             1995            1996             1997            Total
PSEDP I
Bank                          49               43              25                4               121
JEXIM                                          31               44               46             121
USAID                                           3                4                3               10
Italy                         50                                                                 50
France                        28                                                                 28
U.K.
Total                          127              67               87               48              330
PSEDP 11
Bank                                           19               35                               54
JEXIM                                          19               35                                54
France
Total                                            64              73                               108
a/ These disbursements are only for base financing nd do not include standby funding, which would be available from the first day of drawdowns. The standby
funding, expressed in December 31. 1993 exchange rates, is as follows: USS49 million from PSEDP I (USS24.5 million from JEXIM and USS24.5 million
from the Bank) and USS117 million from PSEDP 11 (USS60.5 million from the Bank and USS56.5 million from JEXIM).
bl Amounts are converted to USS at the forecat exchange rae at forcst disbursement daoes.
VII. SECURITY PACKAGE
38.          The proposed ECO/JEXIM   guarantee is an intrinsic element in the overall SP
framework. The SP is a set of interlinked agreements and provisions designed to preserve the
interests of the lenders, investors, GOP and its entities. It is a substitute for a direct sovereign
guarantee and was structured by GOP with the assistance of the Bank and in consultation with
the international financial community.
39.          Unlike previous guarantees which the Bank has provided in respect of principal debt
service payment defaults under commercial bank loan syndications, the ECO/JEXIM guarantee
is intimately linked to the performance of GOP and other public sector entities under SP
contractual agreements. As the financing for the subproject is based on the principles of limited
recourse, the lenders would assume full completion and operational risks and look primarily to
the expected cash flow/operating revenues of the subproject as the basis for Hubco's servicing
of its debt.



73                                Annex I
Page 16 of 22
40.       The distinguishing feature in this subproject is that WAPDA, a public sector entity,
is the sole purchaser of Hubco's power offtake. In addition, Hubco's ability to service its
foreign commercial bank lenders is dependent on at least two other important factors. First, the
fulfillment by GOP of its undertakings to provide contingency funding, Special Temporary
Funding, Deficit Funding or Termination Payments, in the event of non-performance by other
public sector entities under SP. Second, the fulfillment by State Bank of Pakistan (SBP) of its
obligation to make available, under the Foreign Exchange Risk Insurance scheme (FERI), the
required foreign exchange to service debt upon the delivery of local currency funds by Hubco.
These factors represent risks which have been addressed through the design of SP.
41.       The agreements comprising SP have been finalized following review, revision, and
approval by all parties involved, including GOP, the Bank, the cofinanciers and Hubco.
Signature and effectiveness of all agreements under SP would be required before financial
closure. A brief description of the three major agreements, the Implementation Agreement (IA),
the Power Purchase Agreement (PPA) and the Fuel Supply Agreement (FSA) is provided below.
42.       Implementation Agreement (IA): The IA provides the framework under which
Hubco would implement the Hub power project, by setting out the fundamental obligations of
Hubco and GOP. In summary, the IA grants Hubco the exclusive right to design, construct and
operate the plant, subject to GOP's approval of project agreements. GOP undertakes to
generally support the project, by promoting Hubco's applications for the specified consents
required to implement the project. Under the IA, Hubco is exempt from custom duties on plant
and equipment and from corporate income taxes, and non-resident lenders are exempt from taxes
on their interest earnings. Furthermore, GOP ensures the availability and free transfer of
foreign exchange for the project, and ensures that the State Bank of Pakistan (SBP) makes
available Foreign Exchange Risk Insurance (FERI) in this respect. GOP also guarantees the
obligations of WAPDA under the Power Purchase Agreement (para 47), of PSO under the Fuel
Supply Agreement (para 48), and of SBP as provider of the Foreign Exchange Risk Insurance
(paras 63-66).
43.       The IA can be terminated by either Hubco or GOP in certain cases and GOP may
be obligated to pay Hubco a termination amount. GOP is also obligated to indemnify the lenders
if their security is reduced, following a commercial default by Hubco, as a result of specific
events taking place. Under the IA, Hubco may also require GOP to pay Special Temporary
Funding (STF) if certain force majeure events take place. STF would be payable in the amount
necessary to compensate Hubco for loss of revenue and for the cost of restoring the plant to its
previous condition. GOP may also be required to pay Deficit Funding to Hubco if Hubco is
unable to meet penalty- payments due to WAPDA under the PPA. Deficit Funding is repayable
by Hubco, with interest, when Hubco is capable of doing so. The IA was signed on August 3,
1992 and amended on November 16, 1993.
44.       Power Purchase Agreement (PPA): Under the PPA, Hubco is required to make
available to WAPDA minimum levels of Available Capacity. WAPDA has the right to despatch
the plant, thus instructing Hubco to generate and deliver electricity to the WAPDA Grid up to
the available capacity of the plant. In return, WAPDA is obligated to pay a tariff to Hubco,
regardless of whether the plant is despatched or not. A more detailed description of the tariff
arrangements is provided in paras 58-60. Under the PPA, Hubco may be required to pay
penalties for liquidated damages to WAPDA in the following cases: delays in completion, a
shortfall in net capacity of the plant, forced outages and failure to comply with despatch
requests. As stated above, the terms of the IA stipulate that, in certain cases, GOP may provide
Deficit Funding to Hubco so that the company can pay these penalties. Hubco may also be



74 -                              Annex 1
Page 17 of 22
entitled to a bonus if it exceeds 65 % of the maximum available capacity. The PPA was signed
on August 3, 1992 and amended on November 16, 1993. A revised Schedule 6 to the PPA on
the indexation of the tariff was agreed on November 18, 1993.
45.       Fuel Supplv Agreement (FSA): Under the FSA, PSO undertakes to construct the
pipeline and supply the fuel oil to the plant. The FSA is currently being amended to reflect the
developments in the structure of the project into a BOO project implemented by the private
sector company Asia Petroleum Limited (APL). Annex 2 details the Port Qasim - Khalifa Point
Fuel Oil Pipeline subproject.
IX. THE EXPANDED COFINANCING OPERATION (ECO) Guarantee
46.       The objective of the proposed ECO  guarantee is to assist Pakistan in the
implementation of its strategy for enhancing the role of PS in energy development by mobilizing
financing from the international financial markets on favorable terms.
Structure for the Proposed ECO Guarantee
47.       The proposed ECO guarantee would guarantee 100% of principal in the event of
debt service default on the loan, if the default is due to the failure of GOP to fulfill its
obligations under the IA or to the occurence of certain other specified events. The Bank would
guarantee up to US$240 million equivalent of an international syndicated loan of US$360 million
equivalent, while JEXIM would guarantee the remaining US$120. The guarantee was negotiated
between the Bank, JEXIM and the commercial banks syndicate. The agreed document was
signed in September 1994 and a summary is presented in Schedule A. The Memorandum of the
President (MOP) for the ECO guarantee, detailing this coverage, will be presented to the
Executive Directors in concurrence with this loan.
JEXIM Co-Guarantee
48.       JEXIM's guarantee would be provided in conjunction with the Bank guarantee. The
guarantees from JEXIM and the Bank would apply to separate loans and would be governed by
each institution's respective policies, under terms and conditions applicable to its guarantee
operations. Each institution would enter into separate agreements with the commercial banks
regarding their respective guarantees. In addition, JEXIM and the Bank would enter into
separate indemnity agreements with GOP. Repayment terms on the tranches would be identical.
The JEXIM guarantee would follow the structure of the Bank's guarantee.
X. HUBCO CORPORATE DEVELOPMENT
49.       When the Hub Power Complex is commissioned, Hubco would become the first
power generation utility in Pakistan to be wholly privately owned and operated. Its performance
would provide a benchmark for evaluating the performances of WAPDA and KESC in terms of
staff deployment and development, corporate organization and management, operations and
maintenance practices, financial management and control, and development of new facilities.
50.       The development of Hubco into a utility corresponds with the progress in the
implementation of the power station. Since the financing for the power plant is secured under
limited recourse, SP arrangements dictated, to a large extent, the evolution of the corporate
structure of Hubco. After the issuance of LOI, the sponsors undertook the preparation of the



15 -                              Annex 1
Page 18 of 22
feasibility study, the selection of the turnkey contractor, and the negotiation of subsequent
agreements. Following the creation of HRPG, a managing director was appointed to manage the
relationship of the Group with GOP, the Bank, and the international financial community. K&M
Engineering was appointed to support HRPG in the area of engineering, and Morgan Grenfell
continued its support in the area of finance.
51.       The staffing of HRPG evolved with the appointment of a Board comprised of the
shareholders, the chief executive, and chief financial officer. Staff from National Power
International and K&M have been seconded to HRPG, assisted by consultants with international
experience whenever needed. The structure developed for HRPG was intended to be a foundation
for the development of Hubco. The initialling of agreements with GOP and the positive response
of the international financial community in expressing willingness to finance under limited
recourse, was the signal for HRPG to start the development of Hubco. As a first step, and in
compliance with the guidelines of the Fund, Hubco was incorporated in Pakistan in August 1991
under the Pakistan Companies Ordinance of 1984. An interim Board of Directors was appointed
and a search for a permanent CEO was initiated. A corporate development plan for Hubco was
prepared and submitted to the Bank and GOP for review.
52.       The existing Board of Directors has eleven members, which will increase to sixteen
at financial closure. Of these, three directors would be appointed pursuant to Hubco's contractual
obligations!L'. The remaining seats would be held by the Chief Executive and twelve elected
directors representing the interests of the shareholders. Of these, eight would represent National
Power and Xenel Industries, one Mistui/IHI-L', one Morgan Grenfell, one Pakistan Power and
one Entergy. Hubco's management plan calls for the Board of Directors to direct the affairs of
the company and delegate day-to-day management responsibility to the CEO. The CEO, as well
as key personnel to senior management positions, has been appointed. The company would be
managed by an Operations Committee chaired by the CEO, and would have six departments with
defined responsibilities (Schedule B).
53.       National Power, a sponsoring investor, is the largest power generating company in
the UK and also and operates their own thermal power plants in Europe. It will the operator of
the plant and has signed a 12-year O&M Agreement to this effect with Hubco. It also has a
proposal for Support Services Agreement (SSA) to provide assistance on any aspect of Hubco's
activities at the request of the CEO. Under this agreement, National Power is committed to
respond to such requests. It has already made available the services of its Head of Construction
and is providing advice on financial and management related issues during the construction
period. The SSA extends for 6 years and can be renewed for and additional 6 years at Hubco's
request.
17/ The three directors are from: CDC, Government of Balochistan and NDFC. Hubco's
Articles of Association currently provide for a maximum of four directors to be appointed
pursuant to contractual obligations.
18/ This director would be a representative of OECF, in agreement with Mitsui/IHI.



76 -                         ~~~~~~Annex I
- 76 -                               Page 19 of 22
XI. FORECAST OF HUBCO'S FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
54.         Financial Obiectives and Projected Financial Results: Hubco's objective is to become
a financially viable utility, and to generate sufficient revenues from the sale of electricity to:
cover all operations and maintenance costs, including depreciation and financial charges; provide
a competitive return on equity; and generate an adequate cash flow to cover its debt service
obligations, meet its working capital needs, and build up reserves over time to reduce its
dependence on elaborate security arrangements. Projections of Hubco's financial results are
summarized in Table 6 below and shown in more detailed in Schedule C.
55.         Hubco revenues would be from its sale of electricity to WAPDA-'L.  Based on the
Power Purchase Agreement (PPA), Hubco is required to make available to WAPDA minimum
levels of available plant capacity. WAPDA has the right to instruct Hubco to generate and
deliver electricity to WAPDA's Grid, up to the available capacity of the plant. In return,
WAPDA is obligated to pay a tariff to Hubco whether or not the plant is despatched.
Table 6: Hubco's Projected Financial Rsolts (Millions of Rupees) a
December 31,                    1996          1997         1998           1999           2000
Sales                           5,576       2,1717       21,582         19,981         20,669
Operating Expenses             (1,449)      (6,408)      (7,237)         (7,585)       (7,937)
Operating Income                4,127       15,309        14,345        12,396         12,732
EBITb/                          4,147       14,164        13,557        11,411         11,740
Interest Expense                   0        (8,260)      (5,459)        (4,994)        (4,544)
Net Income                      4,147        5,904        8,098          6,417          7,196
Net Dividend Payable                0        (5,512)      (6,612)        (5,081)        (5,808)
Investors IRR
(project life)                 17.3e/od
Loan Life Cover Ratio (Senior
Debt)                              -         3.21          3.28          3.46           3.63
a/ The financial projections are based on 1994 prices indexed for inflation (domestic and foreign) and depreciation of the Rupee.
bL/ Earnings before interest and taxes.
c/ Return to offshore (non-sponsors) and domestic investors in real terms. The return is 214% in nominal terms
56.         Tariff: The PPA gives WAPDA complete flexibility in its despatch of the plant, in
order to enable it to meet the requirements of the WAPDA Grid. The structure of the tariff is
consistent with this flexibility. The tariff is designed to provide Hubco with sufficient revenue
to meet its ongoing costs and to provide a return to its shareholders, regardless of the actual level
of electricity purchased by WAPDA.
57.         An Indicative Tariff was agreed with WAPDA in October 1993. This tariff was
based on the assumption that WAPDA would purchase 6,791 GWh of electricity per year,
19/ Projected average tariff for the first 10 years of operation is 5.7 C/Kwh in real terms.



77                                  Annex 1
Page 20 of 22
corresponding to a 64.6% Net Capacity Factor of a 1,200 MW Net Capacity. The Indicative
Tariff will be adjusted to produce a "Reference Tariff' at financial closure. The adjustments
would reflect changes in interest rates and financing costs and increases in the amount of Hubco's
equity. The Reference Tariff will be adjusted after the completion of first unit and will be
indexed annually thereafter to reflect changes in costs faced by Hubco which are outside its
control. These costs include the cost of fuel oil, and changes in interest rates, exchange rates and
inflation affecting fixed and variable costs.
58.       The tariff is composed of four elements:
(a)  Capacity Purchase Price is a payment for the Net Capacity and is not dependent on
actual electricity purchased by WAPDA. This price covers debt service and other
financing costs, insurance costs, FERI costs, Hubco' s fixed overhead and O&M costs
and a rate of return on Hubco's equity;
(b)  Energy Purchase Price is a variable component, designed to mainly cover fuel costs
and variable O&M costs;
(c)  Supplemental Charges cover various items, including  pass-through  items
reimbursable by WAPDA; and
(d)  Supplemental Tariff is a payment by WAPDA to enable Hubco to meet the cost of
debt service due to GOP in respect of Special Temporary Funding (STF).
59.       The Hub power plant is expected to have a fuel efficiency of 2,210 Kcal/kWh, which
should be attainable with proper operations and maintenance. In addition, a plant betterment
allowance has been added to the operating costs of the facility to cover the costs associated with
the maintenance of the plant and to maintain its installed capacity at 1,292 MW throughout its
forecast life of 30 years. This prevents Hubco from derating the installed plant capacity on a
theoretical basis and claiming bonuses for exceeding it in practice. Conversely, it prevents Hubco
from attributing any failure to perform to a deterioration of plant efficiency because of wear and
tear.
60.       During the operating period, foreign exchange risk arises because the tariff revenue
is denominated in Rupees, while most payments are made in foreign currencies. This risk is
addressed through tariff indexation as discussed above and through the Foreign Exchange Risk
Insurance (FERI) scheme with respect to debt service payments.
61.       Foreien Exchange Risk Insurance: Hubco will be provided with foreign exchange
cover for its foreign currency denominated loans under the State Bank of Pakistan's (SBP) FERI
scheme. FERI is required by GOP of all private sector projects. Under this scheme, SBP
provides forward exchange cover for both principal and interest over the life of qualifying foreign
currency loans. There are no restrictions by SBP on interest rate, margins or fees.
62.       Exchange risk cover for each loan is provided from the date of its disbursement. On
each disbursement, the foreign currency amount of the loan (or tranche of loan) is fixed in
Rupees at the spot selling rate for that disbursement date. A weighted average rate, called the
Insured Rupee Rate, is calculated for the loan as a whole.
63.       On due dates for payment, Hubco makes available to a Remittance Bank the Rupee
equivalent amount of interest and principal due, converted at the then current spot rate. The
Remittance Bank would use the Rupees to purchase the foreign currency needed to meet the



78 -                              Annex 1
Page 21 of 22
payment to the relevant lenders. If the spot rate was higher than the Insured Rupee rate for the
loan (i.e. the Rupee has depreciated in value), Hubco will be paid the difference by SBP within
a few days. If the Rupee has appreciated, Hubco will pay the difference to the SBP.
64.       SBP charges fees for FERI based on the principal amount covered and the currency
involved. Fees are fixed for the life of the loan at the rate prevailing when Hubco's application
for FERI is received by SBP. Currently, the per annum fees are as follows: US$ at 8.20%,
Sterling at 7.58%, X at 10.0%, French Francs at 7.50%, Italian Lira at 5.50% and ECU at 8.15%.
65.       Debt Service Coverage:  The forecast net revenues and expenditures for the
subproject show that net revenues for each year would result in a debt service coverage ratio
above 1.5 for the total debt, and on senior debt above 2.0. By June 30, 2005, the senior debt
would have been retired, with debt service continuing on the subordinated PSEDP I and PSEDP
II loans through December 31, 2015 . Should Hubco be unable to maintain the full capacity
utilization of 60% (6,791 GWh per year), and instead operate the plant at 50% (5,659 GWh per
year), debt service would continue to be covered at nearly the same levels as at full output since
the reduction in revenue from reduced output would be absorbed through a reduction in
shareholders' returns.
66.       Annual Accounts and Audits: Hubco has appointed a firm of accountants to keep
its accounts during construction, commissioning and operation of the plant in accordance with
generally accepted utility accounting practice. As required under the Pakistan Companies
Ordinance of 1984, Hubco's annual accounts would be audited within six months of the close of
the year by independent auditors.
XII. ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES
67.       Environmental and social soundness assessment of the power plant was initiated in
1987 in compliance with the environmental procedures of GOP and the Bank. Following the
preparation of an environmental screening study of the proposed site and a series of altemative
sites, a two phase approach was adopted for preparation of the environmental assessment. Phase I
evaluated the environmental acceptability of the proposed subproject based on available data
about the site, and Phase II provided supplemental information based on actual monitoring at the
site to support final design of the project. This approach was adopted to allow for phased
expenditure on feasibility studies in the context of the private sector power program and to
provide adequate time for the installation of a meteorological and air quality monitoring tower
in the project area by WAPDA.
68.       The first phase environmental and social soundness assessment (ESSA) for the
proposed subproject was submitted in May 1990. Review of the document indicated that the
design of the proposed project was in compliance with Bank environmental guidelines and would
not result in significant adverse environmental impacts. At this time, a work program was
established for more detailed studies based on the latest site informnation which would be
conducted to support finalization of the design of the plant.
69.       ESSA was carried out on the basis of an A project, because the plant will be the first
major power plant in Pakistan to be privately owned and operated, and because of the fragile
nature of the environment at the site. ESSA was carried out by EBASCO Environmental (USA)
and approved by GOP under its regulations. The report was reviewed by the Bank and found
to be satisfactory and in accordance with the ODs complying with all environmental policies and



79                                Annex I
Page 22 of 22
procedures. The subproject will be constructed and operated using the latest technological
practices and is expected to cause minimum disturbance to the environment.
70.       The subproject site is a green field location consisting of approximately 1,400 acres
located at the confluence of the Hub River and the Arabian Sea, in Southern Balochistan
Province, 40 kilometers west of Karachi, Pakistan. Alternative locations had been considered but
the selected site was chosen because it requires the least amount of land, affects no local people
and offers minimum impact on the natural environment. The area around the site is generally
level with small hills, arid, devoid of vegetation and population. Aquatic resources at the mouth
of the Hub are limited because the Hub Dam located upstream makes the area around the plant
a shallow tidal basin.
Key Environmental Issues
71.       Water Ouality: The only water discharge from the plant during operation will be
cooling water (49 m3/sec at maximum power output) which meets local and Bank water quality
guidelines. To assure this, a computer prograrn was used to simulate the impacts of both thermal
and chlorine pollution on the receiving body of water. A monitoring program will also be put
into place to determine concentrations of chlorine, heavy metals, oils, grease, suspended solids
and several other parameters. During construction, proper sedimentation and erosion controls will
be put into place and provisions will be made for sanitary wastes both during construction and
operation.
72.       Air Quality: An assessment of air quality impact was carried out to examine the
impact of S02, N02 and particulate using two well established air quality models (USEPA
approved). Emissions from the plant will meet all Pakistani and Bank guidelines. The remaining
issues to be resolved are tentative plans to build two other thermal power plants nearby, one by
WAPDA and the other by the Fauji Electric Power Company. The impact of these combined
sources will exceed 24 hour and annual guidelines for S02. If these plants are built, a combined
strategy for S02 reduction will need to be developed.
73.       Social Issues: Since there are no residents at the site, no resettlement will need to
take place. Some 1,400 acres have been purchased for the project with grazing and other
agricultural activities allowed to continue outside the property boundaries.  No sites of
archeological or historic interest have been identified at or near the proposed site. During
construction, a camp accommodating some 1,400 workers will be provided although during peak
times some 3,000 workers will be at the site.
74.       Regarding public participation, meetings were held with several NGOs to address
preliminary environmental findings based on the earlier studies. These centered around such
issues as the nearby turtle population, impact on fishing and long term prospects for employment
at the plant.
Monitoring and Reporting
75.       Satisfactory procedures for monitoring, evaluating, and reporting have been agreed
with Hubco. Major monitoring of the aquatic resources will take place over a three year period
paying particular attention to thermal discharges. Additional monitoring will take place of
ambient air quality as well as continuous emissions monitoring of S02, NOx and opacity. A
community relations officer will be assigned to the project to monitor and discuss issues which
affect local populations. In addition, regular meetings will be scheduled with communities to
determine concerns affecting plant operations.



- 80 -                          Schedule A
Page 1 of 9
PAKISTAN
HUB POWER PROJECT
EXPANDED COFINANCING OPERATION (ECO)
SUIMMARY OF TERMS OF THE GUARANTEE
Borrower  The Hub Power Company Limited (HUBCO).
Guarantor: International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (World Bank). Arrangers:
The Bank of Tokyo, Ltd. The Sakura Bank, Citibank International Plc., Credit
Lyonnais, S.A., National Westminster Bank Plc.
Lenders:  A syndicate of commercial banks.
Amoun:  US$240 million equivalent, consisting of two facilities:
(i) ECO-guaranteed base credit facility of US$200 million equivalent; and
(ii) ECO-guaranteed standby credit facility of US$40 million.
CurrenLcies:
ECO base credit facility: U.S. Dollars, Japanese Yen, French Francs and ECU
of:
(i) ECU 29 million;
(ii) French Francs 157 million;
(iii) Japanese Yen 2,000 million; and
(iv) U.S. Dollars 123 million
ECO standby credit facility: U. S. Dollars
Use of Proceeds:
To finance part of the overall cost of the power plant, including design and
construction costs, financing costs and interest during construction. The
balance of the costs will be financed by four syndicates of commercial banks
covered by the Export Import Bank of Japan and the Export Credit Agencies
of Italy (SACE), France (COFACE) and Japan (MITI); other senior debt,
subordinated debt and equity. Subordinate debt is to be provided by the Fund
under PSEDP I (Ln. 2982-PAK) and the replenishment loan under the
proposed PSEDP II loan to be presented to the Executive Directors in
concurrence with this ECO. The amounts allocated to Hub would be US$377
million and US$195 million respectively.



-81 -                           SchedulA
Page 2 of 9
Procurement:
The equipment, materials and services under the Turnkey Construction
Contract for the power plant which have been or will be awarded through a
competitive process meeting the requirements of economy and efficiency.
Drawdown:
Disbursements under the Loan will be for eligible expenditures for the power
plant. HUBCO will maintain special disbursement accounts with Citibank
N.A. or The Bank of Tokyo, Ltd. in Pakistan, denominated in the currencies
of the Loan, into which the proceeds of the Loan (other than disbursements
to be paid directly to third parties and disbursements needed to maintain the
required balance on reserve accounts) will be deposited monthly, based on the
projected expenditure requirement. HUBCO will provide the World Bank
with periodic reports on the use of funds for expenditures for the power plant,
including yearly audited financial statements, accompanied by a separate
opinion of auditors on whether the expenditure statement supports the
withdrawals from the special disbursement account.
Availability Period:
The earlier of March 31, 1998 or six months after the project completion
date.
Repayment:
The loan will be repayable in 16 equal semi-annual installments falling due
on January 10 and July 10 in each year, commencing on the first interest
payment date after the end of the Availability Period, provided that the final
maturity date will be no later than January 10, 2006.
Interest Rate:
ECO base credit facility:
(i) Six month London Interbank Overnight Lending Rate (LIBOR) for the
relevant currency plus 2% per annum until the 8th anniversary of the date of
the loan agreement; and thereafter.
(ii) Six month LIBOR plus 2.25%.
ECO standby facilitv:
Six month LIBOR plus 2.5% until the 8th anniversary of the date of the loan
agreement, and thereafter six month LIBOR plus 2.75%.
The interest rate per annum on the ECO Facilities will be reduced by 0.25%
when HUBCO's annual debt service coverage ratio is 2:1 or greater.



- 82 -                           Schedule A
Page 3 of 9
Conditions Precedent
to Effectiveness:
The ECO Facility Agreement and the ECO Guarantee will be effective only
when inter alia:
(i) the other debt financing for the Plant is underwritten and all conditions
precedent for the utilization thereof have been fulfilled;
(ii) the equity standby financing for the Plant has been fully subscribed and paid
for (or where standby equity is to be subscribed or paid for subsequently,
letters of credit or guarantees satisfactory to the Lenders are in place to assure
that such equity will be subscribed for when required);
(iii) all agreements required in connection with the construction and operation of
the Plant (including but not limited to the Implementation Agreement, the
Power Purchase Agreement, the Fuel Supply Agreement, the Construction
Contract, the O&M Agreement, Security Trust Deed, the GOP Guarantee and
the Exchange Risk Insurance Letters), have been executed and are effective;
and
(iv) HUBCO has been capitalized and staffed in a manner satisfactory to the
Lenders.
Guarantee Provisions:
Scope:
(a)  The ECO Guarantee will be provided by the World Bank in parallel with the JEXIM
Guarantee by JEXIM in the initial ratio of 2:1. The ECO Guarantee and the
JEXIM Guarantee will be callable on a pan passu basis.
(b)  The ECO Guarantee will cover the Drincipal payments due under the Loan and
remaining unpaid. Interest due to the Lenders on the occurrence of risks covered
by the ECO Guarantee is covered by the ECO Guarantee Reserve Accounts
(summarized below).
(c)  The ECO Lenders' Agent Bank may (and, if so instructed by the Majority Lenders,
shall) call the ECO Guarantee upon the occurrence of the following specified events:
(i) HUBCO has failed to make a principal payment or a portion thereof when due
and payable to the ECO Lenders either on a scheduled payment date or on
acceleration or on voluntary or mandatory prepayment; and
(ii) HUBCO has failed to make such payments for reasons which include (directly
or indirectly) a Guarantee Event (as described below).



- 83 -                          Schedule A
Page 4 of 9
Guarantee Events:  A claim may be made under the ECO Guarantee in the
following circumstances, if they result in a failure by HUBCO to make a payment
of principal under the Loan:
(i) the Government has failed to pay HUBCO any amount due under the
Implementation Agreement or under the Government's guarantee issued
thereunder of the obligations of PSO under the Fuel Supply Agreement,
WAPDA under the Power Purchase Agreement, and the State Bank of
Pakistan under the Foreign Exchange Risk Insurance Scheme (other than any
amount payable by the Government as the result of the failure of PSO to
deliver fuel oil to HUBCO due to certain oil-related foreign political events).
Such payment obligations are summarized below;
(ii) the Government through the State Bank of Pakistan has failed to make
available the necessary foreign exchange in accordance with its agreement
under the Foreign Exchange Risk Insurance Scheme;
(iii) any restriction has been imposed under the laws of Pakistan on the free
transfer of foreign currency funds held by, or on behalf of, HUBCO out of
Pakistan;
(iv) any restriction has been imposed under the laws of Pakistan on the free
transfer of rupees held by, or on behalf of, HUBCO from a project account
for the purposes of the Foreign Exchange Risk Insurance Scheme;
(v) there has been a change in Shariah law (or such a change is due to occur
within six months) which causes the following to become unlawful,
unenforceable or invalid: HUBCO's obligation to make a payment or perform
an obligation under any of the project or financing agreements; HUBCO's
enjoyment of its rights under any such agreement, or enforcement, or rights
to enforcement in Pakistan, by HUBCO or the Lenders of any obligation of
the parties to such agreements; provided that such unlawfulness,
unenforceability or invalidity affects a payment obligation in excess of
$100,000 in respect of interest or fees or in excess of $1 million in respect of
principal or any security or right constituted by the security which is material
to the Lenders or HUBCO (a "Shariah Event"). The ECO Guarantee
specifically excludes from coverage the existing Federal Shariah court
decision on interest, which has been appealed to the Supreme Court of
Pakistan. If such a decision is upheld by the Supreme Court, such a decision
would be a Shariah Event from that time; or
(vi) the performance by the Government of any of its obligations, or the exercise
by HUBCO of any of its rights, under the Implementation Agreement or the
performance by HUBCO of any of its obligations, or the exercise by the
Lenders or the Lenders' Agent of any of their rights, under the ECO Facility
Agreement has become void, illegal, invalid or unenforceable as a result of



- 84 -                          Schedule A
Page 5 of 9
any change in Pakistan law or any court decision which renders inaccurate the
legal opinions obtained by the Lenders at financial closing (an "Indemnified
Event").
Payment Obligations of the Government under the Implementation Agreement and
the Government's Guarantee which are Covered by the ECO Guarantee: The
principal payment obligations of the Government under the Implementation
Agreement consist of the payments for: (a) Special Temporary Funding (STF); (b)
Deficit Funding; (c) compensation in the event the Implementation Agreement is
terminated; and (d) compensation amounts payable in certain cases following a
commercial default by HUBCO.  Under the Government's guarantee, the
Government is also responsible for guaranteeing the payment obligations of PSO
under the Fuel Supply Agreement and WAPDA under the Power Purchase
Agreement and for guaranteeing the obligations of the State Bank of Pakistan under
the Foreign Exchange Risk Insurance Scheme.
(i) Special Temporarv Funding. The Government is required to make repayable
advances to HUBCO in the form of Special Temporary Funding upon the
occurrence of certain force majeure events which materially affect the
performance by a party of its obligations or the enjoyment by a party of its
rights under the Implementation Agreement, the Fuel Supply Agreement or
the Power Purchase Agreement which cause HUBCO to incur additional costs
or a loss in income. Such events include certain natural events (including
natural events affecting the Plant for which insurance is unavailable) as well
as political events (such as war, riot and change in law). STF is payable in
the amount necessary to compensate HUBCO for loss of revenue and the cost
of restoring the Plant to its previous condition. (A supplemental tariff will be
charged by HUBCO in an amount sufficient to repay STF and interest thereon
to the Government).
(ii) Deficit Funding. The Government is required to provide repayable deficit
funding to HUBCO in the amount needed to make any penalty payments due
to WAPDA under the Power Purchase Agreement if HUBCO has insufficient
funds to do so after making debt service, insurance costs and fixed operation
cost payments from the Capacity Purchase Price payments made by WAPDA.
(iii) Termination Amounts. The Implementation Agreement provides that either
HUBCO or the Government may terminate the Implementation Agreement in
certain specified events. In certain of these cases the Government is obligated
to pay HUBCO a termination amount, the level of which depends on the
reason for termination but which in all cases would include the Loan amount
due the Lenders. The Government is obligated to pay a termination amount
where the Implementation Agreement is terminated because of:
a.  a Government default thereunder;
b. the occurrence of a Shariah Event;



- 85 -                         SchedulA
Page 6 of 9
c. the occurrence of a natural force majeure event which affects the
WAPDA grid or the PSO system (but not the Plant) where HUBCO and
the Government agree to terminate or an expert determines that the
Project is no longer viable;
d.  the occurrence of a Pakistan politicalforce majeure event where HUBCO
and the Government agree to terminate or an expert determines the
Project is no longer viable; or
e.  the occurrence of an uninsured natural event causing damage to the
Plant.
(iv) Compensation Amounts Payable After Commercial Default. The Government
is obligated to indemnify the Lenders if the Government interferes in the
enforcement by the Lenders of their security or if an uninsured natural event
occurs causing damage to the Plant following a commercial default. In such
a case, the Government is required to pay the Lenders an amount equal to the
decrease in value of the Lenders' security in consequence of the event. The
Government is also obligated to pay the Lenders all amounts outstanding
under the Loan in the event the Government impedes the Lenders from
remedying a HUBCO event of default which gives the Government the right
to terminate the Implementation Agreement or from restoring the Plant to a
fully operational condition in such circumstances.
(v) Payment Obligations of PSO. Under the Fuel Supply Agreement, PSO is
obligated to indemnify HUBCO for any costs and losses (including any
penalties due from HUBCO to WAPDA) resulting from the failure by PSO
to complete the Pipeline to the Plant or the deliver fuel oil under the Fuel
Supply Agreement.
(vi) Payment Obligations of WAPDA. Under the Power Purchase Agreement,
WAPDA is obligated to pay a tariff to HUBCO whether or not WAPDA
dispatches the Plant. The tariff consists of four components: (a) a capacity
purchase price equal to- HUBCO's fixed costs independent of energy
generation; (b) an energy purchase price equal to the cost of generating the
electricity dispatched by WAPDA; (c) supplemental charges equal to certain
taxes and other costs payable by HUBCO; and (d) a supplemental tariff equal
to STF payable by HUBCO to the Government.
(vii) Payments Under Foreign Exchange Risk Insurance Scheme. Under the
Scheme, the State Bank of Pakistan is required to provide foreign exchange
at a predetermined rate for the Loan upon receipt of the corresponding rupee
amounts from HUBCO. In addition, under the Implementation Agreement the
Government is obligated to permit free convertibility and transferability of
foreign exchange in order to allow HUBCO to meet its obligations to third
parties.



- 86 -                          Schedule A
Page 7 of 9
Claim on ECO Guarantee Where There is a Commercial Default and a Guaranteed
Default: Whether or not the occurrence of the Guarantee Event was the sole cause
of HUBCO's failure to pay such principal amount will not affect the ability of the
ECO Lenders' Agent to make a claim under the ECO Guarantee. However, where
notwithstanding the occurrence of the Guarantee Event, HUBCO would still have
been unable to perform in full its payment obligations because of a conmmercial
default, the amount payable under the ECO Guarantee will be reduced by that
portion of the payment not paid by HUBCO because of the commercial default.
Claim on ECO Guarantee Where There is a Commercial Default Followed by a
Guaranteed Default: The ECO Lenders' Agent may claim under the ECO
Guarantee in the case where the Loan has been accelerated solely because of a
commercial default and the ECO Lenders are attempting to enforce their security
but are unable to do so because of a change in Pakistan law, expropriation or
certain force majeure events. In such circumstances, the amount payable under the
ECO .Guarantee will in essence be the lesser of (i) the amount of the Loan
remaining unpaid and (ii) the difference between the amount the ECO Lenders
would have recovered had they been able to freely enforce their security and the
amounts they actually recovered upon enforcement.
Limitations on Enforcement: If HUBCO fails to make a principal payment on the
Loan as a result of a Shariah Event or an Indemnified Event, or because the
Government has failed to make Capacity Purchase Price or Special Temporary
Funding payments under the Implementation Agreement solely as a result of a
dispute as to whether such amounts are payable, the Lenders may call on the ECO
Guarantee for any unpaid scheduled installment of principal but may not accelerate
the Loan and take enforcement action unless the default has not been remedied by
certain specified dates, thus giving the Government the opportunity to remedy the
situation before a claim may be made under the ECO Guarantee for the full unpaid
principal amount of the Loan. The cure periods are six months for disputes
regarding Capacity Purchase Price and Special Temporary Funding payments, nine
months for a Shariah Event and twelve months for an Indemnified Event. In all
cases, however, the cure period will be reduced, if necessary, so as not to exceed
the period of time for which interest payments on the Loan are covered by the
amount in the Guarantee Reserve Account.
Guarantee Reserve Account: As the ECO Guarantee does not guarantee interest
payments on the Loan, an offshore Guarantee Reserve Account will be established
to provide the Lenders with interest coverage during the cure periods when the
Lenders are prevented from accelerating the Loan and claiming under the ECO
Guarantee for the full principal amount in the circumstances described above. The
Guarantee Reserve Account is required to be funded in an amount equal to 13
months' and 7 days' interest on the Loan. The Lenders may draw on the Guarantee
Reserve Account for interest payments on the Loan in those cases where HUBCO
has failed to make a scheduled principal payment installment and the Lenders are
entitled to call on the ECO Guarantee for such payment.



- 87 -                          Schedule A
Page 8 of 9
Claims: Unless the ECO Lenders have notified the World Bank of a payment
default within 60 days thereof, claims under the ECO Guarantee must be made
within 60 days of the latter of (i) the due date in respect of which a failure to pay
has occurred and (ii) the expiry of any applicable grace or cure period relating to
the relevant Guarantee Event.
Calls on the Guarantees will be permitted for up to 60 days after the scheduled
final maturity date of the Facilities. However, the Lenders have the option to
extend the guarantee, on an annual basis, for a further five years upon payment of
an annual guarantee fee. The purpose of the extension is to provide coverage in
respect of the Government's continuing obligations under the Implementation
Agreement following a commercial default during the time when the Lenders are
seeking to enforce their security interests as described above.
Exclusion of Liability: The World Bank's liability under the ECO Guarantee will
be reduced to the extent a claim arises out of or as a result of: (a) HUBCO, the
Lenders, the Lenders' Agent, the security trustee or the intercreditor agent
voluntarily entering into an agreement with the Government regarding such claim
which materially reduces the claim against the Government; (b) the insolvency
(except where contributed to by the action of the Government) of the Lenders'
Agent, any of the banks holding the project accounts or any of the banks
responsible for remitting funds to the State Bank of Pakistan for the Foreign
Exchange Risk Insurance Scheme; or (c) a failure by such an account or remittance
bank to transmit necessary funds (except where such failure is due to a Pakistan
political event).
The ECO Guarantee will lapse if the Lenders amend or waive certain material
provisions of the ECO Facility Agreement or the intercreditor agreement without
the World Bank's consent or if the Lenders' Agent fails to request the intercreditor
agent to issue a drawstop notice following the World Bank's demand to do so (as
described below.)
Guarantee Fees: The guarantee fee will be payable in the respective currency
guaranteed by HUBCO to the World Bank in installments. The first installment of
approximately two years' guarantee fee will be payable on the date of the first
drawdown under the Loan. Thereafter, an annual guarantee fee will be payable,
commencing on the first anniversary of the Loan and on each subsequent
anniversary date (until but excluding the anniversary date preceding the final
maturity of the Loan). The fee will equal one quarter of one percent of (a) the
Loan commitments during the Availability Period, and (b) the maximum Loan
Amount thereafter. The ECO Guarantee will lapse if the guarantee fees are not
paid when due.
Drawstop Notices: During the Availability Period, if HUBCO has issued a
preliminary termination notice under the Implementation Agreement due to a default
by the Government, the World Bank has the right to require the Lenders' Agent to



- 88 -                         Schedule A
Page 9 of 9
request the intercreditor agent to issue a drawstop notice to prevent HUBCO from
making any further drawings under the ECO Facility Agreement. At any time
while such a drawstop notice is in effect, the Lenders may claim under the ECO
Guarantee for all amounts of principal which HUBCO fails to pay for any reason
whatsoever.
Subrogation: Following a payment by the World Bank under the ECO Guarantee,
the World Bank will be immediately subrogated to the rights of the Lenders (except
for any such rights which relate to amounts in the Guarantee Reserve Account or
in respect of any amounts due from the Government under the Implementation
Agreement or in respect of amounts attributable to commercial default). However,
until the Lenders have been repaid in full, the World Bank will not be subrogated
to any voting entitlements held by the Lenders or be entitled to direct the Lenders
as to how to exercise such rights. Under the terms of the ECO Guarantee, the
World Bank has the right to waive its subrogation rights and rely exclusively on its
rights-against the Government under the Indemnity Agreement.
Commitment
Fee:      Three quarters of one percent per annum on undrawn commitments.
Pre-
payment:  HUBCO may voluntarily prepay the Loan in full or in part (in agreed minimum
amount and multiples thereof) on any repayment date. On project completion, any
surplus funds must be used to prepay the ECO/JEXIM Facilities. After project
completion, 45% of surplus operating revenues must be use to prepay the senior
debt pro rata, after permitted shareholder distributions.
Indemnity
by Pakistan:
The Islamic Republic of Pakistan (Pakistan) will enter into an Indemnity Agreement
with the World Bank in respect of its Guarantee. Under such Indemnity Agreement,
Pakistan would undertake to reimburse and indemnify the World Bank on demand,
or as the World Bank may otherwise determine, for any payment made by the
World Bank under the ECO Guarantee and for all liabilities and expenses incurred
by the Bank with respect to the ECO Guarantee.
Governing
Law and
Jurisdiction:
The ECO Facility and the ECO Guarantee will be governed by English law and
provide for the non-exclusive jurisdiction against the World Bank of the English
courts. The Indemnity Agreement will follow the legal regime, and include dispute
settlement provisions, which are customary in agreements between member
countries and the World Bank.
Agent:    Bank of Tokyo International Limited.



)US)Ufl3~V    J~If3poI         19rn5IUR40            pU3WUAI1jv            J..UiIq          JUWINO3                                                       *geJinzI I V!S
pafoij 03SV40                                     Mvil ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~wio!nv
J0W41SM03                           I*pag*q~*L*IU4J  "'J1                                   a,013J  OaIJ          ~      S)~A,W
w3~~~~~~~~~~~~~soiid                                                                  041O3JN
wo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J pio u V-!q
9NIS0'I  IVI:)NYNId ISOd NOILVSINVdO 038fill



Project Model - InItil Project ForeCAst                                                            Hub Power Project                                                                         Currency Amounts are In Miltons
P9Io.d Endnq                                       30-Jun-04        31-Doe-94         30-Jun-95        31 -Dec-95       30-Jun-6         39-DOc-W          30-Jun-97       31-Due-97         30-Jun-OS        39-DOc-01
1: ASSUMPTIONS (Part 1)
MACROECONOMIC ASSUMPTIONS
Exchange Rates (against US$)            r              106300           102.00            109.00           109 00           112 97           11297            114.94            114.94           116.94           116 94
               0.65              0 66             0.68             0.66              0 69             0.69             0.70             0,70             0.71             0.71
f F              5.42             5.52             5 72             5 72              5.77             5.77             5.82             5.62             587              5 87
Ecu             065               0.54             0.88             06 6              0 69             0.89             0.90             0.90             0.92             0 92
Lie          1.52600          1,600.00         1,625.00         1,625 00          1,63341          1.633 41         1.660 46         1.660 46          1,66796          1,67.98
Rs             31.50             31.50            33.65            33 85            35.36             35.36            36.95            36.95            36.61            38.61
CPI (annual rate) 
USA                                                    2 70%            2 70%             3.50%            3 50%            3 40%            3 40%            3 40%             3.40%            3 40%            3 40%
Japan                                                  0.80%            0.80%             1.50%            1 50%            2,40%            2,40%            2.40%             2.40%            2.40%            2.40%
UK                                                     2.70%            2.70%             3.80%            3.80%            3.40%            3.40%            3 40%             3.40%            3 40%            3,40%
taly                                                   3.90%            3.90%             3.60%            3.80%            3.90%            3 90%            3.90%             3.90%            3.90%            3.90%
Pakistan                                              10.50%           10.50%            10.90%           10.90%            8.00%            8 00%            7,00%             7.00%            6 50%            6.50%
VarIablo Intenest Re,b  0e
U    6 -month USOR                                     362%             500%              5.19%            5.56%            5.25%            525%             5.25%             5.25%            5.25%            525%        O
Y 8- monIh USOR                                        2.30%            2.00%             2.25%            2.75%            3.50%            3.50%            3.50%             3.50%            3.50%            3.50%
V LTPR                                                 4.40%            4.17%             4.30%            4.30%            4.30%            4.30%            4.30%             4.30%            4.30%            4.30%
   - nmonth LIBOR                                     5Q40%            5,40%             6.00%            6.00%            6.50%            6.50%            7,30%             7.30%            7 80%            7.80%
FF 6-month U8OR                                        6.21%            5.25%             5.19%            5.06%            5.25%            5.25%            5.25%             5.25%            5.25%           525%
EcuO-monihLIBOR                                        6.12%            5.53%             552%             550%             5.67%            5.67%            5.67%             567%             5.67%            5.67%
Lre 6-month LIB0R                                      7.60%            7.00%             7.00%            7.00%            7.00%            7.00%            7.00%             7.00%            7.00%            7.00%
Rupee Umote Interest Rate                             10.00%           t0.00%            10.00%           10.00%           10.00%           10.00%           10.00%           10.00%            10.00%           10.00%
OTHER ASSUMPTIONS
RFO Prce (pw tonne)                     Rs           2,843.50         2,843.50         3,055.63         3.055.3           3,191.94         3,191.94         3,335.47         3,335.47         3,485.32        3J465.32
IGRA Rate fot Co1nrtuctlon Costs                       0.00%            0.00%             0.00%            000%             0.00%            0.00%            0.00%            0.00%             0.00%            0.00%
O n
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(
W-a
I ~ ~ ~ ~ ~       ~            ~            ~           ~            ~           ~           ~           ~           ~          ~          ~          ~ ~ 0
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(



Project Model - Inital Prolect Foreceet                                                      Hub Power Project                                                                    Currency Amount, are in MNeons
Petod Ening                                     30-.ka-@        31-De-ea      30-Jun-2000    31-Dec-20(00     30-Jum-2001    31-Oec-2001      30-.rn-2002    3t-Oe-2009        SO-Jin-2004    31-0ec-2003
1: ASSUMPTIONS (Part 1)
MACROECONOMIC ASSUMPTIONS
Exchange Ratse (agatnst US$)         Y             t1897            tte97           12104           121.04          123.15          123 15           125.29          125,29          127.47          12747
               0.72            0 72            0.73            0.73            0.74            0.74             0 75            0.75            0.76            0.76
FF             5.92             5.92            5.96            5.90            6.01            6.01             6.06           6S06             6.11            6.11
Ecu            093              093             095             0.95            096             0.96             0.98            0.96            1.00            1.00
Lkre        1.715.91        1,715.91        1.744.32         1.744.32        1.773.21        1,773.21        1.802.57        16102.57        1,832.42         1,832.42
Rs            40 34            40.34           42.16           42.16           44 05           44 05            46.03           46.03           46.10           48.10
CPI (onnual rate)
USA                                                 3 40%           3.40%           3.40%           3.40%            3.40%           3 40%           3.40%           3.40%           3.40%           3.40%
Japan                                               2.40%           2 40%           2.40%           2 40%            2 40%           2.40%           2 40%           2 40%           2 40%           2.40%
UK                                                  3.40%           3.40%           3.40%           3.40%            3.40%           3.40%           3.40%           3.40%           3.40%           3.40%
nitay                                               3.90%           3.90%           3.90%           3.90%            3 90%           3.90%           3.90%           3.90%           3.90%           3 90%
Pakistan                                            6.50%           6.50%           6.50%           6.50%            6.50%           6.50%           6.50%           6.50%           6.50%           6.50%
Vaiable Interest Rates
USS5-monmhUeOR                                      5.25%           5.25%           5.25%           5.25%            5.25%           5.25%           5.25%           5.25%           525%            5.25%
V6-month UBOR                                       3.50%           3.50%           3,50%           3.50%            350%            3.50%           3.50%           3.50%           3.50%           3.50%
V LTPR                                              4.30%           4.30%           4.30%           4.30%            4.30%           4.30%           4.30%           4.30%           4.30%           4.30%
r4- month USOR                                      7.0%            7S0%            7.50%           7.50%            7.50%           7.50%           7.50%           7.50%           7.50%           7.50%
FF 6- nonih UeOR                                    5.25%           5.25%           5.25%           5.25%            5.25%           5.25%           5 25%           5.25%           5.25%           525%
Ecu 6- month UBOR                                   5.67%           5S7%            5.67%           5.67%            5 67%           5.67%           5.67%           5.67%           5.67%           5.67%
Lke 6-monthi UBOR                                   7.00%           7.00%           7.00%           7.00%            700%            7.00%           7.00%           7.00%           700%            700%
Rupe  dHkst Interest Rato                          10.00%          10.00%          10.00%          10.00%           10.00%          10.00%          10.00%          1000%           1000%           1000%
OTHER ASSUMPTIONS
RFO PIco (per ionne)                 Re           3,641.90        3641.90         3.S05.51        3,805.5         3,976.46         3,976.46        4155.12         4,155.12        4,34'.79        4,341.79
IQRA R_ta lft Con truction Costa                    0.00%           0.00%           0.00%           0.00%            0.00%           0.00%           0.00%           000%            0.00%           0.00%
t   cr
O 2
1O
W 



Proeet me"  - 11  PtI Fames                                                                  Hub Power Project                                                                    Cuwmmy Amunts ate in Mons
PotE..dng                                     30-J"-2004      31-Oec-2004      30-Jan-2O0      31-D.c--XOB
1: ASSUMPTIONS (Parl 1)
MACROECONOMIC ASSUMPTIONS
Exchange Rates (against USS)         v             129.69           129 69          131.95          131.95
t              0.77             0.77            0.78            0.78
F F            8.16             6.16            6.21             621
Ecu             101             101             103              103
Lre         1,662.77        1.662.77         1,693.61        1,693.61
Rs            50 26            5026            52.52           52.52
CPI (annual rate)
USA                                                 340%            3.40%           340%             3A0%
Japan                                               2.40%           2 40%           2.40%            2 40%
UK                                                  3.40%           3.40%           3.40%            3.40%
Italy                                               3.90%           3,90%           3 90%            3 90%
Paklstan                                            6.50%           6.50%           6.50%            6.50%
Vaiable Interest Rates
USS 6- month UBOR                                   5.25%           5.25%           5.25%            5.25%                                                                                                      1'.
Ve-monthUBOR                                        350%            3.50%           3.50%            350%
V LTPR                                              4.30%           4.30%           4.30%            4.30%
t(6-month UBOR                                      7.50%           7.50%           7.50%            7.50%
fF 6-tmonth UBOR                                    5.25%           5.25%           5.25%            5.25%
Ecu 6- monih UBOR                                   5.67%           5.67%           5.67%            5.67%
Lie( 6 - onth UO0R                                  7.00%           7.00%           7.00%            700%
Rupee Market Interest Rate                         10.00%          10.00%           0.00%           10 00%
OTHER ASSUMPTIONS
RFO Pwice (per tonne)                Re           4,536.65        4,536.85        4.740.67         4.740.67
IORA Rate fr Construction Costs                     0.00%           0.00%           0.00%            0.00%
cO 
i   r_



Project Model - Initial Project Forecast                                                    Hub Power Project                                                                     Currency Amounts are In Mlillons
Pelld E-lng                                     30-Jun-94       31-Dec-04 -       -.Jcn-95      31-Oec -95      30-Jvn-9e       31-D..-0-W      30-Ju--97       31-Dec-97       30-Jun-91       3 - D.c -e
II: CASH FLOW
Surplus Cash from Previous Period    Rs            116 41           119 51            0 00            0 00            0 00            0 00        2,033 61         1.784 31            0 00           (0 00)
Exchange tlal Adjustment             Rs              I 88            0 00            0 00             0 00            0 00            0 00            0 00            0 00            0 00            0 00
Adjusted Surplus Cash                Os            11 829          119 51             0 00            0 00            0 00            0 00         2.033 61        1,784 31            0 00           (0 00)
Development F.pendih,ae              Rs          (1,459 tO)     (10,669 60)      (4,992 09)      (8,588 IS)      (4,623 91)       (2,004 55)      (1350 O0)           O000            0 00            0 00
tnte,im Funding Adjustment           Rs              0 97        (3,943 77)          0 00             0 00            0 00            0 00            0 00            0 00            0 00            0 00
Net Development Fxpenditure          As         (1.458 14)    (14,613 37)       (4,992 09)      (8.588 t5)      (4.623 91)       (2.004 55)      (t.350 00)           0.00            0 00            0 00
f1-vern'e                            uis             000             000             000             000              000         5,36633         10,55335       11,41290         11,78628        9.79609
Operating Costs                      Hs              0 00            0 00            0 00             0 00            0 00        (1,449 18)     (2.975 43)      (3.432 82)       (3.614 32)      (3.623 06)
Nel Revenue h,om Operations          its            0.00             0 00            0 00            0 00              000       3.917,15         7,577.92        7,980 08        8,171.96       ts t73.02
Woikirg Cap,lal Raquinrement         Rs              0 00         I 0 00             0 00             0 00            0 00            4 04            7 80            2 17            (0 72)          0 65
Interest on Cash Balancos             S              0o0             000             0 00 o           o0              0o00            0 o0          Ila 19          21087           328 32          243 99
Equity Conl6ibuton                   Rs            45360         9.37705             000             000              000             000             000             000             000             0 00
Export Credit Insuance Ptemia        Rs              0 00         (742 72)         (154 69)       (194 85)         (119 57)          (9 73)          (0 to)           0 00            0 00            0 00
Net Revenue                         gig          (886 25)       (51859 53)      (5.146 re)      (8,783.01)      (4,743 48)       1,906.90        6.387 42        9.977 39         8.499 58        6.4 1 7 67
tnte,esl & Fee Paymenis              Rs            (22 81)       (2.016 37)       (986 82)       (1.329 80)      (1,752 30)       (1t922 12)      (537731)        (2.882 87)      (2,805 79)      (2.653 33)
Debt Drawdown                        Rs          1.028 57        8.640 43         6.20475        10.243 93        6,71675         2,07637         t.775 40            000             000             000
Debt Scheduled Repayments            Rs              0 00            0 00            0 00            0 00             0 00            0 00           (0 00)       (1.519 14)      (1,519 14)     (1,519 14)
Payments (lo)/lrom RMRA              Rs              000             0.00            0 00            0.00             0 00            0 00         (497 26)          36 91           38 85           57 15
Payments (1o)/hom GRA                Rs              000          (117 30)         (88 98)        (148 91)         (23985)          (46 43)         (24 56)          6127            6026            5924
Paymentsw(to)/lrom Debt Senice Fes A/c Rs            000             000             000             000              000             000         (2,497 82)        18606           16673           181 92
Payments (to)/from SACE CollateralAcc   Rs           000          (647 22)          t783            1778             1889            1889            1844            6098            5983            5868
Cashlfow alter Debt Service          Rs            119.51            0.00            0.00            0.00            0.00        2,033.61        1,784.31        5,920.61        4.500.29        2,602.18
Loan Prepayments Carried Forward     ts              0 00            0 00            0 00            0 00            0 00            (0 00)           0.00           (0 00)           0 00            0 00
Allocations to Protect Company Account Rs            0.00            0 00            0 00             0 00            0 00            0 00            0 00        (5,920 81)      (4.500 29)      (2.602 18)
Cashtiow Carried Forward             Rs           119.51             0.00            0.00            0.00            0.00        2,033.61        1,784.31             0.00           (0.00)           0.00
Gross OMdends paid to Shareholders                   0 00            0 00            0 00            0.00             0 00            0 00            0.00           (0 00)       5,920.81        4,500 29
DMdends as a pefcentage of Isued Cap(tal            0 0%             0 0%            0.0%            0 0%            00%             0 0%            0 0%           -0.0%           52 4%           39 8%
to  En
00 
Cs r
Cs 



Pro.t Mezode  - it 1ittl Pfoeet Froscast                                              Hub Power Project                                                              Cwnecy Amountr  re In UMNlons
Pwicd Edhg                                   30-J..-M       31-0e"-ft   30-Jun-2000    3t-DOC -2000    30-Ju-Z2001    31-DOc-2001    30-Jun-2002    31-D0e-2002    30-J,-2O3    31-0-2003
11: CASH FLOW
Surpkis Cash from Previous Period  Rs             000            000 0000                     (0 00)         (000)          (0 00)          0.00          (000)           000           (o00)
Eechnge Rate Ad)usmnt              Rs             0 00           0000           000            0 00           0 00           000            0 00           0.00           0 00           0 00
Adusted Sufplus Cash               Rs             000            0 00          o0             (0 00)        (0 00)         (0 00)          0 00          (0 00)          0 00           ( 000)
Development Expenditure            Rs             0 00           0.00           0 00           0.00           0 00           0 00           0 00           0.00           0 00           0 00
Interim FundIng Adjustment         Rs             0 00           0 00           0 00           0 00           0 00           0 00           0 00           0 00           0 00           0 00
Not Development Expenditure        Rs            0.00           0.00           0.00            0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00
Revenue                            Rs        10.09207        9.88895        10.24158       10,42740       10.54092       10,63339       11.08566       10,731.66      11215.79       10,879.71
Operating Costs                    Rs         (3.793.15)     (3.791 80)     (3,969.09)     (3.967 87)     (4,152 58)     (4.150.81)     (4.343 48)     (4,341.44)     (4.542 72)     (4,540 77)
Not Revenue tfrom Oporations       Re       6s298.92        6,097.15       6.272.50        6,459.53       6,388.35       6,462.56       6,742.19       6.390022       6673.06        6.336o93
Workng Capital Requrement          Rs             0 86       1  0.37            0.74           0 37           080            0 39           0 85           0 41           0 92           0 44
IntereSt on Cash Balances          Rs           20051          20056          204.72         21872          22480          21864          230.69         23248          238.79         23960
Equkty Contrbuton                  Rs             000            0 00           0 00           0 00           0 00           0 00           000            0 00           0 00           0 00
Export Credit Insuramne Prenil     Rs             0 00           0.00           0.00           0.00           000            0.00           0.00           0.00           0M             0.00
Net Revenue                        Rs        6,500.29       6,291.10       6.477J5       6,676.62       6,613.94       6.63061        6,973.73        6,623.11      6,910.77       6,576.06  
Interest& Fee Payments             Rs         (2,576.10)     (2.418.38)    (2,351.22)      (2,19257)      (2.114.42)     (1.922.15)     (1,81038)      (1,63059)      (1.518.74)     (1,31a.72)
Debt Drewdown                      Rs             0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00           0 00           000            0 00
Debt Scheduled Repayments          As         (1.519A14)     (1.519,14)     (1.519.14)    (1.519.14)     (1.991.86)      (1.99n.8q      (1A.90 88)     (1,991.88)     (1."0I 88)     (1.991 86)
Payments (o)/from AMRA             Re            55.47          53.79          52 10          50.42          4663           38 55          39.84          47 34          45 52          43 70
Payments (tolfom ORA               Re            58 22          57 20          58 Is          55 18          52687          47 96          48.59          53 00          51 94          50s80
Payments (to)/om Debt Servle Res Alc Re         176.80         174.52         172.73         16961          16649          18337          147.77         159.83         15703          153 25
Paynents (to)firom SACE Colatoral Acc. Rs        57 52          56837          55.22          54 06          52 91          51.78          50 61          49 45          483 0          47 15
Cashlow ashow Debt BSrvice         As        2,755.06       2,702.48       2,943.63        3,294.13      2,826.56        3,087.25       3,458.29       3,310.28       3,704.95      3,563.37
Loan Prepayments Cardled Forward   As             0.00           0 00          (000)           0 00           0 00           0.00          (0 00)          000            0 00           0 00
AlNocatons to Project Company Aceount Rs      (2.755.06)     (2,702.48)     (2.943.83)     (3,294.18)     (2.828 56)     (3.087.25)     (3.458 29)     (3,310.28)     (3.704.95)     (3.563.37)
Cas.tbow Carded Forward            Rs            0.00           0.00           (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         0.00           (0.00)          0.00          (0.00)         0.00
oCoseg Didends pald to Shrehoders             2,602.18       2,755.06       2,702.48       2,943.83       3,294.18       2,826.58       3,087.25       3.45829        3,310.28       3,704.95
DMdende es  pereentage otfsUed Capke            23.0%          24.4%          239%           28 0%          29.1%          25.0%          27.3%          30.8%          29.3%          32.8%
t 0
oE..
 Ei.



Project Model -Initial ProleCt Forecast                                                  Hub Power Project                                                                 Currency Amounts are in MiNions
P.rIdlEndon                                 30-Jon-2004    3t-DOc-2004    30-J.n-200W      31 -Oft-2005
11: CASH FLOW
Surplus Cash from Previous Perlod   Rs             0 00            0.00           0.00            0 00
Erchange Rate Adjustment            RA             000             0 00           0.00            0 00
Ac4usld Surplus Cash                Rs             0 00            0.00            0.00           0.00
Developme nt Expenditur             Rs             0 00            0 00           0 00            0 00
Interdm Funding Adjustment          Rs             0 00            0 00           0 00            0 00
Not Development Expenditure         Rs             0.00           0.00            0.00            0.00
Revenue                             Rs         11,409.54      11,012.15        9.57438        9880.78
Operating Costs                     Rs         (4,752.03)      (4,751.17)     (4,963 88)     (4,953 96)
Net Revenue from Operotlon          Rs         6.657.50       6,260.98        4,910.70       4926.81
Working Cpidal Requkement           Rs             0.98            0.47            1.05           0.49
Intereston Cash Balances            Rs           244.93          247.07         209.00          217.55
Equity Contribution                 Rs             0.00            0.00           0,00            0 00
Export Credit Insurnce Premla       Rs             0.00            0.00           0 00            0 00
Net Revenue                         Rs         6003.41       68508.52         5,120.76       5.144t85
Interes& Fe Paynwnts                Rs         (1.20579)       (1,012.36)       (859 18)       (718.58)
Debt Drawdown                       Rs             0.00            0.00           0.00            000
Det4 Scheduled RPAyyments           Re         (t.991.t8       (h.99t.86)     (1.991.6U)       (472.72)
Payments(to)dtromRtMRA              Rs            41.86           40.06          3824             000
Paymnts (to)hirom ORA               Rs            49.83           48.77          47.71            0.00
Paymrentso)tromDebtService Res A/c Rs            150.03          146.81        1,662,72          (D00)
Paymenns (to)hkom SACE Colteral Acc. Rs           46.00           44.84          43.69            0.00
Ceebhtow adter Debt Service         Rs        3J993.49        3,764.78        4.062.09      3J953.55
Loan Prepayments Canied Forward     Rs             (0t00)          0 00           0 00            0 00
Alocations to Project Company Account Rs       (3.993.49)     (3,784.76)      (4.062.09)     (3,953.55)
Cashnlow Cwrled Fogward             Rs            0.00            0.00            0.00           0.00
Gross Diidends paid to Shareholes              3,583.37        3,993.49        3,784.78       4,062.09
DviWends as a percentage of tsaud Capital        31.5%           35.3%           33.5%          35.9%
0Q 
0 C0
D5
W 5



Pro4ct Model - Initial Ps.lt  Forecast                                                  Hub Power Project                                                               Curfency Amounts ar* In MFilons
PerdldEning                                  30-Jun-S        31-Duc-W6      30-Jun-87      31 -D1c--S7     30-Jun-Pt      31-D.c-S       30-Jun-JJ      31-D.c-Se    30-Jun-2000    3t-Dec-20S0
VI: OPERATING INCOME
& EXPENDITURE
AvaNidrEy                           OWh            0.00        1,339.20       3,852.20       4,626 00       4,56J300        4.500.00       4,554.00       4,608.00       4,572.00        4,536.00
% Avatbbity                                         NA             NA              NA         8801%          86.82%          85.82%         88.64%         8787%          88.99%          86.30%
Not Electrical Output              OWh             0.00        1.339 20       3,036.09       3,39538        3,395.30        3,39538        3,395 38       3.395 38       3.395.38        3.395J38
Committd Hours                     hr              000         4.85150       10,580.46      11.81792       11,817.92       11.81792       11,817.92      11,817.92       11,81792       11,817.92
Capaiy Charge                      Rs             0.00        4,360.58       8,201.36       8,792.71       9.031a04        7,011.58       7.162.05       6,961.59       7,173.50        7,384.28
Energy Chafge RA per KWh
- Fusl Cod Element                                0.00           0.70           0.73            073            0.78           0.78            0.81           0.61           085            085
- Variable O&M Costs nc IORA                      0.00           0.04           0.04            0.04           0.04           0 05            0 05           0.05           0 08           008
Total Energy Ch_ge Rs per KWh                     0.00           0.73            0.77           0.77           0.82            0.82           0.86.          0.86           0.N0            0.90
Total Energy Chaog                  Rs            0.00         981.05        2,323.35       2,607.82       2,777.76        2,798.53       2.932.09       2,930.35       3,070.15        3,088.63
Supplebmntal Charges               Rs             0.00            4.89           8.64          12.38           12.93          1293           1351            13.51          14.12          14 12
Wtthho4ingTaxAd4ustment            Rs             0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00          (35.45)        (26.95)         (15.58)        (1t.50)        (18.18)         (1763)
Penattes                           Ra             000             0000           0.00           00              00             0.00           0.00           000             000            0 00
Boinus                             R              0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0 00            0 00           0.00
Total PPA Revenue                  Rs             0.00       5,346.33       10,533.35      11,412.90      11,786.28        .796.09      10.092.07       8,686.95      10,241.50       10,427.40
Other Revenue:                     Rs
TCC Uquldated Damages              Rs             0.00            0.00           000            0.00            0.00           0.00           000            000             000            000
Retum of FSA Security Depos        Rs             0.00           20.00          20.00           000            0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00            0 00           0 00
Total Oporating Revenue            Rs             0.00       5,388.33       10,553.35      11,412.90      11,786.28       *,798.09       10,092.07       9.888.95      10,24t.58       10,427.40
0'
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o .                                                                                              o 
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(



Project Model - hhtial Poet Foreasd                                                   Hub Power Project                                                              Cufrfey Amounts ae in Maons
P.tcEadtg                                   30-Jun-se      31-Dc-Se        30-Jun-"?     31-Dec-07       30-J,s-Jl     SI-Dec-SI       30-Jun-ge     al-D.-ge    30-JUr-2000    31 -0ecO-
OPERATING COSTS
Fwel Cost                          Re           0e00          930.87       2,211.06       2.4e0.7t       28003.40       2,604.37       2,722.30       2,723.22       2,846.53       2.,47.s0
FixedCosts tnc IORA)               Rs            0.00          354.75         381.57         40184          41734          40525          420.31         408.61         423.75         41227
O&M Contract Coets
Variable Costs (  per MWh)                       0.00           t.96           10.87          11.26          12.95          1387           14.83          14.89          1583           1583
Vflabte(Rs po Commtod Hour)                      0.00        7,579.32       8.101.69       6.53915        9,870.12      10,t1529       11.34954       11,398.57      12,11921       12.11921
Total VariableCods                 Rs            0.00           48.59         117.95         139.15         16062          17255          164.48         185.27         19698          196.98
Operators Shar, of PPA Bonus       RS            0 00           0 00           0 00            0.00           0.00           0 00           000            00             000           0 00
Operators Share of PPA Uqu. Damages  As          000            000            0.00            0.00          0.00            0.00           0.00           O00           000            000
Ful Eficifncy Bonus                As            0 00            1.55          0.66            0 00          8 31            8.15           6 56           8 42           887           8 69
Fuel EMclency PenuRy               Rs            0.00           0 00           0 00           (0.43)         0 00            0.00           0 00          0.00           0 00           0.00
Operstors share of FSA lku. Damages  Rs          0 00           0.00           0.00            0.00          0.00            0 00           0.00           0.00          0.00           0 00
Tot-l OAM Contract Cools           Rs            0.00         404.89         500.18         540.56         586.27         585.95         613.31         602.30         629.60         617.35
Other Coas
HubcoCosts                        Ai             000            000           4781           90.34          102.58         105.32         109.79         11273          11752          12065
ContAruction Contrat Bonuss        Rs            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00           0 00           0.00           0.00            00D           0.00           0 00
FSA Penate PAyableto PSO           Rs            0.00           000            0.00           000            0.00           0.00           0.00           0 00           000            0.00
Support Services Agreement         Rs            0.00           000            6.42           13.05          13e67         13.90           14.56          14.81          15.51         15.77
InsuranceCosts                     Rs            0.00          11342          187.38         258.54        274.71         27934           296.8t         301 t         320tl9         32609       _t
FacitityAgents'Fes                 RA            0.00           0.00          15.55          31.63          33.81          34.18           36.32          36.93          39.24         39.90
TOTAL COSTS                        Rs            0.O0       1,449.18       2,975.43       3,432.82      3J014.32        3.623.06       3.793.15       3,791.80       3,969.09       3.967.87
MET REVENUE FROM OPERATIONS Re                   0.10       3.917.15       7.577.92       7.9t0.08       6.7t7.96       8.173,02       6.298.92       6,097.15       6,272.50       6.459.53
Revenue It r34 Rs per kWh De-patched
Capacky Charge                                    NA            2.57           2.06            1.91          1.90            1.43           1.4            1.33           t 33          1.32
Fuel Cost Element                                0.00           0.55           0.55           0.54           0.55           0.54           0.54           0.53           0 53           0.52
Othm Enrgy Charge                                0.00           0.03           0 03           0.03           0.03           0.03           0 04            0 03          0 04           0 03
Ohr PPA Charges                                   NA            0.00           0.00           0.00           (0 00)         (0 00)                        (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)
Total PPA Revenue                                 NA            3.15           2.64           2.47           2.47           1.99           1.99           1.09           1.90           1.67
OtherIncom                                        NA            0.01            .01           000            0.00           000            000            o000           000            000
Total Revenue p-t trWh                            NA            3.16           2.05           2.47           2.47           1.99           1.90           1.69           1.00           1.17
Costs In 1994 Rs per kWh Despatched
FixedOperatingCods                                NA            0.21           0.10           0.09           0.09           0.08           008             0.08          008            007
Fuel Cost                                         NA            0.55           0.56           0.54           0.55           0.53           0.54            0.52          0.53           0,51
Varabb Operating Costs                            NA            0.03           0.03           0 03           0.03           0.04           0.04            0.04          0.04           0.04
Other O&M Contract Costs                          NA            0 00           0.00           ( 000)         0 00           0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00           0 00
Other Costs                                       NA            0.07           0.06           0.09           0.09           0.09           0.09           0.09           0.09           009
Total Cost per kWh                                NA            0.65           0.75           0.74           0.76           0.74           0.75           0.72           0.73           0.71
Operating Pof per kWh                             NA            2.31           1.90            1.73           1.72           1.26           1.24           1.16           t t6           1.18
OperatIng Mafgin                                  NA          37.00%         39.26%         43.02%         44,23%         58.89%         60.22%         82.19%         83.28%         61.43%
Average Tariff USShkWh 1994 PrIces                             0.104          0.085          0.081          0.079          0.065          0.063          0.060          0.059          0.059
00 0
O co
OCQ
(0 C



trroet Model - ItletS Pre,eet Foreast                                                   Hub Power Project                                                               Cuffeney Amounts are hi Mlons
Pbs.cd6.dng                                 30-Jun-SOO2    SI-Din-2OO1    30-J.-200       31-Oe--2002    30-Jn-2003    31-Oc-2003    30-Jes-5004    31-Dar-2004    30-.Je-2006    31-O-2005
VI: OPERATING INCOME
& EXPENDITURE
AveailIbty                          OWh        4.554.00        4,572.00       4,554.00       4,538.00        4.545.00       4,554 00       4,554.00        4.554.00       4,554.00       4,554.00
% AvaNtabyiv                                   8U.t4%           80.99%         88.84%         86.30%          86.41%         88.64%         86.64%         86.64%          6.64%          86.64%
Not Elctrical Output               OWh         3.30583         3,395.30       3,395.36       3,395.38 33395.30              3,395.38      3J395.36        3,395.38        3.395.36       3,395.38
Commititd "ours                    hr         11t.17.92       1t1617.92      11,817.92      11.817.92      11.817,92       t1,817.92      11,817.92       11.17.92       11,817.92      11,817.92
Capachy Charge                     Rs         7,332.84       7.426.25        7.726.05       7,378.26       7.700.16        7,370.69       7,730.66       7.340.40        6,024.35       6.031.22
Energy Charge Rs per KWh
- Fuel Cost Element                               0.89           0.69            0.93           0.93           0.97           0.97            1.01           1.01           t.08            1.06
- Vaiable OUM Coats nc IORA                       0.06           0.06            0.08           0.06           0 07           0 07            0.07           0.07           0.06           0.06
Total Enargy Chrge Rs per KWh                     0.35           0.S5            0.tH           0.99           1.04            1.04           1.0S           1.0            1.14           1.13
Total Energy Charge                Rs         3.213.06       3,209.31        3,362.66       3.356.06       3,519.34        3,515.09       3.603.36       3,6786.4        3,855.11       3,850.29
Supplem  ntalCharges               Rs             14.75          14.75          15.42           15.42          16.11          16.11           16.83         1t.83           17.59          17.59
Wlthholdlng Tax Ausnwnl            Fs            (19.73)        (16.93)         (18.49)        (20.71)        (19.82)         (22.19)        (21.34)        (23.91)        (22.86)         (24.32)    1
Penales                            Rs             0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00            0 00           0.00           0.00     \0
Bonus                              Rs             0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00     
Total PPA R4ewne                   Rs        10.540.92      10,633.33       11.085.66      10,731.66      11.215.79       10,S70.71      11,403.54      11,012.15       *.874.3        9,680.76
Other Revenue.:                    Rs
TCC Liquldated Damages             Rs              0.0            000            00              0.00           0.00 0.00 0.00                                0.00           0 00           000
Return of FSA Securky Depoel       Rs             0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00
Total Operatiag Revnwu             as        10,540.32      10,633.39       11,0S5.66      10,731.66      11,215.70       10,679.71      11,403.54      11,012.15       9,674.36        6,160.78
=C
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c 



Prolect Model -  Ilnitl Proiet Forecast                                                  Hub Power Project                                                                 Currnoy Amounts are in MUon.
PerIdEnding                                 30-Jua-2001    31-Dec-1o1    30-Jun-2002    31-Dec-202    30-Jun-2003         1 1-Dnc-2001t  0-Jun-2004    31-D0e-2004    30-Jon-200S    51-De-2005
OPERATING COSTS
Fue Cost                            Rc         2,97643        2,977.44        3,112.26       3.113.31        3,254.28       3.255.38        3.402.76        3,403.33       3.558.0         3,559.28
Flied Costsa(Ine IORA)              As           426.34          413.57          426.63         412.77          425.00         410.36          422.57         408.08          432.10         429.56
O&M Contract Coate
VanatblsCosts(Rs prMWh)                           18.U3           16.83           17.90          17.90           19.03          1903            20.24          20.24           21.52          21.52
Varableb(Rsper Commlltd Hour)                  12,885.79      12,865.79       13,701.25       13,701.25      14,568.73       14.568.73      15,491.57       15.491.57       16.473.32      16.473.32
Total VarIable Costs                Rs           .209.44         20944           222.70         2270            236.80         23680           251.80         251.80          267.75         267.75
Operatora Shareot PPA Bonus         Rs             0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00           0.00
Operators Share ol PPA Uqu. Damagas  Rs            0.00            0.00           000             000             000            0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00           0 00
Fuel Ellieency Bonus                As             9.116           8.97           9.45            9.26           9.78            9.56           10.07           9.86           10.40          10.16
Fuel Elticlency Penaky              Rs             0.00            0.00           0.00            0 00           0.00            0.00            0.00           0.00            000            0.00
Operetors ehere ol FSA Lqu. Damages  Rs            0.00            000            0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00           0.00
Total OAt Contract Costs            Rs          644.94          631.38          058.78         644.73          671.58         656.71          684.44         669.74          710.25         707.50
Other Costs
HubcoCoits                          Rs           12579           12914          13466           13824           144A1          14798           1543.3         15842           16523          16960
Contlvuclion Contract Bonuses       Rs             0.00            0.00           0.00            000            0 00            000            0.00            0 00            0.00           000
FSA Penalles PAyable to PSO         Rs             000             000            0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00
SupportServtcseAgreement           FR             16.53           16.81          17.81           1790           18.76           1907            1998           2032            21.29          21.65
Insurance Costs                     Rs           348.49          352.33         374.36          3808t6         404.48          411.30         437.02          444.39          472.18         480.15      O
FarNty Agents' Fees                 Rs            42.39           43 1t          4580            46.58          49.49           50.32           5347           5437            38.66          15.82
TOTAL COSTS                         Rs         4.152.58       4,150.81        4.343.48       4.341.44        4,542.72       4,540.77        4,752.03        4.751.17       41,93.86       4,953.98
NET REVENUE FROM OPERATIONS  RH                6,368.35       6,482.58        6,742.19       6,390.22        6,673.06        ,336.93        8,657.50       6.260.98        4,910.70       4,926.81
Revenue In 1994 Rs per kWh Despatched
CapeIty Charge                                     1.27-           125            1.26            1.17           1.18            1.09            1.11           1.02            081            0.79
Fuel Cost Element                                  052             0.51           0.51            0 50           0.50            0.49           0.49            0.48           0.49            0.47
Other Energy Charge                                004             003            004             003            0.04            003             0.04           0.03            0.04           003
Other PPA Charges                                  (0 00)         (0 00)          (000)          (0.00)          (0.00)         (000)           (000)          (0.00)          (000)          (000)
Total PPA Revenue                                  1.83           1.7D            1.81            1.70           1.72            1.62           1.64            1.53           1.33            1.29
Other Income                                       0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00
Total Revenue per kWh                              1.83           1.79            1.U1           1.70            1.72            1.62           1.64            1.53           1.33            1.29
Costs In 1994 Rs pef kWh Despatched
FixedOperatinrgCoals                               0.07           0.07            0.07            0.07           0.07            0.06           0.08            0.06           0.06            0.06
Fuel Cost                                          0.52           0.50            0.51            0.49           0.50            0.40           0.49            0.47           0 48            0.47
Vaerabl OperatIng Cost                             0.04           0.04            004             0.04           0.04            0.04           0.04            0 04           0 04            0.04
Other O&M5 Contract Coits                          0.00           0.00            0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00
OtherCosts                                         0.09           0.09            0.09            009            0.09            0.09           0.10            0.09           0.09            0.09
Total Cost p-r kWh                                 0.72           0.70            0.71           0.69            0.70           0.67            0.68           0.66            0.67           0.65
Operating Profkper kWh                             1.11            1.09           1.10            1.01           1.02            0.94           0.96            0.87           0.66            0.64
OperstIng Margin                                65.00%          64.03%          64.42%         67.94%          66.06%         71.83%          71.38%         75.89%         101.08%        100.55%
Average TarE US$AWh 1994 Prtce                    0.056          0.056           0.055           0.052          0.051           0.049          0.048           0.046          0.038           0.038
Co
OC)
wCD



Proijct Mode  - Initial Pralact Foroecat                                                     Hub Power Project                                                                    Curreny Amunts are Is Millons
P.oxd End.g                                    3X-Jun-B4        31-Dec-94       30-Jun-rn        31 -Dec-95      30-Jun-06       31-D.c-I        30-Jun-97       31t-DOc-17      30-JUN-SO       31-D.c-g
VIl: PROFIT PROJECTIONS
Sales                                 Rs              000             000             000             0.00            0.00         5,575.83       10.30384        11.41290        11,716.21        90,70600
Operating Expenses                    Rs              000             0.00            0.00            0.00            000         (1,44918)       (2,975.43)       (3.432.t2)      (3,614.32)      (3.623.06)
Operating Prolit                      Rs             0.00            0.00            0.00             0.00            0.00        4,126.65        7,328.42        7,980.06        11.171.9t       0.173.02
Interest & Other lncome               Rs              0 00            0 00            0M              000             00             20.00           172 62          395.32          506 99          417.52
RAvkluslon of Cash Balances          Rs              0 00             0.0             000             000             0.00            0.00            0.01             0.00            0.00            0.00
EiOIAT                                Rs             0.00            0.00            0.00             0.00            0.00        4,146.65        7.501.05       8i375.41         t,678.94       6o590.54
Less, arortisallon expense           Rs              000              000             000             000             000             000          (831.58)         (831.58)        (831.58)        (831.58)
Amortization of Discount on Shkre Issue  Rs          0.00             0 00            0 00            0 00            0 00            0 00          (24 53)          (24 53)         (24 53)         (24 53)
EBtT                                 Rs              0.00            0 00            0.00             0 00           0.00        41.14&65         6,644.93        7,519.29        7,822.63        5.734.42
Less: Interest expense               As              0.00             0.00            0.00            0.00            0.00            000         (5.377.41)      (2,882 67)      (2,805.79)       (2,65333)
Pollt belore taxation                Rs              0.00            0.00            0.00            0.00            0.00         4.146.65        1,267.52        4,636.63        5.017.04        3.081.10
Taxation                             As              0 00             000             0.00            0 00            0 00            0 00            000              000             0 00            0 00
Profit after taxation                Rs              0.00            0.00            0.00            0.00            0.00        4,146.65         1,267.52        4.636.63        5,017.04        3,081.10
Retalned Profit fom previous period  Rs              0 00            0 00            0 00             0 00            0 00            0 00        4.146 65         5,414 17        4,129 99        4.646 73
Not Dirdends Payable                 Rs              000       I    000               000             000             000             000             000         (5.512 21)      (4,189.72)      (2,422 60)
Withholdingloxes                     Rs              000             0.00             0000            000             000             000             000           (40861)         (310.57)        (179558)
Retalned Profit carried forward      As              0.00            0.00            0.00            0.00            0.00        4,146.65         5,414.17        4,129.99        4.646.73        5,125.65       CO
Pe,IdFnd F.                                     30-Je-N4        31 -ec-54       30-Jun-95       31 -.c -95      30-JUn-go       31.Dec-96        30 Jn-97        31 -D e-97      30 Ju  9tt      31 Dec-99
BALANCE SHEET
Assets
Fi'ed As-ls                          Rs          4.63798         22.00141        28,09776        38,18321        44.64325         48.54477        49,063.19       48.23161        47,40004        46.56846
Discount on Strere Issue             Rs              0 00          245 34          245 34           245 34          245 34          245 34          220 81           196 27          171 74          147 21
Smocks                               Rs
Debtors                              Rs              000              000             000             000             000           31130           193.09           21739          23150            23320
Financil Assets                      As
Cash In Reserve Accorints            ns             (o 00)          773 56         88196           1.040 44        1.297 15        1,359 57        4.395 21        4.234 48        4,087 49        3,904.03
Cash at bank and In hend             Rs            119 51            0 00             0 00            0 00            0 00        2,033 61         1,784 31        5,920 81        4.500 29        2.602 16
Total Assets                         As         4.757 49        23.020 31       29,225.06       39,468.99       46.185,74       52,494.59       55,656.61        58,800.58       56,391 05       53,455.06
Liabilities
Cutrant Labdilires                   Hs              0 00            0 00             0 00            0 00            0 00          (85 83)         (204 93)        (231 40)        (244 79)        (247 15)
Debt due within 1 year               Rs              0 00            0 00            (0 00)          (0 00)          (0 00)       (1.399 28)      (2.797 30)      (2.796 03)      (2.796 03)      (2.796 03)
Long-temr loans                      Rs          (2.830 28)     (11.470 71)     (17.675 46)      (27,919 39)    (34.636 14)     (35.313 22)      (35.690 81)     (34.172 74)     (32.653 60)     (31.134 47)
Dividends                            As              000             000              0.00            000             0.00            000             000         (5.920 81)      (4.500 29)      (2.602.18)
Total Liabilities                    Rs         (2.830.28)     (11.470.71)    (17.675.46)      (27.919.39)     (34.636.14)      (36.798.33)     (38.892.54)     (43.120.98)    (40.194 71)    (36.779.82)
Shareholders' Equity
Shaoe Capitat                        Rs          (1,927 21)     (11,549 60)     (11.549 60)      (11,549 60)    (11.549 60)      (11.549 60)     (11.549 60)     (I 1.549 60)    (11.549 60)     (t 1.549 60)
AetainedProfit                       Rs              0.00            000             000              000             000         (4.146.65)      (5.414,17)      (4.12999)       (4,64673)       (5,12565)
Total Shareholders' Equity           Rs         (1,927.21)     (11.549.60)     (11,549.60)     (11.549 80)    (11.549.60)       (15,696.26)     (16.963.78)     (15,679.59)     (16.196.34)     (18.675.26)
Total liabilities & Shmrsholders' EquiltAs      (4.757.49)     (23.020M31)    (29.225.06)       (39,468.99)    (46,185.74)      152.494.59)     (55.656.61)     (58.800.58)    (56,391.05)      (53,455.08)
1                                                                                                                                                                 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u  V)
CD  C)
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(



Project model - Initii Psoet Feeest                                                      Hub Power Proect                                                                  Currncy Amounts ore hIn MNons
PeroddEnd.g                                   30-J..-N 1tt       -Oc-691    30-Jn-2000    31-O c-2000     30-."-2000t    31-Du-2001       0-Jun-2SO      31-Deo-2002    30-Jen-S        31-Dec-2w
VIl: PROFIT PROJECTIONS
Sales                               Re         10.09207        9,888.95       10.24158        10,427.40      10.54092        10,833.39      11,085.68       10,731.86      11.215.79       10,879.71
Operating Expenses                  Ro         (3.793.15)     (3,791 80)      (3.969.09)     (3,987.87)      (4.152.50)     (4,150.81)      (4,343.48)      (4.341.44)     (4.542.72)      (4.540.77)
Ope rting Proftm                    as         d,296.92       *,097.15        6,272.50       8.459.53        63958.35       8,432.58        0.742.19        6,390.22       8,97J.Oi        9,33J.93
Interest 4 Othar rncome             Rs           367.06          380.17         357.39          362.42         383.53          346.53          350.14         351.97          349.02         344.50
Ravalujaon of Cash Boamncs          Rs             0.00            0.00           0.00            0 00           0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00            0 00           000
EDtIAT                              Re         6.661,.93      6457.32         6,26.69        6,621.95        6.751.88       6,631.11        7.098.33       6.742.19        7.022.09       6.83.50
Less: amo.tiatslonexpensa           As           (831.58)       (831.58)        (631 58)       (831.58)        (8I31 58)      (831 58)        (831.56)        (831.58)       (831 58)        (831 58)
Amortizalon of Discount on Share Issue  Rs        (24.53)        (24.53)         (24.53)        (24.53)         (24.53)        (24.53)          0.00            0.00            0.00           0.00
ENT                                 Ra         5,80t.87       5,601.20        5.773.77       5.965.84        5,895.76       5,974.99        6,266.75       5.910.61        9,190.51       5,851.92
Less: itorestexpense                Rs         (2.578.10)     (2,418.36)      (2,351.22)     (2,192.57)      (2.114.42)     (1.922.15)      (1,810.38)      (1,630 59)     (1.518.74)      (1,318.72)
Profit before taxation              Re         3,233.77       3,182.94        3,422.56       3,773.27        3,761.34       4,052.85        4,456.37       4,280.02        4,673.77       4,533.19
Textion                             Rs             0 00            0 00           0.00            0.00           0 00            0 00            0 00           0 00            0 00           0 00
Profit after tsxation               Rs        3,233.77        3,182.84        3,422.56       3.773.27        3,781.34       4,052.85        4,458.37       4,280.02        4,873.77       4,533.19
Fetained Proitt rom prevlous period  Rs        5,125.65        5.60438         6,084.73       6,563.45        7.04255        7,997.33        8,96293        9,961.01       10.93075       11.89957
Net DMdends Payable                 Rs         (2.584 93)     (2.515 97)      (2,740.67)     (3.066.84)      (2,631 50)     (2.874.19)      (3.219 63)     (3,081.83)      (3.449 27)     (3,317 46)
Withholding texes                   Rs           (190 13)       (186 50)        (203.16)       (227.34)        (195.07)       (213.06)        (238.86)       (228.45)        (255 69)       (245 92)     _
Retained PrfiH crrtled forward     Rn          5,604.36       6,064.73       0,563.45        7,042.55        7,997.33       8,962.93        9,361.01      I0.930.75       11,399.57      12.869.39       O
Pe,1.dE.ndIg                                  30SJon-os      31-Dne-s0    30-J.-20oao    31-D0e-2000    30-Jun-2001    31-Ouc-ZWI    30-Jo-2002    31-1r-22             X0-Jun-2003    31-0.6-2003
BALANCE SHEET
Assets
Fixed Asss                          Rs        45,736.88       44,905.30       44,073.72      43,242.14       42,410 58      41,578 98       40.74740       39,915.82       39,084 24      38,252 66
isNcount on Share Issue             Rs           122.67           98.14          73.80           49.07          24.53           (0.00)          (000)           (o000)         (000)          (000)
Stocks                              Rs
Debtors                             Rs           244.33          244.18         25562           25553          287.72          267.42         280 19          279.86          93.23          292.88
Financial Assets                    Rs
Cahh In Reserve Accounts            Rs         3,720.58        3,538.30        3,354.74       3,171.18        2,99100        2,821.25        2,659.90       2,469.78        2.279 22       2.08920
CashatbanhandInhand                 Rs         2,755.06        2,702.48        2,943.83       3294.18         2,826.50       3,087.25        3,458.29       3.31028         3,704.95       3,563.37
Total Aseet,                        Its       52,579.52      51,483.3J       50,701.71      50,012.09       48,520.38      47,754.89       47,145.73      45,975.74       45,361.65      44,198.12
[Liabilities
CurentLlablxls                      Rs           (259.13)       (25936)         (271.74)       (271.82)        (284 81)       (28489)         (298.51)       (29660)         (31289)        (312.9a)
Debt due within 1 year              RS         (2.790.03)     (2.790.03)      (3.260.33)     (3,738.80)      (3.734.53)     (3,732.50)      (3.732.50)     (3.732.50)      (3.732.50)     (3,732.50)
Long-termloons                      Rs        (20.615.33)    (28.09t.19)     (20.104.75)    (24,115.35)     (22,12755)     (20,137.72)     (18.145.88)    (16,154.00)     (14.102.14)    (12,17028)
Diidnds                             Rs         (2.755.06)     (2.702.48)      (2.943.63)     (3.294.18)      (2.826.56)     (3,087.25)      (3.456.29)     (3,310.28)      (3.704.95)     (3,563.37)
Total LiabHIes                     RAs       (35,425.55)    (33,854.05)    (32.588.65)    (31.419.94)    (28.973.45)    (27.242.36)    (25,635.tA)    (23,495.36)    (21,912.48)    (19.779.13)
Shareholders Equty
Share CepI                          Rs        (I11.549.60)   (11,549.80)     (11.549.60)    (11.549.60)     (11,549.60)    (11,549.60)     (11.549.60)    (11.54980)      (11,549 60)    (11,549 60)
Retained Proit                      Re         (5.604.30)     (6.064.73)      (6.563.45)     (7,042.55)      (7.997.33)     (8,902.93)      (9,961.01)    (10,930.75)     (11.899.57)    (12.869.39)
Total Shareholders Eq uty           Re       (17.153.97)    J1 .634.34)    (f 6.1 13.06)    (18.532.15)    (19,546.933    420,512.53)    (21.510.62)    (22.480.36)    (23,449.17)    (24.415.99)
Total Labitllas & Sharoehode-rs EquttRe      (52.579.52)    (5I,411.39)    (50.701.71)    (50,112.09)    14S.520.38)    (47.754.09)    147.145.71)    (45.975.74)    (45.361.65)    (44.190.12)
(90
O  C)



Paeet u.W  - inin Ps  FPemse                                                            Hub Power Pnoact                                                                Cwmiwy Anm_t wne h   _
PoeEadeg                                    Ut-bee-S      3St1-05.-MU     t0-be-MU        St-DOa1-SU[1
Vn: PROFIT PROJECTIONS
Salbe                               Ab        11,40.54        11,012.01S      9.74.3g         ,58078
opteattE n mAt                                f4.752.03)      (4,751.1?)     (4.3.11)         4*11531)
Opeagl Prf                          At        G.17.9          6*62.66        4.910.70       4.111
atO-Athmwome                        PA           34264          33753           202M.21        217.55
R dvClueton el Cash   leAs                         0.00           0.00           0.00            0.00
SEA0T                               no        70.6.14         6.S.51         522.01         1.144.30
Los: *motbrtion     ase            PA           $31.51)        (031 .5)        (031.51)       (031.50)
A_moIzeot of Diount on Share Ma    As              0.00           0.00           0.00            0.00
ESUT                               Ast         .161.S         1.71,193       4.371.33       4312.7
Lo: l   depene                      As        (205.79)        (12.36)          (50.16)        (715.56)
Prft   a    lined.k               At          4.02.77        4.75457         3.512.1        3.504.20
Taxetton                           PAs             0.00           0.00           0.00            0.00
Prato atw taxation                 no         4.s2.77        4.754.57        3512.16        2.04.20
Retaind ProSfrom previous perod    RA         12,169.39      13,636.U6       1450.46        14,2.53
Not DIvidends Pyab bARs                       (3.71Rrt)       (3,523.56)     (3.78175)      (3.6p0.71)
Wtthhoklng taxes                   Rs          (27560)         (51.19)        (280033)        (27284) 
Reta        Protf c-ared totwed    At        139S8S81.46    14466.411       14*5.0         13.199.18                                                                                                  0
Poeridfedhg                                30-Jur-2Oit    3t-Dec-2Ot    30-JUn-2005   S3-D.-200Z
BALANCE SHEET
Assets
Fbsd Asset                         Rs         37.421 .0      361,59.50       35.757 92      34.92634
Disount on She Osue                Rs             0)00)          f0)00)          (000)          10)00)
Stocks                             Rs
Debtort                            ns           306.39          306.52         321.20         320.00
Fhnncl Assets                      At
Cash hI RteerLe Accounts           Rr          1,6916t5        1,709.16          0.00           0.00
Cash t bvS tnd htb rd              Rs          3,903.49       3764.75         4,062.0S       3,953.55
Total Assets                       As        43.620.04      42.349.1,       40.14121       39.200.63
Liabtlhes
Cunrnt ULbltes                     Rs           (327.97)       (328 06)       (34379)         (343.69)
Debt due within I yew              Rs         (3.732.50)     (236.7)           (945 45)       (945.45)
Long-termSnn                      RAS        (10.175.42)      5,580.06)      (11.91.75)     (.509.02
DMdends                           RAs         (3.3.49)        (3.784.78)     (4.062.09)     (3,953.55)
Total Liabitle                     Res      (10.232.37)    (16.031.60)    114.333.07)    (13.7s1.U1)
Shareboldwe' Equky
Shae Cap6sl                       RA         (11.549.60) (5 154960)         (11t549.00)    (11.549.60)
RetiF d Prolit                     RA        (13.036.68)    (14S0.46)       (14.2.53)      (13.1199.13)
Toald Swe ders Eqmmy               RAs      (25.314.27)    (26.254.06)    (25.m.13)    (25.445.78)
Total UIabitiee   Sha srolders Equile       (43.620.04)    (42.381.6,)    (40.141.20)    (29.200.65)
W 
I  E.(
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~k 



- 103 -
Schedule D
Table 1
ECO FACILITY - ALLOCATIONS
h ' ,,; ,~~~~~~~.    ...  .,    ,    ""       ,'':   .  ........    .
Bank of Tokyo                      12.00            2.10       11.25       150.00
ING                                 8.00            1.45        8.00        95.00
ABN AMRO                            7.50            1.35        7.25        85.00
Standard Chartered                  7.50            1.35        7.25        85.00
WestLB                              7.50            1.35        7.25        85.00
Citibank                            7.00            1.25        6.00        70.00
Deutsche Bank                       7.00            1.25        6.00        70.00
Credit Lyonnais                     6.00            1.20        5.50        60.00
Orix                                6.00            1.20        5.50        65.00
Mitsubishi Bank                     5.50            1.00        5.30        60.00
Rabobank                            5.75            0.95        5.25        65.00
BFCE                                4.75            0.77        4.65        65.00
Credit Foncier                      4.75            0.77        4.65        65.00
Bayersche Landesbank                4.75            0.90        4.75        55.00
DKB                                 4.75            0.90        4.75        55.00
Fuji Bank                           4.75            0.90        4.75        55.00
LTCB                                4.75            0.90        4.75        55.00
ANZlGrindleys                       4.00            0.72        4.00        50.00
Bank of Scotland                    4.00            0.72        4.00        50.00
Girocredit                          4.00            0.72        4.00        50.00
Kredietbank                         4.00            0.72        4.00        50.00
NatWest                             4.00            0.72        4.00        50.00
Mees Pierson                         4.00           0.58        3.50        45.00
Royal Bank of Scotland              4.00            0.72        4.00        50.00
Dresdner Bank                        3.00           0.54        3.00        45.00
IBJ                                 3.00            0.54        3.00        45.00
Mitsui Trust                         3.00           0.54        3.00        45.00
Sanwa                                3.00           0.54        3.00        45.00
Sumitomo Bank                        3.00           0.54         3.00       45.00
Tokai Bank                           3.00           0.54         3.00       45.00
Sakura Bank                          2.75           0.46        2.65        40.00
Mitsubishi Trust                     2.00           0.27         2.00       35.00
Norinchukin                          2.00           0.27        2.00        35.00
SB Lease                             2.00           0.27         2.00       35.00
TOTAL                            $163 mm          29 mm      157 mm      2000 mm



- 104 -
Schedule D
Table 2
JEXIM FACILITY ALLOCATIONS
Sakura Bank                                               1,120
Dresdner Bank                                              950
IBJ                                                        950
Mitsui Trust & Banking                                     950
Sanwa Bank                                                 950
Sumitomo Bank                                              950
Tokai Bank                                                 950
Mitsubishi Trust                                           800
Mitsubishi Bank                                            780
Daiwa Bank                                                 700
Citibank                                                   550
Norinchukin                                                550
DKB                                                        500
Fuji Bank                                                  500
LTCB                                                       500
Deutsche Bank                                              460
National Westminster                                       460
Yasuda Trust & Banking                                     460
Bank of Tokyo                                              342
TOTAL                                           Yen 13,422 mm



- 1o5 -
Schedule D
Table 3
MITI FACILITY ALLOCATIONs
Sakura Bank                                              1,120
DKB                                                        725
Fuji Bank                                                  725
LTCB                                                       725
Deutsche Bank                                              700
Dresdner Bank                                              550
IBJ                                                        550
Mitsui Trust                                               550
Sanwa Bank                                                 550
Sumitomo Bank                                              550
Tokai Bank                                                 550
Mitsubishi Trust                                           500
Daiwa Bank                                                 465
Bank of Tokyo                                              350
Mitsubishi Bank                                            350
Norinchukin                                                350
Yasuda Trust                                               350
TOTAL                                            Yen 9,660 mm



- 106-
Schedule D
Table 4
SACE FACILITY ALLOCATIONS
BA! !-S IJK                       - -,0-.......    iEC - -S f- - ; |
Crediop                                                    30
MediocredHo                                              20.9
Banco di Napoli (HK)                                       20
Banco di Napoli (Int'l)                                    20
Banco Nazionale del Lavoro                                 12
Centrobanca                                                12
MediocredHto Toscano                                        8
National Westminster                                        8
ING Bank                                                    5
Royal Bank of Scotland                                      5
Standard Chartered                                          5
WestLB                                                      5
ABN AMRO                                                    4
Bank of Scotland                                            4
Citibank                                                    4
Mees Pierson                                                4
Girocredit                                                  4
Rabobank                                                    4
TOTAL                                           Ecu 174.9 mm



- 107-
Annex 2
Page 1 of 10
PAKISTAN
PRIVATE SECTOR ENERGY DEVELOPMENT FUND II
Port Oasim-Khalifa Point Fuel Oil Pipeline Subproject
PROJECT SETTING
1.        Pakistan lacks an efficient petroleum products transportation infrastructure to deliver
fuel oil from receiving terminals in the Karachi area to thermal power generating centers across
the country. Currently, the dominant mode of fuel oil supply is trucking by road which entails
assuming substantial environmental risks especially when trucking routes involve densely
populated areas. Moreover, trucking petroleum products by road is the least efficient and by
far the most expensive means of transportation. In view of the fact that pipelines are the most
efficient and reliable mode of transportation for petroleum products, efforts for enhancing supply
logistics through establishing pipeline networks have become a priority for GOP which has
earmarked the development of such networks to the private sector. The first of these pipeline
projects to be earmarked to the private sector is a network to supply fuel oil from Port Qasim
to the Hub Power Complex (1292 MW), Balochistan Power Plant (350 MW) and Fauji Power
Plant (350 MW phase-I) all of which are currently under construction at Khalifa point in the
Province of Balochistan 80 kms west of Karachi. Ultimately a pipeline would also be required
to supply fuel oil to the existing Jamshoro Power Plant (880 MW) 120 kms north of Karachi.
2.        The proposed pipeline subproject involves the construction of an 80 km pipeline
linking the private sector owned FOTCO Terminal at Port Qasim through the Pipri oil storage
facility and on to the demand centers in Balochistan. This subproject would be carried out by
the newly formed Asia Petroleum Limited (APL), representing a public/private joint venture in
which the private sector will hold majority shareholding. APL would be responsible for the
design, financing, construction, commissioning, operation, maintenance and ownership of the
pipeline under a limited recourse financing structure. APL's sponsors include Pakistan State Oil
Company (PSO), a publicly listed corporation engaged in the marketing and distribution of
petroleum products and whose majority shares are owned by the public sector; Asia
Infrastructure Limited (AIL) of Singapore, a major project development company backed by
institutional investors; Veco Engineers and Constructors (Veco) of the USA, a engineering firm
with an established track record in pipeline development; and the Independent Petroleum Group
(IPG) of Kuwait, a reputable international oil group with access to large supplies of petroleum
products in the Persian Gulf. A further description of the sponsors is given in para 29-32.
3.        The major concern to equity investors and commercial lenders in projects financed
under limited recourse is the ability of the project company to construct the pipeline in
accordance with the agreed timetable and operate it in accordance with the highest internationally
accepted standards. While construction risks have been addressed and mitigated against by



- 108 -
Annex 2
Page 2 of 10
designating Promet Private Ltd., a major Malaysian/Singaporean-based engineering and
contracting company as the turnkey contractor, the sponsors have endorsed a series of mitigating
measures to cover risks associated with the operation and maintenance of the pipeline and the
security and consistency of the supply of the fuel oil.
4.        The sponsors have appointed Veco as the operations and maintenance (O&M)
contractor. Veco would review design documentation, provide technical services, and prepare
operations manuals during the construction period and thereafter, operate and maintain the
pipeline system in accordance with international standards. Veco would provide guarantees
against un-scheduled interruptions.  To mitigate risks arising from deviations in fuel oil
specifications and supply disruption, the sponsors contracted IPG as the fuel oil supplier. IPG
would provide guarantees for product specifications and delivery and would assume all
associated risks. This arrangement would relieve GOP from the substantial liabilities associated
with its implicit guarantees to PSO.
OBJECTIVES
5.        The purpose for the creation of APL is to launch the first private sector controlled
company for the transport of petroleum products. In order to achieve this objective, APL would
develop, design, finance, build, own and operate a pipeline network.
BASIC DESIGN AND PREPARATION
6.        Basic design was conducted by Fluor Daniel William's Brothers of the USA
(Williams Brothers), acting as a subcontractor to Enar Petrotech of Pakistan (Enar) who are the
overall design and engineering consultants. The pipeline design capacity would be 3.0 million
ton per year and guaranteed throughput from Port Qasim to both power plants is expected to be
2.0 million ton per year, which corresponds to a plant utilization factor of 60%. The proposed
pipeline would transverse in a northwestern direction from the FOTCO terminal at Port Qasim,
located east of Karachi to the site of the Hub Power Complex, the Fauji Power Plant, and the
Balochistan Power Plant at Khalifa Point in the province of Balochistan. Detailed engineering
and specifications for equipment and materials has been undertaken by Enar which is also was
responsible for the initial right-of-way survey. Satellite imagery of the right-of-way is contracted
to EarthSat of the USA.
7.        PSO and Enar have identified the pipeline Right-of-Way (ROW) and prepared the
necessary route and survey drawings as well as hydrologic and soil studies and collected data
on streams and river crossings, ground temperatures and soil strata for basic design work. In
addition, PSO has submitted all documentation, surveys both topographical and pre-computation,
existing boundary surveys, maps, geo-technical and environmental data which together with the
engineering consultant's design, performance, and acceptance criteria and engineering drawings
and specifications would form the basis for the turnkey contractor to prepare a revised project
costs estimate in the short time available.



- 109-
Annex 2
Page 3 of 10
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
8.        The subproject involves the construction of an 80 km fuel oil pipeline and associated
facilities, and the leasing or acquisition of a 60,000 ton storage facility at PSO's Pipri terminal
to supply the Hub Power Complex (1292 MW), the Fauji Power Plant (350 MW phase-1), and
the Balochistan Power Plant (350 MW), all of which are currently under construction or will
begin construction in 1994. More specifically, the project would involve:
(a)  the installation of an 80 km underground pipeline suitable for transporting heated
fuel oil (FO) between the Pipri storage facilities and the site of Hubco , Balochistan
and Fauji power Plants at Khalifa Point. The size and capacity of the pipeline
would be such that it would meet the requirements of Hubco with the provision for
later expansion to meet the needs of the Fauji and Balochistan plants;
(b)  pumping facilities at regular intervals to allow for the transport of fuel oil at pre-
determined flow rates;
(c)  state-of-the-art monitoring, communication and control system such as SCADA and
pipeline integrity monitoring system based on meters at both ends;
(d)  leasing or acquisition of storage facilities at PSO's Pipri terminal of 60,000 tons
capacity;
(e)  installation of a pipeline trunk link between buffer storage facilities at Port Qasim's
FOTCO terminal and PSO's Pipri storage facility; and
(f)  preparation and monitoring of the implementation of the project; formulation of
procedures manuals and preventive maintenance program for the management and
operations of the pipeline system in accordance with the highest internationally
accepted standards; formulation of organizational structure, compensation scheme,
job descriptions, staff competencies and evaluation procedures, staffing plan for
APL; training of local staff on all aspects of operations and management and
formulation and implementation of a financial reporting and monitoring systems as
well as the setting of financial performance criteria for APL.



- 110-
Annex 2
Page 4 of 10
PROJECT COST
9.         The estimated project cost, including contingencies, working capital, interest during
construction, foreign exchange risk insurance and financing charges is US$100.0 million. The
construction cost component alone is estimated at US$72.0 million. The following is a cost
breakdown for the subproject based on a pre-feasibility study undertaken by PSO and reviewed
by the Bank and NDFC.
Table 1: Project Cost Breakdown
USS MILL
Development costs                        5.0
Acquisition of R-O-W                      1.0
Feasibility study                         1.0
Engineering & basic design               3.0
Environmental impact assessment          0.0
Legal and professional services          1.5
Turn Key Contract V/                     58.0
Project management & supervision         2.0
Pre-commissioning & commissioning costs  0.5
Total Project Coot                       72o
Working capital requirements             2.0
Total -s ad W C Cost                     20
F/X risk insurance                       4.0
Front-end fees & financing charges       2.0
Contingencies (10%)                      10.0
Interest during construction             10.0
Tot Finanl g Cogst                       260
Total PMjo, Co  '                        100i0
1' Does not include any import taxes, customs duties, Iqra surcharge and other taxes exempted
under the new energy policy adopted by GOP in March 1994. The scope of the project has been
expanded to ensure the integrity of the overall design which now encompasses in addition to the
80 km pipeline section, upgrading of Pipri Storage Facilities, a 9.5 lan pipeline linking Pipri
with the Fotco Terminal, and booster pump stations at the Fotco Terminal. The above
preliminary figures for the TKC component of the project cost will be firmed up once the
procurement process is launched. The overall project cost may be increased as a result.



Annex 2
Page 5 of 10
FINANCING PLAN
10.        The subproject is structured along the lines of a private sector market-oriented
venture financed on limited recourse. The source of re-payment is from the cash flow generated
by the subproject, to cover all cost of operation, debt service and return on shareholders equity.
Equity participants and lenders would assume all commercial risks.
Table 2: Proposed Financing Plan
US$ Mn        F/L'"  Share
Eqiuitv
Pakistan State Oil Co.                     12.0           L      30%
Asia Infrastructure Ltd.                   10.4           F      26%
Independent Petroleum Group                 5.0           F      12.5%
Veco Engineers & Constructors               5.0           F      12.5%
CDC/IFC 2/ Y                                4.0          F        10%
IPO & PSO Employees                         3.6           L      9%
Sub-total Equity                                  40.0                  40%
Debt
Senior
AIL, IPG, Veco, PSO                        13.0           F
NDFC                                        2.0           L
CDC 3/                                     15.0           F
Sud7ordinate&
World Bank Subordinated Debt               30.0           F
Sub-total Debt                                    60.0                  60%
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                 100.0                100%
! F/L - Foreign/Local Content
IFC is currently reviewing its participation in APL. Following the successful development of a project,
CDC traditionally divests a portion of its equity holding through a public offering or a private sale.
"   Subject to Board and relevant government approvals.
11.         Development and mobilization finance will be arranged by the equity participants
in order to enable the preliminary basic design and engineering to be completed, the R-O-W
secured, and the financial structuring finalized. Project sponsors will share equally the
mobilization and development costs estimated at US$5.0 million until financial closure. This
financing, in addition to PSO's audited costs to date, will be converted into shareholders equity
following financial closure.



112 -
Annex 2
Page 6 of 10
12.       The financing plan calls for a debt:equity ratio of 60:40 corresponding to US$60
million and US$40 million respectively. AIL, Veco and IPG would jointly own 51% of APL,
and would jointly assume liabilities for APL's failure to operate. AIL would subscribe US$10.4
million (26%) and Veco and IPG US$5.0 million (12.5%) each of APL's share capital. PSO
would subscribe the equivalent of US$12.0 million (30%) in local currency terms. The
remaining equity would be subscribed by other local and foreign investors, with a 10% provision
reserved for an Initial Public Offering (IPO) on the Karachi Stock Exchange. Debt financing
of US$13 million would be provided by the sponsors through their commercial banks. The IFC
and the Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) would provide up to US$15 million
in senior debt and US$4 million in equity. The National Development and Finance Corporation
(NDFC) would provide the equivalent of US$2 million in local currency terms. The Bank would
provide US$30 million in subordinated debt through its Long Term Credit Fund which is
administered by NDFC.
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
13.       Promet Private Limited (Promet), a Malaysian/Singaporean engineering and
contracting company with a proven track record in the process industries, would construct the
pipeline under a fLxed lump-sum turnkey contract (TKC) and assume both the completion and
performance risks. Under the TKC, Promet would be liable for 15 % of the value of the contract
in liquidated damages in the event of failure to meet contract terms. According to the timetable
for the construction of the pipeline, commissioning is scheduled for early 1996, allowing enough
time for testing before the first units of the Hub Power Station is due to come on stream.
Promet has provided APL with a draft turnkey construction contract. Negotiations on the terms
and conditions of the contract have been finalized and initialed.
14.       Procurement would be carried out with the objective of ensuring efficiency,
economy and transparency in the selection of the various vendors, and subject to the Bank's
guidelines. According to these guidelines, pre-qualification documents for all goods and services
has been prepared by Promet and cleared by The Bank and NDFC. In order to ensure timely
implementation, the bidding documents are currently being prepared by Promet.
15.       Pre-qualified firms would be requested to bid on various equipment and materials
using bid documents approved by the Bank. Award of the contract would be to the lowest
evaluated responsive bidder, following approval by the Bank and NDFC. In the event export
financing or supplier credit is secured for some of the goods and equipment, these would not be
financed by the Bank.
16.       Promet is responsible for reviewing the available data on the soil , geo-technical,
hydrologic analysis of the R-O-W, with a view to identifying deficiencies if any. In the event
that deficiencies are identified, APL would prepare terms of reference for the additional work
required and the timetable for the completion of this work. The right-of-way survey for the
pipeline has been appraised by Geodetic of Singapore under contract to Promet. Clearance of
the R-O-W by GOP has been set as a condition for effectiveness of the proposed loan.



- 113-
Annex 2
Page 7 of 10
17.        A technical committee headed by Veco would review design documentation, provide
technical and construction management services, and prepare operations manuals during
construction. Veco and PSO have entered into a joint venture to operate and maintain the
pipeline following successful commissioning and would be responsible for the formulation of
procedures manuals and preventive maintenance program for the management and operations of
the pipeline system in accordance with the highest internationally accepted standards, formulation
of organizational structure, compensation scheme, job descriptions, staff competencies evaluation
procedures, staffing plan for APL, training of local staff on all aspects of operations and
management, and formulation and implementation of a financial reporting and monitoring
systems as well as the setting of financial performance criteria for APL.
18.        Newly constructed storage facilities by PSO at Pipri would be utilized as part of the
pipeline project. The value of assets at Pipri would be considered as part of PSO's equity
contribution to APL. An independent engineering consultant would be appointed to conduct a
fmancial and technical appraisal and valuation of PSO's storage facilities at Pipri.
19.        IPG has structured a fuel oil supply agreement with GOP, the terms of which are
currently being negotiated. The fuel oil would be priced against a market related benchmark.
IPG would be required to provide GOP with guarantees covering both the delivery and quality
of the fuel oil to be delivered to the FOTCO's oil receiving berth.
20.         In order to comply with its obligations under the HUBCO-PSO FSA, GOP has
sought the assistance of the Bank in structuring the pipeline project. ' As part of this assistance,
the Bank and NDFC are providing support to the APL sponsors in terms of preparing a cash
flow model for the project to determine, more closely, the financial criteria and parameters
under which the subproject is expected to perform and the tariff to be determined. The financial
model will examine the returns on equity, coverage of debt service and O&M costs2. The tariff
would be set at levels that cover debt service, operating cost, and return on equity. Subproject
revenues are to be indexed for inflation and escalation in operating costs. In addition, the return
on the foreign investment component of the tariff would be indexed annually to compensate for
the depreciation of the Rupee relative to the US Dollar.
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
21.         A full Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) has been conducted by Ebasco of
the USA, an internationally reputable environmental firm, in accordance with the terms of
reference approved by the Bank. Areas of study included: socioeconomics, construction,
APL's shareholders will take joint and several liabilities in terms of designing, financing, commissioning and operating the
pipelines, as well as ensuring the supply of oil in the specified quantity and quality. PSO will continue to be liable under the
Fuel Supply Agreement. In the event of a default by PSO, APL will indemnify GOP.
According to GOP's petroleum policy, the project would yield an internal rate of return of 25% after corpormte income mx.



- 114 -
Annex 2
Page 8 of 10
sensitive areas, drainage patterns, erosion and habitat fragmentation. The study was reviewed
and approved by the Bank in connection with the clearance of the EIA for the Hub Power
Project.
22.       Resettlement & Rehabilitation: The subproject will require the acquisition of about
67 ha of land along a 77 Iam ROW, of which 14 ha is currently used for agriculture, most of it
marginal. Throughout the entire length of the 77 km route, the proposed ROW will impact only
one residential development. The EIA has recommended that certain amendments be made to
the alignment of the route to avoid existing and planned urban settlements near Karachi.
Accordingly, the ROW is being re-surveyed taking this recommendation into account. The land
acquisition program is administered by PSO and is 90% complete. Compensation to land owners
has been in line with prevailing land prices in Pakistan. PSO does not anticipate that any legal
difficulties would be encountered in securing land along the ROW.
23.       Agriculture: A total of 35 acres of agricultural land along the proposed route will
be permanently removed from use through the clearing and grading activities. This impact is
unavoidable and necessary for pipeline installation.  However, in relation to the overall
agriculture activity of the region, this impact is insignificant. Moreover, land owners have been
compensated for the loss of income.
24.       Oil Leakage Mitigation: Arthur D. Little of the USA, acting on behalf of Hubco's
financiers, have recommended that buried and sealed stubs be installed every 6.5 to 7 kms along
the pipeline to cater for any accidental closure of the pipeline. This recommendation would be
accommodated in the design and construction of the pipeline.
OVERALL SECURITY STRUCTURE
25.       The risks associated with the project are shared by the lenders, equity investors,
contractor, operator, fuel oil supplier, PSO and the GOP. Project risks have been evaluated and
allocated between the parties to the project where all commercial and operation risks wold be
born by the equity investors who would assume joint and several liabilities as follows: a)
completion and performance risks will be born by Promet to ensure that the project is completed
within the agreed time frame; b) operating risks would be assumed by the operator utilizing
internationally accepted economic and technical parameters, proven technology, a competent
labor force, expert operators and skilled management; c) end-use risk to be born by Hubco to
ensure that the project is guaranteed a stable outlet for the fuel oil; d) design risks by Enar to
ensure against any unwarranted deterioration in performance or sudden disruptions; e) fuel oil
supply, quality and delivery risks by the fuel oil supplier; f) currency risk by the State Bank of
Pakistan through the foreign exchange insurance mechanism for loans and adjustments to the
return on the equity component of the tariff to compensate for the depreciation of the Rupee.
PSO and APL will enter into an agreement to transfer the rights and obligations of PSO and its
subsidiary company(s) in respect of Hubco to APL.



- 115 -
Annex 2
Page 9 of 10
CORPORATE DEVELOPMENT
26.       The Board would appoint the Chairman and all Senior Executives. It will outline
the operating policies and parameters for the company, which would be the basis for the day to
day management of the company by the Managing Director. The Board would approve the
declaration of dividends, new investments, budget allocations in accordance with the
Shareholders Agreement. The project sponsors would appoint a number of experienced
personnel for management and technical positions in the company. Following the finalization
of the Shareholders Agreement, which would set out the terms under which the equity investors
would regulate their rights and obligations, financial and general management personnel will be
appointed by the Board of directors.
27.       APL's Board would be constituted in accordance with the company laws of Pakistan
where representation would be on the basis of equity participation. APL's Board would
comprise a minimum of seven directors representing the interests of the equity participants. At
all times the private sector would have 51% or more of all voting rights on the APL Board.
RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT
28.       In view of the importance of the project to Pakistan and in order to provide comfort
to foreign private investors, GOP has requested the Bank to provide technical support and assist
in the financial structuring of the project. The Bank has concentrated its efforts on structuring
APL and obtaining GOP's endorsement of its plans with the objective of meeting the timing
objectives of the project company. Construction must begin very shortly for the pipeline to be
fully operational in time for the commissioning of the first units of the Hub Power Complex and
to ensure that the project company is not subjected to liabilities arising thereof.
DESCRIPTION OF SPONSORS
29.       Pakistan State Oil Corporation: PSO is a publicly listed corporation owned by
Pakistani financial institutions (50%), the GOP (25%), Individuals (21 %), insurance companies
(4%). PSO's main line of business is the marketing and distribution of petroleum products, LPG
and petrochemicals in Pakistan. PSO enjoys an overall market share of 70% and has a turnover
of the equivalent of US$1.6 billion in local currency terms.
30.       Veco Engineers and Constructors: Veco is a well established US-based engineering
and contracting company employing 5,000 staff operating in 30 countries and an annual turnover
of US$400 million. Veco's extensive operations and maintenance experience include providing
key O&M services to the Alaska Pipeline Consortium, Penzoil's Caspian Sea Development Gas
Utilization Project in Khasakhistan, and Texaco's Cook Platform Facility among others. Veco's
main accomplishments was being appointed Exxon Corporation's main contractor for the Valdez
cleanup operation.



- 116
Annex 2
Page 10 of 10
31.       IndeRendent Petroleum Group: IPG is a closed shareholding Kuwaiti company with
major commercial and industrial interests and possessing considerable experience in energy.
IPG is active in the purchase and sale of crude oil, refned products, and specialty products,
petrochemicals and fertilizers in the European, African, Middle Eastern, and Far Eastern
markets through its offices in Kuwait, London and Singapore. IPG's clients include Chevron,
Mobil, Caltex, Petronas, Petromin, Aramco, Qatar General Petroleum Corporation, Bahrain
National Oil Company , Kuwait Petroleum Corporation ...etc.
32.       Asia Infrastructure Limited: AIL is a major Singapore-based project development
company backed by institutional shareholders from Singapore, Malaysia, Hong Kong, Europe
and the USA.  Under management is a substantial investment portfolio geared towards
infrastructure and energy projects.



Annex 3
PAICISTAN                                                   Page 1 of 2
Private Sector Energy Development Project
Private Sector Energy Development Fund
Sources and Applications of Funds Statements
(USS Million)
Total
Fiscal Year                           FY95      FY96     FY97      FY98      FY99      FY00      FY01      FY02      FY03      FY04     FY05  FY95-05
Sources
From Subprojects
HUBCO:
Interest                      33.8      51.3      58.8     78.7      75.9       75.9     75.9      75.9      75.9      74.2     72.1      748.4
Repayment                      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0      13.4      17.0      19.1      49.5
Loan Fee                       1.3       1.9       1.6      3.0       3.0        3.0      3.0       3.0       3.0       3.0      2.9       28.8
OTHER PROJECTS:
Interest                       5.5      17.3      22.9     22.9      21.6       21.6     21.6      21.6      21.6      19.8      17.7     214.2
Repayment                      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0      14.5      16.3      18.4      49.3
Loan Fee                       0.2       0.7       0.9      0.9       0.9        0.9      0.9       0.9       0.9       0.8      0.7        8.4
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Subtotal                                40.8      71.1      84.3     105.5    101.4      101.4    101.4    101.4    129.3    131.1        130.9    1098.6
Capital Raised
- IBRD                          161.0    106.0      46.2      58.5                                                                           371.7
USAID/EXIM BANK                3.1      25.7       2.8      0.0                                                                            31.7
ITALY                         50.1       0.0       0.0      0.0                                                                            50.1
JEXIM                         51.0      78.0      46.0     83.0                                                                           258.0
ODA                            0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0                                                                             0.0
FRANCE                        29.9      10.0       0.0      0.0                                                                            39.9
Subtotal                               295.1    219.7       95.0    141.5                                                                           751.3
Other Icome
Proj. Mgt. Fee                 0.5                                                                                                          0.5
Leg. Doc. Fee                  0.2                                                                                                          0.2
ComnmitmentFee                 4.7       3.0       2.3      1.1       1.1        1.1      1.1       1.1       1.3       1.5       1.8      20.0
Proj. Mon. Fee                 0.5       0.5      0.5       0.5       0.5        0.5      0.5       0.5       0.5       0.5      0.5        5.5
Interest Income
onEquityResrv.                1.2       2.4      2.5       4.1       5.1        4.0      3.0       2.1       3.5       5.3      6.2       39.4
Subtotal                                 7.1       5.9       5.3      5.7       6.7        5.5      4.5       3.7       5.3       7.3      8.5       65.6
Total Soures                           342.9    296.8      184.6    252.7    108.1       106.9    105.9    105.1      134.6    138.4    139.4    1915.4



Aalnex 3
PAKISTAN                                                     Page 2 of 2
Private Sector Energy Development Project
Private Sector Energy Development Fund
Sources and Applications of Funds Statements
(USS Million)
Fiscal Year                            FY95     FY96       FY97     FY98      FY99       FY00      FY01      FY02      FY03      FY04      FY05        Total
Applications
Disbursements
HUBCO:                                254.1     130.7      53.0     166.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      603.8
OTHER PROJECTS:                        41.0      99.0      42.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0,0       0.0      182.0
Subtotal                               295.1     229.7      95.0     166.0      0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0     785.8
Debt Service 1/
IBRD                           12.0      19.8     23.3      27.6      27.6       49.5      49.5      49.5      49.5      49.5     49.5      407.4
USAID                           1.1       1.1      1.1       1.1        1.1       1.1       1.1       1.1       1.1       1.1      1.1       12.0
ITALY                           0.8       0.8      0.8       0.8       0.8        0.8       0.8       0.8       0.8       0.8       5.4         n
JEXIM                           3.0       7.5     10.1      15.0       15.0      25.9      25.9      25.9      25.9      25.9      25.9
ODA                             0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0   _
FRANCE                          0.8       1.0      1.0       1.0        1.0       1.0       1.0       1.0       1.0       1.0      2.5       12.6
NORDIC INV. BANK                0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0
Subtotal                                 17.5      30.2      36.3     45.5      45.5       78.3      78.3      78.3      78.3      78.3      84.4     650.8
Foreign Exch. Prem. Res.                 17.6      30.8      36.6     45.1      45.1       43.2      41.1      38.9      36.5      34.0      30.9     399.9
Operating Fee                             0.7       1.2       1.5       1.8       1.8       3.1       3.1       3.1       3.1       3.1       3.4      26.0
Equity Reserves                          12.0       4.8      15.3      -5.7      15.7     -17.7    -16.6       -15.2     16.6      23.0      20.7      52.9
TotalApplications                       342.9    296.8      184.6    252.7      108.1     106.9    105.9      105.1     134.6     138.4    139.4    1915.4
Cumulative Equity Reserves               12.0      16.8      32.0     26.4       42.1      24.4       7.8      -7.4       9.2      32.2      52.9      52.9



MAP



I
I
I



Fr-~~ ~ ~ ~ tUKMMS                T                     - v       -
N        LAHORE RING  z'                                       _IKI _TAN    v  .- -- -
C6; R  _ S                                                        z d                   g   ,-                      _ . _ 6~~~~~~~ ,-
APH NISTAN            I             L\                                        - 
t, LUAMABAD ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ DAT   BS66
FAISALABAD RING                        J                2    8   ^ -, 4                           xW                                    p:ASHPKT
INDIA                          *FA       &olASHAAN
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A6  S.t                                                                                                      L. , 0 C. 1d
X~~~~~~ ,-4                                                                               KAS .-M,.
.,Rt,~~~~KO LAHA  r9 no\jPKSA
\IAAA   RING                                       PSAR                                                              JATRU
ROADt                 ;      /                                      EXISTING   OX P ANNE0
z. t=66Xivi
NtRD                                                         \                     S         RD                          PRO
NIT                                                                                   A) KHeMINP ER ATIONSAIND AN IESt
_      45.                   }                             KIIOVETERS TT.                                              ' St
EIS_WN    O _ _L_NNE
126
GRI ESATION
30, ~     ~       3 
POAK RSTATIN
~~~ ~~~~b\SPW                                                    RIECORD               VOELOPE NTTROJEC
A'JC  1                                         (                              A      THERMAL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UNE
COSRCIONTRAINLOUDRE
~~  SO    ISO    ISO    200    250    300             *~~~EXSTIG    O PLNATOALCPIA
DAU                                                                                  RASMSSONIIE
--        FILOMETERS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GIDSAIO  XTNINS2'



