G-'''~--)  J        4-t    - -  t  tX
lTe World Bank
FOli OMNCLAL PTSE ONLY
RqPa N   P-6347-PAK
NEKOAND)I IAND RE      TIO
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIORAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION ANID DEVELOMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN ANOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$250 MILLION
TO THE
ISLAMTC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR THE
PRIVATE SECTOR ENERGY DEVELOPMT PROJECT II
OCTOBER 28, 1994
MT -nr wPALIJ T f-(
rRr :N -M - . F, -   [e       rT7
Thir document has a resticted dbtrihn and may be used by recipie  only in the perfonorme of
their oflical duies. Its contes may not odtise be disclosed wibout Wold Bsk atozation.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(As of September 1994)
Currency Unit = Pakistan Rupee (Rs)
US$1 = 30.80
Rs I - US$0.03
Rs 1   100 paiss
GOP FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
WEIGHTS AND MNASURES
1 kilovolt kV)            =       1,000 volts (V)
1 megavolt (MVA)          -       1,000 kilovolt-amperes (VA)
1 megawatt (MW)           -       1,000 kilowatts kW)
1 gigawatt hour (GWh)     -       1 million kilowatt hours (kWh)
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
APL      -      Asia Petroleum Limited
CDC      -      Commonwealth D -elopment Corporation
CMU      -      Cofinanciers' Memorandum of Understanding
COFACE -        Compagnie Frangaise d'Assurance pour le Commerce Ext6rieur (France)
ECAs    -       Export Credit Agencies
ECO      -      Expanded Cofinancing Operation
ESSA    -       Environmental and Social Soundness Assessment
Fund     -      Private Sector Energy Development Fund
GOP      -      Govermment of Pakistan
HUBCO  -        Hub Power Company
JEXIM    -      The Export-Import Bank of Japan
LES      -      Long-Term Energy Sector Strategy
LTCF    -       Long Term Credit Fund
MWP    -        Minstry of Water and Power
NDFC    -       National Development Finance Corporation
ODA      -      Overseas Development Administration (United Kingdom)
OECF    -       Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (Japan)
PPIB     -      Private Power and Infrastructure Investment Board
PSEDP   -       Private Sector Energy Development Project
SACE    -       Sezione Speciale per l'Assicurazione del Credito all Esportazione (Italy)
TKC      -      Turnkey Construcon Contract
USAID   -       United States Agency for International Development
WAPDA  -        Water and Power Development Authority



PAKISTAN                 FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PRIVATE SECTOR ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IJ
Loan and Proiect Sununar
Borrower:              Islamic Republic of Pakistan (GOP)
Beneficiaries:         Private sector borrowers who would design, finance, construct, own
and operate energy facilities; and GOP for consulting services.
Amount:                US$250 million.
Terms:                 2C years, including five years grace, at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate.
Onlendina Terms:       In the case of the subloan for the Hub Power Project: i) during the
construction of the Investment Project for which the subloan has
been made, a fixed rate of 14% per annum; (ii) after completion of
construction of su-h Investment Project but before all loans other
than the subloan for the Investment Project which are senior to the
subloan have been repaid, a variable rate, to be reviewed annually,
equal to the greater of: a. the sum of the prevailing One-Year
United States Treasury Note rate plus the Foreign Exchange Rate
Insurance (FERI) Margin plus a spread of 300 basis points, and b.
the sum of the prevailing World Bank Lending Rate plus the FERI
Margin plus a spread of 250 basis points; and (iii) after repavment
of such senior loans and until the subloan has been fiilly repaid, a
variable rate, to be reviewed annually, equal to the greater of: a. the
sum of the prevailing One-Year US Treasury Note rate plus the
FERI Margin plus a spread of 400 basis points, and b. the sum of
the prevailing World Bank Lending Rate plus the FERJ Margin plus
a spread of 350 basis points.
In the case of all other subloans: (i) during the construction of the
Investment Projects for which the subloans have been made, a fixed
rate equal to the greater of: a. the sum of the prevailing Five-Year
US Treasury Note rate plus a spread of 200 basis points, and b. the
sum of the prevailing World Bank Lending Rate plus a spread of
150 basis points; (ii) after completion of construction of such
Investment Proiects but before all loans other than the subloans for
the Investment Projects which are senior to the subloans have been
repaid, a variable rate, to be reviewed annually, equal to the greater
of: a. the sum of the prevailing One-Year US Treasury Note rate
plus a spread of 300 basis points, and b. the sum of the prevailing
World Bank Lending Rate plus a spread of 250 basis points; and (iii)
after repavment of such senior loans and until the subloans have
been fully repaid, a variable rate, to be reviewed annually, equal to
the greater of: a. the sum of the prevailing One-Year US Treasury
Note rate plus a spread of 400 basis points, and b. the sum of the
prevailing World Bank Lending Rate plus a spread of 350 basis
points.
Commitment Fee:        0.75% on the undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after
signing, less a waiver of 0.5% in the first year.
This document has a restrced distnbWon and may be used by recipients oly in the peerome ct
official duties Its contents may not othenwise be disclosed without World Bak authoron.



Financing Plan:       See Schedule A.
Economic Rate of Return: Each subproject should yield an internal economic rate of return
exceeding 18%.
Povertv Category:     Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 13006-PAK
Map:                  IBRD 24399



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN FOR THE
PRIVATE SECTOR ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
1.       Introduction.  I submit for your approval the following memorandum  and
recommendation on a proposed loan to the Goverrunent of Pakistan (GOP) for US$250 million
equivalent to help co-fnance the Private Sector Energy Development Project II. The loan will
be at the Bank's standard variable interest rate with a maturity of 20 years, including five years
of grace. Cofiancing is being provided by the Export-Import Bank of Japan (JEXIM) in the
amount to US$110 million, and the Government of France in the amount of US$10 million.
Other parallel financing is likely on a project specific basis. Several governments have
expressed interest in supporting specific subprojects that are at an advanced stage of negotiation
with GOP. An amount equivalent to US$6 million from the loan, together with a US$2 million
grant from the Government of Japan, will be ased by GOP for technical assistance in staffing
and operating the Private Power and Infrastructure Board (PPIB). formerly the Private Power
Cell, of the Ministry of Water and Power (MPW) and the Fund, and the balance equivalent of
US$245 million will be administered by NDFC under the Private Sector Energy Development
Fund (the Fund), on behalf of GOP for onlending to private sector companies which would
design, finance, construct, own and operate energy facilities that meet the Fund's guidelines as
well as the Bank's environmental guidelines. The foreign exchange risks associated with the
subprojects would be recovered from the ultimate consumers of electricity through the tariff,
which will be adjusted every six months to compensate for the depreciation of the Rupee relative
to the dollar. The onlending raies are: (a) in the case of the subloan for the Hub Power Project:
(i) dng the construction of the Investment Project for which the subloan has been made, a
fixed rate of 14% per annum; (ii) after completion of construction of such Investment Project
but before all loans other than the subloan for the Investment Project which are senior to the
subloan have been repaid, a variable rate, to be reviewed annually, equal to the greater of: a.
the sum of the prevailing One-Year United States Treasury Note rate plus the Foreign Exchange
Rate Insurance (FERI) Margin plus a spread of 300 basis points, and b. the sum of the
prevailing World Bank Lending Rate plus the FERI Margin plus a spread of 250 basis points;
and (iii) after repavment of such senor loans and until the subloan has been fully repaid, a
variable rate, to be reviewed annually, equal to the greater of: a. the sum of the prevailing One-
Year US Treasury Note rate plus the FERI Margin plus a spread of 400 basis points, and b. the
sum of the prevailing World Bank Lending Rate plus the FERI Margin plus a spread of 350
basis points; (b) in the case of all other subloans: (i) during the construction of the Investment
Projects for which the subloans have been made, a fixed rate equal to the greater of: a. the sum
of the prevailing Five-Year US Treasury Note rate plus a spread of 200 basis points, and b. the
sum of the prevailing World Bank Lending Rate plus a spread of 150 basis points; (ii) a*fer
completion of construction of such Investment Projects but before all loans other than the
subloans for the Investment Projects which are senior to the subloans have been repaid, a
variable rate, to be reviewed annually, equal to the greater of: a. the sum of the prevailing One-
Year US Treasury Note rate plus a spread of 300 basis points, and b. the swu of the prevailing
World Bank Lending Rate plus a spread of 250 basis points; and (iii) er repavment of such
senior loans and until the subloans have been fully repaid, a variable rate, to be reviewed
annually, equal to the greater of: a. the sum of the prevailing One-Year US Treasury Note rate
plus a spread of 400 basis points, and b. the sum of the prevailing World Bank Lending Rate
plus a spread of 350 basis points.
2.        Sector Background. In 1988, the GOP initiated a program to restore fiscal and
monetary balance, and liberalize the economy. The program, among other thngs, called for the



-2 -
rationalization of public sector expenditures. Budgetary allocations for the revenue earning
public sector entities were reduced. Investment financing for these enterprises was to be secured
through internally generated funds and borrowings from the domestic and international capital
markets. This had a profound impact on the energy sector, which historically had accounted for
over 33% of annual development allocations, as internally generated funds and projected
borrowings fell short of the investments needed to meet the forecast demand. In response, GOP
outlined a strategy for rationalizing the consumption of energy, and increasing the role of the
private sector to fill the gap left by the reduction in public sector energy investments.
3.        GOP requested Bank assistance in identifying the constraints to greater private sector
involvement in energy, and in preparing a plan for addressing these constraints. The Bank,
assisted by consultants financed by USAID, identified three key constraints: (a) the absence of
a policv framework for private sector investments, i.e., incentives, fiscal treatment, repatriation
of profits and capital, availability of foreign exchange, pricing, etc.; (b) the lack of long term
finance for projects with relatively long gestation and economic life; and (c) the inadequac  of
the institutional structure for the review, negotiation and approval of private sector projects. ' ie
Bank, USAID, ODA and the Government of Japan assisted GOP in addressing the policy and
institutional constraints, and in setting up a facility, the Private Sector Energy Development
Fund (the Fund), to provide partial long-term subordinated debt financing for energy
investments.
4.        In 1988, the Board approved the Private Sector Energy Development Project
(PSEDP I, Ln. 2982-PAK) which provided US$150 million for financing the Fund. The loan
was co-fianced in the amount of US$314 millionby JEXIM, USAII, Nordic Investment Bank,
and the Governments of France, Italy and the United Kingdom. National Developmem Finance
Corporation (NDFC) manages the Fund for GOP. The Fund was structured to allow for its
possible detachment from NDFC when its staff becomes fully trained and subprojects financed
provide revenues to cover the cost of its operations. Under the proposed Project an
internationally respected consulting firm will be recruited to design the organization structure
and financial criteria for the Fund's operation as an autonomous financial institution responsible
for providing long-term subordinated financing for private sector development of infature.
5.        At the time the Board approved PSEDP I, a number of potential power generation
subprojects were under consideration. The Hub Power Subproject (4x323 MW) was the most
advanced in its negotiations. It was expected to start construction within a year of the Board's
approval of PSEDP I. Negotiations and mobilization of financing for the Hub were delayed by
about four years because of: (a) six changes in government, which at times required
renegotiation of key agreements; (b) the withdrawal of two of the main subcontractors, Kumagai
Gumi for civil works and Toshiba for turbo generators, which caused a seven-month delay to
reconstitute the construction consortium; (c) the Gulf War which suspended all activites in the
development of the subproject for almost fourteen months; and (d) the declaration of interest on
loans as illegal by the Federal Shariat Court. As the Hub Power Subproject was the first private
power investment to be considered by GOP, progress of other subprojects slowed down pending
finalization of agreements and the mobilization of financing for Hub.
6.        When PSEDP I was designed, subordinate debt financing by the Fund was expected
to provide sufficient comfort required by commercial lenders to finance subprojects under limited
recourse. Mobilizing the commercial debt fimancing for Hub has proven difficult in practice
as lenders were not prepared to assume non-commercial risks in Pakistan because of the lack of
track record in private infraucture. In response, the Bank and JEXIM proposed a joint co-
guarantee, under the newly created Expanded Co-fincing Operation (ECO), to extend direct
cover to a syndicate of commercial banks against risks associated with the failure by GOP and
its public sector enterprises in meeting their obligations to the subproject company, the Hub



Power Company (HUBCO). The Board approved the framework for the ECO Guarantee in
November 1991. Lenders and investors would assume all commercial risks during construction
and operation of the power plant, and GOP, through its guarantees backstopped by the ECO
guarantee and the guarantees to be provided by the Export Credit Agencies (ECAs), would
assume political and sovereign risks. The financing earmarked for the Hub Subproject under
the proposed Project would be added to the subordinate debt fimancing provided under PSEDP 1,
and would complement the commercial debt financing partially guaranteed by the ECO and
ECAs.
7.        Lri conjunction with its approval of the framework for the ECO, the Board also
concurred with the recommendation for the disbursement of mobilization financing to cover the
initial and scheduled payments for the Tumkey Construction Contract (TKC). This mobilization
fmancing was funded by the sponsors, Islamic banks, NDFC, the Bank, the Commonwealth
Development Corporation (CDC) and the Italian and French Governments. The first tranche
provided by Al Rajhi (Saudi Arabia) under Islamic fnance was disbursed in December 1992.
This froze the TKC price and committed the contractors to commissioning the first unit by June
30, 1996. As of October 25, 1994, construction and equivalent manufacure were ahead of
schedule and commissioning of the power plant is expected earlier than agreed under TKC. The
Bank disbursed its initial payment under the second tranche in June 1993. At the time the Board
approved the framework for the ECO Guarantee, the total financing requirements of the Hub
Subproject amounted to US$1,560 million. Since then, these requirements have increased to
US$1,832 million. The increase of US$272 million covers the adjustment to the TKC price
required to compensate for: (a) inflation in the countries providing the major equipment; (b) the
appreciation of the Japanese Yen, and the depreciation of the Pakistani Rupee; and (c) the higher
standby financing, from US$150 milion to US$251 million, required by the senior lenders to
successfully complete the syndication of commercial debt.
8.        Despite the higher financing requirements, the Hub Subproject continues to be
competitive. The increase in its cost since the ECO framework was approved, net of the
standbys and interest during construcdon, amounts to approximately 2% per annum. This
ncrease was partally offset by shortening the cons. action period to reduce interest during
construction and by improving the matching of available currencies with the disbursements to
reduce currency hedging costs. These measures have succeeded in essentially keeping the tariff
unchanged. In addition, the cost/KW of installed capacity based on the TKC pnce is among the
lowest for thermal plants of its size and type currently under construction anywhere in the world.
9.        The commercial banks considered their commitment under the ECO Guarantees and
ECAs to represent the maximum exposure to commercial risk that they are prepared to assume.
As a result, the increase in the fnancing requirements for the Hub is covered through higher
injection of both equity from the sponsors and investors, and of subordinated debt to be provided
by the Fund. The equity has been raised from US$323 million to US$372 million, and the
su0ordinated debt increased by US$221 million, from US$381 million at the time the ECO was
approved to US$602 million. The Bank will contribute US$114 million and JEXIM will
contribute US$110 million.
10.       The extensive review and ref-iement by the international financial community of
agreements and provisions pertaining to the Hub Power Subproject, referred to as the Security
Package, has provide ' the basis for a tested and market approved structure for limited recourse
finacing of Build-Own-Operate energy projects in Pakistan. This structure, with significant
reduction in the support required through the Fund and GOP guarantees, is being adopted for
use in financing other energy subprojects. The remponse of the international financial community
to the Hub and the approval by GOP of its Semurity Package and tariff have stimulated the
interest of other international power plant developers. So far GOP has given preliminary



- 4-
approvals to proposals totalling 5,000 MW. Most of these proposals are seeking subordinated
dabt financing from the Fund to cover between 10% to 30% of their total costs. The proposed
Project would support those proposals that comply with the least cost development program and
are ready to achieve financial close earliest, by providing subordinate debt financing from
proceeds of the proposed loan. Approximately seven private energy subprojects have finalized
their agreements with GOP or are at an advanced stage of preparation. Of these the Port Qasim-
Khalifa Point fuel oil pipeline subproject would be the first to be fmanced by the Fund provided
that it meets the guidelines of the Fund and the enviromnental guidelines of the Bank, and is
successfully appraised by the Fund and the appraisal report is approved by the Bank and
cofnciers.
11.      In order to provide greater support to private sector energy and energy related
infrastrcture investments, which in the case of Pakistan require partial subordinated debt
fnancing to provide comfort for senior lenders, GOP has decided that the Fund, which under
PSEDP I has been administered by the Private Energy Division of NDFC, be detached and
become an autonomous Long Term Credit Fund (LTCF). The normal limit of its subordinated
lending will remain 30% of the overall costs of approved subprojects. However, in exceptional
cases, the Fund/LTCF could, with special concurrence from the Bank, finance up to 40% of the
overall costs of approved subprojects. The financing would cover goods, works and services.
The instiutional restucuring and strengthening needed to handle the LTCF's new mandate is
addressed under the proposed Project.
12.       Lessons from Previous Bank Oerations. The experiences gaine1 so far from
PSEDP I (Lu. 2982-PAK) and the processing of the ECO coguarantee for Hub can be
summarized as follows: (a) the speed by which infrastructure projects can be successfully
finaced is largely country specific. In some countries the presence of the Bank and of ECAs
does not necessarily mean that commercial lenders are willing to assume country and sovereign
risks, unless the multilateral institutions are involved in mifigting certain sovereign risks;
(b) the ECAs' willingness to guarantee commercial loans is tied to the size of the contract
awarded and to the limit on exposure of the country involved, irrespective of the financial and
economic viability of the projects; (c) the availability of subordinated debt is useful and in some
countries essential for mobilizing commercial debt, particularly for infstructure projects whose
revenues are denominated in local currencies and dependent on the performance of a small
number of public enterprises and agencies; (d) the coordination of cofinancing for private
projects is extremely time consuming, particularly in harmonizing procurement rules and
disbursements of funds and in integrating the available currencies with those required for project
implementation, implying the need for relatively few cofinanciers; (e) private power and related
infrastructure projects typically require numerous regulatory and procedural changes and it is
essential to idenfify potential bottlenecks and constraints at an early stage; and (f) it is preferable
to limit project size, to enable ready substitution if a key participant drops out. Among other
advantages, this permits the Barkc and the borrower to take a more hands-off role. Nonetheless,
experience to date on subsequent subprojects indicates that all parties are better informed,
resulting in much faster processing. This also indicates that investor confidence in Pakistan's
power sector is growing as a result of Bank support, and that in the future private power would
need proportionally less subordinated debt financing.
13.       Project Obiectives. The objective of the proposed Project is to assist GOP increase
the private sector's role in the development, ownership and operation of power and related
infrastructure facilities by providing: (a) long term financing through the Private Sector Energy
Development Fund (the Fund), presently administered by the National Development Finance
Corporation, for subprojects that are either under implementation or are shordy to be launched;
and (b) strengten the newly created institutons responsible for the review, negotiation, approval
and financing of such private sector investmens.



14.       Project Description. The proposed Project will: (a) replenish the Fund to provide
subordinated long-term loans to private sector entities to fmance goods, works, services, and
associated costs required for the itiiplementation of: (i) HUBCO's oil-fired Hub Power plant that
is under construction; (ii) the pipeline that would be constructed, owned, and operated by Asia
Petroleum Limited (APL), a special purpose company established for the transportation of fuel
oil from Port Qasim t; the existing and new power generation plants such as Hub Power, Ben
Qasim (1,260 MW) and Fauji (350 MW Phase 1) at Point Khalifa; and (iii) other power
generation subprojects currently at an advanced stage of preparation, provided each meets the
guidelines of the Fund and the environmental standards of the Bank. Priority in accessing the
Fund's resources would be given to subprojects that show the best evidence of completed equity
and debt financing to allow for financial close within a year from the effectiveness of the
proposed Project; (b) provide funding for the continued operation of the PPIB and the Fund,
covering staff, consulting services, training, and facilities and equipment; (c) provide consulting
services to: (i) assist GGP to outline tfr mandate for PPIB, its management and reportig
structure; staffing plan and compensation package; financing plan and fiancil performance
indicators; and its monitoring, evaluating and reporting system; (ii) to the Fund to restructure
its mandate to ope.ate as an autonomous, commercially oriented LTCF able to mobilize
resources for senior debt financing to supplement its limited subordinated debt funds; formulaxe
its organizational structure and management; staffing plan and terms of reference for the various
positions; financing plan and financial performance indicators and finial monitoring systems;
(iii) develop the Fund/LTCF's guidelines to allow for its fumre financing of energy related
infrastructure subprojects and strengthen its staff capabilities to deal with such investments; and
(iv) develop the Fund/LTCF's environmental and resettlement guidelines for the assessment of
subprojects, and strengthen its capabilities for monitoring compliance with these guidelines
during the construction and operation phases.
15.       Proiect Imlementation.  The proposed Project will replenish the Fund, which
would continue to be administered by NDFC on behalf of GOP until it is detached into an
autonomous LTCF. The Fund/LTCF will onlend to private sector companies which would
design, fmance, build, own and operate their subprojects. They will be responsible for detailed
engineering, procurement, award of contracts, supervision of construction and commissioning
for their individual subprojects which would be partly financed by the Fund/LTCF. Subprojects
will meet the Bank's environmental guidelines as well as the Fund's overall guidelines. The
Fund/LTCF will appraise the subprojects and submit the appraisal reports and recommendations
to the Bank and the cofinanciers for approval prior to the financial close for each subproject.
The Fund/LTCF will monitor the implementation of the individual subprojects, assisted by
appropriate consultants who would recommend disbursements against progress in constuction.
To date only the Hub Subproject has been appraised by the Fund, and the appraisal has been
approved by the Bank; and cofinanciers. APL's Fuel Oil Pipeline will be appraised by the
Fund/LTCF in the near future, and this appraisal with supportng documents will be submitted
to the Bank for approval prior to disbursement under the proposed Project. A breakdown of the
costs and the financing plan are shown in Schedule A. Amounts and methods of procurement
and of disbursements, and the disbursement schedule are shown in Schedule B. A timetable of
key project processing events and the status of Bank Group operations in Pakistan are given in
Schedules C and D respectively. A map is also attached. A Staff Appraisal Report is being
distributed separately.
16.       Procurement and Disbursement. Goods and services finced from the proceeds of
the Bank loan will be procured in accordance with the Bank's guidelines, subject to the proposed
exception referred to in paragraph 17 below. The Bank loan will also cover upfront
commitments to standbys and other financial charges including off-shore insurane when
procured under LIB by Hubco, calculated on a pro rata basis depending on their share in the



-6 -
fmancing of subloans. Financing of standbys is required to assure the mobilization of senior debt
under limited recourse to cover the consequences of external macro risks, such as exchange rate
movements, increases in interest rates and insurance, and variation orders that could occur
during construction. This funding needs to be irnmediately available when these events occur,
otherwise project implementation would be delayed, thus calling for additional funding. Stand-
bys are drawn down on a pan passu basis irrespective of the cause of the cost overrun, to
reduce overall costs, because if the stand-by commitments of different lenders are earmarked for
specific project components, the "law of averages" would not apply and the total amount of
stand-bys will have to be increased to provide adequate risk protection. If the specified cost
overuns occur and the Fund/LTCF (and the Bank) do not participate equally in the stand-by
facilities, the commercial banks could would have to finance a higher percentage of the project,
so increasing the risk premium incorporated in their interest rate, and hence the overall cost of
the project would go up.
17.       The proceeds of the proposed Bank loan will be disbursed as follows: (a) for
subloans jointly c;ofinanced with JEXIM: 35% of foreign and local expenditures for works, 50%
of foreign expenditures (CIF costs) and of local expenditures (ex-factory cost) of eq., ipment, and
50% of insurance procured under limited international bidding; (b) other subloans: 70% of
foreign and local expenditures for works, and 100% of foreigi expenditures (CIF costs) and of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost) of equipment and materials; (c) 100% of interest during
construction and other charges accrued on the amounts of the sub-loans financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan; (d) for Institution Building: 100% of costs of consultants' services and
training, 100% of foreign expenditures (CIF costs) and local expenditures (ex-factory cost) of
equipment and materials; 70% of other items procured locally; and 90% of incremental staff
cGsts up to the end of December 1995, and 80% from January 1, 1996 to December 31, 1996.
18.       The stand-by financing provided by the Bank will be disbursed against goods and
works. Some of these funds would be disbursed against the same items that are covered under
the Fund/LTCF's base financing and procured strictly under the Bank's procurement rules.
However. part of the stand-by financing might be called to cover cost increases on items that
have not been Vnrour-ed followin the Bank's guid_elines bjut nonetheless have been procugred i
accordance with sound commercial Dractices. with due attention to economy and efficiency.
Bank loan proceeds would be permitted to be used for such goods and works so long as certain
safeguards are applied. These safeguards are that the disbursements be for contracts that have
been awarded: (a) in accordance with sound commercial practices; (b) with due attention to
economy and efficiency; and (c) in accordance with the Bank's eligibility requirements. In
addition, such disbursement would not be made against goods and services provided by a
subproject sponsor or shareholder. As a general rule, the maximum percentage of Bank funds
eligible for standbys for any subproject would net exceed 20%. This proposed exception to
existing procurement rules would apply to other future subprojects that are financed or
guaranteed on a limited or non-recourse basis. This proposal is consistent with recent
discussions by the Board on procurement arrangements that apply to guarantee operations. The
procurement and disbursement estimates are presented in the attached Schedule B.
19.       Environmental Aspects. Under the proposed Project, consultants to the Fund/LTCF
will prepare a development plan that would include: (a) an assessment of the adequacy of
existing environmental guidelines, enwironmental screening criteria and procedures in the power
and infrastucture sectors and environmental assessment review capacity procedures of GOP and
the Fund/LTCF; (b) an assessment of the capacity to monitor implementation and ensure
compliance with GOP and Bank requirements; and (c) recommendatons for measures to
strengften environmental guidelines and procedures, as needed, and develop the Fund/LTCF's
capacity to carry out and incorporate adequate environmental "due diligence" into its loan
appraisal and management procedures. Investors are required to submit an environmental impact



- 7 -
assessment as part of their feasibility study, and in the event of any dislocation of inhabitants,
a plan for their resettlement. Both these documents will be submitted to the Bank along with
the Fund/LTCF's recommendations for onlending to subprojects. An Environmental and Social
Soundness Assessment (ESSA) was prepared for the Hub Power and APL pipeline subprojects
by EBASCO (USA) in accordance with Baik guidelines. The study, which was commended by
Bank reviewers for its quality, examined the impact of the project on aquatic resources,
socioeconomics, and air and water quality. It also addressed institutional issues relating to
employment and public participation, and it described an operational monitoring program.
20.       Program Objective Categories. The proposed Proje ' addresses two of the basic
program objective categories, those pertaining to economic mauagement and private sector
development.
21.       Countnr Assistance Strategy. The Country Assistance Strategy, which th  Executive
Directors discussed on March 31, 1994, highlights two closely linked development goals as the
primary focus of the Bank's program in Pakistan, namely poverty reduction and reducing
constraints to sustained growth. To address the poverty reduction objective, the Bank's approach
focuses on improving inadequate basic social services and so improving weak social indicators.
Also, a number of Bank projects, particularly those related to small-scale agricultural activities,
microenterprises and water supply, contribute directly to addressing poverty problems. To
support the growth objective, which will help with the income-related aspects of poverty
reduction, Bank efforts concentrate on: structural reforms, with an emphasis on public finance
issues and improving the enabling enviromnent for the private sector; strengthening inadequate
basic infrastructure; reducing constraints on agricultural productivity; and protecting Pakistan's
natural resources base. The proposed Project addresses two of these growth objectives:
structural reform and streegthening basic infrastructure. Regarding structural reform, the
proposed Project helps mobilize private sector resources and expertise in the energy sector, and
further promoting energy efficiency and conservation.  Regarding strengthening basic
infrastructure, the proposed Project, which builds on long Bank involvement with the public
power sector agency, WAPDA, is in line with the Bank's new energy sector lending policy as
well as with govermnent energy and adjustment policies. This strategy, which includes initiatives
both on sapply and on demand management, was spelled out in the Power Sector Development
Project (Ln. 3764-PAK) approved by the Board in June 1994. It mnakes a major conribution
to reducing the chronic shortage of electricity and initiating the flow of private investment,
management and technology into deve ,,Ding the country's energy resources and infrastructure.
The proposed Project is therefore fully consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy.
22.       Rationale for Bank Involvement. The Bank has played a major role in helping the
government create the enabling environment fur private sector participation in energy. The Bank
has also taken a leading role among donors in helping the government set up the instiutions
required for the evaluation, negotiations and financing of private sector energy projects.
Extensive technical assistance has been provided under financing by USAID, ODA, the
Government of Japan and the Bank. The Bank has played a catalytic role in mobilizing
cofnacing from bilateral and other multilateral institutions for the Fund. This role has been
critical in providing capital to the Fund and in leveraging its resources to mobilize additional
funding from private sources in the form of equity and debt secured under limited recourse. As
a result of these efforts, the Fund is now functional, with capizal and project-finance expertise.
23.       Although not anticipated at the time PSEDP I was made, the Bank took the lead in
assisting GOP, the sponsors, the ECAs and the commercial banks in structuring the agreements
under the Security Package for the Hub Subproject, and providing the ECO to mitigate risks that
the investors and lenders were unable to assume. Furthermore, to leverage support for the Hub
subproject, JEXIM joined as a co-guarantor with the Bank under the ECO, the first such



- 8 -
operation with a bilateral agency. The Banik also has played an important role in securing
financing fromn export credit agencies without guarantees from GOP. The Fund and the ECO
Guarantee have been the two vehicles by which the Bank has leveraged its resources to mobilize
additional fimancing, commercial and official, from various sources to support the
implementation of subprojects under the proposed Project.
24.       The continued support of the Bank under the proposed Project will help ensure that
the Fund's achievements would be sustained. It establishes project-fiance practices in Paidstan
by ensuring that the responsible institutions are strengthened and their mandates sharply focused,
so that subprojects which contribute to the overall objectives of Pakistan's policy of deregulation
and privatization are rea!zed without undue delay. To this end, the proposed Project will
provide US$6 million and the Government of Japan US$2 million in technical assistance to the
Fund and PPIB. The proposed Project will also set the stage for a possible third tranche of
financing for more subprojects in the energy and related infrastructure secto.s. This third
tranche might cover guarantees as well as loans, as the Fund evolves into commercially oriented
LTCF with the capacity to mobilize other debt instruments, as mentioned earlier. A stand alone
loan to be processed through the Fund is currently being prepared for the proposed Hydrocracker
Subproject, which would allow Pakistan to produce higher value products from the fuel oil
currently being produced by the two major refineries in Karachi. Over the medium term, as
Pakistan's credit worthiness improves and the private sector becomes comfortable with the policy
environment, the roles of the Government and the official agencies are expected to decline.
25.       Benefits. The proposed Project will help to bring the Hub Power Subproject, the
first private power plant to be financed by the Fund, to financial close, and provide funding for
additional new private subprojects that are at an advanced stage of preparation. The Hub
provided the basis for significant transfer of know-how to the newly created institutions
responsible for private power in Pakistan. it also provided a vehicle for cofinancing private
sector projects with commercial lenders, bilateral and multilateral agencies, and investors. The
proposed Project will ensure that the lessons learned from Hub are used to quickly bring on-
s-ream other subprojects, such as the APL Pipeline and a number of power generating
subprojects. The proposed Project will streamline the institutional framework for private energy
and infrastructure by capitalizing on the experience gained in negotiating, processing, and
fmancing the Hub subproject. 'Iwo institutions, PPIB and the Fund, which will ultimately carry
on the responsibility for facilitating private investment in energy and infrastucture, would be
strengthened. PPIB would be restructured to be an effective single stop window for the
negotiations and approvals of private power projecis.-The Fund will be detached from NDFC
to become a major commercially operated LTCF. The proposed Project will contribute to
ultimately reducing the future size of load shedding in Pakistan, and stimulate large private
investment in the power and petroleum sectors.
26.       Economic Justification and Economic Rate of Return: All subprojects to be financed
by the Fund will comply with the least cost development program dictated by Long-Tcrm Energy
Sector Strategy (LES) and yield an internal economic rate of return exceeding 18%.
27.       Risks. Implementation of private sector subprojects under limited recourse financing
involves similar risks to those associated with public sector projects. The difference between
the two centers around the allocation of those risks. Under public sector projects, governments
or parastatals assume the risks pertaining to completion, cost overruns, foreign exchange and
interest rate fluctuations, and performance. With private sector projects, these risks are shared.
The completion and cost overrun risks are assumed by turnkey contractors, backstopped by the
equity investors and, ultimately, the lenders. The turnkey contractors, who enter into fixed lump
sum contract price, provide both the c -mpletion and performance guarantees. Upon failure by
turnkey contractors to perform, lenders would have recourse to these guarantees, the stndby



- 9 -
equity and contingencies to finance cost overuns attributable to delays; if further funding is
required, investors and lenders would provide it to ensure projects are completed. Contrators'
failure to perform could result in reduced returns for investors as well as for the contractors.
28.       As for foreign exchange and interest rate risks, since there is no recourse except for
project compames, lenders and investors require that thse risks be costed and the costs be
incorporated in the overall financing plan. They are funded at the outset, and covered in,the
financing plans through allowances and standbys. Project companies may mitigate risks
associated with foreign exchange and inest rate fluctuons by bedging and swapping variable
for fixed interest rates, if these are cost effective. Performance risks foliowin com oning
of projects are also of concern, and contue for the lenders until debt is retred, and for the
shareholders until their equity is recovered.
29.       These risks have been at the center of the strucre of Secrty Packages for
HUBCO and APL. Both are implementing their subprojects under lump sum, fixed price
turnkey contracts where contractors provide completion and performance guarantees, ran
between 10% and 15% of the TKC prices. Contors for subprojects financed by the
Fund/LTCF are expected to assume design, construction, procurement and completion risks.
Provisions in the form of contencies and standbys amo    to 15% of total cost of these
subprojects have been allowed. These are in addition to the guaranee extended by the tukey
contractors.
30.       The possibilities for cost cverruns in the case of Hub are extremely small as the
excavation and foundation work have been completed under the mobilization financing.
Currenty, the civil contor is ahead of schedule and most of the remaining work involves
above grund stuctes where risks are relatively small. Turbo generators and boilers have
been ordered and are currenty under constrcon and supervision reports indicate they too are
ahead of schedule. The rsks associated with foreign exchange and variable interest rates have
been addresed in the financing plan by icreasing the standbys as currency hedgig and interest
rates swaps were found to be too expensive. However, extreme care has been given to matching
currenies available with financing needs on a monthly basis to minim    such costs. As for
performance after commissioning, lenders and sponsors have put in place a corporate
development program where National Power, one of the sponsors and a major private power
cmany in the Unit Kingdom, will become the operator of the power complex. HUBCO will
also be managed and its st  trained through a technical support contract that draws on utility
expise in the United Kingdom and the United States.
31.       The risk of not securing all the senior debt and equity has now been eliminated, as
all the debt and equity underwrings and subsciptons were irrevocably committed and signed
on Septmber 30, 1994. Both the equity and debt offerings were over-subscbed.
32.       The APL pipeline subproject has been designed by an intenationaly reputable firm.
The survey right-of-way is completed, the turnkey contractor has been appointed and preparation
of bidding docments for the supply of pipes, pumps and compressors is underway. The turnkey
contractor will provide a fixed lump sum price and liquidated damages for completion and
performan e of 15% of the turkey contract price. The finmming plan is being firmed up by the
shareholders who wiU underwrite any gap in debt should it arise. Standbys amouning to 15%
of the overall cost have been provided for in the financing plan to cover completion risks in the
event of force majeure, and foreign exchange and interest rate changes. Performance risks of
the pipeline company will be mitigated to the maximum extent possible by having it operated
by a company of inteional repute which will also assume all operations risks as a memb&r
of the consortum which holds the majority  eholding in APL. The consortium also includes
an oil supplier who will guantee delivery of oil in the quantities and quality required.



- 10-
33.       Finally, the component of the proposed Project which is earmarked for other power
subprojects currently under preparation is expected to start disbursing within a year of the
proposed loan being made effective. Already six of these potential subprojects have completed
the negotiations of their Security Packages, and the fmalization of their turnkey contracts are
underway. This will allow them to move shortly to the stage of mobilizing debt as their equity
is almost fully subscribed.
Agreements Reached.
34.       During negotiations GOP agreed on the following: (a) closely monitor and evaluate
the experience of a new policy regarding private power generation, and submit to the Bank its
recommendations regarding further refinements in the policy not later than June 30, 1996;
(b) review as part of its assessment of the overall policy regarding private power generation the
exceptions of the power sector from corporate income tax and the potential for rolling over and
capitalizing customs duties and import taxes, and recovering these during the operating phases
of private power companies; (c) declare that all taxes, duties and levies imposed on private
sector projects will be treated as pass through items to be reflected in the tariff and collected
from consumers of electricity; (d) set the benchmark tariff for the Pakistan power system for the
purchase of electricity at the high voltage from private sector at the equivalent of USC6.51kWh,
inclusive of the foreign exchange insurance premia. This tariff should be adjusted every six
months by the changes in the costs of commercial borrowing, foreign exchange risk cover,
O&M and fuel; (e) continue to provide an explicit outline of the indices to be used for adjusting
the benchmark tariff of US¢6.5/kWh, the methodology used in deriving these indices, and the
approach to be used for their application; (f) declare as part of its policy measures that the return
on investment components of the tariff for private sector projects in energy and energy related
infrastructure would be indexed annually to compensate for the depreciation of the Rupee relative
to the US dollar; (g) declare that (i) allow full repatriation of dividends and principle capital by
fooreign investors; and (ii) compensate investors for loss of dividends, initial capital investments
and capital appreciation in the events of default by public institutions in their obligation under
the Security Package or an event of political force majeure involving Pakistan; (h) that loans
from the Fund/LTCF will be ranked as subordinated to senior lenders' loans in both debt service
and security; (i) allow private sector subproject companies to create escrow accounts and fund
them either at the outset of the financing plan or from the revenues generated by the subproject
companies after commercial operations; () in the case of the subloan for the Hub Power
Subproject, set the onlending interest rate: (i) during the construction of the Investment Project
for which the subloan has been made, a fixed rate of 14% per annum; (ii) after completion of
construction of such Investment Project but before all loans other than the subloan for the
Investment Project which are senior to the subloan have been repaid, a variable rate, to be
reviewed annually, equal to the greater of: a. the sum of the prevailing One-Year United States
Treasury Note rate plus the FERI Margin plus a spread of 300 basis points, and b. the sum of
the prevailing World Bank Lending Rate plus the FERI Margin plus a spread of 250 basis
points; and (iii) after repayment of such senior loans and until the subloan has been fully repaid,
a variable rate, to be reviewed annually, equal to the greater of a. the sum of the prevailing one-
year US Treasury Note rate plus the FERI Margin plus a spread of 400 basis points, and b. the
sum of the prevailing World Bank Lending Rate plus the FERI Margin plus a spread of 350
basis points; (k) in the case of all other subloans set the onlending interest rate: (i) during the
construction of the Investment Projects for which the subloans have been made, a fixed rate
equal to the greater of a. the sum of the prevailing five-year US Treasury Note rate plus a
spread of 200 basis points, and b. the sum of the prevailing World Bank Lending Rate plus a
spread of 150 basis points; (ii) after completion of construction of such Investment Projects but
before all loans other than the subloans for the Investment Projects which are senior to the
subloans have been repaid, a variable rate, to be reviewed annually, equal to the greater of:
a. the sum of the prevailing one-year US Treasury bond rate plus a spread of 300 basis points,



- 11 -
and b. the sum of the prevailing World Bank Lending Rate plus a spread of 250 basis points;
and (iii) after repayment of such senior loans and until the subloans have been fully repaid, a
variable rate, to be reviewed annually, equal to the greater of (a.) the sum of the prevailing one-
year US Treasury note rate plus a spread of 400 basis points, and (b.) the sum of the prevailing
World Bank Lending Rate plus a spread of 350 basis points; (iv) following commercial
operations of each subproject, the onlending rate of the Fand will be reviewed in April of every
year to reflect the prevailing market interest rates and the new onlending rate would be
implemented effective July 1, of every year, and that the revised interest rates will be reflected
automatically in the tariff for the sale of electricity; (1) the intermediation spread from onlending
will be retained by the Fund/LTCB for re-lending to future private sector subprojects less 25
basis points to be allocated to PPIB; (m) recruit management consultants satisfactory to the Bank
by December 31, 1994 to outline the structure for PPIB, the profile for its staff and a framework
for its fimancial performance; (n) mandate the Board of the Fund/LTCF to appoint by March 31,
1995 intemational consultants with appropriate banking and management expertise acceptable
to the Bank to formulate a framework for the Fund/LTCF to operate as an administratively and
financially autonomous LTCF, and that the consuitants' draft report be submitted to the Bank
by December 31, 1995; and (o) su.bject all subloans to prior review and approval by the Bank
and cofmanciers.
35.       During negotiations. GOP confirmed the following covenants, agreed under
PSEDP I: (a) appraisal, approval and supervision of subprojects by the fund will be carried out
according to standards acceptable to the Bank and the cofianciers; (b) technical consultants and
financial finrs will be appointed under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, to assist
the Fund/LTCF in the appraisal and supervision of subprojects; (c) subprojects approved for
loans by the Fund/LTCF will comply with the environmental guidelines and resettlement
requirements of the Government and the Bank, whichever are more stringent; (d) it will furnish
to the Bank: (i) quarterly progress reports in a format satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) annual
financial statements audited by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank, no later than six
months after the end of each financial year; and (iii) within six months of the completion of the
proposed Project, a Project Completion Report in a format acceptable to the Bank; (e) it will
require that: (i) subprojects will be technically, economically and financially viable; and that
(ii) prices offered for the products of subprojects will be: for electricity, not more than the
avoidable cost i.e. the incremental cost that Pakistan would incur in generating an additional unit
of electricity, adjusted for financing terms available to the private sector; for coal, eqtW to or
less than the economic cost of supply (long run average incremental cost of supply expressed
in terms of thermal equivalency); and for gas, equal to or less than the cif price of fuel oil
expressed in thermal equivalency; and (iii) commercial debt finance will be under limited
recourse; (f) it will: (i) issue Letters of Support to the sponsors and thereafter execute an
Implementation Agreement with each subproject company; and (iij cause each subproject
company to enter into an Energy Purchase Agreement, Fuel Supply Agreement, Construction
Agreement, Operation and Maintenance Agreement, when applicable, and any other agreement
required for the implementation and operation of the subproject; (g) it will mandate all investors
in subprojects to be financed by the Fund/LTCF to: (i) if required, assign to the
lenders/creditors the pe-rformance guarantee furnished to private subproject company by the main
contractor responsible for implementation of the subproject to which such lenders and creditors
could have recourse in the event of delay in the implementation of the subproject; and (ii)
provide for the private subprojects' lenders and creditors to have recourse to the subprojects
assets; (iii) if required, assign to their lenders/creditors the performance guarantee furnished to
the subproject companies by the operator, to which such lenders/creditors will have recourse;
(h) where the purchasing entity is a government-controlled body, GOP will be the guarantor of
the energy purchasing agreements; (i) where the fuel supplier is a government controlled body,
GOP will be the guarantor of the fuel supply agreement; and (j) it will provide up to 80% of the
additional financing needs arising from an increase in the agreed costs of subprojects, through



- 12 -
loans from the Fund, provided the remaining 20% of the additional financing is funded by
investors' equity and without affecting the provisions agreed under the Implementation
Agreement (IA) and Power Purchase Agreement (EPA).
36.       As a condition for effectiveness of the proposed loan. GOP agreed that it would:
(a) announce that the incentives and safeguards currently available to private power generation
would be extended to energy related infrastructure facilities such as terminals, ports, pipelines,
storage facilities and power transmission lines; (b) it would obtain the signature on the loan
agreements between itself and the Govermnent of France and JEXIM and the fulfillment of their
conditions precedent; (c) amend the guidelines for the Fund to state that the subloans extended
to subprojects would allow for the rolling over of interest durmg construction, for the
contribution of each cofmancier to the subloars made; (d) reconstitute the Fund as an
autonomous, commercially oriented LTCF, and appoint a Board of Directors and Managing
Director; and (e) it would issue the consents clear the acquisition of the right-of-way, and
approve the Security Package for the APL subprojects.
37.       Recommendation. I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Washington D.C.
October 28, 1994
Attachments



- 13 -
Schedule A
PAKISTAN
PRIVATE SECTOR ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
Financin8 Plan
(US$ million)
SUBORDINATED DEBT                   SENIOR DEBT                EQUITY  REVENUE TOTAL
PSEDP I Proposed Project   Foreign Local Export  Other   Local Foreign   Localb/
(Bank) (Cofmanc- Comm. Comm. Credit   Multi-
iers)    Banksa/ Banks Agencies laterals
Subpr*sda
Hub Power       377   114        110         383     84      335             30    342
1,832
APL Pipeline            30                    30                             16      24
100
Other            22   100         MC0         50     36       50      23    34    100
Projects                                                                                                  445
Subtotal     399   244        120Q        463    140      385      23    80    466             57    2,377
Techdical                6         2                                          3                              11
TOTAL            399   250       122        463    140       385    23       83       466        57      2,388
a/ Foreign commerci banks providing debt under the World Bank BCO and JEIM co-uaante plus IFC and CDC.
bl Rvenue during conatction from Units 1, 2 and 3.
c/ Subsequent co-fancing additions would permit a leveraged increme in the amount of debt and equity in total projet fuding.



- 14 -
Schedule LB
Page 1 of 1
PAKS_TAN
PRUVATE SECTOR ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
Procurement Metbods
(USS Mllio)
Subproject                ICB               LCe               other           LCB       Total
HUBCO                                         30                84"                   114
APL                        30                                                        30
Other Projects             100                                  2/                    100
T.A                                                              5         1          6
Total                      130                30                89         1          250
*  Details are in the SAR, Annex 1, para 36.
l/ Of which US$60 million for standbys and US$24 million for insurance, fees and interest during construction.
2/ Exact amount of standbys to be determined at financial close.
Estinated Disbursement Schedule
(US$ Million)
FY95        FY96          FY97           FY98
Annual (US$ Million)
HUBCO"/                      791/         35
APL                          20           10
Other projects                8           22            35            35
TA                                        3              3
Sub-total                        107           70            38            35
Cumulative (US$ M)                107         177           215            250
Cumulative (%)                    43           71            86            100
1/ Includes US$60 million of standby financing available for draw-down from the first day. See SAR, Annex 1 for
details (para 37).



- 15 -
Schedule C
PAKISTAN
PRIVATE SECTOR ENERGY DEVLOPMNT PROJECT I}
nodetabe of Key Prcessu Events
(a) Time taken to prepare:                             65.4 weeks
(b) Prepared by:                                       Government of Pakislan with Bank Assistance
(c) First Bank mission:                                June 1, 1991
(d) Appraisal mission departre:                        April 29, 1994
(e) Negotiations:                                      October 18, 1994
(f) Panned Date of Effectiveness:                      November 30, 1994
(g) List of relevant PCRs and PPARs:                   N/A



-16-
S,hedule O
Page 1 of 3
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30. 1094)
Amount (US$ million)
Fiiscal                                                                  (less cancellations)
Loan No        Year          Borrower       Purpose                              Bank      IDA      Undisbursed
61 Loans and 79 credits have been fully disbursed                               2583.26  2053.66
Cr. 1532-PAK     1986 Republic of Pakistan  Left Bank Outfall Drain - Stage 1              150.00        119.90
Cr. 1652-PAK     1986 Republic of Pakistan  Karachi Special Development                     70.00         10.00
Cr. 1670-PAK     1986 Republic of Pakidan   Second Vocational Training                      40.20        26.77
Cr. 1762-PAK     1987 Republic of Pakistan  Agric. Extension & Adaptive 11                  42.10         10.62
Cr. 1821-PAK     1987 Republic of PakiWstan  Third Primary Education                       14S.00         47.91
Ln. 2792-PAK     1987 Republic of Pakistan  WAPDA VIi-Pwr Plant Efficiency        70.00                   2.98
Ln. 2814-PAK     1987 Republic of Pakistan  Fourth Highways                      152.00                   19.30
Ln. 2839-PAK     1987 Republic of Pakistan  Small Industries III                  54.00                  35.88
Ln. 2842-PAK     1987 Republic of Pakistan  Refinery Energy Conservation          21.00                   12.88
Cr. 1888-PAK     1988 Republic of Pakistan  Second Irrigation Systems Rehab                 79.50         3629
Cr. 1895-PAK     1988 Republic of Pakistan   Punjab Urban Development                       90.00         41.32
Cr. 1936-PAK     1988 Republic of Pakistan  Naonal Oilseed DOeveopment                      16.30          8.44
Ln. 2973-PAK     1988 Republic of Pakistan  National Oilseed Development           9.80                   9.80
Ln. 2982-PAK     1988 Republic of Pakistan  Private Sector Energy Development    150.00                  62.53
Cr. 1982-PAK     1989 Republic of Pakistan  Industrial Investment Credit liI                 2.00          0.28
Ln. 3019-PAK     1989 Republic of Pakistan  Industrial Investment Credit liI     148.00                   15.04
Cr. 1987-PAK     1989 Republic of Pakistan   Karachi Water & Sanitation II                 125.00         58.35
Ln. 3107-PAK     1989 Republic of Pakistan  Energy Sector Loan II                250.00                   16.64
Cr. 2004-PAK     1989 Republic of Pakistan  Private Tubewell Dev.                           34.40          4.15
Ln. 3147-PAK     1990 Republic of Pakistan  Power Trans. Ext. & Reinforce.       162.00                   92.95
Cr. 2078-PAK     1990 Republic of Pakstan   Rural Electrificaton                            37.00          8.42
Ln. 3148-PAK     1990 Republic of Pakistan  Rural Electrification                123.00                  119.63
Cr. 2102-PAK     1990 Republic of Pakistan  Sindh Primary Education                        112.50         84.60
Cr. 2153-PAK     1990 Republic of Pakistan  Agriculture Credit                               1.50          1.52
Cr. 2154-PAK     1990 Republic of Pakistan  Agricuture Research II                          57.30         54.40
Ln. 3241-PAK     1990 Republic of Pakistan  Transport Sector Investment          184.00                  100.98
Ln. 2884-1-PAK    1991 Republic of Pakistan  Cement Industry Modem.               47.28                  21.09
Ln. 3107-1-PAK    1991 Republic of Pakistan  Energy Sector Loan II Suppl.         28.00                   11.24
Ln. 3252-PAK     1991 Republic of Pakistan  Corp. Restruct. & Systems Expan.     130.00                  39.16
Lin. 3252-1-PAK    1991 Republic of Pakistan  Corp. Restructuring Suppl.          60.00                   60.00
Cr. 2228-PAK     1991 Republic of Pakistan  Rural Water Supply & Sanitation                130.70        122.69
Ln. 3318-PAK     1991 Republic of Pakistan  Mkcroenterprise                       28.00                  20.04
Cr. 2240-PAK     1991 Republic of Pakistan  Family Health                                   48.00         43.14
Cr. 2246-PAK     1991 Republic of Pakistan  Third On-Farm Water Management                  47.30         11.69
Ln. 3327-PAK     1991 Republic of Pakistan  Third On-Farm Management              38.30                  34.96
Cr. 2257-PAK     1991 Republic of Pakistan  Second SCARP Transition                         20.00         18.46
Ln. 3335-PAK     1991 Republic of Pakistan  Karachi Port Modemization             91.40                  61.14



- 17-
Schedule D
Page 2 o? 3
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30. 1094)
Amount (US$ million)
Fiscal                                                                (less cancellations)
Loan No        Year         Borrower       Purpose                             Bank     IDA      Undisbursed
Cr. 2354-PAK    1992 Republic of Pakidtan  Middle Schooling                             115.00        111.70
Cr. 2383PAK     1992 Republic of Pakisan   Env. Prot. & Res. Co.                         29.20        28.61
Ln. 3500-PAK    1902 Republic of Pakistan  Domestic Energy Resources           177.82                 161.22
Ct. 1987-1-PAK    1993 Republic of Pakistan  Karachi Water & Sanitation II               91.90        97.42
Cr. 2410-PAK    1993 Republic of Pakistan  East. Sadiqia So Phase                        54.20        53.83
Cr. 24M-PAK     1093 Republic of Pakistan  Family Health II                              48.00        47.86
Cr. 2488-PAK    1993 Republic of Paistan   1992 Flood Damage Restoration                100.00        86.84
Cr. 2482-PAK    1993 Republic of Pakistan  Balochistan Primary                          106.00        102.16
Cr. 2512-PAK    1993 Republic of Pakistan  North Pakidtan Resource                       28.80        27.76
Cr. 2642-PAK    1904 Republic of Pakistan  Public Sector Adjust                         100.00        52.67
Ln. 3645-PAK    1994 Republic of Pakistan  Public Sector Adjust                150.00                 75.00
Cr. 2558-PAK    1904 Republic of Pakistan  Sindh Special Development                     48.80         48.86
Cr. 2584-PAK    1904 Republic of Pakistan  Baluchidan Natural                            14.70         16.70
Cr. 2593-PAK    1994 Republic of Pakistan  Social Action Program                        200.00        174.16
Ln. 3764-PAK    1994 Republic of Pakistan  Power Sector Development            230.00                 230.00
Total                                                   4883.66  1240.08 /a   2756.70
of which has been repaid                                1180.72   224.67
Total now outstanding                                   3702.94  4015.39
Amount sold                                               33.09
of which has been repaid                                  33.09
Total undisbursed                                                              2766.70
/a  IDA Credits beginning with the 6th Replenishment are denominated In SDRs. and are shown
in USS equivalents at the time of negotiations. Disbursed amounts are computed at the
exchange rate applicable at the date of thi statement.
Indicates SAUSECAL Loans and Credits



18 -                                Schedule D
Page 3 of 3
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30. 1994)
Amount (mtilions)
Date              aorower                Purpoe                            Loan    Equity       Total
t0B               SteelCorp. of Palitan    Iron &Steel                     0.03                 0.63
19t5              Adamjee Indutries Ltd.   Textiles                        0.76                 0.75
161/6S            Ghharlbwal COment Ltd.    coment                         4.78      0.42       5.18
1903MWGI87l89/92  PICIC                  OFC                                         3.00       3 00
1980181870MA 191  Pakages Umited         Paper Products                   17.00      1.24      18.24
1965              CrescentJuts           Textiles                          1.83      0.11       1.94
1907              Pakistan Paper Corp.   Paper                             4.83      2.02       6.85
to10a19           Vawood Hercules        Feetier                          18.30      2.62      21t22
1970              FaujI Foundation       polypropylene sags                 1.78                t.78
1907              AMok Refinery Ld.      Chemicals & Perochemicals         7.00      0.88       8.30
1870              Mllkpak Ltd.           Food Processing                   1.90      0.40       2.30
1979182           Pakditan Olillieds Ltd.  Poleum                          7.00      1.18       8.18
t190              Premier Board          Paiie Board                       2.70                 2.70
191               HaIb Arkady Ltd.       Food/Food Processing              3.18      0.16       3.31
1982              Asos Cement Ind. Ltd. Cement                             4.02      0.51       4.53
183a5             Pakistan Proleum Ltd.   Poleum                          25.30      1.56      26.60
1985              NDLC                   Capital Markets                   8.49      03.7       S.88
19612             Mari GasCompany Ud.   Oil &Gas                          44.48                44As
1987/89           Anglo-&ulsse           Petroleum                                   6.80       6.80
198              Fecto Cement           Cement                           18.58                18.68
1966              Milet Tractors         Tractors                          4.90                 4.90
1980              Shams Textiles         Textile                           2.76                 2.78
1989              SursiCotton            Textles& Fibers                   2.76                 2.76
i19s              Hala Spinning          Texle Spinning                    326       0.66       3.92
iO9              Pakt Suzuki            Automot                          18.17                18.17
O90               Rupali Polyester       Synthetic Textiles               22.36      2.00      24.38
1990182           FitS                   Capital Markets                             1.67       1.57
1990              Housing Finance Corp.   Capital Markets                  5.83      0.40       6.02
1901              Engro Chemicals Pak. Ltd. Chemlcls& Peochemicals        3.20       8.50      44.70
1991/04           Pak indi Leasing Corp fPIL Capital Mrkets               16.00                16.00
1991              Prudential Discount Guaran Capitl MarkAts                          0.40       0.40
191               EilM. The Fund         Capital Markets                             0.76       0.78
1991             MIL                     Capital Markets                             0.24       0.24
1992              J.8. mock Orokerage    Capitl Markets                              0.80       0.86
1992              Rupafli Umited         SyntheticTexotiles               14.36      0.34      14.72
1993              Sarh Textiles          Textiles                          6.00      1.50       7.80
19S3              Central Secrtes Depositor Capital Markets                          025        025
1993              Muslim Commercial Bank  Capital Markets                 18.00                15.00
1993              Pakistan ervces Umted  Tourism                          12.00      3.00      15.00
1994              Cresoent Greenwood itd.  TextIes                        16.10       10       19.20
1994              Faul Cement            Cement                           24.00      6.00      26.00
1994              Reent Knitwear Ltd.    Textiles                         13.44      2.16      15.00
1994             Indosuez Hoechst        Phwceuticales                     1.86                 1.86
1904              CreditRatingAgency(PAC CapilMarkets                                0.20       0.20
1094              ORR CapUta Modaraba    CapitalMarkets                   10.00                10.00
1094              Nell. Dev. Leasing Co.    Capital Markets               12.80                12.80
1994              ORIX Leashig Ltd.      Capit Markets                    12.80                12.50
1994              Atlas SOT Lease Co. Ltd.  Capital Markets               10.00                10.00
1094              Pakdstan Ind'i. Comml. Leas Capitai Markets              8.00                 5.00
1994              First Leing Corp.      Capita Markdes                    5.00                 6.00
1994              Maple Leat             Cement                           30.00      5.20      35.20
1994              D.G. Kian Cement Compan Cement                          28.00      5.00      30.00
Tota Gross Commitments                                 493.44    62.80      s26.24
LesCaneellations. Termination Exchanges
Adjustments. Prepayments and Sales
Writofts and Sates                                   348.38     39.08     367.46
Total Commitments now held by IFC                      148.08    23.72      166.78
-         MUmu
Total Undisbureed                                      174.13    14.66      186.81



\@\\*as  LAHORE RING           TURKMENISTA            A '     CHINA j                        f 
KI SHAH KAKU
RAVI                        AFGJNISTAN       /                       .*                 I                              p  ..ddkAG. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11' 41'' D....i A                          .00
T,rt.Io                                  r-_H* A.j  S.*
F                                                                                                                                            %' _  .._  _'J  ... 
*ip~~ / 1\/t'  A/f    
0                                                    )      7
,-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                     ,- ?              0                  -g             &ooio/o
LAOR     'T' ._                                                     J        ,'   *      *A                                         .
FAISALABAD RING                                                                                        UATI
F~~~~~ T.6.1. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AND
1               W 1 J     TRANSMISSIONIINES:   KASHMIR
N                                                                                                                                      C-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-.
C        '  LRHRAOAD                                                                               e    132 .V
~7OLAIHPA,
- i           -00
30'~~~~ 
~~--'~~~~  KOT    - ~~MULTAN                                                              3
/    k.-'ibWER SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MAIN POWER STATIONS AND TRANSMIS-SION LINES
CONS   IDC O TTON XENIN;2
EXIN    O       NIgEARdb < $ ,  \POWER STATIONS;
PLDWERT  T    AT4 ' |   \   /    L          >                   *          ^~~~~~~~~~~ THERMAL
2or --U          I t sNTERNATIONA EOUNDARIES
JLI       .ax,,xD ST) ,    'J        50    lOS    ISO    200    250    J00                      *    NATIONA S:CAPITAL
X~~~ I ,, ,' . I I"
'16 W~~~~~~~~~~~'



