Doe:t Of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4497-ET
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 32.3 MILLION (US039.0 MILLION)
TO ETHIOPIA
FOR A
FOURTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
March 26, 1987
This document has a resticted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS1
Currency Unit - Ethiopian Birr (Br)
US$1.00 - Br 2.07
Br 1.00 = US$0.48
FISCAL YEAR (FY)
Government: July 8 - July 7
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
1 meter (m)                5   3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)           =   0.62 mile (ml)
1 kilogram (kg)            =   2.20 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (m.ton)       =   2,205 pounds (lb)
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMNS USED
AFDB     - African Development Bank
AFRDMD   - Animal and Fishery Resources Development Main Department
AIDB     - Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank
AISCO    - Agricultural Inputs Supply Corporation
AMC      - Agricultural Marketing Corporation
CBE      - Commercial Bank of Ethiopia
ESC         Ethiopian Seed Corporation
IAR      -  Institute of Agricultural Reasearch
ILCA     -  International Livestock Center for Africa
MOA      - Ministry of Agriculture
MOF      - Ministry of Finance
MPP      - Minimum Package Project
NVI      - National Veterinary Institute
PADEP    -  Peasant Agricultural Development Project
SORDU    -  Southern Rangelands Development Unit
l/The currency equivalent between the US dollar and the Ethiopian birr has
been constant from 1973 to the date of this report.



FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
ETHIOPIA
FOURTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             Ethiopia
Beneficiaries:        Ministry of Agriculture Animal Fisheries Resource
Development Main Department; Agricultural Input Supply
Corporation (AISCO); and Agricultural Industrial
Development Bank (AIDB).
Amount:               SDR 32.3 million (US$39.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                Standard IDA tenms
Relending
Terms:                AISCO and AIDB (new IFAD Loan) at annual interest
rates of 2 percent (4 percent starting FY89), five
years amortization period following one year grace;
Government assuming foreign exchange risk.
Cofinancin2:          IFAD (Ln.031-ET), US$2.0 million equivalent
IFAD (new loan), US$5.7 million equivalent
Project Description:  The project would address, as the first phase of a
long-term program, the three essential elements in
improving peasant sector animal production--health,
nutrition, and support services. Increasing exports
of live animals and hides and skins, and strengthening
the Ministry of Agriculture (HOA) are major project
objectives. The project would finance six major
components: (i) animal health development, including
field services in areas of high agricultural potential
and a national component, including expanded
laboratory services, vaccine production, veterinary
drug imports, and epidemiology analysis; (ii) animal
nutrition development, including intensive small-scale
fattening and forage systems adaptive research;
(iii) research, survey, and pilot activities song
semi-nomadic pastoralists in the Southern Rangelands;
(iv) agricultural credit to support peasant livestock
development, expanded drug inventories, and small-
scale fattening; (v) NOA institutional development,
and (vi) a major live animal export trade development
study. Technical assistance would support applied
research, financial administration and accounting,
veterinary epidemiology, vaccine production, seed
production, socio-economics, laboratory management and
operation, and livestock development and training.
The project would finance civil works, vehicles,
equipment, veterinary drugs and vaccines, seed
production, agricultural credit, technical assistance,
training, and incremental operating costs. The
project would be implemented by existing institutions.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizadon.



- ii -
US$7.2 million equivalent of the IDA credit would be
onlent to the Agricultural Inputs Supply Corporation
for financing and distribution of veterinary drugs and
vaccines. The IFAD loans would be onlent to the
Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank to
support agricultural credit operations.
Benefits and Risks:   Quantified project benefits accrue from better animal
heath and nutrition. Unquantified benefits would
include increased crop production due to the increased
supply and efficiency of oxen for cultivation,
increased crop yields resulting from the improved soil
and water conservation, and increased production and
supply of domestic fuel wood from conservation-related
project activities. Substantial increased employment
benefits would also flow from project activities. At
full development (year 10), an estimated 770,000 farm
families, the vast majority of whom currently live in
absolute poverty, would benefit from project
activities. Some risk is associated with the
possibility in some areas of livestock numbers
increasing without a corresponding increase in
offtake, thereby exacerbating the soil erosion and
degradation problem. The probability of this
happening is considered minimal. Impacts arising from
possible increases in livestock numbers relative to
available feed supply would be monitored and evaluated
during a mid-term review of project implementation.
Estimated Cost:
Local     Foreign     Total
-a_____  sS$ million    ----
1.  Animal Health Development                    10.2       13.2        23.4
2.   Animal Nutrition Development                 2.4        2.8         5.2
3.   Southern Rangeland Development Unit          2.1        2.6         4.7
4.   Agricultural Credit                          3.1        3.2         6.3
5.   KOA Institution Building                     2.2        3.1         5.3
6.   Live Animal Export Trade Study                -         0.5         0.5
Total Base Cost                                  20.0       25.4        45.4
Physical Contingencies                            2.7        3.6         6.3
Price Contingencies                               1.4        4.1         5.5
Total Costs1                                     24.12      33.1        57.2
1/     Includes US$865,000 equivalent PPF Advance.
2/     Includes taxes and duties of US$5.3 million



- iii -
Financing Plan:
Local     Foreiln      Total
--- - US$ million -------
IDA                                                10.0       29.0        39.0
Government                                         10.5        -          10.5
IFAD                                                3.6        4.1         7.7
Total                                              24.1       33.1        57.2
Estimated Disbursements from IDA Credit
(US$ million)
IDA FY            88        89         90        91         92         93
Annual              7.6        9.7       9.5        6.1       4.3        1.8
Cummul.             7.6      17.3       26.8       32.9      37.2       39.0
Economic Rate of Return: 26 percent
MAP: IBRD No. 19693



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO ETHIOPIA
FOR A FOURTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to Ethiopia for SDR 32.3 million (US$39.0 million
equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a fourth livestock
development project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       The last economic report on Ethiopia (No. 5929-ET), entitled
"Ethiopia, Recent Economic Developments and Prospects for Growth and
Recovery", was circulated to the Executive Directors on February 25,
1987. The report's findings are reflected in the following paragraphs.
Structural Characteristics
3.       The boundaries of Ethiopia embrace a wide diversity of cultures
and have contained a long history. Centuries of tradition have been
overtaken recently by fundamental social and political change. With a
population of about 43 million in 1985, Ethiopia is the third most
populous country in Africa (after Nigeria and Egypt). It is also one of
the poorest and, in terms of social indicators, one of the least
developed. About 89 percent of the total population is rural. The
country's land area extends over 1.2 million square kilometers and may be
broadly divided into two main geographical zones--the highland plateau of
central Ethiopia and the surrounding lowlands. Its capital city, Addis
Ababa, located in the central highlands, has a population estimated at
1.5 million.
4.       Agriculture accounts for nearly 50 percent of GDP, 90 percent of
exports, and 85 percent of total employment. Crops account for about
80 perccnt of the gross value of production and livestock for most of the
rest. The main food crops are teff (a locally consumed cereal), maize,
barley, sorghum, wheat, pulses, and oilseeds. Coffee, the principal
export crop, generates over 60 percent of the country's export earnings.
Other export crops include oilseeds, pulses, cotton, sugarcane, fruits
and vegetables. The country's livestock herd is the largest in Africa;
the official export of live animals has begun to increase in recent years
but is still very low compared to the potential. Ethiopia's known
natural resources include gold, platinum, copper, soda ash, and potash.
Some petroleum exploration has taken place in the past, but no petroleum
reserves have yet been proven. None of these minerals has been exploited
on a large scale, and in most cases the potential for commercial
exploitation remains to be established. There are prospects for the



exploitation of geothermal energy. The country's main potential lies in
agriculture, for which the natural conditions of several &reas are
favorable. Nearly 95 percent of the land under cultivation is operated
by individual farmers who have user rights to landholdings averaging two
hectares or less. Manufacturing industry, which accounts for about 10
percent of GDP, is heavily dependent on agriculture; agro-based industry
constitutes around 70 percent of large- and medium-scale industry.
Public sector control and ownership cover almost all large and medium-
scale manufacturing, banking and insurance, shipping, railway, airways,
utilities, and a large proportion of construction. Handicrafts and small
industry are operated by private owners. Domestic trade, especially
retail trade, and road transport are still largely in private hands.
5.       GNP per capita is estimated at around US$110 (1984), and an
estimated 60 percent of the population lives below the absolute poverty
level. Health services are limited and require major improvements to
combat high rates oL morbidity and infant and maternal mortality,
worsened by the drought. Life expectancy is still only about 46 years.
Housing and sanitation facilities, especially in the towns, are poor and
need urgent attention. Despite Ethiopia1s rich endowment of fertile land
and substantial agricultural potertial, its wide variation in topography
and extremely rugged terrain have been serious obstacles to internal
transportation, and economic development in general. Nearly three-
quarters of Ethiopia's farms are more than half-a-day's walk from all-
weather roads.
The Drought
6.       The drought and famine in 1984/85 caused human suffering on an
unprecedented scale--nearly 8 million people. In response to the
Government's appeals for assistance and its efforts in dealing with the
crisis, UN agencies, bilateral donors, multilateral agencies and non-
government organizations provided a record US$470 million in relief
assistance, more than in previous years (para. B). The Government's
hopes for some respite from the drought situation were raised by improved
rainfall in 1985186, but actual food production proved well below
expectations. It is too early to say whether the increased interest of
donors in Ethiopia due to the drought will be successful in generating
significantly increased concessionary aid for long-term development. The
drought relief effort, as well as the Government's programs to
rehabilitate drought-prone areas and to resettle drought victims in the
western provinces, has severely strained the Government administration
and temporarily directed manpower and financial resources away from other
development activities.
Recent Macroeconomic Developments
7.       Since the 1974 revolution, Ethiopia has made considerable sccial
progress, as reflected by significant increases in literacy and school
enrollment and a modest rise in life expectancy. The literacy rate rose
from 7 percent in 1973 to more than 40 percent in 1981, and the primary
school enrollment rate increased from 19 percent to 47 percent over the
same period. These achievements, however, have not been accompanied by
commensurate economic growth. During the decade ending 1983/84, GDP grew
at an average annual rate of only 2.7 percent in real terms, compared to
an estimated population growth rate of 2.9 percent.



- 3 -
8.       The economy witnessed a setback during the three years from
1980/81 to 1982/83, with GDP growth declining to an average rate of
around 3.1 percent per annum, compared with the highs of around 5.5
percent per year during 1978179 and 1979/80. This adverse trend became
more pronounced during the past two years owing to the recent drought.
GDP declined by 3.7 percent in 1983/84 and by 6.5 percent In 1984/85.
The principal causes for the setback in economic growth in recent years
were droughts and inappropriate policies (para. 14) that affected agri-
culture, and capacity constraints (notably ln industry), owing to low
rates of investment in the past. The ratio of total investment to GDP
has remained for many years at around 11 percent, due largely to
constraints on domestic as well as external resources. Domestic savings
have averaged around 3.4 percent of GDP during the four years ending
1983184, partly reflecting the basic consumer needs of a low-income
country and the high expenditure on defense and security. Domestic
savings turned negative in 1984/85 with total consumption exceeding
output. Apart from the recent increase In emergency aid arising from the
drought disaster, official development assistance averaged only around
US$9 per capita per year as compared to over US$20 per capita for
developing countries in Africa.
9.       The external current account deficit has continued to widen; It
reached US$416 million in 1983/84, equivalent to 8.6 percent of GDP. The
sltuation further deteriorated in 1984/85 with depressed exports and
increased imports; the current account deficit reached the equivalent of
about 13 percent of GDP--the highest in the past decade. Meanwhile, net
external reserves turned negative during 1984185, owing to heavy draw-
downs, but ended with a positive balance in June 1985. The external debt
service ratio increased significantly to about 22 percent. However, the
recent coffee price boom and the fall in oil prices have reduced the
current account deficit to 6.8 percent of GDP in 1985186 and increased
net foreign assets to four months of imports as of the end of 1985/86.
Also, GDP grew by 11.3 percent in 1985/86 as a result of the recovery of
agriculture from drought.
10.       Notwithstanding poor growth trends, the Government's fiscal and
monetary management has been generally prudent. The country has a
relatively competent public service and, in general, its ministries,
departments, and most public enterprises are reasonably well managed.
The overall budget deficits remained below 5 percent of GDP for the
period 1978179 to 1981/82, and modest current account surpluses were
achieved in these years. But since then the fiscal deficit has followed
an uneven path. During 1982183, the overall budget deficit rose to a
level equivalent to about 13 percent of GDP, principally due to a near
doubling of capital expenditure and an increase in current expenditure,
reflecting in large part a Government decision to settle arrears due to
parastatals in one year. The overall deficit was brought back to a level
equivalent to 6.2 percent of GDP in 1983/84. Despite heavy drought-
related expenditures in 1984185, the Government controlled the fiscal
deficit to the equivalent of about 8 percent of GDP, imposing cutbacks on
current expenditure and special drought levies. The overall deficit fell
to 6.5 percent of GDP in 1985186.
11.       The inflation rate (as measured by the Addis Ababa retail price
index) had dropped from an average of 13 percent during 1978/79 and
1979180 to about 5 percent during the five-year period ending 1983/84.



- 4 -
But during 1984185 it rose to an annualized rate of about 18 percent,
largely reflecting food price increases caused by food shortages, which
became more pronounced after July 1984, owing to the drought. Due to
increased food supplies, inflation was negative 10 percent in 1985/86.
12.      Despite the growing internal and external imbalances noted
above, there has been little or no change in Ethiopia's economic policy
framework. Official pronouncements have stressed from time to time the
need to: revitalize agriculture through increased investment, guaranteed
producer prices, and diffusion of improved technology to farmers; restore
confidunce among entrepreneurs engaged in small-scale industry; and
attract foreign investment and technology to develop the country's
resources. Other noteworthy steps include a Joint Venture Code
introduced in January 1983 to promote joint ventures between foreign
investors (public or private) and Ethiopian public enterprises, and the
formulation of proposals to simplify and rationalize the system of direct
and indirect taxes and to make the tax system more income-elastic. But
actual progress in these directions has been very slow.
13.      There are a number of issues that require urgent attention.
It is yet unclear whether the projected levels of investment can be
financed, given the low domestic savings rate, the claims of the drought
and other priorities for recurrent expenditures, and the limited inflow
of official development assistance (para. 8). While the Government has
been reasonably successful in financial management, greater effort is
needed to raise domestic savings and external concessionary assistance to
support investment and growth. Likewise, with the value of merchandise
imports running at double the value of merchandise exports, a major
expansion in exports and import substitution are called for, in order to
reach a more sustainable external current account deficit. Higher coffee
prices in the short term and projected lower oil prices in the medium
term have improved the prospects in this regard, but Ethiopia's currency
is still overvalued despite recent depreciation. The overvalued exchange
rate and the lack of an effective package of export incentives have
tended to reduce margins for producers of export commodities in local
currency and have inhibited the growth of exports.
14.      As regards sectoral issues, several other factors apart from the
drought appear to have impeded agricultural growth. Some initiatives
have been made toward improving the Government's agricultural and
marketing policies, and a serious dialogue with the Bank is in process.
Other constraints include the low use of improved seeds and fertilizer,
inadequate agricultural extension and research, and restrictions on
inter-regional grain movement by private operators. The precise role of
the private sector is yet unclear--the business climate does not appear
to be conducive to savings and investment, particularly in industry.
Although there has been a remarkable increase in literacy and general
education, economic growth in all sectors is constrained by a shortage of
managerial, technical and professional skills, indicating the need for
stepping up higher education.



-5-
Medium-Term Prospects
15.      The Ethiopian economy remains hampered by its weak infra-
structure (notably roads), low productivity in agriculture, heavy
dependence on one export commodity (coffee) subject to international
export quotas, a small industrial base, and shortages of skilled
manpower. Apart from this set of unfavorable initial conditions, the
availability of domestic resources for investment is constrained by the
Government's outlays on internal security, while import capacity is
constrained by stagnating exports and by low levels of external resource
transfers. The drought has caused a major setback to the economy.
16.      Ethiopia's rapid population growth also poses severe problems
for the future. Population growth, currently estimated at around 2.9
percent per annum, implies a doubling of Ethiopiari population in 26
years or less and threatens to absorb most of the gains in economic
growth and social welfare foreseeable in the next decade. The demand for
food, energy, and social services would increase dramatically and would
lead to adverse consequences in the ecological balance. The net impact
could be stagnation or possibly a decline in the living standards of the
Ethiopian people. Unless steps are taken to reduce fertility through an
expansion of family planning services, there will be little significant
improvement in per capita income or living standards. Ethiopia needs a
multisectoral population policy; this implies an expansion and
strengthening of basic maternal and child health services, into which
family planning must be integrated.
17.      Two areas of policy reform warrant immediate attention:
improving agricultural pricing and marketing policies and adjusting the
exchange rate to support export expansion and import substitution.
Ethiopia needs to orient economic policy toward expanding the directly
productive sectors, particularly agriculture and industry, and to
increase economic efficiency in the use of resources. The incentive
structure in the agricultural sector needs to be improved in order to
step up agricultural growth, and the business climate for private small-
scale enterprises, particularly in industry, should be made more
favorable for increased investment, output, and exports. In general, the
authorities have to make greater and more flexible use of macro-level
policy instruments (e.g., exchange rate and price policies) and less use
of direct, administrative controls. The attainment of higher growth
rates would also depend on raising the operational efficiency of public
enterprises and on alleviating skilled manpower shortages through better
incentives and greater emphasis on higher and technical education. There
is also a need to develop a more realistic macroeconomic framework for
the Government's three-year plan (beginning mid-1986) within the
framework of the Ten Year Perspective Plan and to present a well-balanced
portfolio of viable projects. The financing of increased public
investment would call for greater efforts In domestic as well as external
resource mobilization. Despite several constraints and limited room for
maneuverability on the part of Ethiopia's economic policymakers, condi-
tions exist for a GDP growth rate of nearly 4 percent per annum over the
medium term, provided the Government makes a concerted effort to increase
savings and investment and to pursue policies that foster accelerated
growth.



- 6 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ETHIOPIA
18.      Bank Group lending to Ethiopia since 1950 has totaled about
US$962 million (less cancellations) as of September 30, 1986, consisting
of 39 IDA credits totaling about US$743 million, 12 Bank loans totaling
about US$109 million, and 5 IFC commitments totaling US$15.7 million.
Much of the lending (US$228 million) was committed between fiscal years
1974 and 1978. Subsequently, the compensation issue led to a two-year
interruption in new lending. Since F71973, lending has been on IDA terms
only.  IBRD's Phare of total public debt outstanding and disbursed as of
December 31, 1984 is estimated at about 3 percent, and IDA's at 27
percent. Their shares of total debt service in FY1985 are estimated at 9
percent and 6 percent, respectively. Bank lending focused on the
construction of trunk roads, power, and telecommunicationa Zacilities
until the late 1960s, when Bank lending gradually shifted to agriculture
and education. Since 1973, 13 credits totaling US$238 million have
supported agriculture, and some have attracted cofinancing or other
complementary assistance. Credit 1088-ET of February 2, 1981, together
with cofinancing from Sweden and the International Fund for Agricultural
Development, assisted the agricultural minimaum package program, a major
part of the Government's efforts to assist peasant agriculture. The
proposed project would be the third in FY1987; a forestry project was
approved July 3, 1986.
19.      Project implementation in Ethiopia, although subject to some
difficulties, is generally quite satisfactory. Ethiopia's overall record
compares favorably with other countries in the Eastern Africa Region.
Financial problems, rising labor costs, and occasional shortages of
cons_ruction materials have detracted from efficient project implemen-
tation on occasion. However, the Government and the project management
units geneially have been successful in resolving these problems.
Efforts to recover from the drought and to implement the resettlement and
villagization programs have recently placed a particularly heavy burden
on the administration. Ethiopia's disbursement performance on projects
assisted by the Bank Group has also been generally satisfactory. The
FY86 disbursement rate for Ethiopia is 16.06 percent as compared to 27.8
percent for Eastern Africa Region and 25.02 percent Bank-wide.
Assistance Strategy
20.      We are assisting the Government to:
(a)    improve its policy framework with a view to increasing
agricultural production and exports through economic and
sector studies, advice on agricultural pricing and
marketing policies, and assistance in implementing its
Drought Action Plan;
(b)    improve the policy framework and institutional structure
for domestic and external resource mobilization and
allocation through advice on tax reforms, as well as
better planning and monitoring of foreign aid;



(c)    improve the policy framework and institutional structure
for public and private sector efficiency, through advice
on price policy reforms and a clearer role for the
existing private sector; and
(d)    accelerate human reoource development through advice
on population policy, education, and skilled manpower
development.
In our economic work, we are focusing on resource mobilization issues,
public investment reviews, export incentive issues, and human resource
development. We have been carrying out studies of the agricultural
sector, including a joint study with the Government on farmers'
incentives and marketing efficiency, and also studies of the industry,
education, and population, health and nutrition sectors. In our lending
work, we plan to continue emphasizing the productive sectors and
essential infrastructure to help address the country's capacity
constraints and deteriorating terms of trade. A peasant agricultural
development project is being considered to help increase the productivity
and incomes of small farmers. We are making concerted efforts to arrange
cofinancing for proposed projects. Informal discussions are underway,
but no decision has been taken concerning a possible donor conference on
Ethiopia, either a UNDP Round Table or a resumption of the Consultative
Group.
PART III - THE LIVESTOCK SUB-SECTOR
21.      With a per capita GNP of about US$110, Ethiopia is one of the
world's poorest country. Absolute poverty characterizes life for the
majority of Ethiopia's predominantly rural population. Agriculture is
paramount, and its satisfactory growth is critical not only for improving
and stabilizing food supply, but also for accelerating export and
industrial growth.
22.      While GDP growth averaged about 2.5 percent annually during the
decade ended 1983/84, agriculture grew by a little over one percent
annually, significantly less than the annual population increase of 2.7
percent.  Agriculture's share of GDP dropped from around S percent in
1976177 to 41 percent in 1984/85, primarily due to drought.
23.      Livestock production is estimated to contribute about one-third of
agricultural GDP and about 15 percent of total GDP, but its role in the
economy is more important than the figures suggest. Hides and skins are
the second largest export earner, averaging around 12 percent of total
export value. Although varying among regions, the livestock role includes
providing draft power, food, cash and food reserves, transportation, dung
for fuel and fertilizer and, especially in pastoralist areas, social
prestige. In the predominantly cereal producing areas, livestock are a
critical component of the crop production process. In the hoe-culture
production systems of the western lowlands, livestock are not critical to
the crop system but they are still important in the small-holder economy.
Amongst the eastern and southern pastoralists, livestock are the basis of



- 8 -
the economy, and heavy losses, as experienced in 1984/85, result in serious
deprivation and hunger.   Per capita meat consumption is high by developing
country standards. Beef accounts for about 51 percent of all meat
consumption followed by sheep meat (19 percent), poultry (15 percent), and
goat (14 percent).
24.      Ethiopia's livestock population is the largest in Africa,
comprising an estimated 27 million cattle, 42 million sheep and goats, 7
million equines, 1 million camels, and 50 million poultry. They are
distributed throughout the country but the greatest concentrations occur in
the highlands where 90 percent of the people live. Ethiopian livestock
productivity indicators are up to one-third lower than the tropical Africa
average. Annual cattle liveweight gains are low, and mortality is high.
Cows do not reach maturity until at least three and mostly four years of
age, calve every second year and produce only around 250 kg of milk per
lactation. Lambing percentages are reasonably good, but lamb mortality is
high. Forage supplies come largely from unimproved pastures and fallow
grazing, but crop residues are also important. An estimated 85 percent of
forage intake is used to meet maintenance requirements, leaving little for
production. In poor harvest years, animals are underfed and losses high.
25.      The main constraints to improving animal production are poor
nutrition, widespread disease incidence, and weak sectoral support
services, especially extension. Other constraints include lack of
appropriatc manpower education and training, weak domestic and export
marketing, inadequate infrastructrre, sociological considerations,
insufficient credit, and an inadequate data base for planning improved
services. Animal diseases and parasites are widespraad, depressing
fertility and growth, increasing mortality, and restricting export
opportunities. Ethiopia is fortunate that East Cost Fever, a serious
disease of many other African countries, is not present. The factors
constraining adequate disease control include the system of formulating
policy, lack of equipment and transport for the field services, a weak
tsetse trypanosomiasis unit, an uncoordinated disease surveillance system,
inadequate training of professional staff, absence of a disease monitoring
program; recurring drug shortages, budget constraints and staff management
and supervision. The most pressing of these factors would be addressed
under the proposed project.
Institutional Setting
26.      The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) in 1984 was decentralized to
form eight zones encompassing from one to three provinces. Each zonal
office of MOA is headed by a General Manager, supported by four technical
departmernts: Animal and Fishery Resources Development, Cooperative and
Agricultural Development, Rural Infrastructure, and Natural Resources
Conservation Department. Extension staff are being progressively deployed
to bring them closer to the farmers they serve. Under the proposed
project, veterinary staff would be redeployed in a similar manner. The
Agricultural Inputs Supply Corporation (AISCO), established in 1984 as an
autonomous agency within MOA, is responsible for procuring and distributing



-9-
inputs required by the agricultural sector. To date it has focussed
largely on peasant sector fertilizer inputs. The Government has now agreed
that AISCO shall procure the national _equi'rements for imported veterinary
drugs.  The Ministry of State Farms is responsible for large-scale
commercial agriculture including several livestock enterprises.
Bank Group Assistance in the Agriculture Sector
27.      The Bank has considerable experience in lending for agricultural
development in Ethiopia. Two minimum package projects (Cr.416-ET and Cr.
1088-ET) were aimed at increasing agricultural production in the highlands.
Coffee Projects (Cr.290-ET and Cr. 1429-ET) supported processing, cultural
practices and disease control. The Agriculture Marketing Corporation's
(AMC) storage and marketing activities were strengthened under Cr. 789-ET.
Other projects were for Drought Rehabilitation and Land Settlement (Cr.
485-ET), Irrigation (Cr. 1337-ET), Agricultural Research (Cr. 1521-ET) and
Drought Recovery (Cr. 1576-ET). An IFAD project (Loan 131-ET) is
strengthening the operational capacity of the Agricultural and Industrial
Bank, and channeling funds for on-farm development through cooperatives. A
proposed IDA Credit for the Small-Scale Irrigation and Conservation Project
(cofinanced with IFAD) has been negotiated and is scheduled to be submitted
to the Board shortly.
28.      The objectives of IDA assistance to Ethiopian agriculture are to
increase domestic food production primarily in the peasant sector; improve
the incentive framework, marketing conditions and general economic and
institutional environment for agricultural development; and increase
foreign exchange earnings and savings. Some projects have attracted
additional cofinancing (SIDA, IFAD, AFDB) or other complementary assistance
(WFP, ILO). Project implementation has generally been satisfactory, but
due to an unsatisfactory farner incentive and marketing framework, economic
benefits have generally been low. A growing recognition of these
constraints has resulted in Government's willingness to consider
introducing measures to resolve the marketing and pricing issues.
Past Experience in the Livestock Sub-Sector
29.      The First Livestock Project focused on commercial dairying and
processing. The project suffering from the effects of revolutionary
turmoil, institutional difficulties, high cost overruns and slow
implementation, failed to achive its objectives (Project Performance Audit
Report No. 4001, June 23, 1982).   The Second Livestock Project focused on
marketing infrastructure and meat processing. Although the hides and skins
component was comparatively successful and the infrastructure established
continues to function in many cases, the Project did not succeed in
introducing modern techniques of slaughter, marketing and organized
movement of livestock to a traditional society (Project Performance Audit
Report No. 0977, June 21, 1982).  The Third Livestock Project concentrated
on rangeland development in lowland pastoral areas. Implementation was
seriously affected by the conflict with neighboring Somalia and the lack of
a sound technological base fcr improving rangeland productivity. Lessons
from the Second and Third projects led to the decision to focus the
proposed project on production in the highland potential areas. During
1983-84, the Government, with the assistance of consultants (financed under
Credit 603-ET), completed a comprehensive analysis of the livestock sub-



- 10 -
sector, which reviewed the existing situation, identified the main
constraints to improving production, and proposed strategies for livestock
development in the main production systems. Eight priority projects were
identified, three of which--animal nutrition, small-scale fattening, and a
national health project--have been combined into the proposed project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
30.      The proposed project was appraised in March/April 1986, and the
Staff Appraisal Report No. 6341 dated March 9, 1987, is being circulated
separately. A supplementary project data sheet is attached as Annex III.
Negotiations were held in Washington from December 15-19, 1986. The
delegation was headed by Ato Bekele Tamirat, Vice Minister for Finance.
Objectives and Rationale for Support frc'o IDA
31.      As the first phase of a long-term program to build an efficient
animal health service, the proposed project is intended principally to
improve livestock production. This is to be achieved by improving animal
nutrition and supplying drugs needed to control animal diseases. Simul-
taneously, activities will be undertaken to strengthen the capacities of
the Ministry of Agriculture and relevant agricultural support services.
Other objectives include increasing foreign exchange earnings by expanding
exports of live animals and hides and skins and reducing possible
ecological degradation by improving the incentives for increasing the
offtake of animals. Increased crop production is expected from the
benefits of strengthened draft power and improved soil and water
conservation practices. The objectives served by this project are
consistent with our strategy to support improvements in agricultural
production and exports, as outlined in para. 20, and will contribute to a
more efficient use of resources available to small farmers.
Project Area
32.      Project activities will focus predominantly on high-potential
areas within four of the more productive agricultural development zones.
While the national dimensions of the animal health component will cover
most of the country, the animal health field services will be concentrated
in 140 districts in the following regions: Shewa, Welega, Ilubabor, Kefa,
Gojam, and Harerge. The animal nutrition activities will be implemented
largely in Shewa, Harerge, and Gojam. Thus, the project covers about half
of the country's population and half the total land area.
Pro_ject Description
33.      Animal Health.  Veterinary services will be strengthened on two
levels--field activities targeted toward peasant-owned livestock in the
project area and animal health services with a national focus. Field
service development will build on the existing veterinary service by making
existing staff more effective through regular training and supervision,
redeploying them closer to farmers, and providing appropriate equipment and
transport; ensuring a reliable supply of drugslvaccines; improving
diagnostic support; and, ultimately, concentrating on controlling only the



- 11 -
most economically important diseases and ensuring sustainability of the
service through improved cost recovery. On a national level, a veterinary
epidemiology unit will be established, vaccine production facilities
expanded, laboratory facilities improved, drug procurement and distribution
capability strengthened, and research into tsetse and trypanosomiasis also
strengthened. Incremental national requirements for veterinary drugs will
be supplied during the five years of project implementation, after which
the Government will cover these expenditures.
34.      Animal Nutrition.  Improvements in animal nutrition will be
obtained by expanding farm forage production, introducing small-scale
animal fattening schemes, and improving the utilization and management of
community grazing land. To do this the project will rely on implementation
of simple land-use plans by small farmer organizations as described in
para. 44. A research unit will develop new approaches to increasing farm
output within existing farm systems. The Ethiopian Seed Corporation will
participate in developing forage seed and seedling production.
35.      Southern Rangelands Pilot Project.  This component will test a
number of innovations aimed at improving the productivity of Ethiopia's
pastoralists. Hany innovations were developed under the previous Third
Livestock Project and are now ready for wider application and testing.
Based on the findings from these activities, funds will be included for
preparation of a follow-up rangeland development project.
36.      Agricultural Credit.  Credit for medium-term loans will be made
available through the Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank (AIDB)
for a range of livestock development activities. Funds will be lent to
Service Cooperatives to finance the purchase of veterinary drug supplies
and on-lent to an estimated 8,500 individuals for purposes such as:
purchase of cattle, sheep, and fodder under the small-scale fattening
program and animals, tools and equipment to increase productivity and
improve transfer marketing. Support will be provided to AIDB for training
staff in the appraisal of livestock loans and for staff transport.
37.      Institutional Development.  The proposed project will provide
support for strengthening the institutional capacity of MOA, AISCO, AIDB,
and ESC. Institutional development will include local and overseas
training, technical assistance, limited equipment, and incremental
operating costs.
38.      Livestock Export Trade Study.  A study will be undertaken by
AFRDMD with the assistance of internationally recruited consultants under
terms of reference satisfactory to IDA to identify ways of increasing
livestock export markets, including recommendations on an appropriate
policy framework. The study will be completed by December 31, 1988. Study
recommendations will be reviewed with IDA by March 31, 1989.
39.      Technical Assistance.  In addition to specialized services
required to assist with implementation of project components,
internationally recruited as well as local consultants will be retained for
the following activities: reviewing drug procurement practices; preparing
detailed plans and specifications for the construction and equipping of a
central veterinary laboratory; evaluating and recommending improvements in
SORDU's pond construction program; conducting specialized training courses;



- 12 -
and undertaking a study of the feasibility of forming a union of existing
peasant service cooperatives. In addition to project-financed technical
assistance, the Government will, not later than June 30, 1987, employ a
farm management specialist, a livestock training consultant, an audio
visual specialist, a forage seed production specialist, a molasseslurea
consultant, a service cooperative consultative planning advisor and a
forage briquetting technician.
40.      Training.  For animal nutrition, the project will provide
substantial staff training and development. Regular in-service training of
all project related staff will follow the systems successfully proven under
T & V agricultural extension projects. Special training will be given to
zonal planning teams who will prepare service cooperative development and
land-use plans. All project veterinary staff and those associated with the
animal nutrition component including development agents will complete an
initial three-week orientation course outlining the project objectives.
Short-term training will be given to Service Cooperative staff managing the
drug sales and inventory control. Overseas study tours and short-term
fellowships will be provided under the project. IDA agreement will be
required for the courses and staff selected for overseas training.
Preparation of the training program is well advanced, and the first year
activities have been agreed. Agreement has also been reached on the
overall training program fellowship selection criteria.
Project Implementation
41.      The main project implementing agency will be within the Ministry
of Agriculture's Animal and Fishery Resources Development Main Department
(AFRDMD).  The Vice-Minister of AFRDMD will be the ex-officio project
manager, assisted by a deputy manager for animal health and one for animal
nutrition. The Southern Rangelands Development Unit (SORDU), a semi-
autonomous unit under the Vice-Minister of AFRDMD, will implement the
Southern Rangelands Pilot Project. The responsibility within HOA for
overseeing the production of forage seed and seedlings will be transferred
by July 7, 1987, from the Department of Community Forest and Soil
Conservation to AFRDMD. AIDB will, in cooperation with MOA, implement the
credit activities.
42.      Drug Procurement and Distribution.  AISCO will import and
distribute all veterinary drugs and vaccines.  Funds will be on-lent to
AISCO under the prtject for drugs, stores, equipment, vehicles, and
consultant services (see para. 52). Completion of a financing agreement,
satisfactory to the Association, between the Government and AISCO is a
condition of credit effectiveness. The Government will ensure that AISCO,
at the beginning of each fiscal year, has at its disposal adequate local
funds to cover its operating costs. The distribution and sales of drugs
and veterinary equipment procured by AISCO will be through existing MOA
clinics, Service Cooperatives, and private pharmacies. The margin to be
charged for drugs and vaccines (20 percent for AISCO and 20 percent over
the AISCO price for retailers) will be reviewed annually by the Government
in consultation with IDA. The review process will be completed by March 31
each year. Procedures agreed between the Government and IDA for the sale
of drugs and vaccines will be followed.



- 13 -
43.      Animal Health.  An annual work plan detailing the sub-districts to
be served each year will be agreed upon by the Government and IDA not less
than three months prior to the beginning of each fiscal year. Those to be
served in each region during the first year have been agreed upon during
negotiations. MIOA will introduce, not later than July 7, 1987, a vehicle
cost accounting program to monitor the cost-effectiveness of various types
of vehicles. It will begin to implement, not later than July 7, 1987, a
policy of reviewing the condition of MOA vehicles if they have served five
years or traveled 140,000 km and again at eight years or 200,000 kms.
44.      Animal Nutrition.  This compo-nent will be implemented through
small farmer organizations. These include Peasant Associations of about
240 families each; Service Cooperatives, which provide inputs, consumer
goods, marketing and credit to groups of 4-5 Peasant Associations; and
Producer Cooperatives, which have an average membership of about 70
families and are intended to encourage farmers to pool their resources and
operate crop and livestock production communally. To implement the animal
nutrition component, Service Cooperatives in the project area will be
assisted to prepare development plans addressing special constraints and
prescribing the resources and services needed to progressively develop the
agricultural and livestock potential of the area within each jurisdiction.
District level planning teams with technical representation from MOA will
assist in preparing plans for livestock production and management including
health and nutrition improvements. Responsibility for supervising the
implementation of these plans will rest with district or field agents of
MOA assigned to each Service Cooperative participating in the project.
45.      Seed production will be handled as follows: requirements for the
first year of the project will be imported; most forage seeds and seedlings
will be grown at MOA centers or on plots of individual Peasant Associations
under the supervision of MOA technical teams; and minor requirements for
oats and vetch seed will be the responsibility of the ESC. During the
first three years of the project, seeds will be subsidized to provide the
required incentive for farmers to take up the new and technically complex
task of producing seed. Under the project farmers will either be paid in
cash by MOA for the forage seed produced (at prices set annually in
consultation with IDA) or compensated as part of a food-for-seed program to
be operated by a selected donor agency. The pricing strategies for seed
production will be included in the mid-term review with the view to phasing
out of the subsidy. The Government will conduct a study to determine the
need for a facility to conduct microbiological studies and produce legume
innoculum.
46.      In order to establish and oversee a program of applied research to
determine financially viable and technically feasible systems for forage
production and utilization, a Cooperation Agreement will be entered into by
the participating agencies: HOA's Forage Systems Development Unit; the
Institute of Agricultural Research; and the International Livestock Center
for Africa. Execution of this Agreement is a condition of credit
effectiveness.
47.      Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank.   To achieve
satisfactory performance, AIDB will: (i) Implement a training program,
satisfactory to the Government, for loan officers in the appraisal of



- 14 -
livestock loans; (ii) take all measures to ensure timely repayment by
project sub-borrowers; and (iii) enter into a Cooperation Agreement with
MOA to facilitate lendilLg operations. Signature of a Cooperation Agreement
between MOA and AIDB, satisfactory to IDA, is a condition of credit
effectiveness. Current data relevant to AIDB'S performance with respect to
debt recovery will be included in the semi-annual reports to be provided to
IDA.
48.      Southern Rangeland Pilot Project.  The pilot project activities
will be implemented by SORDU in cooperation with ILCA. The completion of a
Cooperation Agreement between MOA and ILCA for implementing the
research/survey activities, satisfactory to IDA, is a condition of
effectiveness. Draft annual work programs for the following fiscal year
will be prepared by SORDU and presented for IDA review by February 28 each
year with the final annual work program, taking into account IDA's
comments, submitted by June 30 each year. SORDU will complete a
feasibility study on the operational transfer of three existing ranches in
the pilot project area to pastoralist cooperatives by July 7, 1988, and
conduct a feasibility study, not later than June 30, 1988, on the transfer
of ownership and operation of SORDU cattle transport trucks to
cooperatively owned organizations. SORDU will, not later than July 7,
1987, transfer the responsibilities for the stocker-feeder credit program
to AIDB. IDA agreement with the SORDU annual work program is a condition
of disbursement for the pilot project activities.
Project Cost Estimates and Financing
49.      The total cost of the project, including physical and price
contingencies, taxes, and duties is estimated at fS$57.2 million
equivalent, of which the foreign exchange cost will be about
US$33.1 million equivalent, or 58 percent of total project costs. Cost
estimates are based on March 1985 prices updated to June 1986, based on
recent quotations by contractors and suppliers and considering inflationary
trends in local and foreign costs since March 19B5. Physical contingencies
of about 14 percent of the project base costs have been provided. Price
contingencies on the base costs plus physical contingencies have been
provided for local costs on the basis of annual inflation rates as
projected at 0 percent for FY87, 3 percent for FY88, FY89 and FY90, and 4
percent thereafter, and for foreign costs at the following annual rates
from FY87 through FY93: 7.2 percent, 6.8 percent, 6.8 percent, 7.0 percent,
7.1 percent, 4.0 percent, and 4.0 percent.
50.      Initial project costs for intensive on-the-job sta-if training;
procurement of imported forage seeds, field equipment and veihicles for
veterinary and extension staff; consultant services to initiate project
activities; and preparation of baseline surveys and pre-project overseas
study tours are being financed under a Project Preparation Facility Advance
of US$865,000.
51.      The proposed credit of US$39.0 million equivalent will finance
US$29.0 million of the foreign exchange costs and about US$10.0 million
equivalent of local costs, or about 75 percent of total costs, excluding
duties and taxes. Tha Government will provide US$10.5 million equivalent,
including duties and taxes. The International Fund for Agricultural
Development will finance US$2.0 million equivalent of project costs under



- 15 -
the existing Loan 131-ET. An additional loan of about US$5.7 million will
be provided. The fulfillment of the conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of the agreement between the Government and IFAD is a
condition of credit effectiveness.
52.      On-lending arrangements of the IFAD loan and the IDA credit have
been agreed. The Government will on-lend the proceeds of the IFAD loan to
AIDB for a period of five years, including one year's grace, at an annual
interest rate of 2 percent for fiscal years 1987 and 1988 and an interest
rate of 4 percent per annum thereafter. AIDB will on-lend these funds to
Service Cooperatives at 5 percent per annum for fiscal years 1987 and 1988
and 7 percent per annum thereafter. Individual farmers will receive funds
at 7 percent per annum during fiscal years 1987 and 1988 and 9 percent per
annum thereafter. These rates are expected to be positive in real terms
given that downward revisions of local inflation rates are justified in
light of recent information and analysis of inflation indicators. The
appropriate interest rates to be charged after 1988 will be agreed upon by
IDA and the Government during the mid-term review.   The main criteria for
assessing the interest rate will be that they be positive in real terms and
the spread for the financial intermediaries be sufficient to cover all
reasonable operating costs, risks and a profit margin. The execution of a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and AIDB specifying these
arrangements, is a condition of credit effectiveness. The Government will
on-lend US$7.0 million equivalent to AISCO from the proceeds of the credit
for a period of five years, including one year of grace, at an annual
interest rate of 2 percent during the fiscal years 1987 and 1988 and an
interest rate of 4 percent per annum thereafter, for the purchase of
vehicles, equipment, facilities, training, and drug requirements for the
first project year and incremental annual drug requirements thereafter.
The appropriateness of the on-lending rate would be reassessed during the
mid-term review.
53.      The foreign exchange risk under the above onlending arrangements
(IFAD loan through AIDB and IDA Credit to AISCO) is borne by the
Government. In the case of AIDB, this is consistent with lending terms as
under ongoing IFAD loans and IDA credits channelled through AIDB. With
respect to AISCO, the assumption by the Government of the foreign exchange
risk is consistent with the objective of strengthening the capital
structure of a fledgling institution whose operations are envisaged to
expand under the proposed and future projects.
Monitoring and Evaluation
54.      MOA, AIDB, AISCO, and SORDU will prepare and submit semi-annual
progress reports, in a form satisfactory to IDA, within two months of the
end of the reporting period. MOA will also prepare a Project Completion
Report no later than six months after the completion of the project. The
Government will, not later than December 31, 1989, prepare and submit a
mid-term review report to IDA for review and comment under terms of
reference acceptable to IDA. The Government and IDA will conduct a joint
review, including if necessary, a field review of project progress to
determine what changes, if any, are required to improve project impact
during the remainder of the project implementation period.



- 16 -
Procurement and Disbursement
55.      Procurement arrangements are sumuarized in Annex IV. Contracts
for vehicles, laboratory and work equipment, spare parts, and veterinary
drugs each valued at US$400,000 or more and totalling an estimated US$11.5
million, will be procured under international competitive bidding (ICB)
procedures following the Bank Group guidelines. Eligible domestic bidders
will be granted a margin of preference of 15 percent of the c.i.f. bid
price of imported goods or actual customs duties and import taxes,
whichever is lower. Due to the small stale of construction activities, the
civil works contracts might not be attractive to international bidders.
Therefore, the construction of laboratories, workshops, stores, and housing
will be done through local competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to
IDA. Foreign firms will be eligible to bid. Contracts for goods valued at
less than US$400,000 will be procured either through limited international
bidding or by local competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to IDA.
Small or off-the-shelf items costing less than US$50,000 each may be
purchased on the basis of comparisons. The total value of the items
procured under this procedure should not exceed US$3.0 million.
Consultants will be retained in accordance with IDA guidelines.
56.      Disbursements under the credit will be made against 100 percent of
foreign expenditures and 75 percent of local expenditures for civil works,
including project-financed buildings; 100 percent of foreign expenditures
and 75 percent of local expenditures for vehicles and equipment, office
furniture and equipment, and imported seed; 100 percent of expenditures for
technical assistance; 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 85 percent of
local expenditures for training; 100 percent of total expenditures during
the first year of the project, 60 percent of total expenditures in project
years two and three, and 40 percent of annual expenditures thereafter for
veterinary drugs and medicine expenditures; 100 percent of expenditures
during the first two years for imported vaccines; 75 percent of
expenditures in project years one through three for operating costs and 50
percent thereafter; and 100 percent for the Livestock Export Trade Study.
The proceeds of the Credit will be disbursed over a seven-year period
including expenditures incurred under the PPF. Disbursement will be based
on full documentation with the exception of operating costs and
reimbursement applications valued below US$50,000 for which statements of
expenditures will be required. The Closing Date for the proposed Credit
will be December 31, 1992, six months after project completion. For the
purpose of the project, a Special Account will be opened in the National
Bank of Ethiopia, with an initial deposit of US$2.5 million.
Accounts and Audit
57.      HOA, AISCO, SORDU, and AIDB will establish and mailtan separate
project accounts. These will be audited annually by an independent auditor
acceptable to IDA. Audited accounts will be sent to IDA, including audits
of the statements of expenditures, and the Special Account, within eight
months of the close of each financial year.



- 17 -
Cost Recovery
58.      The project will finance the annual cost of veterinary drugs for
the MOA nationwide program. Veterinary drugs and medicines will be sold to
farmers at their purchase cost to the Government. No markup is included to
allow for losses and handling. It is expected that total AISCO receipts
for drug sales will be sufficient to cover all handling costs including an
allowance for losses and drug expiry. AISCO will retain funds on a
revolving basis to replenish stocks as required. Vaccines are currently
provided free. Imported vaccines will be sold by AISCO on the same basis
as drugs. The Veterinary Epidemiology and Economics Unit will examine the
economics of controlling the comparatively wide spectrum of diseases.
During the mid-term review, the national vaccine program will be examined,
and it is anticipated that the spectrum of vaccines provided free will be
reduced. Farmers will be able to request the vaccines not included in the
national priority list and pay for them on a cost basis. The possibility
of introducing a small service charge for clinical services provided to
farmers will be examined. Due to the current level of direct and implicit
taxes being paid by peasants, premature introduction of such a charge will
be an unreasonable burden on most peasant families.
59.      Except for the ESC-produced oat seed, the costs of which will be
recovered in full from farmers, grass and forage seeds and seedlings will
be provided free or on a seed-for-work program basis for the first three
years of the project. The bulk of seed and a good proportion of seedlings
required under the project will be produced by farmers in the participating
areas. Farmers will be paid a fair price for these seeds to ensure an
adequate incentive. The costs of the seed-for-work program will be met by
MOA as a subsidy, but the process will be fully reviewed in consultation
with IDA during the mid-term review.
Environmental Impact
60.      Overall, the project is expected to have a beneficial
environmental impact. There is some possibility that overgrazing could
cause or accelerate land degradation if livestock herds in newly formed
villages are concentrated in village grazing areas or if the anticipated
increase in cattle offtake does not occur, the probability of such
overgrazing is considered minimal considering that in many regions
overgrazing will not be an issue given the availability of sufficient feed
to sustain a substantial increase in cattle without deleterious effects and
that improved conditions of cattle is expected to encourage farmers to sell
surplus animals. Furthermore, improved agricultural incentives being
discussed with the Government would encourage a shift towards graln
production. Impacts arising from possible increases in livestock numbers
relative to available feed supplies would, however, be monitored and
evaluated during a mid-term review. The proposed adaptive research work
should lead to greater productivity and improved land utilization. Better
animal nutrition, which will imply a necessity to own fewer animals, will
have a beneficial impact upon the rural environment, especially longer term
crop production and potable water supplies. Assistance to the National
Veterinary Institute to increase rabies vaccine production will improve the
environment in major towns and cities. Improved land use and management of
community grazing areas, especially on steeper land, will have a beneficial
impact on controlling soil erosion.



- 18 -
Benefits
61.      Direct project benefits have been quantified only for the two main
components--animal health and animal nutrition. These benefits include
increased availability of meat, milk, and ox-power due to reduced mortality
and higher liveweights at time of sale or slaughter and increased
production and offtake of meat and milk from all species.   Increased crop
production and possible increases in area cultivated, due to the increased
supply and efficiency of oxen for cultivation arising from both animal
health and nutrition activities, have not been quantified as it is not
possible to determine precisely the magnitude of such benefits. Also,
increased crop yields resulting from the application of additional manure
and from improved soil and water conservation have not been quantified.
Additional benefits will flow from the pilot project activities in the
Southern Rangelands among drought-susceptible pastoralist groups. Project
impact on rural development will be important, especially in the animal
nutrition component for which the employment benefits have been quantified.
At full development, animal nutrition activities will generate about 1.7
million incremental labor-days annually in some 625 Peasant Associations
involving about 176,000 farm families. At full development, an estimated
710,000 farm families will benefit from the animal health activities each
year. The vast majority of these beneficiaries currently live in absolute
poverty.
62.      The project economic rate of return is estimated at 26 percent,
based on an analysis of the productive components, which comprise
60 percent of total project costs. Should benefits decrease by 20 percent
or costs increase by 20 percent, the rate of return will fall to 19 percent
and 20 percent, respectively.
Risks
63.      In general, this is a comparatively low risk project.  There may
be a possibility in some areas of livestock numbers increasing without a
corresponding increase in offtake, thereby exacerbating the soil erosion
and degradation problem. This will be closely monitored and evaluated
during a mid-term review of the project. The commitment to the project
demonstrated by the Ministry of Agriculture and the efficient and early
implementation of project start-up activitios all point to implementation
proceeding as scheduled.   Current high prices for livestock and livestock
products relative to those for grain provide an incentive for increasing
offtake.  Some risk may be associated with uncertainty among livestock
owners about the impact of the Government's villagization program, but this
is expected to be minimal since livestock ownership is expected to remain
private and current indications are that private exporters will continue to
operate. Moreover, the proposed Livestock Export Trade Study will provide
a basis for professional dialogue with Government on possible marketing
arrangementss.



- 19 s
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
64.      I am satisfied that the proposed credit will comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
March 26, 1987
Washington, D.C.



- 20 -                                  ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
1986  SOCIAL  INDICATOR  DATA  SHEET
ETHIOPIA
Reference Groups (MRE)
Most
Recent    Low-income    Mid-income
1965       1973    Estimate   S-S Africa    S-S Afrtca
LABOR FORCE
Total Labor Force (thou)        11047.3    13176.3    16583.1
Female (X)                       35.8       35.3        33.2        35.7        37.5
Agriculture (%)                 86.3        83.6        79.8 a      78.9        59.4
rndustry (%)                     5.3         6.4         7.8 a       7.6        14.8
Particloation rate (%):
Total                           43.5        42.1        39.3        38.9        36.2
Male                             57.0       55.6        52.0        50.4        45.8
Female                          30.5        29.2        26.4        27.5        26.7
Age dependency ratio                0.9        0.9         0.9         1.0         1.0
HOUSING
Average size of household:
TotaI                                        4.5
Urban                             3.5        4.2
Rural                              ,,        4.5
Percentage of dwellings with
electricity:
Total                              ..         ..          .           .
Urban                            5B.2 b
Rural .I.
EDUCATION
Enrollment rates:
Primary: Total                   11.0        16.0       46.0        60.1        98.5
Male                   16.0        23.0        58.0       69.6       107.3
Female                  6.0        10.0        34.0       51.3        90.7
Secondary: Total                  2.0        4.0        13.0        12.5        21.0
Male                  3.0         6.0        17.0        16.5       28.5
Female                1.O         2.0        9.0         9.0        16.9
Pupil-Teacner ratio:
Primary                          41.5       46.1        59.3        45.1        42.5
Secondary                        20.1       27.7          ..        23.0        27.7
Pupils reaching grade 6 (X)           .          ..         ..        59.6        80.8
rNCOME. CONSUMPTION. AND POVERTY
Energy consumption per cap.
(kg of oil equivalent)             9.7        20.9        16.7        54.6       530.7
Percentage of private income
received by:
Highest 10% of households          ..
Hignest 20%                        ..
Lowest 20%                         ..
Lowest 40%                         ..
Est. absolute poverty income
level (uSS Per capita):
Urban                              ..      115.0       190.0 c        ..       689.6
Rural                              ..       65.0          ..          .        338.1
Est. pop. below absolute
poverty tncome level (%)
Uroan                              ..       60.0
Rural                              ..       65.0
Passenger cars/thou pop.            0.9         1.5          -                    36.0
Newspacer circulation
(per tnousand population)           1.3         1.0        0.9         3.6         7.4
EPO July 1986
Mot avm,iabi
Note: Gou08 aVeAges drm ocemiation w11gHtm1. Country coVOtage deoends on data av aiagslity and in not unitorm. Unless otherwise
noted. 1965 refos to s%. year between 1912 ana igetS ?973 between 1970 and 7970: end most Milent estimate between 1912 and 10IN.
a. 1SO. a. Addis Abtet only. c. 1981.



- 21 -
Page 2 of 6
1986 SOCIAL INDICATOR DATA SHEET
ETHIOPIA
Reference Groups (MRE)
Most
Recent    Low-Income    Mid-income
1965        1973    Eutimate   S-S Africa    S-S Africa
AREA
Total land area (tAou SQ kim)   1221.9        1221.9       1221.9
Agricultural (I  of total)          48.0        48.7         48.4
GNP PER CAPITA fUSS)                     ..          ..       110.0       210.0      1025.3
POPULATION AMW VITAL STATISTICS
Total population (thou)          25409.0    31284.0    42169.0
Urban Pop. (% of total)                          9.7         15.2        20.4        33.1
Population growth rate(%):
Total                                          2.6         2.8          2.9         2.8
Urban                                          7.4         6.1          6.2         4.8
Life expect. at btrth lyrsl         42.7        43.6         44.5        48.2        51.0
Population projections:
Pop. in 2000 (mill)                                        5.i1
Stationary op. (mill)                                    204.0
Population consity per sq km
of agricultural lana                43.3        52.6         71.3        55.9        45.6
Pop. age structure (I]:
-14 yes                           44.9        45.3        40.0         46.7        46.2
15-64 yrs                         52.5        52.1        51.3        50.4         51.0
65 and above                       2.6         2.7         2.7          2.9         2.3
Crud, birth ruts (per tnou)         43.5        43.2         41.0        46.8        46.3
Crude death rate (per tnou)         20.3         19.5        24.0        18.3        15.8
Total fertility rate                 5.8         5.8          6.1         6.6         a.4
Infant mort. rate (oer thou)    166.0          155.0       172.0        128.5       103.2
Chtid Coeatn rate (per thou)        37.0        35.0         39.0        25.7        17.6
Family planning:
AcCeptors, annual (tnou)
Users (  of ma:rred women)                                 2.0          4.5         7. 1
FOGOD HEALTH AND NUTRITION
Index of food production per
capita (1974-76 - i00)             117.1        106.8        90.0        89.5        88.3
Per caoita supply of:
Calories (X of requirmnts)        93.1        81.2        92.8         90.0        94.2
Proteins (grams per day)          73.9        63.7        72.7         52.6        50.6
Pop. per physictan (thou)           70.2        83.6        88.1 a       39.2        11.3
Pop. per nurse (thou)                5.8         6.4          5.6 a       3.3         2.6
Pop. per hospital bed (tnou)         2.7          3.7         3.8 a       1.7         1.4
Access to safe water
(% of population):  Total                      6.0        14.5        25.2         45.8
Urban                   61.0        82.C         61.8        7O.5
Rural                    1.0         3.9         t7.1        35.0
Population Growth               Infant Mortality        Primary School Enrollment
2                                                            x
5-                          20                         I   120-
100                       I                       -     41
2- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~I-
40                   U
I-                            0                        I                    a
1945-73 1973-Ed         1960 1965 1970 1975 1910      1960 1965 1970 1975 1930
z3 CTHIOPIA                                     a  ErHIoPIA
rist rREr GROUP                                0  FIRST LrjGROUP



- 22-                                    ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
3 Definitions of Social Indicators
The deth:letion of a particular social indicator may  Infant (age 0-1) mortality rate  Number of infants
vary among countries or within one country over   per thousand live births who die before reaching one
time. For instance, differcnt countries define "urban  year of age, in a given year.
area" or "safc water" in different ways.          Child (age 1-4) mortality rate - Number of deaths
of children. age 14, per thousand children in the
AREA (thousand square kilometers)                 same age group in a given year. For most developing
Total - Total surface area comprising land area and  countries these data are derived from models using
inland waters.                 I                  information on infant mortality rates.
Agricultural (percentage of totcl) - Estimate of agri-    Family planning - acceptors. (thousands) - Annual
cultural area used for crops. pastures, market and  number of acceptors of birth-control measures re-
kitchen gardens or to lie fallow, as percentage of    ceived under the auspices of a national family plan-
total.                                            ning program.
Family planning - users (percentage of married wom-
GNP PER CAPITA (USS) - GNP per capita csti-    en) - Percentage of marricd women of child-bearing
mates at current market prices. calculated by the  age who arm practising, or whose husbands are
conversion method used for the World Bank Atlas,    practising, any form of contraception. Women of
19Y6.                                             child-bearing age are generally women aged 15-49.
although for some countries contraceptive usage is
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                   measured for another age group.
Tot. population - mid-year (millions)
Urban population (percentage of toral) - Different  FOOD, HEALTH AND NUTRrrION
countries follow different definilions or urban popu-    Index offoodproduction per capita (1974 - 76 = 100)
lation. Such differences may affect comparability of    - Index of per capita annual production of all food
data among countries.                             commodities. Production excludes animal feed and
Population growth rare (percent) - total and urban -    seed for agriculture. Food commodities include pri-
Annual growth: rates of total and of urban popula-  mary commodities (for example, sugarcane instead
tions.                                            of sugar) which are edible and which contain nu-
Life expectancy at birth (years) - Number of years a  trients (for example, tea and coffee are excluded).
newborn infant would live if prevailing patterns of    Commodities include nuts, fruits, pulses, cereals,
mortality for all people at the time of its birth were r  vegetables, oil se:ds, sugarcane and sugar beets,
to stay the same throughout its life,             livestock, and livestock products. Aggregate produc-
Population projections                            tion or each country is based on national average
Population in 2000 - The projection of population  producer price weights.
given total population by al ' and sex. fertility and  Per capita supply of calories (percentage of require-
the demographic parameters of mortality rates, and  ments) - Computed from energy equivalent of net
migration in the base year 1980. until the population  food supplies available in country per capita per day.
reaches a stationary state.                       Available supplies comprise domestic production,
Stationary population - The projected population  imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net
level when zero population growth is achieved: i.e.,    supplies exclude animal feed, seeds for use in agri-
the birth rate is constant and equal to the death rate,    culture, quantities used in food processing, and loss-
the age struzture is stable, and the growth rate is    es in distribution. Requirements were estimated for
zero.                                             1977 by the Food and Agriculture Organization
Populalion densit,u agriculiural land - Population per    (FAO) based on physiological needs for normal
square kilometer (100 hectares) of agricultural area.    activity and health considering body weights, envi-
Population age struerre (percent) - Children 0-14  ronmental temperature, age and sex distribution of
years. working age 15-64 years. and peopie of 65  populaLion.
years and over as percentages of population.      Per capita supply of protein (grams per day ) - Protein
Crudle hirth rate - Annual live births per thousand  content of per capita net supply of rood per day. Net
population.                                       supply of food is defined as above. Requirements for
Cruide death rate - Annual dcaths per thousand    all countries established by United States Depart-
population.                                       ment of Agriculturc provide for minimum allow-
Twrualfertilitr rate - The average numnber or children  ances of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20
that would be born alive to a woman during her    grams of animal and pul e protein. These standards
lifetime if during her childbearing years she were to  are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and
bear children at each age in accordanc with prevail-    23 grams of animal protein as an average for the
ing age-specific fertility rates.                 world, as proposed by FAO.



23-                                  ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
Population per phvsician - Population divided by    group of individuals who share living quarters and
number of practising physicians qualified from a   main meals. A boarder or lodger may or may not be
medical school at university level.               included in the household for statistical purposes.
Population per nursing person - Population divided  Percentage of dwellings with electricity - toat, urban.
by number of practising graduate nurses, assistant    and rural - Conventional dwellings with electricity in
nurscs, practical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.  living quarters as percentage of all dwellings.
Population per hospital bed - Population divided by
number of hospital beds available in public and pri-    EDUCATION
vate. general and specialized hosp;tals, and reha-    Enrollment Rates
bilitation centers. Hospitals are establishments     Primary School Enrollment- rotal, male andfemale
permanently staffed by at least one physician. Es-    - Gross enrollment of all ages at primary level as a
tablishmems principally providing custodial care are    percentage of primary school-age children. While
not included.                                      many countries consider primary school age to be
Access to safe water (percentage of population) - total.    6-11 years, others have wider age groups. Differ-
urban, and rural - People (total, urban, and rural) with    ences in country practices in the ages and duration
reasonable access to safe water supply (includes treat-    or school are reflected in the ratios given. For sofic
ed surface waters or untreated but uncontaminated  countries with universal education. gross enrollment
water such as that from springs, sanitary wells, and  may exceed 100 percent since some pupils are youn-
protected boreholes). In an urban area a public foun-    ger or older than the country's standard primary-
tain or standpost located not more than 200 metcrs    school age.
from a house may be considered within reasonable     Secondary School Enrollment - total. male and
access of that house. In rural areas reasonable access    female - Computed in a similar manner. but includes
would imply that members of the household do not    pupils enrolled in  vocational, or teacher training
havc to spend a disproportionate part of the day    secondary schools, for pupils usually of 12 to 17
fetching water. Absent aad incomplete responses, and  years of age.
large variations bet-ween countries, may affect he   Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, andsecondary - Total
validity of the overall results of the country and  students enrolled in school divided by the total
regional comparisons. In addition, certain definitions    number of teachcrs.
and classifications such as urban and rural, reason-  PercenrWe pupis reaching grade six - The percen-
ablc access to safe water in rural areas, safe water    tage of a cohort of 1,000 pupils starting pnmary
sources (when they are not subject to laboratory    school that persist into grade six.
control) vary considerably from country to country
and thus affect cornparability of the data.       INCOME, CONSUMPTION, AND POVERTY
LABOR FORCE                                        Energy consumption per capita (kilograms of oil equi-
Total labor force (millions) - Economically active  valent) - Annual consumption of commercial pri-
persons, including armed forces and unemployed but    mary energy (coal and lignite, petroleum, natural
excluding housewives and students. Definitions in    gas, and hydro, nuclear and geothermal electricity).
various countries are not comparable.              Private income distribution - Income (both in cash
Femare (percent) - Female labor force as a p.rcen-    and kind) accruing to percentile groups of house-
tage of total labor force.                         holds ranked by total household income.
Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming,    Passenger cars (per thousand population) - Includes
forestry, hunting and fishing as a percentage of total    motor cars seating fewer than eight persons; ex-
labor force.                                       cludes ambulances, hearses and military vehicles.
Industry (percent) - Laib: force in mining, construc-    Newspaper circulation (per thousand population)
tion, manufacturing and electricity, water and gas as    Average circulation of "daily general interest news-
a percentage of total labor force.                 paper," defined as a periodical publication devoted
Participation rate (percent) - total, male, andfemale    primarily to recording general news. It is considered
- Participation rates are computed as t:he percentage    to be -daily- if it appears at least four times a week
of population of all ages in the labor force. These are  Estimated absolute povertv income level (USS per
based on International Labour Office (ILO) data on  capita) - urban and rural - Absolute poverty income
the age-sex structure of the population.           le%s, is that below which a minimal nutritionally
Age dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15,    adequate diet plus essential nonfood requirements
and 65 and over, to the working age population (age    are not affordable. These estimates are very approx-
15-64).                                           imate measures of poverty levels, and should be
interpreted with considerable caution.
HOUSING                                            Estimated population below absolute porerty income
Alerage si:e of household (persons per household) -    level (percent) - Percentages or urban and rural
otoral. urban,. andl rural - A household consists of a  populations who live in "absolute poverty."



-24 -
ANNEX I
Pege 5 OF 6
ETHIOPIA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GNP Per Capita  11.i (1984)
ANNUAL RATE aF OROWTH OF COP
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN FT 1986 3A T CONSTANT FACTOR COST MU
(Flscal Yearn)
USS Min.  X           1981-SB     1983   1984    1986
GDP at Market Price.      4855.9  100.0            8.1        5.1   -3.7    -6.5
Investment                 622.5   16.8
Grog. Domestic Savings    -251.5   -6.2
Resource Balance          -774.0  -16.0
Exports of Good. and NFS  657.9   11.5
Imports of Goods and WFS  1331.9   27.5
OuTPUT IN 1985 3J
IValue Added
USS Mln.          X
Agriculture            1921.6          44.3
Industry                894.5          16.0
Services               1722.7          39.7
Total at Factor Cost   4338.8         100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Governmnt
Br. clln          -Xof GDP
FT 198617         FT 19B6    1982-84
Current Receipts            2401.1             24.0         20.9
Current Expenditures        2364.6             21.6         21.2
Current Surplus               36.8              0.4         4.3
Capital Expenditures        12765.             12.7          8.3
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                1980    1981    1982    1983         1994        1985
(Fiscal Years)                        (MhlliironEr. outtandinW ad perioar
Money and quasi-money                  2332.1   2377.6  2643.7  3040-6   3383.7    3840.1
Bank Credit to Central Government       968.1   1127.9  1190.8  1980.8   2291.4    2620.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector and
Finmnciml Institution.              1644.2   1721.8  1944.3  1741.7  - 1881.9    1962.3
Ms(Percentages)
loney as % of GDP                        27.3      26.7    28.8    30.4       33.7       389.
Annual percentage changes In:
General Price Index                      4.6       6.1      5.6    -0.4       8.4       19.0
Bank Credit to Public Sector             12.3      14.4      6.6    67.8      15.8       14.3
Bank Credit to Private Sector            34.6       4.7    12.9   -10.4        6.9        2.2
Note: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the official exchango rate of
US1600 = Birr 2.67
All Fiscal Years are from July 8 to July 7.
3/    Provisional Data for 1986.



- 25 -
Annex I
Paoe B of a
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS ESTIMATES
1983      1984      1986          MERCHANDISE EXPORTS
(Millions USS)           (Fiscal Year Averago 1983-85)
USS Min.  iX
Exports Goods. NFS           561.8     811.9      549.2      Coffee           246.4  66.3
Imports of Goods, NFS        961.7   1115.8    1082.0        Pulse             10.8    2.6
Resource Cap (deficit = -)  -409.9   -653.9    -532.8        Ollseeds           9.9    2.4
Hides L Skins     48L4   11.9
Investment Income (net)      -13.8     -19.2    -31.0        Oihlsed cake       6.5    1.4
Private Transfers (net)       84.9    107.2    144.9         Other             87.5   21.4
Balance on Current Acct.    -338.6    -415.9   -420.9        Total            468.5  166.6
Official Transfers (net)      92.5    161.9       298.4
P-ivate  ULT Capital (net)     0.0        0.0       6.6
Public JLT Borrowing (net)   203.5    204.1       159.6
Disbursements            (263.3)   (268.8)   (256.1)       EXTERNAL DEBT
Amortization              (49.8)   (64.7)   C 96.5)        DECEMBER 31, 1985        US S Mln
Short-term Capital            -9.6       1069      42.3      Total outstanding &
Disbursed                  298.6
Changes in reserves
(- * incr eas)              71.5      42.3    -46.3       DEBT SERVICE RATIO
Minor Items (ncl. errors)   -19.4       -3.3    -33.1           FOR FY 1986
Net For. Assets (end year)   107.3       64.8     112.4                                    X
Petroleum Imports            184.4    156.2    136.7         Total Outstanding
Petrolum Product Imports      7.3      28.2       51.0       A Disbursed               21.5
Rate of Exchange Since 1973
US31S00 = Br. 2.07
Br.1.6W = USZI.48
IBRDOIDA LENDING, (March 31, 1986) (Million USS)                             -
IORD     IDA
Outstanding and Disbursed         39.8   428.4
Undisbursed                       -       304.8
Outstanding inl. Undisbursed              733.2
O = not available
January 1987



- 26 -
Annex II
Page 1 of 2
A. STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ETHIOPIA
STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September'30, 1986)
Amount
Loan or                                                         (USS Million)
Credit                                                         Less Cancellations  Undis-
Number      Year    Borrower         Purpose                    Bank      IDA 1   bursedl
Twelve loans and twenty five credits fully disbursed           108.6    388.6
Cr. 707-ET   1977   Ethiopia2   Revised Amibara                          25.0        3.0
Cr.1275-ET   1982   Ethiopia    Agric. & Indust. Dev. Bank               30.0        22.5
Cr.1366-ET   1983   Ethiopia    Urban Development                        20.0        15.2
Cr.1386-ET   1983   Ethiopia    Petroleum Exploration                     7.0        2.6
Cr.1404-ET   1983   Ethiopia    Second Road Sector                       70.0        53.1
Cr.1429-ET   1984   Ethiopia    Coffee Processing & Marketing            35.0        28.0
Cr.1509-ET   1984   Ethiopia    Sixth Telecommunications                 40.0        36.5
Cr.1520-ET   1984   Ethiopia    Sixth Education                          70.0        67.8
Cr.1521-ET   1984   Ethiopia   Agric. Research                           22.0       21.2
Cr.1522-ET   1984   Ethiopia    Technical Assistance                      4.0        3.5
Cr.1576-ET   1984   Ethiopia    Drought Recovery Program                 30.0        12.8
Cr. 1676-ET   1986   Ethiopia    Port Eng'g & Construction                5.5        5.5
Cr.1704-ET3  1986   Ethiopia    Energy                                   62.0        62.0
Cr.1722-ET3  1986   Ethiopia    Forestry                                 45.0        45.0
Total                                      108.6    854.1
of which has been repaid                   71.0     10.9
Total now outstanding                       37.6    843.2
Amount sold                     6.0
of which has been repaid      6.0
Total now held by Bank & IDA
(prior to exchange adjustments)            37.6    843.2
Total Undisbursed                                              378.7
1, Credit 1275-ET and higher are denominated in SDRs and are shown in US$ equivalents,
based on the exchange rate in effect at the time of negotiations.
21 US$1.7 million disbursed under former Cr.418-ET, Amibara Irrigation, has been repaid c
out of the proceeds of the new Credit.
3/ Signed but not yet effective.



- 27 -
Annex II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1986)
US$ Million
Fiscal                                      Type of               Amount
Year         Obligor                        Business     Loan     Equity    Total
1965     Textile Mills of Dire Dawa I      Textiles       1.5       1.0      2.5
1966     Ethiopia Pulp & Paper Co.          Paper         -         1.9       1.9
1968     HVA Metahara, S.C.                 Sugar         5.5       3.5      9.0
1970     Textile Mills of Dire Dava II      Textiles      0.4       0.2      0.6
1973     Textile Mills of Dire Dawa III    Textiles       1.5       0.2       1.7
Total Gross Commitments                          8.9       6.8     15.7
Less cancellations,
terminations, repayments
and sales                                     8.9       6.8     15.7
Total Commitments now held by IFC                -         -        -
Total undisbursed



- 28 -
Annex III
Page 1 of 2
ETHIOPIA
FOURTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:  Twelve months
(b)  Project Prepared by           : The Government with IDA assistance
(c)  Idcntification mission        : August 1985
d)  Appraisal mission                 March 1986
(e)  Negotiations                  : December 15-19, 1986
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:  (120 days after credit signing)
Section II - Special IDA Implementation Action:
Provision made for a Project Preparation Facility advance of
US$865,000 to finance project start-up activities (para. 50).
Section III - Special Conditions
Conditions of Effectiveness
(a) The completion of a financing arrangment, satisfactory to
IDA, between the Government and AISCO (para. 42);
(b) The completion of Cooperation Agreements between MOAIIARIILCA
for implementing the Forage Systems Development Unit's
applied research program and research activities related to
the Southern Rangeland Pilot Project (paras. 46 and 48);
(c) The completion of a Cooperation Agreement between AIDB and
MOA for implementing the credit component (para. 47);
(d) The fulfillment of the conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of the agreement between the Government and
IFAD (para. 51).
(e) The execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement betweer. the
Government and AIDB (para. 52); and



- 29 -
Annex III
Page 2 of 2
Condition of Disbursement
(a) For the Southern Rangelands Pilot Project, agreement by IDA
to SORDU annual work program (para. 48).
Other Conditions
(a) A livestock export trade study will be completed by December
31, 1988, and will be reviewed by IDA not later than March
31, 1989 (para. 38);
(b) The Government will employ, not later than June 30, 1987,
technical assistance staff (para. 39);
(c) The Government will ensure that AISCO at the beginning of
each fiscal year has at its disposal adequate local funds to
cover its operating costs (para. 42);
(d)  The Government will implement a policy reviewing the
condition of MOA vehicles if they have served six years or
traveled 140,000 km and again at eight years and 200,000 km
and introduce a pilot cost accounting system not later than
July 7, 1987 (para. 43);
(e) The Government will cause AIDB to take all measures necessary
to ensure timely repayment of subloans under the project and
inclusion of current data relavant to its performance with
respect to debt recovery in semi-annual reports to be
provided to IDA (para. 47);
(f)  SORD0   will complete a feasibility study on the operational
transfer of three existing ranches in the pilot project area
to pastorlist cooperatives by July 7, 1988, and conduct a
feasibility stddy on the transfer of ownership and operation
of SORDU cattle transport trucks to cooperatively owned
organizations not later than June 30, 1988 (para. 48); and
(g) SORDU will, not later than July 7, 1987, transfer the
responsibilities for the stocker-feeder credit program to
AIDB (Para. 48).



- 30 -
ANNEX IV
ETHIOPIA
FOURTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Procurement Schedule I/
(US$ million)
Not
Item            ICB    LCB    LIT   Other  Applicable  Total
1.  Civil Works                5.4                                 5.4
(4.6)                               (4.6)
2.  Vehicles            3.0           0.4                          3.4
(2.0)         (0.4)                       (2.4)
3. Equipment,
Material and        8.5   2.0    3.0    0.6                   14.1
Veterinary Drugs  (7.8) (1.5)  (2.5)  (0.5)                  (12.3)
4. Technical
Assistance and                            5.0      3.0         8.0
Training                                (5.0)    (2.5)        (7.5)
5.  Incremental                                       17.0        17.0
Operating Cost                                   (10.7)      (10.7)
6.  Livestock Export                           .6                   .6
Trade Study                               (.6)                 (.6)
7.  Agricultural                                       7.7         7.7
Credit                                            [7.71       [7.71
8.  Refunding of PPF                          1.0                  1.0
(0.9)                (0.9)
Total                  11.5   7.4    3.4    7.2       27.7        57.2
( 9.8) (6.1)  (2.9)  (7.0)   (13.2)       (39.0)
[7.7J      [7.71
1/ Figures in parentheses are the estimated amounts to be financed by IDA,
figures in brackets are the estimated amounts to be financed by IFAD.



/                         FOU
,I          .              .F R I T R CA
KNARIOUM
U)       (                  A_ .s' '''
PILOT PROJECT T AREA  A 
K  ,{4D E R,.   Y   A      /
L I       D i 
sr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C. ,t   .
,,                           ,~GO
w  -X::~~~~~~~~~~~~~~k
|       9 a r      '','"WELEA
@   l - - - { C r   gr;roz  v  -    - 
U G A 1s1 D A <   w >       K~ M 0    F    N        



i  ,1   |                                     ,                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 19693
C ~ ',   t                                          ^4'         E T H  I 0  P I A
(                                                  FOURTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
\ .w* /8etrvPROJECT AREA
KEFA  Project Areas
Agro-ecologicol Zones of ihe Central
Highlands (above 1500 nleten)!
ERITREA                                                     -      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Hugh Potential
Law Potential                                                to.
j  i  '7-' lsahyets (rainfall) in millimeten
~ i                                                                      -   &1|  . All-weather Roads
;-. Dry--eotker Roads
-.7   A6    - 84,      F. Riven
r_[   Present Irrigated Areas
Main Forest Areas
f -.;                                                                       -~-  Province Boundaries
I    --!L:;.*;         .                                                     -InIernat,anal Boundaries
--                _     *     \                                        0                        100         20D         3D0
Ifto  ,    g }  T I G  R " Y   \   <               '                KILOMETERS
r 4ND E R  4to\ o
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .,r   , s   \lnb       V,'            , DJIBOUTI .,!t
NDER'i'' ~ ~      ~       ~ ~ ~ ~ HREG
_ iD b t -                ,A -         ,
'i=\\ a          (A -    rL   I  A
, X t~~W.-6.                                           ( r
. -                       /R  {   I: I:   S   I
W ~~~~~~~~~~~~~5t A L E 
I - N r rS ' ~ ; < \vEH                    A  M.
\ SOUTHRANRFGELANDS StCZ.OQ>>. ,.
*PIL POJCT AREA   -                                                                                         4v> SOMALIA_~~^
S '                                                               M  AI A
K   E   NDY   A    />                                                                                                                         :
-zM






