Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6341 -ET
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ETHIOPIA
FOURTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJFCT
March 9, 1987
Eastern & Southern Africa Region
Northern Agriculture Division
This document has a restricted distribution and ma, be used by recipients oniv in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents mav not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CUJRRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1 Birr = US$.043            1 US$ = 2.07 Birr
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Ton            =  Metric ton
= 2,204.6 pounds
= 10 qu
Quintal (qu)  =  100 kilograms (kg)
Hectare (ha)  =  2.47 acres
CALENDAR
Fiscal Year:         July 7 - July 6
Agricultural Year:  August through July
Calendar Year:       September 11 through
September 10



FOR Om CILU USE ONLY
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
APD     -   Animal Production Department
AFDB    -   African Development Bank
AHA     -   Animal Health Assistant
AHT     -   Animal Health Technician
AIDB    -   Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank
AISCO   -   Agricultural Inputs Supply Corporation
AMC     -   Agricultural Marketing Corporation
AVO     -   Awraja Veterinary Officer
CBE     -   Commercial Bank of Ethiopia
CTL     -   Central Investigation Laboratory
CVO     -   Chief Veterinary Officer
DA      -   Development Agent
DC      -   Development Center
EIC     -   Ethiopian Insurance Corporation
EHRS    -   Ethiopian Highland Reclamation Study
ERR     -   Economic Rate of Return
ESC     -   Ethiopian Seed Corporation
FAO     -   Food and Agricultural Organization of 'ne United Nations
FLDP    -   Fourth Livestock Development Project
FMD     -   Foot and Mouth Disease
FSDU    -   Forage Systems Development Unit
GDP     -   Gross Development Product
GNP     -   Gross National Product
GOSE    -   Government of Socialist Ethiopia
HQ      -   Headquarters
IAR     -   Institute of Agricultural Research
ICB     -   International Competitive Bidding
IFAD    -   International Fund for Agricultural Development
ILCA    -   International Livestock Center for Africa
ILO     -   International Labor Organization
LCB     -   Local Competitive Bidding
LIT     -   Limited International Tendering
MOA     -   Ministry of Agriculture
MOF     -   Ministry of Finance
MPP     -   Minimum Package Project
NCCP    -   National Committee for Central Planning
NVI     -   National Veterinary Institute
PA      -   Peasant Association
PADEP   -   Peasant Agricultural Development Project
PC      -   Producer Cooperative
PCU     -   Project Coordination Unit
RRC     -   ReLief and Rehabilitation Commission
SC      -   Service Cooperative
SCDP    -   Service Cooperative Development Plan
SIDA    -   Swedish International Development Agency
SORDU   -   Southern Rangelands Development Unit
TA      -   Technical Assistance
TLDP    -   Third Live3tock Development Project
T&V     -   Training and Visit
VEEU    -   Veterinary Epidemiology and Economics Unit
WETL    -   Woreda Extension Team Leader
WFP     -   World Food Program
ZVO     -   Zonal Veterinary Officer
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ETHIOPIA
FOURTH LIVESTOCK DEVILOPHENT PROJECT
Staff Appraisal Report
Table of Contents
I,    THE AGRICULTURAL SE,,rOR  .... S * * * 0@****e* 0***e**e . . .  C e e .........  1
A.  Background and Recent Sectoral Performance              I............   1
B.  Natural Resources  .......... . .. . .. . .    ....................     2
C.  Land Tenure and Farmer Organization             ....................    4
D.  Agricultural Agencies and Services  .....           ................    5
E.  The Livestock Sub-sector  * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * ....*.*.*..........    10
F.  GOSE Agricultural Development Policies  .................              13
G.  Bank-Group Assistance  . . . * . .                                     13
II.   THE PROJECT AREA  .........14
A.  T    ROJECT  .......   ...    .                                        17....................17
A.  Rationale                                                              17
B.  Objectives and Strategy  .. . . .........................              17
C.  Detailed Features          . . .. . . . .. e ......a..                 19
D.  Cost and Financing    ..0g0.g.ggg.c.c.ggeg0e.0cgg0eeee                 24
E.  Procurement                                                            27
F.,  Dilsbur semen tsa oo.0000.0a00600.#000                                2 9
G.  Accounts and Audit                                                     30
IV.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                                                      31
A.  Organization and tianagement   .........................               31
B.  Project Implementation   ................  . .*.e.g...... cc...      32
C .  Cost Recovery              . .......                                  39
D.  Reporting, Monitoriag and Evaluation  ....a..........aa        ..      40
E.  Mid-Term Review  .... gee........  .ae.eaec...g...ecg..g.........     ..... 41
Fo  Environmental Impact  .. . . a .  . a a   . . 0 . . ..................  42
G.  The Role of Women  ..g.cgcg.. e..gg ..a.gegege e ......aa.........e........a    42
The project was appraised in March 1986 by a mission comprised of V. A.
Ashworth, J. Coates, A. Hu (Bank), and N. Buck and P. Mears (Consultants)



- ii -
V.   BENEFITS, MARKETING AND JUSTIFICATION  ............... ........    42
A.  Benefits    .............................                    ..      42
B.  Marketing  .................  43
C.  Economic Evaluation                ......................... .    44
D.  Project Risks and Uncertainty  .....          .....................  47
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED ........ .... .. ..  ............ *.. .........    48
LIST OF TEXT TABLES
Table 1.1:  Agricultural Sector -  Key Indicators and Indices -
1979/80-1984/85    ..........................                    2
2.1:  FLDP - Project Area and Population (1984) ..............           15
2.2:  Project Area Estimated Land Use (%)              ..................    16
3.1:  Project Cost Summary  ................. .......     ........,..    25
3.2:  Project Financing Plan        ............................         26
3.3:  Procurement Schedule  .....                                 ................0    28
ANNEXES
1:      Summary Cost Tables  ..            ....        . .. ..... ...   ...  .. .. 51-57
2:       Estimated Schedule of Disbursements of IDA Credit ...    58-59
3:      Economic Analysis - Export Parity Price Calculation
- Staffing Schedule..............          60-63
4:       Organization Charts  ... ...     -... -. ... ..... ..  .. .    64-67
5:       Selected Indicators for Monitoring and Evaluating
Project Components .... ...*.... ......  .......... ... .0    68-78
6.       Regional Contribution to Sector Key
Production Factors .......... -             .. .......           79
7:      Animal Health Development  0............... of .....             80-90
8:       List of Documents Available in the Project File .....              91
MAP         IBRD 19693



- 1 -
ETHIOPIA
FOIURTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:        Government of Ethiopis.
Beneficiaries:  Ministry of Agriculture Animal and Fisheries Resource
Development Main Department; Ministry of Agriculture
Agricultural Inputs Supply Corporation (AISCO);
Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank (AIDB)
Amount:          SDR 32.3 million (US$39.0 million equivalent)
Terms:           Standard IDA Terms
Relending        AISCO and AIDR (new IFAD Loan) at annual interest rates of
Terms:           2% (4% stacting FY89), five years amortization period
following one year grace; Government assuming foreign
exchange risk.
Cofinancing:     IFAD (Ln. 131-ET) US$2.0 million eouivalent
TFAD (new loan), US$5.7 million equivalent
Project Descriptlon:
The project would address, as the first phase of a long-
term program, the three essential elements in improving
peasant sector animal production -- health, nutrition, and
support services. Raising foreign exchange earnings
through increasing exports of live animals and hides and
skins, and strengthening of the Ministry of Agriculture
(MOA) are major project objectives. The project would
finance six major components: (i) animal health
development, including field services in areas of high
agriculttural potential and a national component, in-luding
expanded laboratory services, vaccine production,
veterinary drug imports, and epidemiolgy analysis; (ii)
animal nutrition development, including intensive
small-scale fattening and forage systems adaptive research;
(iii) research, surveys, and pilot activities among
semi-nomadic pastoralists in the Southern Rangelands; (iv)
agricultural credit to support peasant livestock
development, expanded drug inventories, and small-scale
fattening; (v) MOA institutional development including
technical assistance and training; and (vi) a major
livestock export trade development study.  Substantial
technical assistance would suipport anplied research,
financial administration and accounting, veterinary
epidemiology, vaccine p:oduction, seed production,
socio-eronomics, laboratory management and operation, and
livestock development and training. The project would
financ,- civil works, vehicles, equipment, veterinary drugs



- it -
and vaccines, seed production, agricultu-al credit,
technical assistance, training, and incremental operating
costs.
The project would be implemented by existing institutions.
US$7.2 million of the IDA credit would be onlent to AISCO
for financing and distribution ot veterinary drugs and
vaccine. The new IFAD Loan would be onlent to AIDB to
support the agricultural credit operations under the
project.
benefits and Risks:
Quantified project benefits accrue from better animal
health and nutrition. Unquantified benefits would include
increased crop production due to the increased supply and
efticiency of oxen for cultivation, increased crop yields
resulting from the improved soil and water conservation,
and increased production and supply of domestic fuel wood
trom conservation-related project activities. Substantial
increased employment benefits would alaio flow from project
activities. At full development (year 10), an estimated
770,000 farm families, the vast majority of whom currently
live in absolute poverty, would venefit from project
activities. Some risk is associated with the possibility
in some areas of livestock numbers increasing without a
corresponding increase in offtake, thereby exacerbating the
soil erosion and degradation problem. The probability of
this happening is considered minimal. Impacts arising from
possible increases in livestock numbers relative to
available feed supplies would be closely monitored and to
the extent possible, evaluated during a mid-term review of
project implementation.



- iil -
Estimated Cost
Local        Foreisn        Total
US$ Hi1lon
1.  Animal Health Development                10.2           13.2          23.4
2.  Animal Nutrition D(  lopment              2.4            2.8           5.2
3.  Southern Rangeland  :velopment Unit   2.1                2.6           4.7
4.  Agricultural Credi.                       3.1            3.2           6.3
5.  MOA Institution Butilding                2.2             3.1           5.3
6.  Livestock Export Trade Study               -             0.5           0.5
Total Base Costs                            20.0            25.4          45.4
Physical Contingencies                       2.7             3.6           6.3
Price Contingencies                           1.4            4.1           5.5
Total Costs 1/                               24.1 2/        33.1          57.2
Financing Plan
ID)A                                         10.0           29.0          39.0
Government 2/                                10.5            -            10.5
I AD                                         3.6             4.1           7.7
Total                                        24.1           33.1          57.2
Estimated Disbursements from IDA Credit (IFAD Loans within Brackets). US million)
IDA FY         88          89           9e)          91           92           93
Annual       7.6 (.6)   9.7 (1.0)   9.5 (1.9)   6.1 (2.0)   4.3 (1.8)   1.8 ( .4)
Cuimulative  7.6 (.6)  17.3 (1.6)  26.8 (3.5)  32.9 (5.5)  37.2 (7.3)  39.0 (7.7)
Economic Rate of Return                26%
Staff Appraisal Report          Report No. 6341-ET           Dated March 9, 1987
Nap 1BRD No. 19693
1/ Includes IIS$865,o0o PPF Advance
2/ Includes taxes and duties of IIS$5.3 million



ETHIOPIA
FOURTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENI' PROJECT
I. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Background and Recent Sectoral Performance
1.01       With a per capita GNP of about US$110, Ethiopia is one of the
world's ooorest countries. Absrlute poverty characterizes life for the
majority of Lthiopia's predonminantly rural population.  Agriculture is
paramount, ana its satisfactory growth is critical not only for improving
and stabilizinig food supply, but also tor accelerating export and
industrial growth. About 85% ot the total labor force is employed in
agriculture. the dominant sector, contributing around 45% of GDP and around
85% of e%port,. Some 7 million predominantly subsistence farm families
witt. :n average holding of about 1.5 ha accou.t for over 90% of the
cultivated land. The peasant sector accounts for arouna 95;0 of
agricultural o tput, including most food crops kcereals, pulses, oilseeds),
coftee, and virtually all livestock. Cotton and sugar are grown primarily
on state farms.
1.U2      GLP growth hlas averaged about 2.5% annually during the last
ciecade. During this period, agriculture grew by a little (ver 1% (value
added at constant prices), significantly less than the annual population
increcise ot nearly 3%. Agriculture's share of GDP has shown a downward
trend trom around 49% in 1976--77 to 41% in 1984-85. During the last 6
years agricultural production, and especially food grain per capita, has
falleni andi no evidence exists that livestock output has increased.   Iadeed,
it is likely tthat livestock population has decreased and, given the serious
impact ot drought on the pastoral livestock economy, livestock proauction
has probably followed a similar trend. During the last five years
agricultural growth has declined sharply and as shown in Table 1.1 all key
indicat,rs and indices show recent sharply negative trends.
Agricultural Trade
1.03       For the ten years ending 1983/84, the total value ot exports
(niominal value) increased by around 95X (7.7A, pa) while the value of
imports increased by a factor of over 3.() (13'' p)a), reflecting largely
stagnating or only modest export volumes and increasing dependence on food
imports. Agricultural export value rose steadily up to 1979 but has since
declined. .gricultural import value, however, has quadrupled and is likely
to be even hiigher tor 1984 and 1985. T'he ratio of agricultural exports to
total exports has averaged 0.9() durinn 1976-83, varying between 0.84 and
0.93. Coffee 0cominates the export income averaging some 74% during the
last 8 years with a maximum of 82/ in 1977-78.  Hides and skins are the
second most important export averaging about 12Y% of total agricultural
export value.  uther agricultural exports are Largely truits and
vegetables, oilseeds, oilseed cake and live ani,mals. The increase in food
imports by both volume and cost retiects the unsatisfactory performance of
The food production sector compoLioled by increasing demanrd from a rising



- 2 -
population. Recent international price increases for coffee and lowei
petroleum import costs should materially improve the trade balance
position.
Table 1.1
Agricultural Sector -- Key Indicators and Indices - 1979/80-1984/85
1979/80  1980/81  1981/82  1982/83  1983/84  1984/85
GDP Growth (Z)            5.5       3.0       1.1       5.3      (3.7)    (6.5)
Growth in                 4.8       2.4      (1.3)      4.7     (9.9)   (16.0)
Agriculture (% pa)
Major Crop                100        87       84        104      85         76
Production
Area of major crops       100        94       93        101      95         85
Harvested
Principal Agric.          100        86      80         81       93         74
Exporcs (Value)
Principal Agric.          100       101       112       113       136      144
Imports (Value)
Grain Imports I/          100        89        81       80       136       424
Total Population          100       103       106      109       112       115
Estimated Domestically
Produced Grain
Fqulivalent
Per Capita - kg 2/    179         153      143       170       135       119
- Index    100        85        80        95        75        66
1/   Including food aid.
2/   After allowing for seed anu post-harvest losses; excludes grain
imports, food aid and livestock products; includes an allowance for
tubers, vegetables and ensete.
B. Natural Resources
1.04      Virtually all crop production and over 70% of livestock
produ-ction come from the highlands which form a 50-million ha plateau
(about 40% of total land area) at an altitude generally over 1,500 Tr., and
which enjoys rainfall of over 800 mm annually, and supports almost 90% of
the countryK. population. Parts of this highland plateau, however,
especially in the north and northwest, experience comparatively low and



- 3 -
unreliable rainfall and have degenerated soiLs, which contribute to
unreliable crop production. The rest of Ethiopia consists of hot, dry
lowlands populated by nomadic pastoralists who practice little crop
production.
1.05      Higniland topography varies from quiLe large, flat or gently
undulating areas to steep ranges and deeply incised river valleys. Soils,
mostly ot volcanic origin, vary from red loams in hilly regions to heavy
black clays in valleys ana tlat lands. Erosion is evident in all but the
tlattest parts of the tlghlands, and has reached serious proportions in
many areas especially northern Shewa, Welo and Tigray Regions.  With the
assistance of tthe world Food Programme (WFP), the jovernment of Socialist
Ethiopia (GOSE) is implementing impressive community schemes in an effort
to reduce soil erosion. With the exception of high acidity in some of the
nighest areas and impeded drainage on clays, there are few soil related
constraints to crop production. Crops on most soils respond to nitrogenous
tertilizers and on lighter coloured soils also to phosphates. The great
bulk of the arable soils have good potontial for agricultural production.
1.06      Most of the high potential hignland areas average 800-1,000 mm
rain annually over six to eight months. The range throughout the highlands
is 50u mm in the north spread over about two months, to over 2,000 mm in
the southwest ovar 10 months. The heavier and better distributed rains of
the south and southwest, combined with deep loamy soils, make -hat part the
main tree crop area (especially coffee).  November to harch is generally
the driest season with cool nights, while July-August are thL wettest
months in most areas. Lack of rain during the dry season rather than
temperatures constrain year-round crop production. Overali, much of the
highland soils and climate are favorable for a highly productive rainfed
agricultural system. The highland climate allows exotic livestocK breeds
to thrive, provided disease and parasite control and management are
sat istac tory.
Crops
l.u7      Crops account for about two-thirds ot the gross value of
agricultural production.  About 12.4 mill-.on ha is estimated to be under
cultivation of which some 5.8 million are under annual crops, and 3.1
mill,on ha is under tallow each year, the balance being perennial crops
such as ensete and coffee.  Field crops comprise principally cereals (86%),
pulses (lz%) and oil crops (2%). Estimated harvested areas, production and
yields (i9i9/8U-i983/84) are summarized below:
Average Field Crop Harvested Area, Production and Yields
(1979/80-1983/84)
Grop Type           Area               Production               Yield
('000 ha)           ('000 tons)            (tons/ha)
Cereals             4,822                 5,925                   1.2
luLses                789                   871                  1.1
oilseeds               231                    99                 0.4



- 4 -
1.08       Distribution of food crop areas is illustrated in Annex 6, Table
1. Ahout one quarter of the sown area is in Shewa and two-thirds occurs in
five regions I/ -- Azsi, Gojam, Gonder, Shewa and Welega.  The regions of
Arsi, Shewa and Gojam dominate annual zrop production and livestock
population. Together they account for around 32% ot rural population, over
45% of crop production and 37% of total livestock units. In these areas
arable land is intensively utilized, but in some of the eastern and
southern regions, expansion of the cultivated area with high production
potential is possible. The main cereals are tet 2/ (grown as a cereal
only in Ethiopia), maize, sorghum, barley and wheat. Tef has the least
potential, but is the preferred food grain and is the most widely sown.  It
grows well on heavy clays, which are common in the highlands and on which
other food grains do not thrive, and has good nutrition and storage
qualities. Barley is widely sown at higher altitudes. Maize is importanlt
in reliable rainfall, medium altitude areas, almost coinciding with the
tree crops area ot western and southern Ethiopia and Harerge Region.
Sorghum is the main grain of low lying, warmer, drier parts ot the
highlands, but is also important in several maize growing regions and
dominates the rotation in riarerge.
1.09      Coffee is the mnost importanit cash crop.  It originated in
Ethiopia and grows on some 0.5 million ha -- much of it is wild. The
coffee area forms a crescent in the southwest, south and southeast
highlands.  Of the estimated 200,0OU tons annual production, about 90,000
tons are exported, generating on average 74X0 of the total export
revenue.  Other important inoustrial crops are mainly grown on state farms
under irrigation and include 50,o00 ha cotton and 20,00 ha sugarcane,
mostly for domestic. requ.irements.
C. Land Tenure and Farmer organization
1.10       Following the 1974 Revolution, a major reform program (1975)
natiornalized all land. 'land-use rights were given to over I million
cultivators, many of whom had been tenanLs.  While tne maximum area
allocated to each family is 10 ha, actual. allocation is related to family
size and averages between 1 and 2 ha for a family of 4-5 persons.
Implementation of the agrarian reform program was a major achievement, the
full benetits of which have been partly eroded by tne frequent land
distribution process within peasant associations (PA) as new families enter
the PA or become eligible tor land, and as producer cooperatives (PC) are
formed within the PA. Thus, land tenure security remains an issue in
Ethiopian Agriculture.  Most large agricultura±. estates were converted into
state tarms which now cover over 250,000 ha.  COSE has also promoted three
types of peacant institutions -- peasart associations (PA), service
1/   For administrative pur)oses, Ettiiopia is divided into 14 Regionis,
whicri incA]ude 1(02 mwra jias which are turther sub-divided into 581
Woredas.
2/   Eragrostis teL.



- 5 -
cooperatives and producer cooperatives. PAs are local farmer institutions
charged, inter alia, with administering land distribution including
adjudicating on land disputes, collecting land taxes, and promoting
economic, social and political development. About 19,800 PAs have been
formed, each covering around 800 ha and comprising some 280 farm families.
More recently, GOSE initiated a villagization program under which the rural
population is being progressively moved into central villages, usually one
for each PA or a mnaximum of 500 tamilies. So far about 5,400 PAs (27%)
have been villagized.  The program is to be completed over most ot the
counitry during the next five years.  About 3,900 SCs with an average
membership of 4-5 PAs serving some 4-5 million peasant families have also
been formed. SCs provide inputs, consumer goods, marketing, credit and
other services to members. Most, however, are at an early development
stage and deal mainly with consumer goods and collection of PA grain quotas
tor sale ':o the parastatal Agricultural Marketing Corporation (AMC).  The
objective of PCs is to pool peasants' resources and operate both crop and
livestock production communally, tnereby nopefuliy using economies ot scale
to adopt improved tecnnology such as mechanization.  GOSE is encouraging PC
Lormation by giving incentives to members includinig lower taxes, priority
access to production inputs, credit, consumiter goods, building materiaL, MOA
technical staff, and higher prices for crop outputs.  So far, some 1,490
PCs have been formed with an average membersnip of 72 households,
representing only 2% of total peasant families and accounting for close to
2% of the riarvested land. The PA and SC development has brought about
profound chauges in rural society structure, and could provide a solid base
upon which to promote and accelerate agricultural and rural development.
'Ibis potential, however, could also be used to rurther control and regiment
of the riiral population.
D. Agricultural Agencies and Services
1.1i      :lnistry ot Agriculture.  The Mtinistry of Agriculture (MOA) was
responsible tor all aspects of agriculture until 1979, when the Ministry of
State Farms, the Ministry of  o)ffee and "ea Development and the Relief and
Rehabilita%cicn Commission (KKC) 3/ were established.  At thlat time tne
(hairr.ansllip of the Institute ot Agricultural Resear.2h (IAR) Board was
Lransterred to the Scienice and Technology Commission and input supplies and
crop marketing services were removed from direct MOA control.  however, MuA
remains responsible tor developing tthe peasant sector comprising some 95%
of agricultural resources and production.
1.12      The main support for strengthening NOA services has come from the
two Minimum Package Projects (MPP -- Credits 416-ET and 1088-ET), which
were also partly tinanced by the International Fund for Agricultural
Development (IFAD) dnd the Swedish international Development Agency
(SIDA). The main objective was to boost production in highland woredas by
strengthenirng MOA services, and providing farmers with advice and materiais
for adopting an improved seeds a1nd fertilizer technology.  The projects
also rirtanced inputs, rural road construction and soil conservation. A
3/   Respornsible for reliet and resettlement work.



- 6 -
mid-term review of MPP II concluded that agricultural impact was minimal
because of inadequate producer incentives due to high input costs compared
to market prices, disproportionate use of field staff for organizing and
supporting PCs to the detriment of the majority of peasant farmers, weak
linkages between research and extension, absence of a structured extension
system, and inadequate budget support for operating costs. As a follow-on
to MPP II, a Peasant Agricultural Development Project (PADEP) for
intensifying services to the peasant sector is now being appraised. To
improve performance, features being addressed include input distribution;
role of cooperatives; revision of pricing and marketing policies; improved
research extension linkages and improved extension based on the Training
and Visit (T&V) concepts. A successful T&V pilot project (Credit 1088-ET)
has had a major impact on the MOA approach to extension. Due to lack of
agreement on grain pricing and marketing issues, progress on the proposed
IDA supported PADEP project had been stalled.
1.13      Within MOA, the Animal and Fisheries Resource Development Msin
Department (AFRDMD) would plav a major role in project implementation.
AFRDMD incorporates the departments or Veterinary Services, Animal
Production, Livestock Marketing and Fisheries Resources together with two
semi-autonomous institutions, the lTird Livestock Development Project
(TLDP) and the Fish Production and Markecing Corporation. The Veterinary
Services Department includes the Divisions of Laboratory and
Epidemeological Services, Meat Tnspection and Quarantine, Field Veterinary
Services and two national programs, tne National Veterinary Institute and
thc Tsetse and I'rypanasomiasis Control Unit.  The Animal Production
Department is split into the divisions ot Animal Nutrition, Animal. Breeding
and Artiticial Insemination. Both Livestock Marketing and Fisheries
Resources are integral units without sub-divisions.  The AFRDMD is managed
by a Vice-Minister with each department managed by department heads
supported by division heads where applicable   8oth TLDP and the Fish
Production and MarKeting Corporation report cirectly to the Vice-%inister.
MOA Decentralization and Reorganization
1.14      NUA was reorganized in December 1984, decision-making and
technical support functions being decentralized to 8 administrative Zones
containing I to 3 adminstrative Regions. At headquarters (H1Q), departments
are grouped into 4 Vice-Ministries reporting directly to the Minister. The
Permanent Secretary position was abolished.  The four Vice-Ministries or
'Main' Departments are: Rural Infrastructure Development, Cooperative
Promotion and Agriculture Development, Animal and Fishery Resources
Development, and Natural Resources Conservation and Development. The
departments within each Vice-Ministry and the listing of administrative,
planning and control departments reporting directly to the Minister, is
shown in Annex 4, Chart 1.
1.15      The eight MOA Zonal offices embracing all 14 Regions are
comprised as follows: Central (Shewa), North Western (Gonder, Wojam),
Western (Welega, Ilubabor, Kera), Southern (Gamo Gofa, Sidamo), South
Eastern (Arsi, Bale), Eastern (Harerge), North Eastern (Welo), and Northern
(Eritrea, Tigray). Each Zonal office is directed by a General Manager,
supported by four main technical departments reflecting the revised HQ



organization: Animal and F'isneries Development, Cooperative and
Agricultural Development, kural Infrastructure, and Natural kesources
Conservation and Development. The organization at the Awraja and Woreda
level remains virtually unchanged with all technical staff reporting
administratively to an Awraja and Woreda Head. The Zonal organization is
illustrated in Annex 4, Chart 2. Woreda extension staff are being
progressively redeployeL to SCs or development centres (DC) thus bringing
them closer to the farmers they serve. Under the proposed Fourth LivestocK
Development Project (FLDP), veterinary staff would be redeployed in a
similar manner.
1.16      At first the reorganization adversely affected i1OA's
implementation capacity, but the beneficial effect of redeploying senior
and experienced staff combined with improved delegation of authority is now
being felt in the Zones.  MOA has also commenced a series of training
courses for managers (department heads and vice-ministers) which would be
reinforced by the proposed project. Overall, the disruptive etfects of the
reorganization have been largely overcome, and the MOA implementation
capacity now exceeds that prevailing in 1984, although some senior staff
vacancies st .11 remain to be filled. This capacity is reintorced by the
earlier decentralization of the increasingly important National Committee
for Central Planning (NCCP), the planning zones for which, with some minor
exceptions, coincide with the MOA Zones.
Agricultural Inputs Supply Corporation (AISCO)
1.17      AISCO was legally established in late 1984 as an autonomous
agency within 1UIOA responsible for procuring and distributing inputs
required by the agriculture sector.  To date it nas focussed largel.y on
peasant sector fertilizer requirements. GOSE has now agreed that AISCO
sthall procure the national requirements for imported veterinary drugs and
vaccinies. AISCO's authorized capital is birr 10 mil. (US$5 mil.) comprised
of around birr 7 mil. in assets and birr 3 mil. in cash.  AISCO statf and
assets were largely transtered from MOA and the Agricultural MarKeting
Corporation (AMC), which was previously responsible tor tertilizer
procurement and distribution. The institution consists of a headqtuarters
ottice in Addis Ababa and eight zonal offices, paralleling the MOA
organizational structure. AISCO's structure and functions were reviewed by
consultants (financed under Lr. 1088-ET), who have proposed 6 regional
supply centres and 30 similar regional distribution centres, concentrated
in those Awrajas with highest consumption of inputs. AISCO is receiving
institutional support under the Drought Recovery Project (Cr. 1576-ET) and
also under an IFAD supported Drought Emergency project to strengthen AISCO
managerial, administrative and technical capability. further substantial
material and institutional strengthening is proposed under the forthcoming
PADEP project.
1_18     (other Ministries.  The Ministry of State Farms is responsible for
large-scale commercial agriculture, including about 250,000 ha arable
(grain, horticulture, cotton) and several livestock enterprises (dairying,
oeet, pouiltry). It operates through several corporations. The Ministry of
oi.i1ee and Tea Development handles the development and improvement of of
sm:allholder coffee processing and production. The Relief and



- 8 -
Rehabilitation Commission deals with reliet for people affected by naf:ural
and man-made disasters and for resettlement of farmers from over-crowded,
eroded and military conflict areas.
1.19       Inputs and Marketing Services.  Imported diammonium phosphate is
the main fertilizer input handled to date. In the past, ANG imported and
transported the fertilizer to MOA stores, while MOA handled distribution to
farmers.  This is now done by AISCO.  Seeds of improved crop varieties are
produced and sold by the Ethiopian Seeds Corporation (ESC), which forms
part of the Ministry of State Farms and received substantial support under
MPP II (Cr. 1088-ET). ESC relies on IAR for new varieties and breeder
seed. The Corporation suffers from the lack of seed varieties consistently
superior to local varieties, comparatively poor seed quality, weakly oased
demand estimates upon wnich to base production requirements, lacK ot
control over production tacilities and financial constraints. So tar, most
inputs -- seeds, rerilizers and pesticides -- have been used by state
farms, only about 46,000 tons ot fertilizer being used in thie peasant
sector on average, although the recent trend in peasant usage appears to be
increasing. Only about 2% of tarmers are tthought to use improvedi seeds.
This small demand ror seed by smallholders reflects the absence of superior
yielding varieties tor many grairns. Growthl in past fertilizer use has been
severely hindered oy tnie untavorable fertilizer:producer grain price ratios
in recent years, although the logistic and distributional problems
associated with an inadequate intrastructural base have also contributed.
1.20      AMC Ls responsible for purchasing, storing and distributing
grain, pulses and oilseeds. It nlas received IDA support to expand storage
and improve its activities (Cr. 89-ET). Out of an estimated 1.8 mil. tons
of peasant sector marketable surplus AIIC purchases about U.25 mil. tons at
prices set by GOSE, and which are the same thrcughout the country. GOSE
has curtailed private traders' activities, especially inter-regional trade
between surplus and deticit food producing areas, and reinforced this by
progressively increasing compulsory quota deliveries to AMC by farmers.
1'his has resulted in material inefficiencies -- grain shortages, high open
market prices and high AMC operating margins. A 1983 GOSE/Bank review of
grain marketing and tarmer incentives found the cuirrent system acts as a
production disincentive and has contributed to food shortages and high
prices in urban areas. The review also considered AMC would not, on its
own, be able to handle additional tnroughput resulting from increased
production.  GOSE has recognized the need to improve farmer incentives, to
ease restrictions on private and inter-regional trade, and to restriwt AMC
purchases and, in consultation with IDA, is currently studying options tor
improving the situation.
1.21      Agricultural Credit.  The Agricultural and Industrial BanK (AIDB,
wholly G)vernment-owned) is charged with providing agricultural credit to
both the peasant and state sectors. Its main agricultural business in the
past has derived tr-m rinancing state farms.  Peasant sector lending as a
percentage of total agricultural lending including state farms, is small to
date (5z.), and expansion Is constrained partly by thie small branch network
(9 branches, 12 sub-branches) and insufficient field statt trained to
handle Pgricultural credit, and partly by weak credit demand by peasants.
Due largely to the unsatisfactory performance of state sector loans



(agricultural and industrial), AID$'s financial position has been
weakened. Recently GOSE has improved the AIDB capital structure and
relieved AIDB of much of the tinancial risk arising from the State Farm
portfolio.  Moreover, deteriorating terms-of-trade for peasant farmers has
adversely affected peasant sector loan portfolio repayments although it is
substantially better than the parc,statal and state sector portfolios.
1.22       Input credit has been administered by tMUA in the past with AIDB
providing the tunds and bearing ttie risks. Until recently, this
responsibility was divided between AISCO and AIDB, an arrangement which did
not prove satisfactory. GOSE has now directed that the Commercial banK o0
Ethiopia (CBE) is to play the lead role in providing short term credit to
the peasant sector, which should substantially increase tarmer access to
credit. AIDB development loan borrowers would be required to obtain
seasonal credit from AIDB only. AIDB will, in the meantime, retain all
peasant sector developmaent lending.   Service cooperatives are an
increasingly important channel for input credit and for oxen, flour mills,
stores and other investnients. Their marketing and input credit role is
especially important in coffee growing areas where they are the first link
in the coftee marketing chain. Their role in purchasing cereals for AMC is
also vital and the use of credit to advance funds to members prior to AMC
purchase payment is increasing.
1.23       Using AIDB tunds, MOA has been providing fertilizer credit to
peasant farmers since 1971/72.  The amount of credit extended increased
rapidly until 1979/8u when it reached a peak of hirr 26 mil. and has
remained rouglhly the same since then.  Farme,s obtained credit for around
85% of fertilizer purchases.  A credit repayment rate below 95% previously
rendered S(;s or PAs ineligible tor future loans. This was lowered to 7U%
in 1983/84 in areas hit hard by drouglit but was recently restored to 95%.
Arrears of loans fallen due have increased gradually since 1979 from around
25% to about 41% in 1982/83, reflecting the deteriorating economic
environmenit. Credit is concentrated in three regions, Shewa, Arsi and
Gojam, whose share has increascd from 63% in 1978/79 to 85% in 1965/84.  A
recent trend is tor an increasing proportion of farmers to pay cash for
fertilizer, d response to the introduction of price incentives tor cash
payment.
1.24       Issues in agricultural credit include the over-investment in
state farms and tne past preoccupation of AIDB with this sector within
agriculture. AIDB now acts as a cthannel for Government funds to State
Farms withi repayments by AIDB being linked to State Farm repayments.  Uue
to it's small branch network, it's unsatisfactory loan pertormance (mostly
state and parastatal sector), its high debt:equity ratio, and it's lack of
initiative in attending to the peasant sector needs, AIDB pertormance to
Cate has not been entirely satisfactory. It's peasant sector loan
portfolio performance is, nowever, substantially better than that for other
sectors.  ungoing IDA agricuitural sector work proposes a review of the
future role and structure of AIDB, especially the division between peasant
sector activities and those tor the state and parastatal sectors. The role
of CHE in providing short term credit is now to be expanded. CBE has the
country's largest branch network (145 branchr's). It captures resources in
each region through demand and savings deposit. In many areas it is in



- 10 -
much closer contact with the farming community than AIDB. GOSh recently
implemented tinancial restructuring measures to restore AIDB's capital
position. These measures involvirg writing-off old loans, increasing the
GOSE capital contribution and the repayment of some old State Farm loans,
have improved the debt:equity ratio to around 2:1 and improved the quality
of thte State Farm loan portrolio. State Farm arrears over one year old as
a proportion of total State Farm loans have been reduced from around 50% to
about 20%. Also recently, a high level GOSE group visited India to study
the structure and operations of Indian agricultural credit. Among other
things, the group recommended that the activities of CBE and MIDB be more
closely integrated with CBE especially assuming the major role for
agricultural input credit. AlDB is also being strengthened through an IFAD
Credit Loan (Loan 131-ET) which is administered by IDA and which includes
staft training and institutional strengthening through technical
assistance. Under this project, AIDB new lending programs, including
peasant sector oxen loans and credit for small scale fattening, have been
successfully initiated. Despite past weaknesses, AIDB's capacity is
steadily improving. It is considered capable of handling the credit
activities proposed for the Fourth Livestock Project.
E. The Livestock Sub-sector 4/
Livestock in the Economy
1.25      Livestock production is estimated to contribute around one-third
of agricultural GDP and about 15% of total GDP, but its role in the
Ethiopian economy is more important than the figures suggest. Hides and
skins comprise the second largest export earner averaging around i?% ot
total export value.  Although varying between regions, the livestock :ole
includes providing draft power, food, cash and food reserves,
transportation, fuel and especially in pastoralist areas, social prestige.
In the predominantly cereal producing areas, livestock, especially work
oxen, are a critical component of the crop production process. In the
"hoe-culture" production systems of the western lowlands, livestock are not
critical to the croD system but are still important in the smallholder
economy. Amongst the Eastern and Southern pastoralists, livestock are the
basis of the economy, and heavy losses (as experienced in 1984/85) result
in serious deprivation and hunger. Per capita meat consumption is high by
developing country standards; an estimated 13 kg annually. Beef accounts
for about 51% of all meat consumption followed by sheep meat (19%), poultry
(15%) and goat (14%). Urban consumption is higher than rural.
Some Characteristics of the Sub-sector
1.26      Ethiopia's livestock population comprising an estimated 27 mil.
cattle, some 42 mil. sheep and goats, 7 mil. equines, 1 mil. camels and
4/   Additional information on tne livestock suh-sector is given in Annex
7. A full review of the sub-sector is found in the project file
Document #12 (Annex 8).



- 11 -
over 50 mil. poultry, is the largest in Africa (population estimates and
regional distribution are shown in Annex 7, Tables 1 and 2). They are
distributed throughout the country but the greatest concentrations occur in
the highlands where 90% of the people live. Ethiopian livestock
productivity indicators are up to one-third lower than the tropical Africa
average. Total herd otitake is estimated at 7% annually, and that tor
sheep and goats at 30%-36%. Annual cattle liveweight gains are low at
around 20 kg and mortality, at about 20% annually, is high. Cows do not
reach maturity until at least 3 and mcitly 4 years of age, calve every
second year and produce only around 250 kg of milk per lactation. Lambing
percentages are reasonably good at around 110% annually, but lamb mortality
is high.
1.27      It is claimed by some observers that over-grazing in the densely
populated and intensively farmed areas contributes to soil erosion as
livestock increasingly compete with crop production. The evidence,
however, is by no means clear as tne factors contributing to soil erosion
and degradation are complex, with the largest single factor being
cultivation practices. Forage supplies come largely from unimproved
pastures and tallow grazing but crop residues are also important, it being
estimated that in a normal season tney provide between 10 and 15% of total
livestocK feed, but even as nigh as 50% in some localities. An estimated
85% of forage intake is used to meet maintenance requirements leaving
little for production. In poor harvest years, animals are underfed and
losses high. Animal diseases and parasites are widespread, depressing
fertility and growth, increasing mortalities, and restricting export
opportunities.
Livestock Export Trade Trends
1.28      Some indication of possible sub-sector performance can be gained
from export data. Export trade volumes are influenced by a complex of
factors including the herd orftake rates, available marketing skills, the
marketing infrastructure, the bureaucratic export procedures, the high
internal transport costs, and the export taxes and exchange rates. The
official volume ot livestock exports is understated. It is known, for
example, that large numbers of live animals traded across the Somali,
Djibouti and Kenyan borders are not recorded; estimates being as high as
225,000 cattle, 750,000 sheep, and about 100,000 camels annually.
According to customs ottice records, the tonnage of live animals exported
has declined sharply since 1974-76 although some recent recovery is
evident. Thie current value of these exports, however, has shown some
recent recovery but is still below the levels of 1974-1976 and, in real
terms, has declined substantially. The comparatively small meat and meat
products exported (largely canned and frozen meats), show a marked decline
in tonnage although 1983 levels recovered to around 83% of 1976. Hides and
skins are the largest livestock product export earner comprising, on
average, around 77% of total livestock export value. The volume of hides
and skins exported has declined substantially in recent years after
reaching a peak in 1979, although 1983 exports were rougnly on a par with
those of 1976. Overall, these data suggest at best a scagnant and at worst
a declining livestock sub-sector performance. Details of livestock trade
are given in Annex 7, Tables 3 and 4.



- 12 -
Main Constraints to Livestock Development
1.29      During 1983-84, GOSE, with the assistance of consultants
(financed rrom Cr. 603-ET), completed a comprelhensive analysis ot the
livestocK sub-sector. The livestock sub-sector review analyzed the
existing situation, icentified the main constraints to improving
production, and proposed strategies for livestock development il the main
production systems. Eight priority projects were identitied. I'hese
included dairy rehabilitation and development, animal nutrition,
small-scale fattening and a national animal health project. The latter
three have been combined into the proposed F'LDI. The main constraints to
improving production include:  nutrition, widesr read disease incidence and
weak sectoral support services, especially extension. Other constraints
include animal breeds, livestock husbandry, manpower education and
training, domestic and export marketing, infrastructure, sociological
considerations, credit, and an inadequate data base for planning improved
services.
1.30      Health.  Ethiopia is fortunate that East Coast Fever, a serious
disease of many other African countries, is not present. However, the
widespread incldence of animal diseases and parasites limits production
through increased mortality rates and affects fertility, growth, milK
production and other outputs. It also iimits the contribution which exotic
breeds can make to livestock development and presents a serious threat to
export -narkets. The factors constraining adequate disease control includes
the system ot tormulating policy, lack of equipment and transport tor the
field services, a weak tsetse and trypanosomiasis unit, an uncoordinated
disease surveillance system, inadequate training of protessional staft,
absence of a disease monitoring program, recurring drug shortages, budget
constraints and staif managemernt and supervision.  Lack of road
infrastructure is also an impediment in many areas.  Almost a11 or tthese
constraints would, to a greater or lesser extent, be addressed under the
proposed FLDP. In the project area, over tive years, tne aim would be to
more than double the current animal health control measures adoption rates
(para 5.05).  Further details on the livestock sub-sector and animal health
including veterinary training and education are given in Annex 7.
1.31      Marketing and Processing.  Except tor the orticial export trade,
local marketing is largely in private hands and functions reasonably well.
Market systems for the official export trade are not well developed and
present a constraint to increasing ot marketable surplus and especially
official exports. Financial difficulties within Government agencies
engaged in processing and marketing are also an area ot concern.
Substantial weight losses are incurred due to the absence of stock routes,
resting areas, and watering and feed points in tthe long distances which
livestock have to trek between maajor producing and consumption areas. F'or
export meat and livestock processing and marketing, the presence or various
d4seases (rinderpest, foot and mouth disease) limits Ethiopia's access to
potential export markets. Overseas sales representatiohi by public sector
organizations is also weak and licensed exporters wouild benefit rrom better
market information and assistance with export documentation and
procedures. Government livestock trading organizations have difficulty
competing with unofficial livestock tradeis due to the high otficial Birr



- 13 -
value which acts as a disincentive for traders to use official channels.
Exporters ot live animals, for which there is considerable potential in
nearby countries, are also constrained by lack of appropriate supporting
intrastructure (port facilities, transportation). The meat processing
industry has a tactory throughput of only 33% of capacity due mainly to its
inability to cor,pete for animals in the domestic market.  The proposed FLDP
would conduct a major study of the livestock export trade (para. 3.11).
GUSE has prepared a large investment project aimed at im roving both
domestic and export livestock marketing infrastructure. /
F.  GOSE Agricultural Development Policies
1.32       Compared with the growing domestic demand, foodcrop production
growth has been inadequate due to a complex of tractors including
unfavorable weather, high input costs and low producer prices combining to
provide inadequate production incentives, marketing problems, and the
limited impact of research and extension work. The World bank is
collaborating with GOSE in policy reviews and in preparing priority
investmenrc projects.  The GOSE 10-year Perspective Plan (1983/84-1993/94)
gives highest priority to attaining tood grain self-sufticiency.  Uver the
tlve years endinig  1984, tLthiopia imported around 285,000 tons ot food
grains annually. In 1985, food imports and food aid were around 1.5 .nil.
tons and are expected Lo be over 1.0 mil. tons in 1986. Expanding
agricultural exports also commands high priority. Ttie strategy gives the
peasant sector priority but <irso includes major expansion ot state farm
output.  The socialization oi agricultural production and marketing is a
major objective.   Increased    oduction is to come from expanding the areas
under c ultivation (1.6%. annu    v) and increasing use of improved technology
including fertilizer, iinproveW eeds and inisecticidal pest control, and
strengtheniing support services        search, extension, input distribution,
credit).  Due to the drought, tne tirst two plan years (1983/84-1984/85)
were abandoned.  A revised three-year plan (1986/87-1989/90) is nearing
c omp ie t  o n.
G. bank-(Group Assistance
1.33       The: bank has considerable experience in lending tor agricultural
dlevelopmeiit in Ethiopia. Two Minimum Package Projects (Cr. 416-ET and br.
1)88-r.T) were aimed at increasing agricultural production in the
nigh.ands.  cijrree Projects (Cr. 290-ET and Cr. 1429-ET) supported
processing, c(ultural practices and disease control, and AMC's storage and
marketing activities were strengthened under Cr. /89-ET. Other projects
were rur brought KehaDilitation and Land Settlement (Cr. 485-tT),
Irrigation  (Cr. 1337-ET), Agricultural Research (Cr. 1521-ST), urougit
Kecovery (Cr. 15/b-El), and the Tthiro LivestocK Developnment (cr. 603-ET).
A proposed 1I.A credit for the Small Scale Irrigation and Conservation
Project (cufinanced witth 11FAD) has been negotiated and is scheduled for
board presentation shortly.  'lie [nird Livestock Development Project
tocussea largely on rangeland development in lowland pastoral areas.
Implementation was seriously  rtfected by the conflict with neighboring
Somali anoc also by tthe lack ot a sound technological base tor improving
rangeland productivi ty.  However, the Progress made Witnilr the
5/   A detailed review ot livestocK and livestock product marketing may be
seen in trle Livestock Sub-Sector keview (Ainex 8, Docunent (2).



- 14 -
Southern Rangelands Development Unit (SORDU) showed sufficient promise to
justify further support in this area under the proposed Fourth Livestock
Development Project (nara. 3.08$. The First Livestock Project (Addis Ababa
Dairy Development- Cr. 269-ET, Project Performance Audit Report #4001, June
23, 1982) was appraised in 1970. It focussed on development of both
commercial and small scale dairy farm development, and milk collection and
processing. The project suffered from the effects of revolutionary
turmoil, slow implementation, high cost overruns, and institutional
difficulties. It did not achieve its objectives and had a negative rate of
return. T'he Second Livestock Project (Cr. 365-ET, Project Performance
Audit keport #0977, June 21, 1982) focussed on marketing inifrastructure,
hides and skins marketing and establishing meat processing plants.
Implementation was severely disrupted by internal revolution and the
accompanying turmoil. The project failed in its objective to introduce
modern techniques of slaughter, marketing and organized movement of
livestock to a very traditional society, although the hides and skins
component was compartively successful, and the infrastructure established
continues to function in many cases. Lessons from these three projects led
to the decision to focus future support on production in the highland high
potential areas. An IFAD project (Loan 131-ET) is strengthening the
operational capacity of the Agricultural and Industrial Bank, and channel
funds for on-farm development through cooperatives.
1.34      The objectives of IDA assistance to Ethiopian agriculture are to
(a) increase domestic food production primarily in the peasant sector; (b)
improve the incentive framework, marketing conditions and the general
economic and institutional environment for agricultural development; and
(c) increase foreign exchange earnings and savings. Some projects have
attracted additional cofinancing (SIDA, TFAD, AFDR) or other complementary
assistance (WFP, ILO). In addition, the last four road development credits
have included rural road construction which contribute towards agricultural
development. Since 1973, three credits (US$138 million) have supported
educational development which also contributed to agricultural
development. Project implementation has generally been satisfactory, but
duie to an unsatisfactory farmer incentive and marketing framework, economic
benefits have generally been low. A growing recognition of these
constraints has resulted in GOSE indicating its willingness to consider
introducing measures to resolve the marketing and pricing issues.
II. THE PROJECT AREA
2.01      The proposed FLDP would focus predominantly on high potential
areas within four of the more productive Zones recently established by GOE
for development purposes and containing six of Ethiopia's 14 administrative
regions. While the national dimensions of the animal health component
would impact over most of the country, the animal health field services
would be concentrated in about 140 Woredas in the following Zones: Central
(Shewa), Western (Welega-Ilubabor-Kefa), North Western (Gojam), Eastern
(Harerge). The project animal nutrition activities would be implemented
largely in Shewa, Harerge and Gojam regions (Map IBRD 19693). With 54% of
the country's population and 47% of the total land area, the project area



- 15 -
average population aensity is 152 above the national average as shown in
Table 2.1. These data, however, distort the picture especially in Harerge,
where the great majority of the population are found in the comparatively
small highland area.
Table 2.1
FLDP - Project Area and Population (1984)
Total
Project    All
Harerge  Gojam       WIK    Shewa       Zones   Ethiopia
Area (sq. k'm)    254,800  64,400  174,000  86,000    578,000  1,220,000
% ot Ethiopia           21        5        14       7          47        100
Population ('000)  4,152   3,245    5,783   9,503 2/  22,683           42,000 1,
X of Ethiopia           10        9        14      23          54        100
Population
Density per km2         16      50        33      111          39         34
Total Awrajas            8        7       17       11          53        110
lotal woredas           34      25       122      105         296        586
Project Woreda          10      20        50       60         140
1/   Based on the results of the may 1984 population census.
2/   Includes Addis Ababa.
Source: CSU data
2.02      Topography and Rainfall.  Although altitudes in these zones varv
from 500 m to 3,000 m above sea level, the high potential cultivated areas
are on rolling high plateaus of between 1,500 and 2,500 m. Waterlogging
prevents cultivation in the valley floors. Rainfall averages between 800
and 2,000 mm annually in the majority ot peasant farmed areas in
Gojam, WIK, Shewa and Harerge.  hXcept tor WIK, Western Gojam and Western
Shewa, rainfall is largely bimodal with short rains in February and long
rains Detween May and September. Soils are comprised largely of free
draining Nitosols (red), although heavy vertisols (black) are found in
large areas of Shewa and in valley bottoms throughout all six project
regions. In the areas with adequate rainfall soil fertility and
suitability tor agriculture is good.
Land Use
2.03      unly a small proportion of the total area of the tour zones is
cultivated. The WIK and Harerge Zones, with only 12% and 5Z of total area



- 16 -
uncer cultivation, is well below the four Zone average.  Lowland pasture Is
especially important in Harerge and also WIK, which also includes most of
the remaining forest areas in Ethiopia. Much of the area described as
agricultural land is not suitable tor cultivation due to the steep terrain,
unsuitable climate or 1i some cases, waterloging problems. Rough land use
data are given in Table 2.2.
Table 2.2
Project Area Estimated Land Use
(X)
Average
k'our
Harerge      Gojam      W1K      Shewa     Zones      Ethiopia
Currently
Cultivated          4           12        i)       24         12            8
kallow                1           4        2         8          4            3
Pasture             67          39        32        49         47           53
Other 1/            28          45        56        19         37           36
T3tal               ioo        100       100       100        10(         100
1/ Principally desert, swamps, rivers, lakes and forests.
Source:   NCCP and MOA Land Use Planning and Regi'latory Department; not
consistent with other sources on cultivated area; data should be
regaraed as indicators only.
2.04       Cereals are the dominant crop in the project area.  The six
regions produce, on average, around 59% of national field crop production
including 68% of teff, 45% of wheat, 44% of barley, 65Z of maize and 39% of
sorghum output. Shewa and Gojam are two of the three main food surplus
regions in Ethiopia accounting, as they do, for over 60% of AMC's peasant
sector purchases. According to tuie 1979/80 CSO agricultural sample survey,
thie average size of family holding (excluding grazing area) in Ilubabor is
1.16 ha, Shewa 1.46 ha, Welega 1.5 ha and Gojam 1.82 na.
2.05      Tne project area contains a total ot 13,149 PAs with 3.14 million
members, an average of 239 members for each PA. It also includes 2,643
SCs, each comprised of nearly 5 PAs on average. About two-thirds of the
PAs for all Ethiopia and nearly 57% of PA members are included in the
project area. Tne project area livestock population includes an estimated
12.7 mil. cattle, 10.3 mil. sheep, 6.0) mil. goats and about 3.2 mil.



- 17 -
equines, a total of around 12.5 mil. tropical livestock units (TLU). The
six regioLLs contain on average about 46% of total national livestock units,
950 per PA and about 4.0 per mnember.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Rationale
3.01       'The proposed project would iorm an integral part of the
Government's priority development strategies to increase tood grain and
livestocK production, It would address, as the first phase of a long-term
program, che main constraints to improving peasant sector animal
production -- health, nutrition, and support services.  It would also
promote increased crop production through its positive effects on draft
power arl soil and water conservation.   he most advanced field technology
which can be immediately applied is in animal health, livestock fattening
and forage establishment as part of the ongoing soil and water conservation
program. Thie project would tocus on thie immediate application of those
components and simultaneously address, by applied research activities, the
most urgent and easily applicable forage production technology gaps, such
as the use of forage legumes in crop production systems. Largely as a
consequence of lessons learned from pilot work conducted under MPP II, an
improved extension service structure is currently being progressively
established in the project area. Forage systems technology would be used
to make both extension and the technology :;;re cost-effective.  The project
would also improve the impact of the Government's soil and water
conservation programii, which is assisted by the World Food Program and was
partly tinanaced under :IPP II. Rar.geland pilot activities proposed for the
siutnern rangelands would utilize facilities and an institution (SORDU)
established under TLDP (Cr. 603-E,T), and prepare the way for the
preparation of a rangeland-pastoralist development project based on
improving and expanding the technical and sociological interventions, the
development of wnich was initiated under TLDP.  1he proposed project would
also support other ongoing or proposed livestock development projects suca
as Dairy Rehabilitation and Development, Highland Sheep Proauction, and
smallholdar dairying through improved animal health and nutrition.  It
would also complement the torthcoming PADEP project which would focus
primarily on improving peasant sector grain production in the higthland
regions.  PADEP would use tte same extension cBncepts and cover tive of the
proposed FLDP project regions.
i. objectives and Strategy
3.02      Thie Fourth Livestock Development Project (FLDP) would be the
first tive-year phase of a program to build an elficienit national animal
healtn service and simultaneously improve animal nutrition in tthe peasant
sector.  The primary objective would oe to improve iivestock and
agricultural production trirouigh increasing the efficiency of resource
utilization both at the farm level and in Government and peasant sector
cooperative support services. Increasing foreign exchiange earnings and
decreasing potential ecological. damage through increasing live animal and



- 18 -
hides and ski-is exports and through import substitution (daiiy produce)
would also be important objectives. Institution-building within MOA would
represent a major project objective. More speitlic objectives and
strategies would include:
(a)  improving animal health and nutrition, theleby increasing
livestock output and export potential, and the efficiency of
dratt animal power; disease and parasite control would be
enhanced by providing, for the first time, farmer access to drugs
at SCs, and regularly servicing PAs and SCs with better trained,
equipped a,id supervised animal health staft;
(b)  through the preparation of simple SC land-use and development
plans, improving the managemenit and utilization of community
grazing land, supporting the soii conservation program by
planting soil bunds (with grasses, legumes, forage shrubs), and
developing farm crop systems which would enhance both forage and
crop prcduction;
(c)  aeveloping a Government capacity to determine the most
economiclIy important diseases and the m.ost cost-effective
methods of controlling these and, througn improved cost recovery
mechanisms, enhancing Government capacity to sustain an etticient
national arimal health service; and
(d)  coilducting studies and pilot activities to improve the technical,
economic and institutional basis tor future investments in
livestock developiaent; improving the M1OA capacity to conduct
domestic livestock market studies; and analyzing livestock export
potential and constraints through a major study of the livestock
export trade.
3.03      rhe proposed project would have six main components:  (i) animal
heaLtni developmenit including field services within a prescribed project
area, and a national component for animal health support including expanded
laboratory services, vaccine production and epidemiology analysis; (ii)
animal nutrition development both within the farm rotation and as part of
soil and water conservation activities in designated catchment areas;
intensive small-scale tattening and forage systems adaptive research would
also be expanded within this component; (iii) research, surveys and pilot
activities among semi-nomadic pastoralists in the southern rangelands; (iv)
agricultural credit to support peasant livestock development, SC drug
inventories and small-scale fattening; (v) MOA institutionlal development,
including technical assistance and training; and (vi) a livestock export
trade development study.



- 19 -
C. Detailed Features
Animal Health Development (Birr 61.9 mil., US$29.9 mil. 52%) 6/
3.04      This component would strengthen and develop further, veterinary
services at two levels: (i) services targeted towards peasant-owned
livestock in the project area, and (ii) services with a national focus.
The main thrust of the field service development would be to build on the
existing veterinary service by making existi-g staff uore effective through
regular training and supervision; where appl)-:able, redeploying them closer
to farmers, providing appropriate equipment and transport; ensuring that a
reliable supply of drugs/vaccines is available; improving diagnostic
support; and ultimately, concentrating on controlling only the most
economically important diseases, and ensuring, to the extent possible,
sustainability of the service through improved cost recovery of government
expenditure on animal health control.
3.05      Under the project, non-restricted drugs (mainly anthelmintics)
would be available to farmers through SCs. The current system of procuring
and distributing drugs would be reorganized. Drugs would continue to be
sold to farmers for cash, but the MOA mark-up would be increased to cover a
greater proportion of handling costs (para. 4.05). Only a limited building
program confined to minor rehabilitation of existing MOA Woreda and Awraja
clinics/stores would be considered. Woredas and SCs/PAs would be phased
into project activities as staff are progressively trained, deployed and
equipped, and support services strengthened. Over five years, the project
would service an estimated 1,500 SCs comprised of about 7,500 PAs with an
estimated farm family membership of 1.8 mil. An analysis of projected
staff requirements and availability indicates that, within the proposed
project area, sufficiently trained staff would be available to implement
the project. The quality of these staff would be progressively upgraded as
more trained staff become available.  The main field service investment
costs would be in vehicles, Awraja and Woreda clinic basic equipment and
furniture, and staff support equipment. About 70% of field service project
costs would be recurrent expenses. Identifiable recurrent costs which can
be accurately monitored such as fuel, travel expenses and per diem, and
staff training are proposed for IDA financing in addition to vehicles,
equipment and technical assistance (para 3.19).
3.06      Nationally-oriented veterinary activities to adequately support
the field service would include establishing a Veterinary Epidemiology and
Economics Unit (VEEU) within the MOA headquarters (HQ) Veterinary Services
Department, a Central Investigation Laboratory, and facilities for
repairing and maintaining labo-atory and other veterinary equipment and
refrigerators. Support would also be given to the National Veterinary
Institute (NVI) for improving vaccine production, and studying the main
types of foot and mouth disease (FMD) and their economic significance. A
comparatively low cost facility for expanded FMD vaccine production would
6/   The figures in parentheses are the component cost including physical
and price contingercies; percentage is the proportion rounded of total
project costs including contingencies and duties and taxes.



- 20 -
be established. Support would also be provided to NVI for the construction
and equipping of a rabies vaccine production facility using improved
technology. The MOA Tsetse and Trypanosomiasis Control Unit would be
supported with field buildings and equipment, vehicles, visiting
consultants as required, and overseas training. Total annual foreign
exchange requirements for the first two years for importing FMD vaccines
needed to protect export and high value exotic dairy cattle (state and
peasant sectors), and total annual foreign exchange requirements for
national veterinary drug imports for project year one and then
progressively decreased over five years, are proposed for IDA financing
(para 3.19(e)). AISCO, which would procure and distribute imported drugs
and vaccines, would be supported through a consultant study of drug
procurement, packaging and distribution systems, and funding for storage
and transport facilities. Investments would include building construction,
vehicles, staff housing, laboratory and workshop equipment, office
furniture and equipment, technical assistance and overseas training. Total
animal health component costs including investment, operating expenses,
drug and vaccine purchases, incremental staffing, technical assistance, and
physical and price contingencies are estimated at Birr 61.9 mil. (US$29.9
mil.), of which about 32% would be recurrent, 68% investment, including
technical assistance and training, and drugs and vaccines. Drug pu-chase
estimated project costs include 100% of national requirements in year one
and the equivalent of annual incremental requirements thereafter.
Technical assistance and consultant costs totalling 7.1 staff-years are
included in the component cost estimates.
Animal Nutrition (Birr 13.4 mil., US$6.5 mil. 11%)
3.07      The component would be directed at improving forage production,
management and utilization at the farm level. Initially, project
activities would be concentrated in those areas where (a) the soil
conservation program is being implemented (Shewa, Gojam, Harerge); (b)
intensive extension systems are being implemented (Shewa,); and (c) cattle
fattening and milk production systems are established (Gcjam, Shewa,
Harerge), thus increasing the incentive for producing better quality
forage. Over 5 years, an estimated 630 PAs in some 200 SCs are expected to
become involved in nutrition development activities. Technologies and
species employed initially would be those already shown to be
satisfactory. The component would include expanding a capacity for forage
seed and seedling production on small MOA seed production units and within
PAs and PCs on a contract basls. The Ethiopian Seed Corporation would be
involved in project seed production. An attempt would be made to integrate
improved animal health and forage production and management through the
preparation of simple SC development and land-use plans which could become
an important catalyst in promoting imtroved livestock and grazing land
management (paras. 4.16-4.18). A small-scale animal fattening scheme
already begun on a pilot basis and utilizing crop residues supplemented
with readily available molasses and urea in an area close to ready markets,
would be expanded under the nutrition component. Cooperative production of
molasses-urea blocks using labor-intensive low-cost technology would be
promoted. The blocks would be made available to SCs and PCs for sale to
farmers producing milk or prime meat. Also included would be a newly
established joint MOA/lAR/ILCA directed Forage Systems Development Unit



- 21 -
(FSDU), which would implement a broad farm-level adaptive research program
aimed at developing, inter alia, (a) crop systems, incorporating forage
legumes; (b) annual and perennial fodder crop systems; and (c) improved
utilization and manag3ment of community grazing land. Technical assistance
and consultants totalling the equivalent of 12.2 staff-years would be
fuinded under this component.  Animal nutrition component investment,
operating and technical assistance costs are estimated et Birr 13.4 mil.
(US$6.5 mil.), of which investments would account for 33%, technical
assistance and training 33%, and recurrent costs 34%.
Southern Rangelands Pilot Developrnent (Birr 12.0 mil., US$5.8 mil. 10%)
3.08       The Government has requested IDA support for a modified follow-on
from the comparatively successful Southern Rangelands (SORDU) sub-project
of the Third Livestock Development Project (Cr. 603-ET). A five-year pilot
program to test a number of innovations some of which were initiated under
the TLDP and which could lead to more effective strategies for improving
pastoral system productivity is proposed. Such a program would be directed
at, inter alia, (i) increasing and strengthening extension efforts with
pastoralist groups; (ii) testing a cost sharing" philosophy under which
pastoralists would meet part of the costs through labor and oxen
contribution to water development and road maintenance; (iii) teEZing a
number of technical interventions such as calf protein supplementation,
controlled burning, small-scale grain legume production (using large unused
animal manure resources); (iv) establishing pastoralist-based SCs; (v)
continuing the ILCA/MOA pastoral investigation/research activities in which
IAR would begin to participate; and (vi) introducing a food-for-work
concept a,nong pastoralist groups for the labor intensive construction of
low standard rural access roads. Special emphasis would be placed on
evaluating the effectiveness (economically, technically and socially) of
the interventions to be tested. Funds would be provided for the cost of
preparing a new rangeland development project based on the findings of the
pilot project activities. The feasibility of transferring the three
ranches established under TLDP to pastoralist control would be studied. A
total of five staff-vears of technical assistance and consultants for
research, impact evaluation, water supply development have been included in
the cost estimates. Over five years, the pilot project is expected to cost
Birr 12.0 mil. (US$5.8 mil.) including physical and price contingencies.
Agricultural Credit (Birr 16.3 mil., US$7.9 mil. 14%)
3.09      Credit for medium-term loans would be made available through AIDB
to SCs for on-lending to PCs mnd individuals for a range of livestock
developmrent activities. Funds would be used to finance (i) the purchase of
cattle and sheep for fattening, including sheds, feed and equipment to
support this activitv; (if) the purchase of veterinary drugs by SCs for
re-sale to farmers and the supporting stores and minor equipment; (iii)
stundrv gmall items of equipmnent identified as useful in increasing
agricultural production (e.g ox scoops), including oxen, on a limited
hasis, once alterniw..e AIDB funding for this purpose has been exhausted; and
(iv) if considered financially viable (based on specific feasibility
studies), funds to SCs to finance a limited number of vehicles for
transporting livestock to markets and molasses for purchase and use by



- 22 -
farmers. Over five years, AIDB would be expected to make about 8,500
individual loans under the credit (loans are actually made to SCs for
on-lending to individuals). Support would be given to AIDB for training
staff in livestock loan appraisal and for staff transport. The total
estimated cost including incremental drug inventory financing by SCs and
including physical and price contingencies would be Birr 16.3 mil. (US$7.9
mil.).
Institutional Development (Birr 13.5 mil., US$6.5 mil. 11%)
3.10      The project would provide support for institutional strengthening
of a number of MOA Departments and ESC. Some of the activities are an
extension of activities initiated under the MPP II project, or arose from
special studies conducted under that project. They would, in some cases,
initiate programs which would be continued under the forthcoming PADEP
project. They would impact both directly and indirectly on FLDP and
include support to (i) the Planning and Programming Department both at
headquarters and in the four project zones for strengthening monitoring and
evaluation, and the Technical Support Unit which handles all foreign
procurement under IDA-supported projects within MOA; (ii) the Agricultural
Development Department to expand the ongoing improved crop adaptive trials
(including forage crops) and survey program which is now based on a revised
definition of agro-ecological zones; (iii) the Ag;icultural Extension
Department to expand into additional tegions the successful pilot T&V
Extension project; (iv) the Finance Department for a Financial Advisor and
a Senior Computer Specialist to further strengthen and develop improved
financial systems; (v) the Organization and Management Service to expand
management training for Vice-Ministers, General Managers, Department Heads
both in the Zones and at HQ, and for Awraja and Woreda Agricultural
Representatives; and (vi) the Training Serv_.e to develop and implement
training programs for MOA administrative and financial staff including
training of trainers. Institutional development would include training
(local and overseas), technical assistance (22.7 staff years), limited
equipment and operating costs. The total component cost including physical
and price contingencies is estimated at Birr 13.5 mil. (US$6.5 mil.).
Livestock Export Trade Development Study (3irr 1.2 mil., US$0.6 mil. 1.0%)
3.11      This study would be conducted by an internationally recruited
consuiL,nt firm under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA anA would be
coordinased by MOA/AFRDMD. The Ministry of State Farm Development, the
Ministry of Foreign Trade, the NCCP and others would be involved in
approving the terms of reference, supporting the mission with Ethiopian
specialist staff, and reviewing the final report and recommendations. The
study would inter alia: (i) review the main reasons why Ethiopia has been
unable to satisfactorily exploit the Middle Eastern and Arabian livestock
trade in the past decade; (ii) review the potential export markets and
examine in detail those markets which Ethiopia could economically
penetrate; (iii) recommend the detailed measures required for developing
trade in the past decade; (ii) review the potential export markets and
examine in detail those markets which Ethiopia could economically
penetrate; (iii) recommend the detailed measures required for developing
to develop the identified markets and recommend detailed measures including



- 23 -
investments and institutional development required for overcoming these;(v)
review existing and proposed livestock development projects and recommend
what measures may be required to ensure that, where possible, they support
live animal exports; and (vi) recommend on overall policy framework which
would support the livestock export trade, including such areas as exchange
rate, export taxes, export subsidies, export licensing, and the role of the
private and public sectors. The study terms of reference and a short list
of consulting firms and draft invitation to bid would be presented for IDA
review by March 31, 1987. The study would be completed by December 31L
1988 and involve an estimated 100 staff months for consultants, both
internationally and locally recruited- The total cost including
contingencies is estimated at Birr 1.z mil. (US$0.6 mil.). GOSE and IDA
would jointly review and agree on the acceptable recommendations by March
31, 1989. COSE would then make it best efforts to implement thle
recommendations. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the
study would be implemented as proposed.
Technical Assistance and Consultants
3.12       Internationally recruited technical assistance (TA) would be
required to assist with project implementation in areas of specialization
currenitly unavailable in Fthiopia.  Local consultants wouild also be
eligible for participation. The project provides for special studies and
consultancies: (i) to review drug procurement, packaging and distribution
to determine the most cost-effective method of importing and handling drugs
within Ethiopia; (ii) to prepare detailed plans and specifications for the
central investigation laboratory and the proposed refrigerator and
veterinary laboratory equipment repair shop, and specifications and
auantities of veterinary laboratory equipment; (iii) to evaluate the
ongoing pond construction program in SORDU including recommending
techniques for improved pond location, design and construction, and
conducting a special training course for SORDU engineering staff; (iv) to
conduct courses in specialized fields (e.g. SC land-use planning,
institutional capacity gap analysis) for project staff within Ethiopia, a
type of training which can in s,ecial cases give a greater payoff (at lower
cost) with wider impact than overseas fellowship study; and (v) various
short term consultancies. Technical assistance and consultants have been
included in the main component costs but amount to a total of 53 staff-
years including 22 staff-years of locally recruited consultants. Several
essential technical assistance staff, such as the Senior Livestock
Development Advisor (three staff years), are already in place under
separate donor financing. Furthermore, in additton to project financed
technical assistance, GOSE would, by June 30, 1987 under terms of reference
and with the qualifications and experience satisfactory to IDA, recruit the
following technical assistance staff: a Livestock Training Advisor (one
vear), a forage seed production specialist (three months), a service
cooperative planning advisor (three months), an agricultural information
advisor (three months), a farm management specialist (one year), a
molasses-urea consultant (one month) and a forage briquettin_ technician.



- 24 -
Training
3.13      The project would pay special attention to staff training and
development. For animal nutrition especially, the first project year would
be spent largely in staff training and orientation, particularly training
subject matter specialists (SMS) in forage production, utilization and
management. Special training would be given to Zonal planning teams
comprised largely of Awraja-based SMS, who would prepare SC development and
land use plans. All project veterinary staff and those associated with the
animal nutrition component including development agents (DA) would complete
an initial 3-week orientation course outlining project objectives, strategy
and operational procedures, including the specific role of the
participants, in addition to technical issues. Short-term training would
be given to SC staff managing the drug sales and inventory control.
Throughout the project, stress would be placed on in-service training.
Animal Health Technicians (AHT) and DAs stationed at SCs would complete
monthly one-day tfaining conducted by Awraja-based SMS assisted by Zonal
and HQ specialist staff as required. An innovation would be the
introduction of training for management and lower level administrative and
financial staff throughout MOA. A special veterinary orientation and
refresher course would be developed at the University of Addis Ababa
Veterinary Faculty to orientate graduates returning from first degree
training overseas, to Ethiopian animal health and productions. The
six-month course for 10 veterinarians annually, would include both
theoretical and field training. Support would be given to the Veterinary
Faculty and to Alemaya Agricultural University for upgrading the
qualifications and experience of local teaching staff. Longer term
overseas study fellowships would be made available for specialist staff to
acquire skills and qualifications sufficient to replace those provided to
expatriate TA. The terms of reference for all long-term TA staff would
include provision that at least two months of structured training would be
given by each person annually. A training objective would be to ensure
that by the end of project year 4, no further long-term expatriate TA would
be required, although short-term consultancies in specialized fields may
still be required on a case-by-case basis. Overseas study tours and
fellowships based on an individual skill gap analysis and directly related
to project activities would be provided under the project. IDA agreement
would be required for the courses and staff selected for overseas
training. A detailed training program for the first project year was
presented for IDA review during negotiations. Assurances that the training
program and fellowship selection criteria outlined would be implemented
were obtained during negotiations. Details of TA and consultant
reqtiirements are given in Annex 5, Table 1. A training schedule is set out
in Annex 5, Table 2.
D. Cost and Financing
Costs
3.14      Project costs are estimated at Birr 118.3 mil. (U ,57.2 mil.), of
which about Birr 68.6 mil. (US$33.1 mil.) or 58% represent foreign exchange
equivalent. Detailed cost estimates are summarized in Table 3.1.



- 25 -
Table 3.1
Project Cost Summary
(Pirr '000)              (USS '000)                 Z T!tclJ
-                               - ------------------ -------------------------- X Foreign   ce-
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Forei3r  Total   E.-chvige   Costs
=: :Z= := ==== ===- z: :  ===    - = ===:  =:=:      === !=   : =:==-
A. ANMAL HEALTH DEVELOPMENT             21,116.4 27,361,5 48,47719 10.201.1 13,218,1 23'419.3   56      52
P. ANIMAL NUTRITION DEVELOPMENT         4,960,1 50741,7 10,701.7  29396.2 2,773.8 5,169,9       54      11
C. SOUTHERN RANGELANDS DEVELOFMENT FPROGRAMS   40395.9 5,353.8  9,749.7  2P123.6 25686.4 4?710.0  55    10
P. AGRICULTURE CPEDIT REQUIREMENTS       69439,9 6,555.1 12.995.0  3,111.1  3i166.7 6Y277,8     50      14
E. INSTITUT4ONAL BUILDING : .OA          4t541.5 6,540,1 110861.5  2s193.9 3t19,5 5,353.4      59      12
F. tIVESTOCK EXFORT TRADE STUDX               - 1,000.0  1,000.0       -   483.1   483.1       100       I
Tuta1 BASELINE COSTS                     419453.d 521552.2 94,005.? 20,025.9 25,387.5 450413.5   56    100
Fhysical Contingencies                  5,497.2 7,549,1  13,046.3  2,655.7 3,646.9 6Y302 6     58      14
Price Contingensies                     2,802A4 8,495.7 11,298.1  1,353.8 4104.2 5Y458.0       75      12
.tal PROJECT COSTS                      490753.2 686597A1 118,350.3 24.035.4 33,138.7 57,1'41   58
Cost estimates are based on March 1985 prices updated to June 1986 based on
recent quotations by contractors and suppliers and considering inflationary
trends in local and foreign costs since March 1985. Physical contingencies
vary between 10-25% depending on the type of expenditure and remoteness of
location (vehicles and equipment 10%, building construction 25%), and
amount to Birr 13.0 mil. (US$6.3 mil.) or 14% of project baseline costs.
Price contingencies are estimated at Birr 11.3 mil. (US$5.5 mil.) and
account for about 10% of total base line costs including physical
contingencies. 7/ Duties and taxes for imported goods and services are
estimated to amount to Birr 11.0 mil. (US$5.3 mil.) or about 9% of total
project costs. Summary cost tables by component are given in Annex 1,
Tables 1-7. Detail sub-component cost tables are available in the project
implementation file (Document 3, Annex 8).
Financing
3.15       A proposed IDA credit for the SDR equivalent of US$39.0 mil and
an IFAD Loan for the equivalent of US$5.7 mil plus the equivalent of
US$2.0 mil from IFAD Loan 131-ET, a total of US$46.7 mil equivalent, would
cover about 90% of estimated project cost net of duties and taxes, and
would meet the proposed financing plan as given in Table 3.2.
7/    Price contingencies are derived from the following inflation rates as
projected at the time of proj'ect appraisal.
86/87    87/88    88/89    89/90  90/91   91/92    92/93
-----   ______-_---------h~%-----------
Foreign Costs         7.2       6.8       6.8      7.0      7.1     4.0       4.0
Local Costs           0.0       3.0       3.0      3.0      4.0     4.0       4.0



- 26 -
The proposed financing plans by disbursement category are presented
in Annex 1, Table 7.
Table 3.2
Project Financing Plan
Foreign     Local    Duties               % of
Exchange    Cost      Taxes      Total    Total
------------ (USS nil.)        - -----
GOSE                   0.0        5.2       5.3      10.5        18
IDA                   29.0       10.0      0.0       39.0        68
IFAD (Ln 131-ET)       1.0        1.0      0.0        2.0         3
IFAD (New Loan)        3.1        206      0.0        5.7        10
Total      33.1       18.8       5.3      57.2       100
Project Cost
Net of Taxes & Duties                         51.9
(PPCNTD)
IDA + IFAD % of PCNTD                                       90
IDA + IFAD % of Local Cost                                  72
IDA X of PCNTD                                              75
IDA % of Local Cost                                        53
IFAD % of PCNTD                                             15
IFAD % of Local Cost                                        19
The proposed credit would finance 88% (UJS$29.0 mil.) of estimated foreign
exchange costR and 53% (US$10.0 mil.) of local costs exclud1ng duties and
taxes. The IFAD contribution of US$7.7 mil. (15%) would be for the credit
financed activities. Subject to IFAD approval US$2.0 ail. would be
financed from the existing IFAD credit line (Ln 131-ET) and US$5.7 mil.
from a new loan. GOSE would contribute about US$10.5 mil. (18%) of which
US$5.3 mil. would be duties and taxes. IDA financing of local costs is
essential due to the importance placed on field activities especially
farmer contact, and the constraints on Government funds during the initial
stages of project implementation. Terms and conditions for Government's
onlending of the IFAD Loan to AIDB and part of the IDA credit to AISCO are
set out below (paras. 4.04 and 4.19).
Project Preparation Facility
3.16      To complete preparation and expedite project start-up, GOSE
required assistance under a project preparation facility (PPF). Activities
financed included: (i) implementation in one Woreda in each of the four
project Zones of a spearhead program to train selected st3ff and project
management in project technologies, operational procedures and management
systems, including conducting base line surveys, and implementing



- 27 -
livestock-based T&V type extension systems; (ii) field staff in-service
training in animal production, extension and SC development and land-use
planning, and the training of Zonal and Awraja SMS in forage production,
utilization and management; (iii) consultani.s to begin detailed planning
and start-up of the veterinary epidemiology and economics unit, the
proposed veterinary drug bulk importation packing and distribution study,
and to provide specialist training in land-use planning and preparing a
field handbook for use of Zonal Planning Teams; and (iv) consultants to
assist with preparing detailed plans and specifications of equipment and
facilities required under the national veterinary service component, and
evaluating design, construction and sighting of ponds in the Southern
rangelands. A forage systems development unit advisor was recruited to
initate the FSDU establishment. Long-term post-graduate training for MOA
staff in tropical pasture and forage seed production, veterinary
epidemiology and economics, subtropical pasture agronomy and seed
production technology were also financed under the PPF, as was imported
seed for early seed multiplication, and initial vehicle and equipment
requirements. A total PPF cost estimated at US$1 million including a
Government contribution of US$135,000 equivalent was approved and has been
included in the estimated project costs.
E. Procurement
3.17      Contracts for civil works amounting to about US$5.4 mil. include
the construction of laboratories, workshops, stores and housing.  The
individual contracts would not be suitable for international competitive
bidding (ICB) because the work would be too small scale and in widely
dispersed areas to attract international interest. The contracts would,
therefore, be awarded following local competitive bidding procedures (LCB)
satisfactory to IDA. Foreign firms would be eligible to bid. Vehicles,
laboratory and workshop equipment, spare parts and veterinary drugs would,
wherever possible, be grouped into contracts valued at US$400,000 or more,
and would be procured after ICB. Procurement of veterinary drugs and
chemicals especially, would be through bids for a total package including
all the requirements at any one time rather than for individual
manufacturers would receive a preference in bid evaluation of 15% of the
CIF bid price of imported goods or the actual customs duties and import
taxes, whichever is lower. Smaller contracts could be procured by limited
international tendering or by local competitive bidding, whichever is
applicable, according to procedures acceptable to IDA. Local procurement
procedures have been recently reviewed and found to be generally
satisfactory. Foreign firms would be eligible to participate in local
competitive bidding. There would be minor exceptions such as spare parts
or specific scientific instruments which may need to be procured directly
from manufacturers or after obtaining quotations from at least three
reputable manufacturers or other established sources. Small or
off-the-shelf items costing less than US$50,000 each and required urgently
for project execution maly be purchased on the basis of comparisons of at
least three price quotations. The total value of items purchased this way
should not exceed US$3.0 mil. withuut prior IDA agreement. Consultant
services would be procured according to IDA guidelines. To expedite
recruitment and provide technical and administrative back-up,
internationally recruited technical assistance staff would, wherever



- 28 -
practical, be grouped into teams and procured through consulting firms
acceptable to GOSE and IDA. The remaining expenditures including
fellowships and training, staff allowances and operating costs are not
subject to procurement procedures. These procurement arrangements are
summarized in Table 3.3.
Table 3.3
Procurement Schedule 1/
(USs million)
Not
Item            ICB    LCB    LIT   Other  Applicable  Total
1.  Civil Works                5.4                                  5.4
(4.6)                               (4.6)
2.  Vehicles             3.0           0.4                          3.4
(2.0)         (0.4)                        (2.4)
3.  Equiipment,
Material and        8.5   2.0    3.0    0.6                    14.1
Veterinary Drugs  (7.8) (1.5)  (2.5)  (0.5)                   (12.3)
4.  Technical
Assistance and                            5.0       3.0         8.0
Training                                 (5.0)    (2.5)       (7.5)
5.  Incremental                                        17.0        17.0
Operating Cost                                    (10.7)     (10.7)
6.  Livestock Export                           .6                    .6
Trade Study                               (.6)                  (.6)
7.  Agricultural                                        7.7         7.7
Credit                                             17.71       [7.7]
8.  Refunding of PPF                          1.0                   1.0
(0.9)                (0.9)
Total                   11.5   7.4    3.4    7.2       27.7        57.2
( 9.8) (6.1)  (2.9)  (7.0)   (13.2)        (39.0)
[7.7]      [7.7]
1/ Figures in parentheses are the estimated amounts to be financed by IDA,
figures in brackets are the estimated amounts to be financed by IFAD.
3.18      For all civil works contracts (buildings) and those for purchases
of equipment and supplies exceeding US$400,000, proposals for advertising,
draft tender documents, bid evaluation and award proposals would require
prior IDA review before contract award. An estimated 66% of total contract
value would require such review procedures. OthEr contracts would be
subject to selective award reviews. Two copies cf all contracts, whether
subject to pre-award review or not, would be sent to IDA prior to the
submission of the first withdrawal application. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that the procurement procedures described would be
followed. Presentation of draft bid documents for IDA review and covering
all foreign procurement and building construction required or to be started
in project year one were brought to negotiations.



- 29 -
F. Disbursements
3.19      The SDR equivalent of a US$39.0 million IDA credit would be
disbursed as follows:
(a)  100% of foreign expenditures and 75% of local expenditures for
civil works, including project-financed buildings (US$4.6 mil.);
(b)  100% of foreign expenditures and 75% of local expenditures for
vehicles and equipment including spares, office furniture and
equipment and imported seed (US$5.1 mil.);
(c)  100% of expenditures for technical assistance and consultant
studies (US$3.6 mil.);
(d)  100% of foreign expenditures and 85% of local expenditures for
training (US$2.0 mil.);
(e)  100% of total expenditures during project year one, 60% of total
expenditures in project years two and three, and 40% of annual
expenditures thereafter for annual veterinary drugs and medicine
expenditures; (IIS$7.0 mil.);
(f)  100% of foreign expenditures during the first two project years
for annual imported vaccines (US$1.0 mil.);
(g)  75% of expenditures in project years one through three, and 50%
thereafter for annual operating costs - vehicle fuel, oil, staff
per diem and staff internal transportation costs (US$10.0 mil.);
(h)  100% of expenditures for Livestock Export Trade Study (US$ 0.6
mil.);
(i)  refinancing of the Project Preparation Facility advance (US$0.9
mil.); and
(j)  unallocated (US$4.2 mil.).
3.20      Disbursements for all expenditures would be made against full
documentation except where they are reimbursable against statements of
expenditure (SOE). Reimbursement of eligible expenditures against
contracts valued at less than $50,000 equivalent in both local and foreign
currency would be made solely on the basis of SOE in respect of: (a) goods
and services, (b) agricultural credit, (c) operating costs, local training
programs, and (d) pilot operations. All documentation authenticating such
expenditures would be retained in a central location, and made available
for review by IDA upon request. IDA reimbursement applications would be
completed by MOA, except those involving agricultural credit which wiould be
completed by AIDB.
3.21      The proposed credit would be disbursed over 7 years, including
expenditures incurred under the PPF. A schedule of estimated quarterly
disbursements is shown in Annex 2. Standard disbursement profiles for all



- 30 -
past IDA financed agricultural projects in Ethiopia give an average
disbursement period of 10 years (Annex 2). Past project implementation has
been delayed by civil strife, especially for livestock projects. Measures
to accelerate FLDP execution and credit disbursement in comparison with the
standard profile, include the early appointment of consultants to assist
with construction and equipment procurement (through PPF); the early
recruitment of key TA staff, some    whom are already on station; a
substantially more advanced and detailed stage of preparation than has been
done with many previous agricultural projects in Ethiopia; and the use by
MOA of a US Dollar special account.
Special Account
3.22      To facilitate project implementation, provide foreign exchange in
a timely manner, and to expedite disbursements, the Borrower would open and
maintain a special US dollar account with the National Bank of Ethiopia.
An assurance to this effect was obtained during negotiations. The special
account would be used to pay the IDA portion of all eligible project
expenditures. Upon credit effectiveness and at the request of the
Borrower, IDA would make an initial deposit of US$2.5 million to the
special account, which would be replenished periodically on the basis of
the documentary evidence provided to the Association by the Borrower of
payments made from the account. The special account would be used for all
project expenditures to be financed by IDA. The exception would be where,
upon instructions from the Borrower, direct payments are made by IDA to
suppliers.  The minimum replenishment by IDA to the account would be SDR
625,000 equivalent or about 25% of the initial advance by IDA. The minimum
size for issuance of Agreements to Reimburse and to applications for direct
payment, would be US$50,000 equivalent.
G. Accounts and Audit
3.23      MOA, AISCO, SORDU and AIDB would maintain separate records of
project expenditures. Each institution would have the anntual accounts and
the project accounts audited by an independent auditor satisfactory to
IDA. In the past, this nas been done satisfactorily by the Audit Services
Corporation, which is expected to continue the auditing under FLDP.  The
audit would include the examination of the special account and of SOEs
submitted to IDA for reimbursement. Under existing projects the MOA,
SORDU, and AIDB annual audited accounts are up to date. AISCO has not been
a party to previous IDA supported projects. The audited accounts,
including auditors' reviews of SOEs, ".nuld, for the first two project
years, be sent to IDA within eight aonths after the end of the Ethiopian
made in reducing the backlog of accounts and improving presentation.
Auditors' qualifications have been reduced but annual reports continue to
be qualified. A recent consultant study, which would be continued under
the forthcoming Peasant Agricultural Development Project (PADEP), is
helping to reduce the problem. The! auditor would be requested to issue a
long form report for all accounts providing information listed in the World
Bank guidelines on auditing of projects financed by the Bank or IDA. Under
FLDP technical assiL:ance (financial controller, computer systems
specialist) would assist with strengthening the MOA Finance Department and
in training staff. Assurances to that effect and that the above accounting
and atiditing procedures would be applied were obtained during negotiations.



- 31 -
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
4.01      As institution building Is also an important project objective,
project management would be done through existing Departments and agencies
rather than through newly created management units. The main project
implementing agency would be the MOA Animal and Fishery Resources
Development Main Department (AFRDMD). The Vice-Minister of AFRDMD would be
the ex-ofticio project manager. He would be assisted by two deputy
managers: (i) the Veterinary Services Department Chiet Veterinary Officer
(CVO), who would eirect animal health implementation; and (ii) the Animal
Production Department kiead, who would manage the animal nutrition
component. The Southern Rangelands Development Unit (SORDU), a
semi-autonomous unit under the Vice-Minister AFRDMD, would implement the
Southern Rangelands Pilot Project. AIDB would, in cooperation with MOA,
implement the credit activities. AISCO would import and distribute all
veterinary drugs and vaccines. Cooperating institutions would include IAR
and ILCA.
Animal Health Management
4.02       The CVO would direct all veterinary component national aspects
including national vaccination campaigns, VEEU, the central investigation
laboratory (CIL), and the proposed repair workshop (Annex 4, Chart 3). The
Deputy Project Manager would be assisted by an Animal Health Project
Coordinator who would be part of a small Project Coordination Unit (PCU)
established within AFRVMD HQ to coordinate project direction and
administration. The PCU professionals (2) would retain their current
positions within AFKDM.D but would be supported by a umall administrative
staff. A locally recruited accountant and clerk/cahsier would also be part
of the PCU. In each of the four project Zones, a FLDP Project Coordinator
would be designated. He would be supported by a locally recruited
accountant and a cashier in addition to an administrative clerk and
secretary. Field service development would be directed by the CVO's Zonal
counterpart in each participating Zone, the Zonal Veterinary Officer
(ZVO). The respective ZVO would be administratively responsible to the
Zonal General Manager and technically to the CVO.  Mhe Zonal annual work
program and budget would be approved by MOA heaaquarters. The National
Veterinary Institute (NVI), a division within the Veterinary Department of
AFRDMD responsible for vaccine production and development, would handle the
vaccine development.
Al     NutritionManaement
4.03      The Head, MUA Animal Production Department (APD) would direct the
animal nutrition component including small-scale fattening, seed production
and the proposed FSDU (Annex 4, Chart 4). He would be assisted by an
Animal Nutrition Coordinator within the PCU. Field activities within tne
respective Zones would be ranaged by the Zonal Animal Nutrition Department
Head. The FSDU work program would be approved by a joint MOA/IAR/ILCA
ad isory board. The M1A priority soil conservation areas which are an
integral part of the forage production program, are already defined;



- 32 -
consei7vation and animal nutrition anntial work programs would be coordinated
through the respective vice-ministers by the animal nutrition coordinator
and deputy prolect manager. The soil conservation program is implemented
by the MOA Natural Resources Conservation and Development Main Department
with a Vice- Ministcr in charge. Within this Main Department, the
Community Forest and Soil Conservation Development Department Head would
liaise with the MOA Animal Production Department head as Second Deputy
Project Manager. Within the Zonal administrations, the soil conservation
programs are directed by the Community Forests and Soil Conservation
Department, with a soil and water conservation expert in each Awraja
working through the Woreda head to the SC based DA., who actually organizes
the PA field activities. Assurances that the above organization and
management arrangements would be implemented as described were obtained
during negotiations.
B. Project Implementation
Drug Procurement and Distribution
4.04       Drug and veterinary equipment procurerment would be handled by
AISCO which is already involved in providing inputs such as fertilizers,
Improved seeds, and chemicals to peasant farmers.  AFRDMD would recomm.n.1
the types of veterinary drugs and equipment, with the amounts depending on
demand projections, which would be compiled by the CVO. A review of
AISCO's capacity to handle the proposed drug distribution system was
positive, provided the staff recruitment and the financing arrangements
proposed below were implemented. Al "O would hire a veterinary pharmacist
and personnel with some knowledge of veterinary drugs and equipment to
handle the bidding, purchase and distribution activities. Funds for the
total drug purchases including FMD vaccines i.n the first project year would
be financed 100% by IDA (estimated Birr 4.2 mil. in base cost), and for the
cost of stores, equipment, vehicles and consultant services (estimated Birr
1.1 mil. in base cost) would be provided by the Ministry of Finance (MOF)
to AISCO as a long term loan under terms and conditions satisfactory to
IDA.   Assurances were obtained during negotiations that GOSE would ensure
that at the beginning of each fiscal year AISCO would have at its disposal
adequate local funds to fully cover operating costs for the ensuing fiscai
year. Foreign exchange for animal drug imports would be provided bv the
National Bank of Ethiopia on a priority basis with the annual costs being
financed by IDA during the project in accordance with the schedule proposed
in para. 3.19 (e). During negotiations, it was agreed that the part of the
IDA credit to be made availahle to AISCO for drug and vaccine financing and
distribution (US$7.0 mil. equivalent) would be onlent by GOSE to AISCO with
the foreign exchange risk being borne by GOSE at an annual interest rate of
2% for fiscal years 1987 and 1988 and an interest rate of 4% thereafter to
be repaid over a five year period following one year of grace. It was
further agreed that the Mid-term Review of the project would include an
assessment of the appropriateness of the onlending rates. Completion of a
subsidiary loan agreement, satisfactory to IDA, between COSr; and AISCO
would be a condition of credit effectiveness.



- 33 -
4.05       The distribation and sales of drugs and veterinary equipment
procured by AISCO would be through (i) the existing NluA Awraja/Woreda
clinics, (ii) through SCs, and (iii) through licensed private pharmacists.
Specialized AISCO staff would handle distribution. To reduce current
losses due to expiration of the useful life of certain drugs, a system
would be devised for routine inventory checks so that drugs could be
redistributed as necessary to reduce surpluses and cover deficits in
various areas. Payment would be made directly to AISCO's account with the
CommercIal Bank of Ethiopia. Prices of drugs and vaccines sold to farmers
would be based on procurement cost plus about 40% which would be sufficient
to cover AISCO overhead, administrative and operating costs.  Sales to SCs,
pharmacists and tiOA by AISCO would be on a cash basis with AISCO obtaining
a margin of 20% over procurement costs. Retailers would obtain an
additional 20% margin over the price charged by AISCO. The actual margins
would be subject to further analyses, but would be sufficient to ensure
full drug cost recovery plus a small contribution towards the cost of
providing MOA veterinary services. Tthe end price to farmers would still be
lower than prices ciharged for similar drugs by private pharmacists and
traders. The current drug shortages enable the private trade to charge
exceptionally nigh prices for certain drugs. Surveys conducted during
project preparation confirmed SC interest in handling drugs in tnis manner,
and tiiat tarmers perceive lack of access to drugs as an important
constraint. Pending completion of the 'K.ID vaccine production tacility,
imported FMD vaccine requirements would ie financed 100% by IDA funds. The
margin to be charged by AISCO to 1±OA, pharmacists and SCs for drugs and
vaccines would be reviewed annually by GOSE in consultation with IDA. The
review process would be completed not later thian three months prior to the
end ot -the Ethiopian FY (July 6).  During negotiations, assurances were
obtained that the annual price review procedures outlined would be
implemented.
Animal Health Operaticns
4.06      Within the defined project area, animal health activities would
tocus on improving veterinary services to livestock owners (including
clinical services and control of major diseases and parasites) and
increasing farmer access to drugs. Existing services would be improved on
a phased basis in high priority Woredas in Shewa (60), Welega-Ilubabor-Kefa
(WIK--50), Harerge (10), Gojam (24)-Gonder (6), and two Awrajas of the
SORDU project area of Southern Sidamo.  Except tor the SORDU area, those
Woredas included in the project would have: (a) all-weather road access to
the Woreda capital; (b) high potential for improving livestock and
agricultural production; and (c) either adequate livestock feed resources
or where the animal nutrition component is being implemented
simultaneously. A preliminary Woreda phasing schedule has been prepared?
but the actual program would be determined by: (a) the rate at which SC
development plans could be prepared in areas where these are applicable;
(b) the rate at which staff a   deployed and trained; and (c) the rate at
which reliable support services (drug supply, supervision, training) are
estaolished. Uver .ive years the project would cover about l50 Woredas,
excluding the SORDU area. During negotiations, it was agreea that by
February 28 ot each year of execution of the project, GOSE would furnish
IDA for comment, a list of Woredas proposed to be serviced during the



- 34 -
following fiscal year and GOSE would furnish IDA the final list not later
than March 31 of each year; such final list to take int account the
comments made by IDA.
4.07      Awaraja and Woreda clinics would receive appropriate minor
equipment and additional turnishing where necessary. The Awraja Veterinary
Otficer (AVO) would be supplied with a compact 4-wheel drive vehicle; the
Woreda Animal Health Assistant (AHA) with a motorcycle (where practical),
and the Animal Health Technicians (AHT) with a bicycle. Appropriate
equipment would be provided tor veterinary tield staff. Consideration
would be given, on a case by case basis, to minor refurbishing of Woreda
and Awraia clinics. AHTs would be deployed at SCs or Development Centres
(DC); SCs would be expected to provide a house anid small office/store.
Where necessary, Sus could obtain AIDB credit for funding the cost of these
buildings (para. 4.20). Veterinary staff would be given exclusive use and
control ot all venicles provided under the project. All vehicles financed
by the propcsed credit (for all agencies) would be identified as FLDP
vetiicles.  To reduce maintenance costs and increase operational efficiency,
and to continue to make older vehicles available to the economy, GOSE would
(i) take steps to accelerate the disposal of MOA vehicles identitied as
being beyond economic repair; and (ii) by July 7, 1987, begin implementing
a poJlcy ot reviewing ttle condition of MOA vehicles once they have served
firstly, either tive years or travelled 140,000 km and secondly, after
eight years service or 200,000 km of travel.  Vehicles found to be beyond
ecoi.omic repair at these inspection points would be eligible for immediate
disposal. MOA would, by July 7, 19b7, implement a pilot vehicle cost
accounting program to monitor tthe cost effectiveness of various types of
vehicles and introduce a routine preventive maintenance program tor all
v ePiIIe s   Assurances to these effects were obtained during negotiations.
4.08       During negotiations, it was agreed that the statting pattern
der.ii i-d in tinnex 3, Table 3 would be adopted by MCA.  Staff training would
6be stressed. LInitially, all statt (HQ and field service) would complete a
project orientation course. Animal nealth tield statf would a]so complete
a LW day agricultural extension and farmer communication course, while AHT
skilis would be upgraded ttrrough a 15 day course covering basic animal
lhusbandry, inutrition, simple tarm management and veterinary first aid.
Th'is wo.ri.d be supplemented by one day a month training during which the
work pi-ogram would be reviewed and the montnly activity schedule and animal
healthi messages discussed.  This training wculd be conducted by the AVO (or
senior: ARA until sufficient veterinarians become available), supported
where necessary by the ZVO.  Awaraja/Woreda AHAs would receive training one
day a month from the ZVO and visiting specialists as required, The ZVO
wouid mxeet with senior staff from MOA Laboratory Services, VELU, CIL, NVI,
and the Veterinary Faculty of Addis Ababa University every 4 months to
review ,pecitic technical issues, statf training and operational matters.
iPlanning and Programming and Finance Department staft would be brought up
to full strength in each project Zone, Awraja and Woreda. These staff
would he required to ensure implementation of the planning and accounting
tequtrewen9s for both FLOIP and the forthcoming PADEP.  Under FLDP, the MOA
'in,!lce. Department would be strengthened and training programs prepared and
it7!1.'Q"!ioldfed for lower level planning and accounting staff.  The staffing
.v.. f  )utlined in Annex 3, 'lable 3 would be put in place before project
romtmefnced in each Zone, Awraja and Woreda.



- 35 -
4.09      Operational procedures would be for eacn PA/PC to construct at
least one crush. The AHT would visit the PA/PC at a pre-arranged time and
place every 15 days. He would provide first-aid, basic clinical diagnosis,
vaccinations, tirst-aid treatment as required, and advice on animal
management and nutrition in accordance with messages received at the
monthly training session. He would work through PA/PC groups of about 50
farmers (about 4-5/PA), and would brief them on points/areas to be watched
during the coming months.  AHTs and DAs would allocate their time to PAs
and PCs in proportion to the ratio each PA and PC forms to the total number
of PAs and PCs to be serviced. The Woreda AHA would operate the Woreda
clinic but his primary task would be supervising and training between 5 and
8 AITs, ensuring they adhered to the work program, had adequate supplies of
drugs, vaccines and equipment, and providing technical backstop. The AHA
would spend a minimum of 10 worKing days each month in the field. The
Woreda clinic would be run by the Woreda AHT during the AHA's absence. The
AVO would provide similar training/supervision to the Woreda AHAs,
supporting their diagnostic work, monitoring work program implementation,
supervising the Awaraja clinic operation, ensuring adequate and timely
distribution of drugs and vaccines to Woredas and implementing the traini'g
programs. The ZVO would provide and supervise staff training, prepare and
supervise implementation of the Zonal/kegional animal health and disease
control program, ensure Zonal drug, vaccine and equipment supplies are
adequate, and serve as the formal technical link with the CVO, VEEU, the HQ
Lab services department and tne Zonal diagnostic laboratories.
4.10      MOA would purchase drugs for its own use from AISCO and sell
drugs to farmers through the existing MUA veterinary clinic network.
Accounting systems to tully monitor drug cost-recovery, wastage, and
inventory would be established. SCs could not participate in drug sales
until their accounting and administrative systems are adequate, including a
minimum of two members having satistactorily completed a short
MOA-couiducted training course in how to administer the drug store and sales
including simple inventory control. Where necessary, the MOA Peasant
Association and Cooperative Department would be requested to assist SCs to
achieve the necessary administration/accounting standards. Substantial
support for upgrading MUA Cooperative accounting statf and SC bookkeepers
and accelerating the registration of SCs is proposed for inclusion in the
forthcoming PADIP project which is currently being appraised.
Animal Nutrition Activities
4.11      The pace at which the component would be implemented would depend
on (i) the rate at which staff are trained in the appropriate technologies;
(ii) the availability of suitable seeds and seedlings; and (iii) the rate
of farmer acceptance of proposed technologies and systems which is likely
to be related to the rate at which SC development plans could be completed
and support services put in place. Initially, stress would be placed on
statf and tarmer training, and developing forage establishment, utilization
and management systems more fully. The animal nutrition project area and
scope would be reviewed during the proposed mid-term review (para. 4.27).
4.12      The main animal nutrition activities would include:  (i)
intensive staff training/orientaticn and continuous in-service training and



- 36 -
some study tours and overseas tellowships; (ii) preparation of development
and land-use plans for each participating SC; (iii) seed/seedling
production based at main production centres (Gojam, Welega, Harerge, Shewa)
with seed production teams mobilizing and supervising PA/PC seed/seedling
production; seeds required in project year one for subsequent bulking-up
would be imported; (iv) oats and vetch seed production by ESC; (v)
promotion of PA/PC animal nutrition management technologies by existing
extension staff and new forage production SMS; (vi) technical assistance
and visiting consultants in tields such as: monitoring and evaluation,
forage agronomy, seed production, farm management, forage systems research
and SC land-use and development planning specialists; (vii) establishment
of FSDU; and (viii) a 3-month consultant study to determine the need for a
facility to conduct microbiological studies and produce legume innoculum.
Animal Nutrition Operational Procedures
4.13      Within the SC development plan framework (paras. 4.16-4.18),
project strategies would be implemented largely by existing or transferred
DAs based at SCs/DCs.  The ratio of DAs to farmers would be not less than
about I DA:1,200 farm families.  GOSE has given an assurance that all SCs
coming within the project would be serviced by DAs as they were phased into
project activities. DAs would be supervtsed by the MOA Woreda Extension
Team Leader and supported by Awraja based forage agronomy and animal
nutrition SMS. Seed/seedling production would be done at existing MOA
centres and on PA/PC plots and bunds under direction of MOA seed production
teams. Seeds would be subsidized during the first three project years
to provide required incentives for farmers to take up the new and complex
task ot seed production. Seed pricing strategies would Fe reviewed by the
proposed project mid-term review (para. 4.26) with the view to phasing out
of the subsidy. In food deficit areas, a food-for-seed program would be
introduced. GOSE would enter into an arrangement with a suitable donor on
a basis similar to the current food-for-work programs. In areas where this
program would not operate, farmers would be paid cash for seed by MOA in
accordance with prices fixed annually by GOSE in consultation with IDA.
Responsibility for selected forage seed/seedling production would by July
7, 1987, be transferred trom the MOA Community Forest and Soil Conservation
Department to AFRDMD. Assurances to this effect were obtained during
negotiations. Annual seed/seedling allocation and distribution would be
agreed upon between the Project Deputy Manager (NLtrition) and concerned
Zonal General Managers.
4.14      The FSDU would conduct applied research on farmers fields and
grazing land to determine, as soon as possible, financially viable and
technically feasible forage production and utilization systems likely to be
attractive to peasant tarmers. Tne FSDU activities would be located
initially in Shewa Zone, which area covers a wide range of agro-ecological
zones and peasant farm systems. In addition to TA staff, it would comprise
two MOA staff (tarm management, agronomist), two IAR staff (forage
agronomy, soils), and two post graduate students.  It would be supported by
a HQ FSDU technical support unit comprising a Senior Systems Research
Scientist, a Farm Management Specialist and visitin& consultants as
required. FSDU systen,s development policy, work program and budget would
be approved by an advisory board comprising the Vice-Minister AFRDMD



- 37 -
(Chairman), IAR Director, and ILCA Director General. A draft cooperation
agreement between MOA, IAR and ILCA was presented tor IDA rev'ew during
negotiations.  Completion ot the agreement satisfactory to IDA, would be a
condition of credit effectiveness.
Service Cooperative Development Planning
4.15       tthiopia enjoys a sound rural institutional structure comprising
PAs and SCs, which are a potentially focal point upon wnich to base
agricultural and rural development activities. tXploiting this potential
has not, so far, been seriously attempted in any svstematic manner. The
FLDP animal nutrition development strategy would kocus upon SC Development
Plans (SCDP), which would take account of ex'sting land, livestock and
human resources witnin tl' group ot PAs/PCs comprising the SC, the factors
constraining the reJization of their full potential, and then prescribing
the resources and services including the basic management of these, needed
to progressively develop the agricultural and livestock potential. A key
part of the process would be the full participation of the PA executive
committee acting as the members' elected representatives.
4.i6      Awraja-based SC Planning Teams would prepare the plans in
cooperation with PA/PC committees. Team members would include the MOA
Awraja based SMS (soil and water conservation, cooperative development,
crop and livestock production, forage agronomy, animal health, farm
management and agricultural extension -- disciplines varying according to
agro-ecological zone) supported where possible by a land-use planner from
tne MOA Lana Use Planning and Regulatory Department.The DAs stationed at
concerned SCs wouild also participate. If staff are available, the zonal
Planning Commission would be included in the Awraja planning team. The
planning team woulc  be lead by the Awraja hSxtension Team Leader.  Planning
team members would receive training, tinanced under the project, in basic
land use and ueve'.opmelnt planning.  Each SCDP would be simple;
sophisticated soil and land-use mapping would, for example, be avoided.
Considerable SC Planning ceam statr training using PPF financed consultants
has been completed during project start-up.
4.17      Within the SCDPs, stress would be placed on livestock production
and m;lnagement including animal health and nutrition improvement.
Depending on the agro-ecological zone, specific programs for improving
livestock nutrition and nusbandry could include: stock exclusion areas
including selective planting with torage trees and shrubs and, in some
cases, oversowing with selected grasses and pasture legumes; bund planting
with forage trees and or grasses; household plot establishment of forages
(legumes, beet, grasses, forage shrubs); strategic supplementation of crop
residues (molasses, urea) especially during the dry season; protein
(oilseed cakes, shrub leaves) supplementation of sucKling and weaner calves
and, where necessary, young sheep and goats; use of single ox-plough and
yoKes thuis increasing tihe effectiveness of the existing oxen population;
and, through FSLU, ' ystems demonstrations on PA communal crop land (alley
cropping, legume undersowing, legume/grain double cropping). Management and
etnicient utilization of improved forage supplies would be an essential
element of farmer training. Stock exclusion areas would receive special
attention; management and utilization systems for both forage and ruelwood



- 38 -
would be gradually developed. Given the comparatively rapid recovery of
stock exclusion areas (where they apply), a rotational system of closing
and utilization could be established. A rotation of 15 year may be needed
to fully cover the PA communal grazing on degraded land, with 20% of the
area being closed and reopened every 3 years. Over time, through a process
of education and training and through improving overall food security, the
PA could be persuaded to agree on stock number limitations. This process
would be made easier, and the receptivity to growing livestock forage
increased, where the development plan included the possibility tor
fattening livestock and or cooperative based cheese and butter production
and marketing.
Southern Rangelands Pilot Project
4.18       The activities under the pilot project would be implemented by
SORDU (paras. 3.08, 4.01) in cooperation with ILCA. A cooperation
agreement between MOA and ILCA for implementing the research/survey
activities, and satisfactory to IDA, was presented for IDA review during
negotiations. The execution of this agreement would be a condition of
credit effectiveness. The stocker-feeder credit activities currently
handled by SuRXU would be transferred to AIDB as part of the FLDP credit
component by July 7, 1987 (paras. 3.08, 4.19). MOA/SORDU would technically
support the fattening program under the proposed MOA/AlDB cooperation
agreement (para. 4.19). The pilot project activities, achievements and
annual work program would be reviewed jointly by SORDU and IDA. The draft
program would be presented tor IDA review by February 28 of each year with
the final annual work program, taking into account IDA's comments,
submitted by June 30 each year. SORDU would (a) by July 7, 1988, conduct a
teasibility study for the operational transfer of the three existing
ra,aches in tthe pilot project area to pastoralist cooperatives, and (b) by
June 30, 1988. conduct a feasibility study, with consultant assistance if
necessary, or transferring the ownership and operation of SORDU cattle
transport trucKs to a cooperatively-owned organization. Farmers purchasing
feeder cattle from pastoralists would pay the full cost of transport
provided by SORDU. IDA agreement with the SORDU annual work program would
be a condition of disbursement for the pilot project activities.
Assurances that these procedures would be implemented were obtained during
negotiations.
Agricultural Credit
4.19      AID6 would make medium-term loans (2-5 years) to SCs boti, for
cooperative development (stores, housing, implements, furniture, drug
inventory) and tor on-lending to individua.s within PAs and to PCs for
livestocK development including animal fattening. Until the end ot fiscal
year 1988, the onlending interest rates would be as follows: MOF, assuming
the foreign exchange risk, would on-lend funds trom the proposed IFAD loan
to AIDS at 22/ annually; AIDB would on-lend to SCs at 5% annually, and tne
incerest rate to direct beneficiaries would be 7X annually. Starting
tiscal year 1989, the onlending interest rate would be 4% tor MOF onlending
to AIDB, iX for AIDB lending to sCs with an interest rate of 9% to direct
beneficiaries. The MUF loan to AIDB would be repayable over 5 years with
12 months grace. Repayments by direct beneficiaries would be spread over



- 39 -
three to five years depending on the activity, faith the grace period
varying between 6 and 12 Inolcns.  The beneficiaries' contribution would  iot
be less than 10% of the total estimated value of tile investment includinig
the beneticiaries' labor and contribution in kind.  The project's Mid-Term
Review would include an assessment of the appropriateness of t e above
onlending rates. The main criteria for assessing the interest rates would
be: (a) that they be positive in real terms; and (b) trie spread for the
tinancial intermediaries be sutticient to cover all reasonable operating
costs, risks and a profit margin. During negotiations, assuirances
regarding the above onlending arrangements were obtained. Due to the
possibility of double financing, IDA funds would not be used tor SC drug
inventory credit in project year one. PiOF would make the necessary funds
available to ATUB as a long-term loan under the conditions described
above. All material items financed uncler the loans would be insured
through the Ethiopian Insurance Corporation (EIC) with premium costs
included in the semi-annual payments to SCs and AIDS.  A livestock credit
insurance scneme is being successfully implemented by AIDS/EIC tor both
oxen and animal tattening loans made to individuals throughi SCs.
Completion of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between MOF and AIDB satistactory
to IDA and rerlecting these credit arrangements would be a condition ot
credit etfectiveness.
4.20       AIDB would carry out its operations and conduct its affairs in
accordance with sound administrative, linancial and banking practices under
the supervision of qualified and experienced mranagement. AIDS woulcl
conclude a Cooperation Agreement with MOA for implementing the credit
component.  Under this agreement, MOA would, inter alia, (i) identity
prospective borrowers, assist with the sub-project preparation especia]ly
the technical aspects; (ii) introduce the sub-borrower to AIDB;and (iii)
supervise the technical aspects of sub-project implementation. AIDB would,
inter alia, (i) conduct the tinancial appraisal of the sub-projects; (ii)
complete tuie insurance arrangements with EIC; (iii) disburse tlhe loan as
scheduled, collect repayments, and carry the risk of non-repayment.
Completion ot tthe Cooperation Agreement satisfactory to iDA would be a
condition ot crecit effectiveness.
4.21       To ensure satisfactory loan performance and timely repayment ot
subloans under the project, .klDb would (i) implement a training progr-mn,
satisfactory to GOSE and IDA, tor loan officers in ttne appraisal of
livestock loans; (ii) ensure sub-borrowers are notitied in writing nlot less
than JO days prior to the due date of loan repayment; (iii) implement a
penalty interesL rate of not less tt,an 0.5% per month for all loan
repaymrents overdue by 30 days or more; (iv) prepare a semi-annuai analysis
of loans made trom the credit, amounts outstanding, amounts overdue by 9()
days, 180 days, and over one year, and loan repayment rates detined as the
ratio of principal repayments made to loans falling cue.  Ttie above and
other relevant data on AIDB's performance with respect to debt recovery
would be provided to IDA semi-annually. Assurances Lo this ettect wer*e
obtained during negotiations.
C. Cost Recovery
4.22       I'he project would finance the annual cost input- of veteriIiar-
drugs tor tht MOA nationwide program.  Currently, veterinary drugs and



- 40 -
medicines are sold to farmers at their purchase cost Lo GOSE.  No markup is
included to allow for losses and handling.  Under the project, the
marketing and cost procedures outlined in para. 4.05 would be implemented.
It is expected that total AISCO receipts for drug sales woula be sufficient
to cover all handling costs including an allowance tor losses and drug
expiry. AISCU would retain the funds (instead of the current system under
which funds are paid to the treasury account and AISCO/MOA receives funds
through the budgetry process) on a revolving basis to replenish stocks as
required. A veterinary drug revolving account would be maintained by AISCO
with CBE or AIDS. The mark-up for MOA on drug sales would partially cover
the cost of providing veterinary services to farmers. Vaccines are
currently provided free. Under the project imported FMD vaccines would be
sold by AISCU on the same basis as drugs. The VEEU would, among otner
things, examine the econom,ics ot controlling the comparatively wide
spectrun, of diseases.  Provision would be made, under the proposed project
mlid-term review, tor the national vaccine program to be reviewed.  It is
anticipatea that the spectrum of vaccines provided free would be reduced.
karmers would then be able to request vaccines not included in the national
priority list but would pay tor them on a cost basis. Ttie possibility of
introducing a small service charge tor clinical services provided to
farmers would oe examined auring the project mid-term review.  Due to the
current level of direct and implicit taxes being paid by peasants,
introduction of such a charge at this time would be premature and place an
undue burdeti on mIost peasant families.
4.23      Except for LSc-produced oat seed, the cost of which would be
recovered in full from farmers, grass and torage seeds and seedlings would
be provided tree or on a seed-tor-work basis to participating PAs tor the
first three project years. It is expected that the bulk ot seed and at
least a good proportion of seedlings required under the project, would be
produced in PAs and PCs.  Farmers would toe paid a fair price tor these
seeds to ensure an adequate incentive. In some areas, a seed-tor-work
program would be introduced (para. 4.13). This cost would be met by MOA as
a subsidy, but the process would be tully reviewed in consultation with IDA
during the mid-term review.  The cost recovery mechanisms to be implemented
under the proposed project represent important progress in this area, and
would contribute towards enabling GOSE to maintain an efficient and
expanded veterinary service.
D. Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation
4.24       MOA, AIDB, AISCO and SORDU would prepare semi-annual progress
reports (quarterly reports may be prepared ror internal use) on physical
and financial progress in a format acceptable to IDA and in accordance with
the key indicator guidelines given in Annex 5. The reports would reach IDA
within two months of the end of the reporting period. The first report
would be due on March 31, 1987. Within six months or completing the
project, ,iOA would prepare a completion report (PCR) acceptable to IDA that
woula deal with all aspects of the project including achievements of MUA,
AISCu and AITh, and the adoption of propcsed project technologies by
farmers. AISCu and AIDS would propare separate reports on their respective
components for integration by 1,1OA into the overall PCR. The PCR would also



- 41 -
contain a multi-year summary of majot results, the benefits derived by
farmers from projeci activities including an evaluation of the seasonal
risks involved. Monitoring the progress of physical project implementation
such as construction, procurement, technical assistance, training, staff
employment and project expenditure on each category, would flow from the
bi-annual reporting procedure.
4.25      Monitoring the process of project field implementation and
ultimately evaluating the impact, would be assisted by the SC development
plans proposed as a basis of project strategy. Each SCDP would include an
inventory of PA resources and practices including livestock numbers by
type, cropping patterns and estimated yields, and the level ot tarmer
income. This process would be monitored over time, Dut such records would
enable a clear comparison to be made with the physical scene at the
beginning and end of project implementation. Long-term benefits arising
from soil and water conservation activities may not be clearly quantifiable
during the comparatively short period of project implementation. The work
of the VEEU should facilitate monitoring, and ultimately evaluating, the
progress of anirtal health component implementation and its ultimate
impact. SORDU i:ould prepare a special report on the Southern Rangelands
pilot activities and lessons learned. Periodic reports on the outcome ot
research and 3urvey work would be provided by SOKDU. MOA including SURDU
would, using credit-financed consultants where necessary, prepare
preparation reports tor follow-on livestock development projects.
Assurances that the reporting and monitoring and evaluation procedures
outlined would be implemented were obtained during negotiations.
L. Mid-Term Review
4.26      Experience gained with previous projects in Ethiopia, especially
MPP II, have confirmed the value of a tormal mid-term review of project
implementation progress and a preliminary evaluation ot project impact.
Such a procedure has led to an improvement in the orientation of project
activities. Accordingly, GOSE would, not later than December 31, 1989,
prepare a mid-term review in accordance with terms of reterence prepared in
consultation with IDA. The mid-term review would, among other things,
review the constraints and bottlenecks which may at that time be affecting
project implementation. The remaining investment program and the project
scope including the number and pace of Woreda implementation would be
considered. Special importance would be given to assessing, to the extent
possible, any adverse impact arising from an increase in livestock numbers
relative to available feed supplies. The GOSE mid-term review report would
be presented to IDA for review and comment. GOSE and IDA would then
conduct a joint review including, it necessary, a field review ot project
progress to determiie what changes, if any, aire required to improve project
impact during the remainder of the project implementation period.
Consultant costs associated with the mid-term review would be eligible for
reimbursement under the credit. Assurances that the mid-term review would
be implemented as outlined were obtained during negotiations.



- 42 -
F. Environmental Impact
4.27       Overall, this project would have a largely beneficial
environmental impact. The proposed adaptive research work should lead to
greater productivity and improved land utilization. Animal nutrition
development, combined, as it would be, with GOSE soil and water
conservation activities, would have a beneficial impact upon soil and water
conservation and conseqluently the rural environment especially longer term
crop production and potable water supply. Assistance to the national
veterinary institute to increase rabies vaccine production would improve
the urban environment in major towns and cities. Improved land-use and
management ot community grazing areas, especially on steeper land, would
have a beneficial impact on controlling soil erosion and in tne longer
term, water supply. A possible negative impact, which could accelerate
degradation in some areas, could arise if livestock numbers increased
without a cor:esponding increase in ofttake. Also, undue concentration of
livestock numnbers around the newly tormed villages could give rise to some
d&gradation in these areas altnough the problem is not expected to be
unduly serious.
G. The Role of t~omen
4.28      Generally, women would be involved in, and benefit from project
implementation. Livestock management in the traditional Ethiopian society
is conducted largely by women and children.  Women usually have direct
responsibility tor lactating animals and making milk products.  They also
care for suckling calves anid lambs.  Their responsibilities also extend to
fuelwood collectioni and making tuel cakes from dung.  Women actively
participate in Lhe soil conservation program, constructing bunds and
planting trees.  Ethiopia pursues an enlightened program of recruiting
female extension workers and veterinarians, both types of staff would be
actively involved in project implementation.
V. BENEFITS, tARKETING AND JIJSTIFlCATION
A. Benefits
5.01      Direct project benerits have been quantified only for the two
main components -- animal thealth and animal nutrition.  These benefits
include: (i) animal health -- increased availability of meat, milk
(cattle, sheep, goats) and ox-power due to reduced mortality and higher
liveweights at time of sale or slaughter amounting to an estimated 8,600
tons of carca > weight annually from year 10 onwards; (ii) animal
nutrition (including small-scale tattening) -- increased production and
offtake of meat and milk rrom all species amounting to about 2,500 tons of
carcasse ^ ight (1,601C) tons beet, 90U0) tons mutton/goat) and around 4,500
tons of   esb rnilk annually irom project year 12 onwards.  Increased crop
productivv vy nd possible inicreases in area cultivated (where land is
available) 'ue to the increased supply and efficiency of oxen for
cultivation arisirng trom  both animal health and nut.rition activities, have
not been quantified a.> it is not possible to precisely determine the



- 43 -
magnitude of such benefits. Also, increased crop yields resulting from the
application of additional manure, and from the improved soil and water
conservation in a) strategic, high slope, potentially degradable areas, and
b) on cropland due to better maintained and more efficient contour bunds,
have not been quantified. Additional unquantified benefits would include
increased production and supply of domestic fuel (woody forage, and dung)
thereby reducing pressure on rapidly depleting existing sources.
Additional benetits would flow from the project pilot activities in the
Southern Rangelands among drought-susceptible pastoralist groups. Project
impact on rural development would be important, especially in the animal
nutrition component for which the employment benefits have been
quantified. At full development (year 10), animal nutrition activities
would generate about 1.7 million incremental labor days annually in some
625 PAs involving about 176,000 farm families. An analysis of seasonal
labor availability indicates no serious constraint to providing this
incremental labor from the largely underemployed farm families. The
exception is during peak labor demand periods and for skilled labor. Labor
has been costed at full rates during these periods.8/ At full
development, an estimated 770,000 tarm tamilieq would benefit from the
animal health activities each year. The vast majority of these
beneficiaries currently live in absolute poverty.
B. Marketing
5.02      Marketing of the incremental meat and milk output would not
present any difficulty due largely to a nationwide shortage of supply,
especially in urban areas. Total annual beef production (carcasse weight)
is estimated at roughly 245,000 tons, of which the project output would
represent about 4%. Similarly, the output of mutton/goat meat would
represent about 1% of total annual estimated production (132,000 tons).
Current domesLic prices either equate or even exceed world prices,
reflecting high domestic demand for meat. With population increasing at
2.9% annually, it is expected that current market demand will continue tor
many years. A similar situation exists for milk. The incremental project
output would represent a little over 1% of estimated total annual
product. r' (325,000 tons). Milk Is in short supply in all large towns and
regularly commands prices exceeding the official milk price (Birr
0.6/liter) by around 30x. Furthermore, given the current comparatively low
average caloric intake among the rural population, a substantial proportion
of the projected increased production is likely to be consumed locally
except for the meat fattening for prime markets and milk tor major urban
areas.
h/   The detailed labor profiles may be seen in the project preparation
reports (Annex 8, Document b-10).



- 44 -
C. Economic Evaluation
Prices
5.03       Project economic benefits were evaluated on an export parity
basis. Etficiency prices were calculated using the official exchange rate,
and applying the standard conversion factor ot 0.75 to local costs down to
the farmgate. Thie beef prices and projections over the next 10 years were
taken from the World Bank fPD Half Yearly Revision of January 23, 1986,
adjusted to reflect the lower quality of Ethiopian beet. Sheep and goat
prices were derived trom data on Ethiopian export markets.  Although
Ethiopia imports dairy products, the financial price of milk (US$0.30/
liter) was assumed to be a fairly accurate reflection of the international
market price. Although the price of meat products is projected to rise (in
constant terms) over the next 10 years, in view of tne currently depressed
state of the world meat market, the current adjusted (lower) price level
was used in the economic rate ot return (ERR) calculations.
5.04       The value of non-traded goods and services were adjusted
downwards using the standard conversion factor of 0.75, which reflects the
overvaluation of the Ethiopian Birr. The shadow rate is estimated at Birr
2.75 to the US dollar, compared to the official rate of hirr 2.07 per US
dollar. Although the recent devaluation of the US dollar against other
major currencies has reduced the currency distortion, the shadow exchange
rate used is considered conservative. Unskilled labor was valued at Birr
1.00 per day, half the going wage.  Skilled labor (such as oxen drivers)
and Labor during peak periods was valued at the full wage. This reflects
both the rural under-employment and the tact that some work must be done at
peak labor demand periods. In each of the productive components5 the
off-farm costs accounted tor have included both those specitically related
to the component, and a share of overhead costs such as MOA strengtnening,
allocated according to the weight of the original component in the total
project costs. The economic valuation of the each ot the productive
component is discussed below.
Animal Health Component
5.05       The benetits trom this component include lower losses of cattle,
sheep and goats from reduced mortality, and reduced morbidity of the herds
and flocks. Four disease control programs were evaluated: Liver Fluke
(fascioliasis), Trypanosomiasis, Contagious Bovine Pleuropneumonia (CBPP),
and Rinderpest. In each case, the effect of doubling the current adoption
rate of the appropriate treatment was used to generate the benetit stream.
This is a conservative assumption, as current adoption rates are low, and a
well-run nealth program should result in substantially higther adoption
rates, and hence, more tavorable rates of retuirn. For each of the four
diseases analyzed, increases in adoption rates over the 5-year project
period were as follows: (a) for Liver Fluke, where the population at
risk includes all the estimated 12.7 million cattle, 10.3 million sheep and
6.0 million goats in the project area (Shewa, Gojam, Harerge, Welega,
Ilubabor and Kefa), adoption rises from 2% to 4%; (b) Trypan)somiasis, witt
a population at risk estimated at 10 million cattle, trom the current 6.0%
to 12%; (c) CBPP, with a population at risk of some 8.6 million cattle,



- 45 -
trom the current 30% treatment rate, to 50%; and (d) Kinderpest, with a
population at risk of some 14.4 million cattle (the remainder having been
vaccinated in past campaigns), the current vaccination coverage of 10%
would increase to 30X. The program to be implemented would continue to
have a beneficial effect and continue to expand beyond the 5 years of the
project, which would result in a further increase in economic benefits.
The costs accounted for in the animal health evaluation include (a) the
national and project area focussed animal health program; (b) the SORDU
animal health program; (c) the incremental credit for the strengthening ot
PAs and SCs to allow them to be effective intermediaries in the program;
and (d) 53% of the MOA institutional strengthening component. The ERR for
the animal health component is estimated at 32%.
Animal Nutrition Component
5.06       Lncreased forage production is expected to proceed slowly, due to
the difficulties of producing sufficient improved forage seed/seedlings and
in persuading farmers to adopt the relevant technologies. Only those PAs
which would adopt project technology during the 5-year project period have
been included: 400 in Shewa, 100 in Harerge, and 125 in Gojam, some 7.7%
of the total PAs in the three regions. This estimate is conservative, as
the process of improved torage production initiated under the project is
expected to continue well into the future and on a progressively escalating
scale.
5.07      Tne forage production analysis has been conducted for three
altitude zones, due to the different characteristics of the forage to be
produced, and the herds/flocks to be fed in each zone. Adopting PAs were
allocated across zones according to the density of the population at each
altitude, as tollows: (a) under 2,000 m, 51%; (b) between 2,000 and 2,400
m, 27%; and (c) between 2,400 and 3,000 m, 22>6.  The incremental forage
produced in each zone was then balanced against the increased consumption
requirements of three types of herd/flock development models; a
Self-Replacing 1000 .3reeder Cattle Herd, an Oxen Purchase 1000 breeder
Cattle herd, and a Se2f-Replacing 1000 Breeder Sheep/Goat Flock. Given the
availability of additional forage over the 20-year herd development period,
the following number of herd/flock growth models were included in the
project: (a) 60 Self-Replacing Cattle Herds; (b) 30 Oxen Purchase Cattle
Herds; and (c) 106 Self-Replacing Sheep/Goat flocks. 9/ Estimates of
incremental ouL.put of meat, milk and animals were derived from these
models. Inclusion of additional '.erd development models was constrained
principally by the availability of forage in years 10-15 of the project.
Continued incorporation of PAs into the project beyond year 5 would have
increased the numbet of models, and the rate of return would increase
according iy
5.08      Th-e main labor input into this component is in the preparation of
the land to be planted to forage. Substantial labor inputs are also
required tor collection and maintenance. Labor was valued as described
9/   Details of these models are found in the 'Feeds and Forage'
preparation report, Document 9, Annex 8.



- 46 -
above. The off-farm costs used in the evaluation of this component
included those related to the specific component (extension services,
systems analysis, seed production, etc.), as well as 14% of the MOA
strengthening activities. The ERR for this component is estimated at 15%.
Small-Scale Fattening
5.09      Beneticiaries would include some 2,000 individual farmers
fattening one or two cattle, and some 42 producer cooperatives with 20 head
each. Beneficiaries would be incorporated into the project over 5 years,
receiving a loan from AIDB at tne beginning of their development period.
Three lots ot finisuled cattle would be sold per annum. Due to
uncertainties over molasses supply, the component has been assumed to have
a 7-year lire onily. The net on-tarm benefit streams, resulting from the
increased weight and price for tinished animals, were weighed against
ott-farm costs for the MOA support tor this component (extension service,
training, infrastructure) as well as 9% of the MOA strengthening
componient.  Thie ERR is estimated at 18%.  Were the component evaluated over
a 15-year life span, the rate of return would be 30%.
Cormplete Project - Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
5.10      In evaluating the entire project, the benefit streams from each
ot the thiree productive components described above were set against the
labor/oxen costs from the nutrition component, and adjusted project costs
from eacih ot the productive components. Off-farm costs also included all
of the MOA strengthening and the SURDU component, less the credit for the
SORDU stocker/teeder program (i.e. the total estimated project costs). MOA
analysis shows the stocker/feeder fattening and marketing program will at
least cover its costs and generate a positive rate of return. On the basis
of the above assumptions, the project base rate of return is estimated at
26-  With the inclusion of the SORDU stocker/feeder credit as a sunk cost,
the rate of return tails to 25%.  The sensitivity of the ERR to various
changes in tne nature and timing of the cost and benefit streams is as
follows;
Ecoaomic Rate of Return
(Z)
Base                                       26
benefits lag 3 y2ars                       13
Benetits lag 5 years                        8
Benefits decrease 20%                      19
benutits decrease 50%                       5
Costs increase 20%                         20
Benietits increase 20%                     32
Benefits increase 50%                      41
As the above analysis shows, the project can be expected to generate a rate
of return above the 12-13% opportunity cost of capital in Ethiopia within
the latitudes ot reasonably efficient project implementation.



- 47 -
D. Project Risks and Uncertainty
5.11       In general, FLDP would be a comparatively low risK project.
Adverse environmental impact, if any, would be minimal. The commitment to
the project demonstrated by MOA, AFRDMD and the efficient and early
iniplementation of project start-up activities all point t- implementation
proceeding as scheduled.  Risks associated witn broader issues include
livestocK marketing, possible acceleration of the socialization of private
agriculture and possible growing political influence in technical-economic
decision making. A possible tincrease in livestock numbers presents a
possible risk in some areaas. Livestock number increases could arise
firstly, from the possibility, in the absence of alternative investment
opportunities (including consumer goods supply), of improved animal health
especially leading to further increases in numbers, thus ultimately
exacerbating the degrading problem in some areas. GOSE development
strategy includes the progressive socialization of peasant agriculture, of
which the ongoing villagization program may, in the long run, form an
integral part.  It is planrned, t- example, that over 50% of all PAs would
be collectivized by 1994.  Finally, the formal establishment of the WorKers
Party of Ethiopia appears to lnave inicreased political influence in
technical and economic matters which may adversely etfect project
implementation.
5.12      Livetock number control could be exercised through the PA
system. Farmer training and education coupled with improved services and
better animal nutrition may lead to an environment in which farmers would
be more receptive to limiting rnumbers, especially it crop production and
incomes are simuLtaaeously inmproved.  Lower mortality and disease risk
would also increase a sense of security among livestocK owners and could
lead, for examp)le, to less stipporting herd numbers niecessary for
maintaining the required oKCe power. Current thigth prices for livestock and
livestock products anid trnese prices relative to those for grain provide an
incentive for irncreasing offtake.   Socialization of major marKet outlets
including tne export trade could be disruptive especially if prices were
kept artificially low. Parastatal inetficienicy and high costs are seen in
the grain narketing trace and a moLnopolistic livestock marketing parastatal
is unlikely to be much different. However, current indications are that
private exporters will continue to operaLe during the next five years.
Moreover, the proposed Live Aniiaal Export Market Study would provide a
basis for professionial dialogue on this issue witt C;oSf.. It would also,
hopefully, lead to an increase in official exports and ofStake.
Controlling the 'illegal' cross-border export trade is probably pthysically
and administratively impossible. It is also not necessarily desirable as
it constitutes, no doubt, an important toreign excharnge earning trader no
matter how indirect.  A major devaluation of the Ethiopian Birr and
liberalization of luxury good imports are likely to be the most effective
means of decreasing this trade. Growing political influences on technical-
economic decisions must be accepted as part of the project implementation
environment in Ethiopia.  Similarly, the progressive socialization of
agricultuire is to be accepted as a basic pla;nk ot Government policy.  GOSE
is currently showing some flexibility as to th-ie forms of producer
cooperatives, especially tnlose wnich could provide more individual
incentive.  Socialized tarmers have been showrn to be responsivP to improved



- 48 -
incentives, especially marketing and pricing. The IDA role should continue
to streso the need for an adequate incentive framework for the agricultural
sector including livestock and livestock products.
5.13      Overall however, given the prevailing Ethiopian environment, the
risks for FLDP are comparatively low. The potential benetits both to
individuals and to the economy of the economically poorest country of the
world are, however, high. These risKs are, therefore, considered
justifiable.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED
General Conditions
6.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(i) (a) MOA would apply the overseas fellowship selection criteria
outlined in para. 3.13; (b) MOA and AISCO would tollow the
procurement procedures outlined in paras. 3.17 and 3.18; and (c)
MOA, AISCO, SORDU and AIDB would rollow the accounting and
auditing procedures outlined in para. 3.23;
(ii)  MUA would open a special project account denominated in U.S.
dollars with the National bank of Ethiopia (para. 3.22);
(iii) MOA would implement (a) the organization and management
procedures outlined in paras. 4.01 thru 4.03; b) the animal
health component operations and procedures described in para.
4.06; (c) the staffing patterns doscribed in para. 4.08; (d) the
vehicle control system outlined in para. 4.07.; and (e) tne
extension st.-tr:tarmer ratios, and seed pricing strategies
described in para. 4.13.
(iv) AIDB would take all measures necessary to ensure timely repayment
of subloans unoer the project and inclusion of current data
relevant to its performance with respect to debt recovery in
semi-annual reports to be provided to IDA (para. 4.21);
(v) AISCO at tne beginning of each fiscal year would have at its
disposal adequate local tunds to cover operating costs (para.
4.04); and would follow the annual price review procedures
outlined in para. 4.05;
(vi) AIDB and MOA would implement the credit line as described in para
3.09 under the procedures outline in para. 4.19 thru 4.21;
(vii)  MOA, AIDS, AISCO and SORDU would implemeu!v the reporting,
monitoring and evaluation procedures outlined in para. 4.24 and
4.25; ana
(viii) a mid-term review of project implementation and impact under
terms of reference satisfactory to GOSE and IDA, would be
implemented as outline& in para. 4.26.



- 49 -
Dated Covenants
6.02 (i)  the livestock export trade development study would be completed
by December 31, 1988 in accordance with the schedule outlined in
para. 3.11; GOSE and IDA would jointly review the recommendations
by Match 31, 1989, and GOSE would then, to the extent possible,
make its best efforts to implement the recommendations;
(ii) GOSE would, by July 7, 1987, cause MOA to (a) begin implementing
the vehicle maintenance and checking program outlined in para.
4.07; and (b) by July 7, 1987, introduce a cost accounting
program to monitor the cost-effectiveness of various types of
vehicles (para. 4.07);
(iii) the responsibility for selected forage seed/seedling production
would by July 7, 1987 be transferred from the MOA Community
Forest and Soil Conservation Departuent to AFRDMD (para. 4.13);
(iv) SORDU would (a) implement the Southern Rangelands Pilot Project
as outlined in para. 3.08 and the activities described in para.
4.18; (b) complete the feasibility study for the possible
operational transfer of the three existing ranches in the
Southorn Rangelands area to pastoralist cooperatives by July 7,
1988 (para. 4.18); (c) conduct a feasibility study with
consultant assistance if necessary, of the possibility of
transferring the ownership and operation of SORDU cattle
transport trucks to a cooperatively-owned organization by June
30, 1988 (para. 4.18); (d) transfer responsibility for the
stocker-feeder credit activities to AIDB by July 7, 1987 (para.
4.18); and (e) prepare an annual work program for GOSE and TDA
review as described in para. 4.18); and
(v) MOA would recruit under terms of reference and with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to IDA, the technical
assistance staff outlined in para. 3.12 by June 30, 1987.
Conditions of Disbursement
6.03      Disbursements for the Southern Rangelands Pilot Project
activities would be subject to IDA agreement with the SORDU
annual work program (para. 4.18).
Conditions of Effectiveness
6.04 (i)  completion of a subsidiary loan agreement between GOSE and AISCO
satisfactory to IDA reflecting the credit arrangements described
in para. 4.04);
(ii) completion of a cooperation agreement, satisfactory to IDA,
between MOA, IAR and ILCA for implementing the FSDU applied
research program (para. 4.14);



- 50 -
(iii) completion of a subsidiary loan agreement between MOF and AIDB
satisfactory to IDA and reflecting the credit arrangements
described in para. 4.19;
(iv) completion of a cooperation agreement between AIDB and MOA for
implementing the credit component (para. 4.20);
(v) completion of a cooperation agreement between MOA and ILCA for
implementing the research activities under the Southern Rangeland
Pilot Project (para. 4.18).
6.05      With the above assurances and conditions, the project would be
suitable for an IDA Credit for the SDR equivalent of US$39.0 million under
normal conditions.



- 51 -                                       Annex I
Table 1
ETHIOPIA
FURTH LIVESTOCK KEJLOPONT PROJECT
SUMMARY ACCONTS COST SUARY
(Bivr '000)                     (US$ '000)                        X Total
--.------------------------   --------------------------  X Fureign   lra,e
Local   Foreiun   Total         Local   Foreign   Total    Exchange    Costs
=rzzzz=_::;5:z25::  se=:5::s;  5::ssr.:: :-:-53:::=_:SS:::    Z.I.:S::S
I. INVESTMENT cosTs
A. CIVIL WORKS                                5,480.4  4,484.0   90964.4   2t647.5  2,166,2  4,813.7                45        11
1. VEHICLES                                   2,103.1  3,905,8   69008.9   1s016.0  1,886.9  2,902.9                65         6
C. EQUIPMENT
SPECIAL EGUIPMENT                          1P030.7  4,122.8   5P153,5        497,9  1,991.7  2,489.6            80         5
OFFICE FUNITURE/EQUIPMENT                    956.5  1,434.7   20391.1        462,1    693.1  1i,155.1           60         3
OTHER EQUIPMENT                              222.0    878,9   1f100.9        107.2    424.6    531.8            80         1
Sub-Total EQUIPMENT                           2.209.1  6,436.4   8.645,5  1067,2  3,109i.4  4,176.6                74         '
D, TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
AND TRAINING
TECHNICA' ASSISTANCE                             -  8,282.0  8282.0             -  4,001.0  46001,Q           100         9
IFAINING                                     ,21.7  4,089.4   4,811.1        348.6  1,975,6  2,324.2            85         5
Sub-Total TE:HNICAL ASSISTANCE
AND TfAIN,NG                                 721.7 12,371.4  13,093.1        348,6  5,976.5  6J325.2            94        14
E. SULFLIES                                   3,496.0 10,015.0  13,511,0   1t688.9  4,838.1  6,527,0               74         14
F. CREDIT                                     6,369.5  6,369.5  12,739.0   3,077.1  3P077.1  6,154,1                50        14
C. LI')ESTOCF, EXPORT TRAIDE STUIDY                  -  1000.0   1,000.0             -    483.1    483.1          100          1
Total INVESTHEN" COSTS                          20,379.8 44.582.0  6-1961.8   9,845.3 21,537.2 31,382.5                69        69
FI. RECURRENT COSTS
A. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
VEHICLE 01 t                             2,660.2  6,207.2   89867.5   1,285.1  2,998.7  4,283.8                70         9
EQUIPMENT 01                               722.5  1P682.6   2,405.1        349.0    812.8  1,161.9            70         3
BUILDING O & M                              321.6      80.4      402.0      155.4      38.8    194,2           20         0
Sub-Total OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE          3,704.4  7,970.2  11,674.6   1.78Y.6  3,850.3  5,639.9               68        12
1,. SALARIES, BENEFITS,
AND fER DIEM                            17,369.5          -  17,369,5   89391.1           -  89391.1            -        18
Total RECURRENT COSTS                           21#073.9  7,970,2  299044.1  10.180.6  3,850.3 14,030.9               27         31
Total BASELINE COSTS                             41,453.6 52,552.2  94,005.9  20,025.9 2tP387.5 45,413.5                56       100
Phssicai Coritirsencies                        5,497.2  7,549.1  13,046.3   2,655.7  3,646.9  6,302.,               58         14
Price Coritir,gericies                         2,802,4  8,495.7  11.298.1   1,353.8  4,104.2  5,4A8.0               75         12
Tctal PROJECT CoSTS                              49,753.2 68,59'.l 118,350.3  24,035.4 33,138.7 57,174.1                58       126
FebrlJdr. 13! :'VI'  10l' l;



-52  -                                       Annex  1
Table 2T
ETHIOPIA
FOURTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project ComPonents bu Year
(Dirr '000)
Base Costs                            Total
87/88    88/89    89/90    90/91    91/92         Bill    (US$ '000)
=Z======= ====== =  =====, =,    Z= = =Z== == == ==-     --==    ==
A. ANIMAL HEALTH DEVELOPMENT                     19,123.8  8,810.2  8.918,2  6,492.1  5,133.6   48,477.9   23,419.3
B. ANIMAL hiTRITION DEVELOPMENT                   3,164.2  1,881.5  1,683.2  1,755.2  2,217.6   10,701.7    5,169.°
C. SOUTHERN RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS    3,038.0  2,332.5  1,607.7  1,425,2  1,346.2    9,749.7    4,710.0
D. AGRICULTURE CREDIT REQUIREMENTS                1,404.5  2,104.0  2,946.5  3,669,5  2,870.5   12.995,0    6P277.8
E. INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING : MOA                   4P204.9  3,096.1  1,885.1    902.2    993.2   11,081.5    5,353.4
F. LIVESTOCK EXPORT TRADE STUDY                     400.0    600.0          -        -         -    1000.0       483.1
Total BASELINE COSTS                               31,335.4 18,824.2 17,040.7 14P244.3 12,561.2   94,005.9   459413.5
PhYsica1 Contingencies                           5,260.3  2,409.7  2,161.0  1,719.0  1,496.3   13,046.3    6,302.6
Price Contingencies                                948.4  1,686.5  2,468.1  2,884.9  3,310.2   119298.1    5,458.0
Total PROJECT COSTS                                37,544.2 22,920.5 21,669.8 18.848.2 17i367.7  118,350.3   57,174.1
Taxes                                            4,906.4  2,324.8  1,696.1  1,139.1    973.1   11,039.6    5,333.2
Foreign Exchange                                23,436.0 14,151.9 12,173.9 10,107.5  80727,7   68,597,1   33,138,7
March 6, 1987 10:38



-53                                                         Annex 1
Table 3
ETNIWIA
FURTh LIUESIOCK IEIELOPNT PW.CT
Project Comnmts bw Year
Totals Including Contin*ntiin                           Totals Includifri Continncifs
(Dirr '000)                                              (USS '000)
-------------_------                 -------          ............................... __ ----------------------
87/fl   flB89    89/90    90/91    91/92    Total         87/88    W8/9    99/90    90/91   91/92   Total
.:3:3s:s 23333333 :a3a3:3s csag:.:: xa:ar asg 3.ZZO&S86  ZBOX88su * a'Ss:3S zX:Z  SSI Z: S :33X   :S33X32   :3333:=:
A. ANIMAL HEALTH DEVELOPIENT                    23475.2 10,657.2 11600.8 9s772.5  7423907  610945,4  11,340.7  ',245.0  5,604.3 4,237.9 3,497.4 29.925.3
B. AMINL NUTdITION DEELOPENT                     3,674,4  2,284.3  2.110.1  2t287.2  39017.6  13,373.5   10775.1  1,103.5  1e019.4 1.104.9 1,457.8  60460*6
C. SWTHENI RN  EWLODS MVELOPENT PROGRAMS    3,497.5  2,806.8  2.003.1  1.967.8  1;861.1  12.036.3  I1689.6  1,355.9    967.7   902.3   999.1  5,814.6
D. AGRICULTURE CREDIT REIJIREJINTS               16575.9  2P458.5  346145  4,729.9  3,898.6  16,277,4         761.3  1,!87.7  1,746.1 2,265.0 1963.4  7,963.5
E. INSTITUTIONAL  UILDING : MA                   4,965.3  3,782.2  2P341.3  1,190.7  1W350.8  13,530.3   2.350.4  1wS27.1  1131.0   575.2   652.5  64536.4
F, LIVESTOCE EXPORT TRAD  STUDY                    455.8    731.6         -         -        -   1,167.4      220,2    353.4         -       -        -    573.6
Total PROJECT COSTS                               37P544.2 22,920.5 21,669.6 18848.2 17,367,7 118,350.3  18,137.3 11F072.7 10,468.5 9t105.4 84390.2 57P174.1
.     :::::axa:as  3a:s :::::: :3:x==aa   =2=3 = s=3 :==:3::   :====::s:::: -s:  *:X3S 3333333  :::: 3:==  =:292S3  3S3323-3
Madri 6, 1987  10:38



ETNIOPIA
FOLRTH LIUSTOCI DEIELOIIENT PROMECT
Sumar  Akeount bhi Project Component
(Birr '000)
SOUTIER                                                           Plusical
ANIMAL    R(EWliMS   ARICULTURE                      LIVESTOCK              Conti iuties
ANIMAL HEALTH   IUTRITION   DEffLOPIT     CREDIT    INSTITUTIONAL  EXPOT TRADE                       -
DEVELPINT   DELOPElNT  PFSR1M         REOUIREIEITS  IUILDIN: IIA    STUDY         Total     Z   Amt
======          == ==_  _,= = = ====.==C            --=t==       =  _=  __, 
I. INJEST1N1T COSTS
A. CIVIL IORIS                               9,241.4        723.0           -             -              -             -   99964.4 25.0  2,491.1
B. WHICLES                                   3P393.0        628.0     1,1O0.0         160.0          727.9             -   6,001.9  10.0   410.9
C. E1PIEINT
SPECIAL EQUPIEPIT                         3Y671.0        468.2       361.0             -          653,3             -   5w153.5  10,0   sIs.3
OFFICE FUNITUE/EUIPIENT                     291.4        114.9    l1214.5                         710.4             -   29391.1  20.0   473.2
OTIER EQUIPMENT                              m9.9        109.0            -            -              -             -   1fI1W.9  10.0   110.1
------ -    -  -----  - --- -   ---    ----------- - - -   --- -  - -- -  - - -  ----  _ -  -__  -     - ---  _ -   - -- -  _  
Sub-Total E1PIEINT                           4,94.2         692.1     1,645.5             -        1.363.7             -   8,64.5  t2.8  1,103.7
D. TEOUICM.L AtSISTMCE
An TRAININS
TEOUICML ASSISTAICE                       3,358.0      1,392.0      19302.0            -           400              -      2M2.0  10.0   121.2
TRAINING                                  1,277.3      2,067.4       200.0          96.0        19170.4             -   4.311.1  10.0   411.1
Sub-Total TEOCNICAL ASSISTANICE 
MID TRAINING                              4,635.3      3944Y.4      1.502.0         96.0        3P410.4             -   13,093.1  10.0 1,309.3
E. SIPPLIES                                 10768.2       19582.e           -             -        19160.0             -   13.511.0  24.0  3,243.0
F. CREDIT                                          -            -           -      12,739.0              -             -  12,739.0  10.0  1,273.9
G. LIVESTOCK EVR91T TRAKDE STUD                    -           -            -             -              -       1,000.0    19000,0  10.0  1J0.0
-------       -- -           - -_ - - --   -------  - ----------  --------- - -  -  -  -  - -- - -  - ---__  -  - -_ -_  -  _   _ 
Total INVESTIENT CSTS                         32p9S 21     7,075.1      4,247.5      12,995.0        6W662.0       IOO.0  b4o%1.S  15.6 10,121.6
It. RECtUEIT COSTS
A. OPERATION 4AM rAINTENANCE
OHICLE e a h                             4,448.2        945.1      2F167.6            -         1.296.6            -   B1,67.5  10.0   E1.7
EWIPIENT 0 1 It                          19320.2        260.9       730.0             -           36.0             -   2,405.1  10.0   240.5
BUILDIIN  0 1 M)                            25.0         60.0        150.0            -           147.0            -      402.0  15.0    60.3
- -------- -- --------    ----------  ----- - ---  --- - -          
Sub-Total OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE         5,793.4      1,294.0     3,117.6             -        19469.6             -  11,674.6  10.2 1,167.6
B. S&ARIESF WEEFITS.
AOD PER DIEMI                            99702.4      2,332.6     2p3B4.6             -        2,949.9             -   179369.5  10.0  19736,9
Total RECURENT COSTS                           15,495.9     3P626.6      5.50212             -        4,419.5            -  29,044.1  10.1 2P924.5        ,.3 >
Total BASELINE COSTS                            48,477.9    10P701.7      9,749.7      12,995.0       11.081.5       1.000.0  '4,005.9  13.9 139046.3      v :
Physical Contirancnies                        7.978.6      1,296.8      1.110.9     t1299.5         19360.5         100.0  13,046.3  0.0       0.0         x
Price Continaencies                          5588.9       IP375.0     1.175.6       1,P92.9        1D088.2          97.4  11,299.1  11.6  1,307.0
Total PROJECT COSTS                             61,945.4    13P373.5    12,036.3       16,277.4       13953.3        1,187.4  119,350.3  12.1 14,353.4
Taxes                                         7,037.2      1.235.9    1l441.1           72.8       1252.7              -   11,039.6  13.2  1,451.8
Foreisn Exchanse                             36,260.9      7,368.0     6.833.1       8,764.3        B.183.3       1,1B7.4  6b8,597.1  12.5  B,556.2
Februars. 1g. 1917 10:10



Annex  1
--55              ~                               Table 5
ETHIOPIA
FOURTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SuumrY Accounts bv Year
(Birr 'OOC)
Base Costs                          Foreign Exchange
87/88    88/69    89/90    90/91    91/92    Tt al            z     Amount
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL IORKS                               8,539.8    740.6    684,0          -         -   9i954.4    45.0  l484.,
B. VEHICLES                                  49051.9  1,310.5    500.5    145.5         l.5   6,008.9    6Z.0   3J90J.8
C. EQUIPMENT
SPECIAL EQUIPMENT                        19845,1  2,199.1    545.3    395.0    169.0   5,153.5    80,0   4,122.8
OFFICE FUNITURE/EQUIPHENT                 1,11311    591.5    302.8    193.8    185.0   2,391.1    60,0   1,434.7
OTHER EQUIPMENT                             16a.9    171.1    744.3        8.3      8.3   11100.9    79.8       878.9
Sub-Total EOUIPMENT                          3,132.0  29961.7  165924    597.1    362.4   8,645.5    74,4   6,436.4
D. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
AND TRAINING
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                     3,368.0  1,640.0  1P48L.0  1Y014.0    780.0   8,282.0   100.0   8Y282.0
TRAINING                                  1,269.0  1,220.8    986.3    719.9    615.2   4,811.1    85.0   4,089.4
Sub-Totjl TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
AND TRAINING                             4,637.0  2,860.8  21466,3  ls733:q  19395,2  13,093.1    94.5  12,371.4
E. SUPPLIES                                  4,974.5  2,375.3  2P216.2  2;030.8  1.914,1  13t511.0    741,  10,015.,
F. CREDIT                                    1,220.5  2,080.0  2t922,5  3P645.5  2,870.5  12,739.0    5K.    6,369,5
G. LIVESTOCW  EXPORT TRADE STUDY               400.0    800.0                             - -,000.0   100.0    ,00;v.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                         26,955.7 12,928.9 10w381.9  8,152.7  69542.6  64,961.8    68.  44.582.0
.A. RECURRENT COSTS
A. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
VEHICLE 0 I M                           1,388.0  1,772.3  1971,6  1,867.7  1,867.9   8,867.5    70.0   622-'.2
EQUIPMENT 01 M                            360.L    537.4    499.6    516.3    491.3   2,405.1    70.0   1,682.6
BUILDING 01 M                               95.2    101.2    101.2      52.2      52.2      402.0    20.0       80.4
Sub-Total OPERATION AND MAINfENANCE        1PB43.7  2,411.0  2Y572A4    436.2  2'411.4  11f674.6          8.3   7197002
B. SALARIESY BENEFITSP
ANDI PER DIEM                           2?536.1  3,484.4  4v086.5  3p6S5.4  3eC7.2 '7I3,.5             ^.v       G.
Total RECURRENT COSTS                           40379.?  5,895.4  6,658.9  69091.6  6,018.6  299044.1    27.4   7,970.2
Total BASELINE COSTS                            317335.4 18,24.2 17,040.7 14,244.3 12,561.2  94,005.9    55.9  526552.2
Fhvsxcal Contingencies                        5Y260.3  2,409.7  2,161.0  1,719,0  1,496.3  13,04b.3   5.9   7.'49.1
Frice Contingencies                             948.4  1,686.5  2,468.1  2t884,9  3,310.2  11t298.1    75.2   8,495,7
Total PROJECT COSTS                             37,544.2 22f920.5 21l669.8 18,848, 17,367.7 118f350.3    j8.0  6865?.1
z es                                         4,906.4  2,324.8  1!696.1  41139.1    973.1  11,039.6         .          0.2
Foreign E.change                             233436.0 14,151.9 120173.9 10,107.5  8,7'2.7  68,597.1         t.C
harci 6, l9Q   10:38



Annex 1
Table  S
EITIOPIA
F0URTH LIESTOCK DEUELOPEIT PROJECT
Sumsri kCounts by Year
Totals Including Continencis                          Totals Includins Continrncins
(Dirr '000)                                            (US$ '000)
87/88    88/89    89/90    90/91    91/92    Total      87/88    98/89    89/90    90/91   91/92   Total
1. INUESTHENT COSTS
A. CIVIL MORKS                           10,878.2   985.4   956.5           -        -  12,820.1  5W255.2   476.0   462.1           -       -  6.193,3
D. UEHICLES                               4,606,1  1,588.3   646.3    200,4        0.7   7,041.8   2,225,2    767.3   312.2    96.8       0.4  3,401.8
C. EQUIPMENT
SPECIAL EQUIPMENT                      2.102.6  24681.3    710.1   549.9   251.9   6,295.8   14015,8  1.295.3    343.1  265.6  121,7  3,041.5
OfFICE FUNITURE/EGUIPMENT              1,377.9   770.2   417.5   283,3   297.5  3,136,4           665.7   372,1    201.7  136.9   138.9  1,515.2
OTHER EQUIPMENT                          192,0    207.5   962.6    11,5    12.3   1.385,9          92,7    100.3   465.0       5.6     5,9    669,5
Sub-Total EQUIPIENT                       3,672.5  3,659.1  2,090.3    844.6   551.6  10,918.1   1,774.1  1F767,7  1I009.8  408.0  266.5  5,226.1
Do TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
AND TRAINING
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                   3,838.2  1.9996  1,927.3  1,411.6  1,162.4  10,339.1   14854.2   966.0   931.0  681.9  561.5  4,994.7
TRAINING                               1,446.1  1P488.5  1,284.4  1,002.1    916.8  6,137.9       698.6    719.1   620.5  484.1  442.9  2965.1
Sub-Total TECHNICAL SSISTANCE
AND TRAINING                           5.284.3  3,488.2  3P211.6  2,413.7  2,079.2  16,476.9   2,552.8  1685.1  1,551.5 1,166.0 1,004.4  7,959.9
E. SUFPPLIES                              6,400.2  3,253.4  3,205.4  3,064.6  2,939.1  18.862.8  3,091.9  1,571.7  1,548.5 1480.5 1,419.9  9.112.4
F. CREDIT                                 1f366.7  2,429.2  3,583.3  4P696.5  3,898.6  15,974,3      660.2 1J, 3.5  1.731.1 2,268.8 1883.4  79717.0
6. LIUESTOCK EXPORT TRADE STUDY             455.8   731.6          -        -        -   1,187.4    220.2   353.4           -       -       -    573.6
Total IWJESTMENT COSTS                      32,663.8 16,135,1 13,693.4 11,219.8  9.469,2  83,181.3  15,779.6  7,794.7  6,615.1 5,420.2 4,574.5 40.184.2
Zl. RECURRENT COSTS
At OPERATION AD MIANTEhdCE
V-NICLE 0 1 N                         1,572.1  2,128.9  2,514.4  2,531.5  2.696.6  11,443.5    759.5  1,028.4  1.214,7 1,223.0 1.302.7  5S528.2
EQUIPMENT 0 1 N                         408,2    645.5    6Z7.0   699.8   709.1   3,099.6        197.2    311.8   307.8  338.0  342,6  1P497.4
DUILDINS O I N                          110.4   120.7   125.5        67,3    70.3    494.2        53.3    58.3    60.6   32.5   34.0   238.7
Sub-Total OPERATION AD MAINTEMW          29090.7  2,895.0  3.276.9  3.298.6  3,476.0  15,037.2   1,010.0  1,398.5  1,583.1 19593,5 1,679.2  7,264.4
1  SALMIES, KNEFITS.
AND PER DIEM                          2,789.7  3,890.4  4,699.5  4,329.7  4,422.5  20,131.7   1,347.7  1,879.4  2,270.3 2r091,7 2P136.5  9,725.5
Total RECUtRENT COSTS                        4P880.4  6.785.4  7,976.4  7.628.4  7898.5  35,169.0  2,357.7  3P277.9  3,853,3 3,685.2 3,815.7 16,989.8
=;Xmas--= z===z==_:a     z :: 2:22222:2  :2=:==2: 2::2:sss:  22=2SUam    : :-3= ::2              ===
Total PROJECT COSTS                          37,544.2 22920.5 21,669.8 19,848.2 17367.7 118,350.3  id1037.3 119072.7 109468.5 9.105.4 8.390.2 57,174.1
March 6 1987  10.38



- 57                                                    Annex  1
flL IIOIT tT 
fimS Plm INmn b 
(NW 'mo
INUTENTIU
IEWLIENIT                                        lUUT Cf
AUIATIN 0      IFA3 LOU  131-ET  IFQS £8 LOM       ETHIPIA          TebOl
---- - - - -----  ----------------  ---- - --- - -  -------------  -- - -- ---               LLoc4l El.  Dutis t
hbmt    I        Amot       I      mmt   I        Amot   I         Not    I    For. Ech,    mTm)            Tvxn
on*""    883                3383   53*      3 "            83   8338 883*3  S:                313s 3333 aa338*33*3
1. INESTENT COSTS
.............
A. CIVIL  MS                               5t264.3  85.0          -      *          -    -     929.0 15.0   6,193.3  10.3      2,S47.1       2,417.0      929.0
P. VEMICLES                                2,381.3  70.0          -      -          -    -   1,020.5 30.0   3,401.6   5.9      2,220.2         161.1  12020.5
C. EPUIMUT
SFECIAL EGUIPNEMT                       2P433.2  B0.0              -             -    -     60.3 20.0   34041.5   5.3       2'433.2          -0.0     606.3
OFFICE FUNITRE/EGUIPWT                 1b212.1  80.0           -      -          -    -     303.0 20.0   I,515.2   2.7        92161         264.0     303.0
OTHER E0UIPIENT                           569.1  3s.0          -      -          -    -     100.4 15.0      669.5   1.2       537.9          31.2      100.4
Sub-Total E0IPNT                           4214.4  80.6           -      -          -    -   I,OI.6 19.4   5,226.1   9.1      3.8"9I          315.3   1011.8
D. TECIIC.L A8SISTCE
btD TRAININB
TECHIIICAL ASISTICE                     4P"4.7 100.0                  -          -    -         -        4- 94.7   8.7    4,994.7               -          -
TRAININS                                2P520.4  65.0          -      -          -    -     444.  15.0   2.965.1   5.2      2:520.4           0.0     444.8
-- - - - - - -  - - - -   -- -  . . . .    ...  ... . .   ...  ... .. .    ... . - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - -
Sub-Total TEC AIC. ASS ISIaCE
AND TRAININ8                            74515.1  94.4          -      -          -    -     444.8  5.6   7959.9  13.9       7.515.1           0.0     444.8
, SUPPLIES                                 8.273.8  90.8          -      -          -          83.7  9.2   9,112.4  15.9       6,879.6       1,394.2     838.7
F. CREDIT                                        -     -    1,B33.8   23.8  5M66,3 76.2          0.0  0.0   7,717.0  13,5      4,126.9       3.5901           -
0. LIYESTOC! EXPORT TRAM STUDY               573.6 100.0          -      -          -    -         -    -     573.6   1.0        573.6             -          -
-- ---       -- -  .   .. . .   ....   .....     ...   .. ... ..     .   .   .     ..  ....     ........      . .....
Total INESTNEiT COSTS                        29.222,4  70.2    1,833.8    4.6   5.83,3 14.6   4244.7 10.6  40,14.2  70.3    23.06165            7.877.7   4,244.7
1!. REKLAT COOTS
A. WUtO II AG  RINTEKCE
VEHICLE 01 li                          4,693.8  84.9          -      -          -    -     8344 15.1   59528.2   9.7       3,954.4         744.6    829.2
E0UIPENT 0 A                           1.271,2  84.9              -             -    -     226.2 15.1   1.497.4   2.6      1.070.5         201.5    223.4
IUILIIIIE 0 1                            140.9  59,0          -      -          -    -      97.8 41.0     236.7   0.4         51.9         151.0      35.8
Sub-Totsl OPIKATI1WI   VA I1NTEICE       6.105.9  84.1           -      -          -    -   1,158,4 15.9   7,264.4  12.7      5P076.9       1,099.1   1,08.4
8. SALMIESt KNEITS.
Ait PtR DIEN                         46634.2  47.7                   -          -    -  5,091.3 52.4   9725.5  17.0              -       91725.5         -
---------- .. ..,,,... ..  ......    ..... ...  ..._._._....... .  -    .   ---- -----      ------      ----
Total RECIRRENT COSTS                        10,740.1  63.2          -      -          -    -   6249.7 36.8  16919.3  29.7        5,076.9      10,824.5   1,068.4
Total Dxsburwsat                              381962,5 568.1   133.8    3.2   5,863.3 10.3  10,494.5 18.4  574174.1 100.0   33,138.7           18,702.2   50333.2
5as33a3s 3m333  38-333L83   *3333  38838. 8s3ua 8      .. 388 ..3 3383338 33333  3883:.33*s     -33*33333*3  33333533
IIrch 4 1997 10:56



- 58 -                       Annex 2
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
FOURTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
Dist rsements (US$ Millions)
IDA Fiscal                                                                     Cumulative
Year      Quarter Ended          By End Quarter            Cumulative      S Disbursed
n________   --------------       ---------------------        ----------      -------------
IDA   IFAD   Total
1°'88     September 1987           1.8              1.8        1.8                4
December  1987           1.8   0.2        2.0       3 8                 8
March      1988          1.8   0.2        2.0        5.8               12
June       1988          2.2   0.2        2.4       8.2                18
1989      September 1988           2.2   0.2        2.4       10.6               23
December  1988           2.5   0.2        2.7      13.3                29
March      1989          2.5   0.2        2.7      16.0                34
June       1989          2.5   0.4        2.9      18.9                41
1990      September 1989           2.5   0.4        2.9       21.8               47
December  1989           2.4   0.5        2.9      24.7                53
March      1990          2.4   0.5        2.9      27.6                59
June       1990          2.2   0.5        2.7      30.3                65
1991      September 1990           2.2   0.i        2.7      33.0                71
December  1990           1.3   0.5        1.8      34.8                75
March      1991          1.3   0.5        1.8      36.6                78
June       1991          1.3   0.5        1.8      38.4                82
1992      September 1991           1.3   0.5        1.8      40.2                86
December  1991           1.2   0.5        1.7      41.9                90
March      1992          1.2   0.4        1.6      43.5                93
June       1992          0.6   0.4        1.0      44.5                95
1993      September 1992           0.6   0.4        1.0      45.5                97
December  1992           0.6              0.6      46.1                99
March      1993          0.6              0.6      46.7               100
Total                   39.0   7.7       46.7
Expected date of signing             May         1987
Expected date of effectiveness   August          1987
Expected completion date             August      1992
Expected closing date                March       1993



Disbursement Profiles
100 -  _  _    _ _    _   _
90 - -_ _ _ _ _  _
80
70                                 t      t_
fi 60F
O+
4-~ 4
2     4~20-_ _
0                                                                  1   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OQ  :
B            89             9 0            9 1           9 2            9 3       fi
IDA Fiscal Year
0    Proposed Project                             +    Ethiopia Agr. Pro's



-60-                                                                  Annex 3
Table 1
ETHIOPIR
BErr:        Export Parity Price Culculation
At Shadow Exchange Rate                   Using Standard Conversion factor
Item                                                 1985       1990      1995                  1995      1990      1995   6/
FOB Port of Entry US$/Ton    (1984 constant prices)             2,120     4,120      2,520 1/3/           2,120     2,420      2,520
FOB Port of Entry US$/Ton    (1986 constant prices)             2,300     2,626      2,734 2/             2,300     2,626      2,734
(Imported, frozen boneless)
Quality Rdjustment             (less 25Z for Zebu meat)           575        656       684                  5'5        656       684
freight US$      .                                                 50         50        50                   50         50        50
C & f Rssab USS                                                 1,675     1,919      2,001                1,675     1,919      2,001
r & f Rssab (Birr Equ.)         (Birr 2.75   USS 1.00)          4,607     5,278      5,502 5/
(Birr 2.07    US$ 1,00)                                                  3,468     3,973      4,141  i/
Transport Rddis/Pssab   (Birr/Ton)                                !!0 10  1a            10                   83         83        83
Ex Rbbattoir in Rddis  (Birr/Ton)                               1,497     5,168      5,292                3,385     3,890      1,059
Oressing Down Percent                                              52SX       52        52S                  C2%        SIX       521
Liveueight in Rddis (Birr/7on)                                  2,33B     2,687      2,804                !''60     2,023      2,110
Internal Transport/Feed/Loss Allowance (Birr/Ton)                 200       200        200                  ISi       151        i5;
Liveweight on farn (Birr/Ton)                                   7,138     2,487      2,604                1,6'0     1,872      1,960
Liveucight on farm  (Birr/Kg)                                     2.!        2.5       2,6                  1,6       1.9        2.0
1/  Prices of imported, frozen, boneless beef, FOB US 6ulf port.
2/  Inflated by !IUU, 1984   100, 1986   108.5
3/  Projections from EPOCS Quarterly Review for Jan 23, 19B6.
4/ Birr/Dollar Exchange Rate at official 2.07.
5/ Traded goods adjusted using Birr/Oollar exchange rate at shadow 2.75.
6/ Local costs adjusted using standard conversion factor of 0,75.
Rpril 23, 1986.



-61-                                                                Annex 3
Table 2
ETHIOPIR
SHEEP & GORTS:                Export Parity Price Calculation
Using Shadow Exchange Rate            Using Stamndvd Conwrsion Factor
Item                                              1985      1990      1995               1985      1990     199S
T08 S6uda Rrea.oia/Yenen  US/ead)                            76.4      87.2     90.8 1/2/           76.4      87.2     90.9
(1986 constant prices)
Freight/feed Oire Oawa to Saudi/,Yeten (USS/Heod)            26.1      26.4     26.4                26.4     26.4      26.4
c & f lre [Oew, (USS/Head)                                   SO0o      60.8     64,4                S0.0     60.8      614.
o a r 0lre Oa  (Birr Equ,)  (8wrr 2.7S  USS l,00)            138       167       1771 4
(8irr 2,07   USS 1,00)                                                104      126       133 3/
Interral transport/Feed/lMortal!ty Rllwoance (Birr/Nd)         3S        34       34                  26        26       26 S/
Livewemqht o., Faun  (Birr,Head)                              104       133      143                  78       100      108
L!'J*weight on farm  fiurr/ltg) AssjKing 35 KgiHead           3.0       3.8       d.1                2.2       2.9      3.1
tx-SS  SXt:::::S::sssaa:::.z.saszsu:
1/  From J.R.Simpson, iivestock Industry Conponent of the Ethiopian
Export Action Progv  Study', Januarv 1986.
2/ Projections based on beef prices in LPOCS Quarterly Review for Jan 23, 1986.
3i  Oirrn0ollar Exchange Rate at official 2.07,
V   iraded goodt dd usted using Birr/Dollar exchange rate at shadw 2.75,
S/  Local cjsts adju5ted using standard conversion factor of 0.75.
/I



-62-                            Annex 3
Table 3
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
FOURTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
A. MOA - FLDP Veterinary Field Services Staffing Pattern
Zcne                   -  Zonal Veterinary Officer
- Assistant Veterinary Officer
Awraja                 -  Awraja Veterinary Officer
'Senior AHA until Veterinarians become available)
- Awraja Health Assistant
-  Animal Health Techuician
- Laiboratory Assistant/Pharmacist
Woreda                 -  Animal Health Assistant
-  Animal Health Technician
Service Cooperative/  -  Animal Health Technician
Development Center         (who would service up to 2 SCs or 6 PAs)
(15-1600 families)
B.   oject Coordination Unts
Headquarters           -  Project CLordinators (2)
- Accountant (local recruitment)
- Cashier (local recruitment)
- Administrative Clerk/Executive Officer
- Secretary/Typist
Zones                  -  Project Coordinator
- Accountant (local recruitment)
- Cashier (local recruitment)
- Administrative Clerk
- Secretary/Typist



-63-
Annex 3
Table 3
Page 2
C. MOA - FLDP Zor.es - Planning and Financing Staff Patterns
Zone
PPD
Planning Head                           1
Planning and Monitoring Team
Planning Economists                   2
Junior Economists                     2
Assistant Statisticians               2
Evaluation Team
Evaluation Economist                  1
Socio-Economists                      2
Statistician                          I
Enumerators                           6
Awraja
PPD
Budget and Programming                  4
Monitoring Team                         4
Socio-Economic Team                     2
Finance
Chief Accountant                        I
Capital Budget Accountant               I
Recurrent Budget Accountant             I
Cashiers                                2
Woreda
Planning Budget Officer                 1
Accountant                              I
Cashier                                 I



APPRAISAL OF
FOURTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ETHIOPIA
THE ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE OF THE MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
OFEICE1 DEI
PLANNiNG 
PROGRAMIN                                                                                                                            AUDIT
TRAINING                                                                                        NDI'T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PCTIONI
DEPT                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DEPT
rORGAIr.ZATION .AC
SERDICE                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DEPT
IU                                                                                                                                               COOft-RATI.f~~~~~~~EOMAIO
m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p tMT.f a-
SER..ccs     OLDC  :TERIZ                       $ER,~~~~ PULC                                                                                                                 ADMEDICOSlTVATION.&
ELATIONS XDEPt
SEVCES
S # ~~~~~~~~~~EA.                                                                                   .RCBMN
EPRO SP    JDS  DEP.                                                                          I
DEPT ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~DP
RURAAL INURAL                                                     ANIMAL &                                                          CUTUALcOOPERAE                                                                                 NAflDAL
UrDfP TC'-U Bl                                               F  NISOER                                                                                                                                                            RSOUCE
DPT MAIN                                                       ESOLRES                                                                                                                                                       COI(RAAITB 
DEPT                      -1DVT.AN  ET                                                                                                                                                 ET.AN  ES
DEPT                 S~~~~~~LIP    DITR                                                                                MATIRSORE    CODE                                                EVPTDETCOSRV
AEP                                                           R PTDEPT    IPOMOftDVPD
I ~   ~           ~           ~           ~L ____S                                                                                                         <                                   X     1rl
AGPTPDEAPT  M TrT  NITOGU                                                RR                              CN
L_____  -                           ________-.                       __________                                                                                       DEPT                            CENTER~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E   P   P. DJC~O
OMIT  MA CAINE                      RESOURCES                       PRODUC~~~~~                      ~~~~~~~~~~~TIO  & CEDTu. NPOUCTSO                                 TRIIN                           TUZTO
DEPT  RENTAL SENT                       DEVPT                  --      MAR ETIII~~~~~~~~~~~~f C                                                                        E  ETMR   OPINOTERPUIE           RSAC
I  AGENCT    J    DEPT                            CORP                                                            CO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ETRP                              CENTE
AGRICLLTURAL                SEED                                                           WIND LIEL
DEIIPT   PRODUCTION                                                      CO~~~~~~~~ORL $ NNS3RV6ATN



APPRAISAL OF
FOURTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ETHIOPIA
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE ZOJNAL ORGANIZATION
ZONAL
A GR ICU LTU RAL
O FFICE
H AD
PLANNINC &
PROGRPAMMING                                         _                                          AUDIT
SERVICE                                                                                     SERVICE
AD"INISTRAT;ON                                                                                   LECAL
& FINANCE    rSERVICE
TRAINING S                                        _                                     _   REGIONAL
I NFORMATION THEADS
A SHERY I                   CDOPERATIVES |RURAL INFRA-                                                                                                    NATURAL
FISHERY  PROMOTO 0 " a                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~STRUICTURE    RESOURCES                 0
RESOURCES                    AVRICULTURALO                                                                                 DEVELOPMENT                   CO NSERVATION              1
DEVELGPMEN7 1                  DEVELOPMENT |                                                                                DEPARTIhENT                  & DEVELOPMENT
EXTENSION                                                                                    " I RRICATION                   STATE
_   VETERINARY                  Ik FARM                         coop COOPDEVELOPVENT                                                                  | fORESTRY
SERVICE                                                                                                                    B _ 1   RIGADE               DEVELOPMENT
LIVESTOCK   |                           l               |           ----]ROAD                                                                            COOP.
CONSTRUCTION TORESTRY
t DEVELOPl^EN7 |   {   * CREDeT   l   g  DRoiollON   l                                    q    C~~~~~~~~~~~~RIGADE    |&  SOI1
CONSERVATION
ANJIUAL    1                             |                              1                                              l  fBUILDIN    I
HUSBANDRY          ;            } RURAL                      0 _ _ ] COFFEt | j tORKS |LANDUSE |
& FEED                      WOMEN TEAM                     DEVELOPENT                                                     SETTLEMENT                       TEAM
RESOURCE                                                                                                                     RURAL
DEVELOPMENT                                                                                                                 TECHNOLOGY
CENTER
AWRAJA
ARICU LTURAL
OFFICE
IOREDA                                                                             I!
WORLD BANK 304868



Annex 4
- 66 -                                                Chart 3
ETHIOPIA
APPRAISAL OF FOURTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Animal Heolth Organogrom
F   -    I ~~Aamin,"Ifoliv AuthOfltv  r~~'~~
nvice             Plnyor  vrect     {     ProwctWog
Techroc(v O|ectior
L) otyPoeclM                              <n Assistance
Protect Coo0dhr"~
Ch     t    offcee Olt,ce                     - - -
CentarRepo          -                                   J
WofkshoPs           r-
Contr. jn,t        -i
/-one HG 'e.oe   Monarer -                                                       - - -  - - - - -      - -
--4
_   Alnin,oi dHecsrte-'                                              
Asoa, ',etehrQ,     _'ojec-  Cccsr2c,'
r---_    1-----------_-_____
- try" 2 0es                                                                                    1   ~~~- 
'\*'-)1t                          | Ag,cuttroI2leDreset.,r,,ve4___ _ __ _ _
*.*'e'A,10orc,w  ;'s'<,suc.noj¶orV .                              'c''
r  eiIl AS W  u                 =ior
'95'.(.   cas.iofl S,ICW r'0o,;d,  $,tC!"s eO; V"'n,r0   Ix'  ~    -5,
L,10 r C'        t, 4*'O,O taer nOr, zinI
A       Nos ,o,eO  eer.r  P



- 67 -                                              Annex 4
Chart 4
ETHIOPIA
APPRAISAL OF FOURTH UVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Animal Nutrition Organogrom
Adrtifififwolfve AuMoitty
MO AoY                                  , fec.o ROW  mOflQS
Hoadcuati-rs      4ht&s AJrfDc
oa Schnyin D rection
Dew,;'P ProroMr                         t marrdi _ _ _
Hooo. Animda 3r"inCI
D vpt. DWI: Grzp   
IFvoO Systrns Delopiri |nt
Zone         'fG o;;
AnPr   F& Fishery           | CooperaPve PrnotOion  1           |       oturco Rowurc,t       4
L  turf D-                            A  gri D'p           I       I   Cnsrailldon & Devpt    
AnPn-   HuLsondr |                      Ag Exn nthionand                         i  Wote|
|  oncid N~tio                       Forrn Mano"mrwtn                       Comvraton
I
~~~~~~~~~~~CoeatLiveslc Pror uchon                                       c------ Use_ 
-           -                       -a           AgrrcuEltenin                --        __       __   
- -ol  Coop Development   }
|               _          |     ~~~~~~~~~~Soi Corsrtrvolo  F___    i-~~         
Lanci Usra Plonnrn  5-------------
Agr  u                -           ---------
Animol Heonh Assltor   _       -- --                         f
Livestocki Producto                  
|    Nutrition        ______________ 
|Cooperative Developmneni                             
_                   I   DrtveloD~~~~~~~~~~nt Cnlrs |
, Pesosont Assoc,ations
r Prooiuc tr Cooperatitve1s
H Q Protect Coordinotlon Gfoup  iciuaes s Protect Coorinalor rocr for Anmal Olth onria Animal NutrritKx pius
?echnrcoi rasstce stff provtfg support for tbott moin oomponents
lonoi Protc CWordfratar hncrlim both masn componnts
World Bark --30A46 4



ETHIOPIA
FOURTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Indicators for Monitoring and Evaluating Project Components
Project Component                        Major Objectives                          Key Indicators
1. Animal Hr th Development
a)  National Components          -  Improve veterinary diagnostic           -  Construction equipment and drug
services.                                 procurement progress by stage.
-  Improve equipment repair               -  Construction, equipping and
facilities.                               staffing of Central Investiga-
tion Laboratory.
-  Establish rabies vaccine
production.                            -  Samples handled by type and ori-
gin, and time taken to complete
-  Define economically important              diagnosis.
diseases and parasites.
- Laboratory staff training
-  Strengthen capacity of the Tsetse          courses completed (professional
and Trypanosomiasis Unit to               and technical).
develop technical and economically
viable control strategies.             -  Technical assistance staff
recruitment.
- Strengthen in-service training of
veterinarians.                         -  Construction, equipping, staff-
ing of -epair workshops.
- Improve cost recovery on imported
drugs and vaccines.                    -  Number of repair jobs by type
and turnaround time.
39 t:.
0   a
-  Cost accounting of major repair  c  x
jobs.                                     La



Project Component                        Major Objectives                          Key Indicators
a)  National Components                                                     -  Workshop staff training courses
(continued)                                                               completed.
- Number of vaccine doses
produced.
Staffing and equipping of VEEU.
Development and adoption of VEEU
reporting .-stem for field
collection of animal health and
productivity data.
Development of effective methods
for disease surveillance and for
measuring efficiency of
prophylatic control.
Development of major disease and
parasite control strategies.
Number of veterinarians trained.
FMD study recommendations.
Amounts and costs of major drugs
and vaccines imported annually.
Development of drug distribution
and inventory control systems.
Semi-annual cost recovery analy-
sis by AISCO, MOA and selected
SCs.                                 Oltn
!j



Project Component                        Major Objectives                         Key Indicators
b)  Field Service Component    -  Reduce disease incidence and para-   -  Staffing patterns by Zone,
site infestation thereby increas-         Awraja, Woreda and Development
ing livestock production, animal          Center.
mortality and herd and flock
offtake.                               -  Establishment of structured
training, supervision and farm
-  Improving quality of services to          visit schedules.
producers and capacity of
veterinary service staff.              -  Number of days spent in the
field by type of staff and by
-  Increasing farmer access to               month.
veterinary drugs and vaccines.
- Equipment and vehicles provided
by type and location of staff.
- Number of training days by type
of staff for each quarter.
- Through selected
study/monitoring areas,
monitoring the changes over time
of key livestock production
parameters.
- Number of participating SCs,
PCs, PAs and farm families.
- Number of animals treated by
type of ailment, vaccinated by
type, and as a percentage of the
livestock population in the
participating areas.
fD n 
-  Drug purchases, sales and cost    Q 5 3
recovery by participating SCs.   L  e x
1-*  .I
tD



Project Component                        Major Objectives                          Key Indicators
2.  Arimal Nutrition Development        Develop forage production systems    -  Establishing, staffing and
which enhance both livestock and          equipping FSDU.
crop prodtuction.
- FSDU annual work program and
-  Improve animal nutrition in the            progress reports.
project area.
- Procurement and distribution of
-  Improve land utilization                   vehiicles and equipment.
efficiency.
- Number of SC land-use
-  Improve efficiency of soil                 development plans prepared.
conservation program.
- Staffing patterns by Zone,
-  Strengthen capacity of MOA staff           Awraja, Woreda and Development
to provide sound animal nutrition         Center.
and husbandry advice to farmers.
- Amount of seed and numbers of
seedlings proauced and
distributed by type, and numbers
of contract growers by type.
-  Number of participating SCs, PCs
and PAs, and number of adopting
farm families.
- Through selected
monitoring/study areas
monitoring changes in land-use
patterns, cropping patterns,
crop yields including crop by
product yields, estimated annual
forage availabilit , and key
livestock production parameters.    ?
DQ ?D D
-  Number of animals fattened and          0  x
gross margins obtained.                 X



Project Component                         Major Objectives                           Key Indicators
2.  Animal Nutrition Development                                                 -  Progress in developing SC-based
(continued)                                                                     production of molasses-urea
blocks.
- Completion of pilot cooperative
union feasibility study.
- Number of animal-drawn scoops
sold and numbers of ponds
constructed.
3.  Agricultural Credit               -  Support objective of increasing         -  Number of loans approved by
livestock production by providing          type, purpose and amount.
a credit to farmers through SCs.
- Amount disbursed by type and
purpose of loan.
- Number of beneficiary farm
families.
- Repayment rates by loan-type and
purpose.
- Number of staff trained.
4.  Southern Rangelands               -  Conduct research, surveys and           -  Preparation of annual work plan.
Pilot Proiect                        pilot interventions among
pastoralist groups to form a sound   -  Procurement and distribution of
economic and social basis for a            vehicles and equipment.
future rangeland development
project.                                -  SORDU staffing profile and staff    b n n
00   ::   :
distribution.                          m m m
a. x
Promote increased cattle offtake                                                  U' c
through expansion of cattle sales    -  Number of SC formed.                        S
to highland small-scale fatteners.



Project Component                        Major Objectives                          Key Indicators
4.  Southern Rangelands              -  Promote service cooperative devel-   -  Surveys conducted and analysis
Pilot Project                       opment among pastoralist groups.           of findings.
(continued)
-  Improve disease and parasite con-    -  Progress with and major findings
trol among pastoralist-owned              of research activities.
cattle.
- Numbers and types of "user pays"
-  Promote a "user pays" concept              infrastructural developments --
among pastoralist groups for               road construction and mainte-
infrastructure development.               nance, pond construction and
maintenartze, SC stores, etc.
- Through selected study areas
monitoring the productive and
social impact of project-related
interventions especially animal
health control, SC development,
cattle marketing, animal hus-
bandry improvements.
- Changes over time in human and
livestock populations.
- Changes over time in the
structure of herds and flocks
and between types of animals
(cattle, sheep, goats, camels,
equines).
- Development of and transfer of
SORDU ranches to pastoralist
operational control.
-  Staff training by type and            > 5 
duration.
im
_-



Project Component                        Major Gbjectives                          Key Indicators
5.  Ministry of Agriculture          -  Improve capacity of MOA to              -  Numbers of training programs
Institutional Development           successfully implement agri-               prepared and implemented and
cultural development programs.            staff training days by staff
category and type of training.
-  Strengthen in-service training
programs for MOA professional and    -  Institutional capacity gap
suppor staff.                             analysis by selected departments
as periodically monitored.
-  Strengthen capacity of MOA manage-
ment staff.                            -  Sample managerial, professional
and support staff skill gap
analysis of selected staff as
periodically monitored.
6.  Live Animal Trade                -  Recommend a suitable policy frame-   -  Finalizing terms of reference,
Development Study                   work and institutional, investment         firm pre-qualification, invita-
and operational development pro-          tions to propose, evaluation of
gram for sustained exploitation of        proposals, contract signature.
an economically sound live animal
export trade.                          -  Consultant mobilization, interim
report, mid-term review, final
draft report, final review,
report completion.
- Joint GOSE/IDA review and agree-
ment on main recommendations.
V 3
XL X
nin
I- L
mSE



FS*t34 L134111 XILaO PUSU
low# Sm. MNC10,, 100                                                   4W   43
b   atu  C ast Table________________
0. 13313.  LTh ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ WRt.l"   MIm
R. WinE.311T                                      12           3        3    3    3 . 243    240.3  MSO          00.0      .   000.0   4       3.3 L3 W 1.   3. V7  eL# 4.2   134
a. gwmlu            - Mu                                 -    -    -    -   12    22.4364e4.                -       -       -    -   MA.   06.3         -    -    -    -   mm.
9muu cmvi u        k MU.                           6    A    o          6       3       243      12.0   12.0   32.    12*  1*    MA0            4.6  7.1  7.4      1   0.A    W*
WUimmn   mMWO                                      -    2    2    2    2    S    n2.l60             -   44A3   44.0   44.0 44*0  33*              - 5.9  V.? 343. NJ           3M
we  U.PW~-   -    -                                           I    a    VAN0           -       -       -       -3 * MA     0*        -    -    -    -1.    100Oa
06.mUN MM                                          2   I   I   I   I   0   3.44    44.0    A M N.0                            IRA3.  mm 13*   3.  12*0.  "a. W.   6
M.-he.3 simm in              MT                                                             13.0  MA 3.0            M 33A 1.05*431    133=LS            .00 3      0" u    4  3M
2. Mi. Own Flu 
P10111       N                                     2    -    -    -    -    2    3.000           6                     411            M        NA.4        -    -        -   &A
0mm                                                4  12  3a   &  4  a   5.43   3.0  M6.  26.  33*. "A 0Mu   44.016A .31*. W *  13.1
LONgo.mo                                      -     -   12    &    2    23       3.43          -       -  36.    MA.0*          31.0M        -    -a"    W.3            30.3"
4.0 a 133sw WO
Ult #   sno     IBM2    -                         - -           2        22.OU      44.0       -       -      -     -    44.A     34          -       -    -   3.3
91-0411 U  Ki        'MOMB                                                                          44.0       -       -                 44.0    3.2                             xi  - 3
i 151313 5m   Mir
(fl4.kM.3133                   ~                      2    2    2    2    to    22.0U0    44.0   44.0   46A    44.0  40*   AM*             343.P V.? NA  3.7   MAO
-    4 - 0 343~4 -  -  - *-z 33                                                       - -.  - 4
43W £M M                                  2    12    A    3    I   3U         2.019    24.0    NA    12.0    0*    *A    MA*    12   344   pi   4.0  4.3   6
6smm.uI                                            I        -        -    -      S3    3460      40.0       -       -      -    -   "A         3s    -    -    -              3
C1lM%Ml                              ~~~2    2    2    2    2    It    220          4.    4.  44.44.0 44            * A "  3.0    2.    . 3"    L   .7  3A  3i    MA3
w-1a1 1323 SULM                                                                                       934.   040.   730.0     RAIM 32133.3.         IN*A .  311.3          13. IL    =1 243
a. exm. WU.ni
1.93 F11M 1m3 Wm MIT
FEW   STEM1  imIll                                12    4    4    1    1   22    22.600    204.0   IL0    06.0   22.  22.0   01.               411*34 14*329 S       1 59 ILI 3M
110A60010- 11-K,                                   4    4    4    4    4   30          2,140      o.o    6.0    0.0    3.A0 M         6.0       4.4   4.7  5.05.41.034
FO1          11OWT                                12    4    4    1    3   22    22.000    264.0    U.0    0.6.   22.0  22.0  31.0    444  31.0  3.4  34.  131.   13.
3.b-100.1 F3K 315113  MWM~    4011                                                                 53.0  4004.0  10.#   22.0 22.0 t.16.0   2M.316. MA           0   . 1   .4JM V   33.4
2.4351   P12511060MIT
COMTOM                               ~~~~-    2    24    22.404                             44.0   44.0       -    -   NA            -2.92V.?    -               34
$1.-le      it.     SW  903T143 WAIT                                                                        44.0   44.0       -          Uh6.          22.9 2V.1                 MA 3
3. WA.L-SCM.E C*ttLE 90111NI0 1129610 5341-
13061in6s1                                             3          3    -           22.044     66.0   44.4   22.0   22.0       -  114.       30i 22.9  13.0  14.0      -   06.9 
WAWA  MO.                            ~~~- 1.2              -      2.5    22.404        -   33.4   22.0        -    -       A.        -  19.4  13.0    -     -   3.2
COMOLIAM                             ~~~~~~I    I    1  4I    1          22.000     22.0   22.0   22.0   22.0  22.0  130.0    12.1  11.0  13.0  14.0  13.8   *.5
Pena   miST                                        -   1.5     I    -           .5    22140,             U-11.    22.0     -    -2 .0             -319.4331.0      -    -   124
3.4-1.4.1 S133t-SAE CAT2U F90213IN3 WrTIRES 4002                                                    06.0  122.0   06.0   44.0  V.0   34.0         41.4  fl.0  55.4  29.0  15.0  227.0
WTv*-Tt    3WVA  0013113N                                                                             624.0  344.0  316.0   16.0, 74.013.474.0   343.5 212.1 10LS6.44.0  5.3.   12.2



ETHIOiA
FOURTH LIVESTOCK DEVE4FPENT PROJECT
Tabit 555. TEHOIICAL ASSISTANCE
Detairld Cost Table
Kws Costs                       Totals Includins Cantird ies
OIJdlntitv                                       (PirD  'COC.'                             115  'OII0)
------------------------------------  unit cost -------  --------------------------_-  -_ -_ _--
17/U 6/869 09/90 "0/91 91192 Total  (arri)    67/1            pi,        "/?I *   /1  91/9M  TaLd  6   a9 Pt" 9          Mail
C. 9BU
I 52UU COOPERWIYE IEILIPIVEI _R6
SOCIO-fCONONIST (COWPS                            6    4    4            -   i4    22.000    132.0   88.0   80.0         -    -  306.0    72.7  51.8  55.4    -    -  179.9
RADIO EQUIP. M'S.                                       -    -                 2     2.000      4.0       -      -       -    -    4.0       2.2    -    -    -    -    2.2
CORtTMITS/STUDIES                                       2    2    2    2   10    22,000    44.0   44.0   44.0   44.0  44.0  220.0    24.2  25.9  27.7 29.6 31.7  239.1
Sub-Total S9RU COWPERATIVE IEWELOP)ET PRORM                                                      180.0  132.0  132.0   44.0  44.0  532.0    9.1  77.6  83.0  29.6  31.7  321.2
2. SOII RESEAChRTRAININGtNIE
RESEAOS S1UFRIJ15'                                4    4    4    4    4   20    22,000    88.0   66.0   8I.0  68.0  88.0  440.0    48.4  51.8 55.4 5f.2 6U4   2'0.2
Ia I E CSUSIIATU                                  6    4    3    2    -   IS    22.000   132.0   88.0   66.0   44.0    -  330.0    72.7 51.6  41.5 29.6    -   95.6
Sub-Total SORDU RESEARCH,TRAINING,MIY                                                           220.0  176.0  154.0  132.0 I6.0  770.0   121.1 103.7 %.9 3.1 63.4  4n.6
Sub-Total SIIRU                                                                                     400.0  300.0  286.0  176.0 132.0 1,302.0  2"20.2 161.4 179.9 118.4 95.0  794.9
D. INSTITUTION BUILDIIG
1. DA-PLANNINS AO PROGRAMING
- -- -- - -- I--- -- -- ------- -
PROSINENT SYfC.                                  12   12   12   12   12   60          2,000    24.0   24.0   24.0   24.0  24.0  120.0    13.2  14.1  15.1  16.1  17.3   75.7
TECH. SUP. UNIT ADVISOR                          12    -    -    -    -   12    209000   240.0            -      -       -    -  240.0   132.1       -    -    -    -  112.1
EUM.UATION ECNOSMIST                             12    6    3    3    -   24    20,000   240.0  120.0   60.0   60.0    -  48.0   132.1  70.7  37.7  40.4              -  21.9
Sub-Total H 14-P5IMINS AND PROIWMIIS                                                             504.0  144.0   84.0   84.0  24.0  840rO   277.5  84.1 52.B 56.5  17.3  461.9
2.  A-CO(P.PROORMII I AGR.DEUV.WPT.
A4RIC EXTENSION HETH[IDS                          I    1    1    -    -    3    22.000    22.0   22.0   22.0             -    -   66.0    12.1 13.0 1.a         -    -   3 .9
Sub-Total  A-COOFP.PN01RMG I AR.,EV.DEPT,                                                         22.0   22,0   22.0        -          -   66.0    12.1  13.0  13.8    -    -   3.9
3. NII4ItCE SEPT.
SR. FIIRIICIL ADVISOR                            12    -    -    -    -   12    20,000    240.0           -      -       -    -  240.0   132.1      -    -                132.1
FINKCI.L OFFICER                                 12   12   12   12   12   60          2.000    24.0   24.0   24.0   24.0  24.0  120.0    13.2  14.1  15.1  16.1  17 3   75.9
SR. CDleJTER SPECIALIST                          12    2    I    I    1   17    22,000    264.0   44.0   22.0   22.0  22.0  374.0   145.3  25.9  13.8  14.8 15.3  215.7
C0UTER SPECILIST                                 12   12   12   12   12   60          2.000    24.0   24.0   24.0   24.0  24.0  120.0    13.2  14.1  15.1  16.1  17.3   75.9
Sub-Total NOAfIWPCE DEPT.                                                                        552.0   92.0   70.0   70.0  70.0  854.0   303.9 54.2  44.0 47.1  50.4  499.6
4. AD  - SEY ADS TRIALS PROBRAMS
RESEARCH ADVISOR                                 12    6    -    -    -   IB    20,000   240.0  120.0            -       -    -  360.0   132.1  70.7    -    -    -  202.6
SOIL EXPERT                                       6    -    -    -    -    6    20,000   120.0            -      -       -    -  120.0    66.1    -    -              -   ".1
iub-Totul AN  - SURVEY IW  TRIALS PIORIS                                                         360.0  120.0       -       -    -  480.0   198.2  70.7      -    -    -  261.9
Sub-Total INSTITUTION  UILDINS                                                                    1,438.0  378.0  176.0  154.0  94.0 2,240.0   791.7 222.7 110.7 103.6  67.7 2,29.3
Total 1IN7ESTIINT COSTS                                                                              3.372.0 19656.0 1,496.0 1,018.0 828.0 6,370.0  1,856.4 975.4 941.1 664.6 596.1 5,053.7
Total                                                                                                 3,372.0 1,656.0 1,496.0 1,010.0 826.0 8,370.0  1,856.4 975.4 941.1 684.6 596.1 54653.7    ae,   "
Narch 6. 1967 10:47



-  -                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Anna,x S
rarle 2T
Tdb   *AM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pg
kodOWa                                                           (sift '50)                                (aS 'S)
mait tat
311W         IS      190,11    59        9im       Tate!        turf)      VA1K    KIS   OM19  05/9  9/M  lteI   VANK  WVS ff/  90159  91/92 Tat.!
I.10017CUTS
A. Mh1ft ILTO
5.b-TetaO  EflEIIOLUY  MS ICISIICS 1517   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~                   4360       43.6    43.6  43.6            - 130.1   24.0  2547 27.4         -             I
180101K  436. ~~~~~0KE)  3  -    -        -          -           3     IStOSO     45,0        -           -  ~~~~~~~ - 4.   24.-3---   - -----  --- ------
Sub-Total PIKITOLMDTY W  ECTINW   UNIT                                                                                          6 5.0   6  43.                 1  4.0   24.0   -.  2-.       -           72.1
3. CiSR0BT9O OFI86I LHRARY TMY
7800015              6           6         -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---        -                  -2--0--0. -3.0- ---     -    6.0 151.1             -            -    3.
Su-oa   11STC9IKUSY OF6CC                                                                                               30T,0    30.0          -           64.0   24.0  177      -                  4.2
3. CENTRiL MINS T8ATIMON LAWAS  SYO WT
099900180                                          2           o         0        -         2           3     20.000      20.0    20.0  20.0   -.  -0.    6200   12.0  4718  2O.6  53.  28-    35.
4AB 9YTECAICOMYSRICE
TOOCIPE50 T0                                                           3                               62    8500D    705,5      0    - 2.      -     -    601.0   14,0  1     067   -        -    34.1
OILW,10000                     3        -         -         -           3      7.~     ~ ~~~~~~~~                  ~       ~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~ - --------- 2--.--- 22.5 ---3.3------  ---   ---  --- -----3
S%*Iosl 41045   3   M                                                    15       IS                     30E  I1ES   4      0-         -4.0     24.      -    4.0   1- 5       17  .0  060            31.2
S.-ToTaE NO70   I TRYP MP3D O8IASIS CNMUNITO.  IT60                                                                                  656 95240             -    2.5 343.34.               6.       - 136
I RPOST   PA60   10                                            2        2         23 1                        20,040     80.0    400.0  .0  400        -     00.0   44,0  23.6  125.26.        -   019
5*TIjO  ATE0IIM6  931,L1.   6W lT                                                                                        03.05     0, 22 .0  900-     .    450.0   70.6  13.0  -666.53.    277.7
7. (0ICET  KENYIITI)  OMTS0                                   02                  -                    2      22,04     264.0  264.0                       520.0  145 0 5,   - 1         - 0        300.0
(IRAS411CC   3A-                                                       6  3                           13      2.57    0            -  1.6   -              22.6   39.8         105-                30.3
MKS. 0COLO   FO03                                                      13        1         19           4      1.P00         -    1.021.0.0 04.0  0          4.0           7.7        12.811  .     412.
Sub.-Tola    STSI A  TSRi F3 M  Ag  SCOTM  I3T6,0    13.0 624,6  19.0  09,                                                                                      216.6   196    .   1.11381.7            7,6
3OS  OR3A. STUDY                                   20            0       60       20       10             0        1000     2.,0   40.0  60.0  80,0  1       2030.0  14.0  2.43.8       5.49  7.    119,8
4.  Y    TES                                      30          60       00       400       700       1.30        9,0       257.4         18. 5.0  36.0  63.0  125.1   17.5  329  311.332.2  46.4   185.6
7. P"ACT LOMDIMTICN Lmlt0                                 00 220            40           624     520    26.          16.0   3.0 -0.0200          3 4,5      ,9 15.0   6.  4.4-  23.9
5,t-Tst,lAIL 01511                                                                                                           -2.       5.720.5   184,62.2 3.0 ",  -6.   4.  37.4  16758.9 1305 6. 1.0236.
6. A5010A KUITRIIION   *5
933 980 w 40s055
I*01ERIC2    ffE                                             13        13       -9        1            12    20.000      60.     60 065.0  19.0   -1  240.  30    35, 377  02121,4            .    142.3
Sub-Total Ak00  F99TI   (0*5                                                                                                          3.   96MO1, 106 M                        .  1.   28   37         7
2.   98188  in SIS                                 3 S                    0        4                                       60to  .0   30.0  .0.0   0.0   5.   240.0   31.0  35.3  37,7  0.4   3      14.6.
3 OK VOE    ETL  TOS0                                           40       60       so         0           50      4,00       4.0     4.0   4.0   4.0  40.0   20.0    2.3   2.4   2.15 4 2 .72,    12.6
4.    15V . oiNiio                                               30    30    30              3         ISI         03       2.4     0.5    . .4 080 ,    4     2.0 02.  .2   0.2   0.11   3 .3 2424    o8.2
C.i  04( F30                                                 142      43         73lo      73         2          14         . 4,316 v   4.3 71.3   7.3  2.2          0.7.   2.5   2,74 , 52.2 142 721.2
(k v1)                                                                                                                    7.4     8.    8.00.700. 40.2"5  ,  .   1.   00 3,  0.9 51, 5 .57.  14.4   23.9



WAS Cut  ----         -
loiN  3419    40/90    0kb~*     90A        foul0        004,,      040    0WV   gm     lab  om  iai              AIg SW   0i 0 .01        09 "A .0.1pW
II 00-90011  I670 :CR10                                                                                                     3.                 .    .     .    31
oL  94AI0L                                                      2                 2          2          14      £0.0,11    60.0 I    0.0  020.00.40   0.0   £40.0         . 32.0   £1.0 s7  135  1.4    so.:
IM  7.,ji'(  T494L                                £0           It       £0        £0        £0          so       2.000     25.0    25.0  25.0  25.03 5 .0  £5.0   13.0  £1.7  IS.' £WI   0.r7   ". 0
£0                    -                                0      2,000     2010        -                  -.   20.0  £1.0             .                  I;
S,% iPtE.")C 07 TU71Y IDA.                                                                                               £31.0    40,0  40.0  4504  03.3   310.0  ,4.Q  24.5  20.3  30.3  32.4 A £02.4
EACH ~-,' tl~ 'WU TRF A                         2AA      s        30         IS          I40         40               1.    1.3   1.5   0.5      5.4           0.4   1.0   0.0   I I      2.'
'('Es  DIEM                                                              30       so        30          £40         00         -     2.1   3.0   3.0   2.0    00.2        -   £.2  31,    20    .        7.4
..'ooi.20. s'V;f l740                                                                                                       -       .0   4.6     64.0 4.     10.0          1.6   2,09  2.1   3.3    £1.1
10. FELLLAI'S
RUNINS                             ~      ~     ~~~~2  2  2         £                      7     2500        0.0    30.0  00.0  25,0       -   £501  27.5  39.5  305s  04.0             1 03.2
2 YEARS
90.0              .           0         £        £          -           5     45,60    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~99,0    40.0  6.0  40.0  .    3.0   40.5  26.5  20.)  24.3  1 34.4
5,j- otal FE.LL0OV1M'$                                                                                                        £40.0    91.0  955.0  29.4     .   40,.0   77£1 00.0  St.A  47,1        - 239,9
STAFF - 34T G1040  '7T£! 2 'RS                     2           2         2                  -                  20.00       400 .4  0,0  40,0                 1 00.0   22.0  23.6  25.2      -          70.7
,.1Ag,iTt   4.13'.A 001.4917"Y                                                                                                 400     4.    00000 2.    362.                                              70.0
2 SELECTED F000RS                                   20           go      £34      210        270         730          20      0,0      2.4   4.5   4.3   0.1    21,0    0.0   1,4   2.6   4,2   M,    14,4
.1.   -  ..050   ..............007
PRE,SER0ICE                                        I           I         I        £          J           3         320      0.2     0.3   0.3   0.0   0.3       I,4    0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2      1.0
I4-£E9%ICE                                        £0          £2        £3       £4        is           43        04        4,2    00.0  040.9  11,0  02,6    14.4    0.0   5.      .49   0.09£        24.9W
S,Ojotal1 ~LIVESTOC  D000*1(N' 4000S                                                                                            9.4    00.4  00.2  12.1  12,9    00.2    3,3   6,1   7,0   1,1   0,3    05,9
14. AGO, E0T9O. OFFICE0i
PK-$MICE0                                          2                                                     2        220       0,4       .                        0.6    0.4      -     -      -     -     0,4
19-0410VI                                          0           4         0                  4           30        214       1.6     0.6   I'd  0,6   0.6       6.0    0lt  1.0   1.0   I's   I.,    3,1
5.44,0,7  60.  0TE9. 09F050                                                                                                     2.3      0,    0.6   0.6   0.4     5.0    0.2   1.0   0.0   0£I   0.2       5.5
IS. NA" STAFF MINING9
900-OIOVICI            £                                        -            I      £~~~~~~~~~           ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~                         ~     ~     ~~~ ~~~~~~~,£50  0.2  -        2 0.4        ,
1#-000000                                          2           2         2        2         2           £0        32 in    0.4       .    0. .      40.4       3.2    0,4   0.4   0.    0.4   0.1       7.0
0.0-Total AIM   STAFF '9h10100                                                                                                  1.       .      .6   0.W    .6      4.     1,0   0.4   0.4   0.4   4.3      2.7
9003000                                         94           -                                         9         0        0.0       -                         .       .                                .0
*INW ~  ~       ~       ~      ~      3                                                     3      4.040      £2.0                          -    £3.      4.0     -                         .4
£9 000909  03001e.                                 I                                                     I      1.400       3.0       -                         .0    1.       -                 .
am  I0X70                                          I           -                             -           3          0       1.5       -                          .5    0.0                               .
0.-Tot4l S70*  TM49                                                                                                             5.3                               a's-3.    14,0                           1    4.0
£7, LU£00£73. 400-WCE17                                I           I                                         2        250       0.2     0.2      -                 0.4    0.1   0,1                   -     0,3
£0. 601t73100 P00-U01E                                             I                                         2        250      0.2      4.2                        0.4    0.1   0,1                         0,3
it. ELMWIP                                                         I                                         2     45,04        45.    45.0'     -                0.0   24.0  26..1      -                 32.3
20. 6WA0L MFU                                          I           I         I        I          I           S      5.,00       5.01 0   $1.   5.0   5.0    25.0    3.0   2.0   3.0   3,0   3.4    13.0
1.00-0.01 401NL 000910040                                                                                                        31.3   340.4 339.4 M.9 406.2 2,401.1 20,9 205.2 236.1 2mo- 392.7 1,259.4
C. W    U N~0004,0
902.£.9PS                                           2           I         I        I          0                 20.40       4.41    1, 0.0  3 .01  M    .A 11  30.    25.0  0U.   12.6  12,5  t0,4    74.2
WIERV0900                                                                                                                                                                    IIJ2  3  0  4    .   30 303.  00    002.6  02.5104.4    52.2
1.00-0.   am  111EAKIN0.040£0£0.Nu                                                                                             40.0    40.0  40.4  40.0  40.0 300    2.  2-3.64  3.2  3.9  3.0 I 016.,4
0.00-10.,.1  111                                                                                                                  40.0   40.0  40. 0   .4 0.04 0.0  4    22.0  25,6  25.2  U.9   3.4   £36.4
3. 4000 0400906 MS r040
L.000270W 0   AFFMk1A                               2           2         2        2                      I     £2,04      24.4    20. 4 2424. NA              9d,0   £2.2  04.0  01.0  00.0            3,4
ft.foul. Alm  T40100ll aS TWV o                                                                                                   20.0    20.0  34.4  34.0      -    9.0   13.3  14.0  15.1  i..              3.6
1.1300190034021.006
MO - AWY aS 043004FM
-- -001 -----.---.0 ..0.£.0........0,
F00J406 RIAU-                                                                                                                       64.0            -          64.0      -     I 2VJ                    3.
04900002&I                                                     -            .                         3.0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...    --  -  .0   -00--                         0.
06-'..la M - NM   d   040111     0 PUi"A                                                                                       20.0   054.0            -          104.0   00.  9.0 WJ                 - 10.
2. 030326S 1011        093IO
49990OK0(a  30                                      I           -                                                3,400       1.     2.0        -3.0 -3.0        94 .7           -0,0        -2.2         L.7
WE  OIOS   (M32 IN                                              0                  I                     20      I'3*        4.0    02.      -02.4             20.0    .1)  7.1       -0.0              IM0.
OKM. [M. ;291C.g                                                             0   40O,4,011    41.0,   900,040.4                                     .     . 00.0   34.050.3 .2 M'Sw.
0.0-04.  6010  Me 01f000lWo                                                                                              54.0  0W.*  40.0  022.0.0   259.0   297 0.0  3.2 X           .0 .   2.2   £20.0
61107 T0 spa0                                      Is          05l       05                  -           4       3,040      40.0    40.0  40.0                InJ03.    34.0  36.5  3.3     -           79.6
02100 I 00000300                                  000         £3        £63        -                    96         64      61.0   ISO.s 00.0        -         313.4   34.0  64.7  09.0                 1 - £4.0
s.0-0904173S  921.r  60.7T                                                                                                    040.0   £14.0 010.0                404,4   50.6  01.2  97.4- 24.
b0a-04l 060200014  401104                                                                                                        1000.    400.0 M40102.0   0.0   WO.4   90. 202.0 027.0   3.0   2.2   470,3
7.4*l                                                                                                                              1,304.7 1,05.21.0403 60,030.2 4,4M.0  7J40.2          ,2 512.003.3 37.0 2,76.3
OR0A60.1017       .4



ETHIOPIA
FOURTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Regional Contribution to Sector Key Production Factors
AMC
Peasant Sector
Rural        Coffee     Crop Area      Crop        Cereal3/  Procurem%nt    Livestock
Region     Population'/ Production2/ Harvested3/ Production 3/ Production  Cereals  /     Units
---------------  -  __--_-------------   Percent  ----------------------------------------
Arsi           4.1          0.4           7.4         7.7          8            26            8
Bale           2.5          0.6           2.6         2.1          2             3             5
Eritrea        5.9           -           4.0          2.8          3             -            4
Gauo Gofa      3.1          3.8           2.0         1.7          2             -             2
Gcjam          8.0          0.5          13.6        11.7         12            31            8
Gonder         7.2           -           11.0         8.7          7             2             7
Hararge       10.3          9.5           4.4         6.3          6             -            4
Ilubabor       2.4         16.0          2.2          2.6          4             -            2
Kefa           6.2         24.3           3.8         4.7          6             1            5
Shewa         19.7          3.9          23.8        25.9         25            30           21
Sidamo         9.5         26.0           2.2         2.8          3             1           12
Tigray         5.9           -            4.6         3.4          4             -            7
Welega         6.0         15.0           8.2         8.1          8             3            6
Welo           9.2           -           10.2        11.5          9             3            9
Ethiopia       100          100           100         100        100             100          100
i/ 1984 Population census;
2/ 1982/83 -1983/84 only
I Average 1979/80 - 1983/84; cereals, pulses, oilseeds
4/ Average 1981/82 - 1984/85
g ot.l



- 80 -
Annex 7
Page
ETHIOPIA
FOURTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Animal Health Development
A. Main Constraints to Livestock Development
1.        During 1983-84, GOSE, with the assistance of consultants
(financed from Cr. 603-ET), completed a comprehensive analysis of the
livestock sub-sector. The livestock sub-sector review analyzed the
existing situation, identified the main constraints to improving
production, and proposed strategies for livestock development in the main
production systems. Eight priority projects were identified. These
included dairy rehabilitation and development, animal nutrition,
small-scale fattening and a national &rimal health project. The latter
three have been combined into the preposed FLDP. The main constraints to
improving production include: nutrition, widespread disease incidence and
weak sectoral support services, especially extension. Other constraints
include animal breede, livestock husbandry, manpower education and
training, domes.I^ and export marketing, infrastructure, sociological
considerations, credit, and an inadequate data base for planning improved
services.
Nutrition
2.        Under-nutrition (and malnutrition) is perhaps the major factor
constraining animal production. Utilization of available resources is
comparatively inefficient with even maintenance requirements being
inadequate for several months in many areas during the dry period
especially. Agro-industrial by-products are often wasted or poorly
utilized, and crop residues are fed without treatment or supplementation.
The incidence and effect of mineral diseases is poorly understood. In the
dairy industry, concentrate feeding is overstressed even though the supply
of concentrates from government feed mills is unreliable as to timing and
quality. Dairy calves receive poor weaning rations which check growth and
subsequent productivity. In pastoral areas, feed shortages during droughts
cause high mortalities, but no mechanism exists for tcansporting available
feed to drought stricken areas or moving drought affected stock. Communal
ownership of grazing land and individual ownership of animals presents an
efftctive disincentive to improving rangelatjd productivity.  Effectively
used, however, the PA structure provides a suitable institutional framework
for possibly overcoming this constraint, and work in this area would be
initiated under the proposed FLDP
Health
3.        Ethiopia is fortunate that East Coast Fever, a serious disease of
many other African countries, is not present. However, the wideepread
incidence of animal diseases and parasites limits production through
increased mortality rates and affects fertility, growth, milk production



- 81 -
Annex 7
Page 2
and other outputs.  It also limits the contribution which exotic breeds can
make to livestock development and presents a serious threat to export
markets. The factors constraining adequate disease control includes the
system of formulating policy, lack of equipment and transport for the field
services, a weak tsetse and trypanosomiasis unit, an uncoordinated disease
surveillance system, inadequate training of professional staff, absence of
a disease monitoring program; recurring drug shortages, budget constraints
and staff management and supervision. Almost all of these constraints
would, to a greater or lesser extent, be addressed under the proposed FLDP.
Research
4.        Live3tock research in Ethiopia has not been strong.  The emphasis
on servicing intensive livestock systems, especially dairying and poultry
and exotic breeds, has precluded much research on development appropriate
to the peasant sector where stress must be on low-cost forage production
compatible with farming systems giving highest priority to food
production. The on-going forage research program, especially species
evaluation, is not sufficiently broad to provide planners with guidelines
for immediate development. Livestock research is also impeded by
inadequate knowledge of Ethiopia's livestock and peasant livestock
production systems among scientists. Under the IDA-supported Agricultural
Research Project (Cr. 1521-ET), efforts to remedy research deficiencies are
being initiated, while the proposed FLDP would accelerate adaptive research
relevant to improving peasant farming forage production systems.
Breeding and Husbandry
5.        Peasant sertir standards of animal husbandry are generally low:
almost no forage production, diseases not adequately prevented or treated,
no controlled breeding, and livestock are mainly left to fend for
themselves. Local breeds (bos indicus) have a poor ability to respond to
improved inputs.   In the past, there has been over-emphasis on the
uncoordinated introduction of new breeds to the detriment of other actions,
especially forage development and nutrition. Restricted and unreliable AI
services and the limited number of cattle on government breeding ranches
also limit expansion of cross-bred dairy animal numbers. Development of
improved cross-bred sheep flocks by cooperatives receiving rams from MOA is
constrained by housing and management requirements, and the capacity to
supply sufficient numbers of improved sires to make any real impact on
national breed composition. Improvement of Al infrastructure received
limited support under MPP II (Cr. 1088-ET), and is being further
strengthened by bi-lateral donor support.
Government Services
6.        The organization of rural society into PAs provides the
opportunity for mass application of livestock development using simple
improved technologies. These applications have the potential to generate
moderate productivity improvements across the bulk of the livestock
population. %urrently, however, GOSE does not have the capacity to provide
services to the nearly 20,000 ?As and is concentrating support largely on
PCs. Four major constraints in the area of Government services include
organlizational problems, skilled manpower shortages, inadequate support



- 82 -
Annex 7
Page 3
facilities, and budget constraints. These factors contribute to
comparatively weak services at the individual farm level especially in
livestock extension and animal health cortrol.
Marketing and Processing
7.        Except for the official export trade, local marketing is largely
in private hands and functions reasonably well. Market systems, especially
the export trade, are not well developed and present a constraint to
increased production of marketable surplus. The system reduces financial
returns to the sub-sector, and financial difficulties within Government
agencies engaged in processing and marketing are also an area of concern.
Substantial weight losses are incurred due to the absence of stock routes,
resting areas, and watering and feed points in the long distances which
livestock have to trek between major producing and consumption areas. For
export meat and livestock processing and marketing disease which limits
Ethiopia's access to potential markets. Overseas sales representation by
public sector organizations is also weak and licensed exporters would
benefit from better market information and assistance with export
documentation and procedures. Government livestock trading organizations
have difficulty competing with unofficial livestock traders due to the high
official Birr value which acts as a disincentive for traders to use
official channels. Exporters of live animals, for which there is
considerable potential in nearby countries, are constrained by lack of
appropriate supporting infrastructure. The meat processing industry has a
factory throughput of only 33% of capacity due mainly to the inability to
purchase sufficient animals in competition with other livestock buyers.
The proposed FLDP would conduct a major study of the live animal export
trade. GOSE has prepared a large investment project aimed at improving
marketing infrastructure.
Manpower
8.        Despite the comparatively high quality of Ethiopia's civil
service, a shortage of well-trained and experienced manpower at all levels
and in all agencies servicing the sub-sector is a major constraint as it Is
throughout the whole agricultural sector. The effectiveness of existing
manpower re3ources is constrained by weak in-service training and staff
supervision, which is reinforced by inadequate support facilities and the
irregular supply of veterinary drugs.  These deficiencies are, in turn,
caused largely by inadequate budgetry support and present a major dilemma
for the centraL Government in financ.al resource allocation. In
post-secondary education, agriculture, especially animal sciencp, has
received comparatively low priority.  The quality and quantity of teaching
staff In most post-secondary institutions limits their ability to produce
high standard graduates. Improved staff training and management and
supervision would be a special feature of the proposed FLDP. Strengthening
of agricultural education would be addressed in a forthcoming IDA-supported
project (FY 88).
Bud.getary Constraints
9.        Inadequate financial resources is a common feature  f all
developing countries including Ethiopia. Common contributing factors



- 83 -                       Annex 7
Page 4
include weak or ineffective (or both) tax collection systems and, due to
expanding staff numbers, Government salary costs increasing at a
disproportionately faster rate than revenue growth. This syndrome is
growing in Ethiopia. The net result is expanding staff numbers becoming
progressively less effective with service to the productive sector steadily
contracting. Some manifestations of this issue are seen in the livestock
sub-sector, with (a) inadequate staff transport -- fuel, repairs and
maintenance, vehicles retained beyond their economic life; (b) frequent
shortages of drugs; (c) breakdowns In the 'cold chain' for storing certain
vaccines and drugs; (d) laboratories becoming comparatively ineffective due
to equipment becoming obsolete, worn out or inadequately maintained; (e)
inadequate inservice training; (f) very little junior staff supervision due
to transport inadequacies; (g) staff reluctance to spend time in the field
due to either non, late or inadequate per diem payments; and (h) the
breakdown in artificial insemination services. The proposed FLDP would
endeavour to focus upon strengthening livestock field services in animal
health and nutrition on a phased basis within a restricted area, and would
initiate a major cost recovery mechanism on drug sales.
B. Animal Health and Livestock Diseases
10.       The potential of Ethiopia's large and varied livestock population
for economic development is constrained by a wise spectrum of disease and
by undernutrition. The incidence of rinderpest, the most important viral
threat to the national herd, was reduced by the international campaign
(JP15) between 1970 and 1976. Sporadic cases continue to occur, however,
and the current vaccination coverage and inaccessibility of many areas of
the country render this disease a major threat. The Pan-African Rinderpest
Campaign against rinderpest, originally scheduled to start in Ethiopid in
1985, has been postponed, and the country's capability to achieve national
coverage is limited by finance, transport and access to areas of civil
unrest.
11.       Contagious Bovine Pleuropneumonia (CBPP) is reported to be common
in the lowland pastoral areas, but in the last decade the number of
outbreaks has apparently decline. This may be due to vaccination, but may
equally represent lack of investigation and diagnosis. Foot and Mouth
disease (FMD) outbreaks occur sporadically throughout the country. The
virus types A, 0 and C have been isolated from FMD outbreaks, but the
Southern African types SAT I and 2 have never been recorded. The SAT types
have occurred in Kenya and Sudan, and represent a potential threat to
Ethiopia and a complication to disease control strategy. The presence of
Lhe above tlhree diseases restricts Ethiopia's access to the proximate and
potentially remunerative Arabian market.
12.       Of the bacterial diseases, anthrax, blackquarter (Cl. chauvoei),
haemorragic septicaemia, bovine tuberculosis and brucellosis are known to
exist but their impact is not fully understood. Tick infestation is
widespread and assumes importance in the lowland areas where around 30% of
the livestock are found. Tick-borne diseases include anaplasmosis,
babesiosis, cowdriosis (heartwater) and thieleriases, but fortunately, East
Coast Fever and its vector do not occur. At present the significance of



- 84 -
Annex 7
Page 5
ticks and tick-borne disease are from the debilitating effect of heavy tick
burdens, the damaging of hides and skins and the potential disease hazard
to exotic and grade livestock.
13.       Trypanosomiasis is present throughout the country, except for the
dry northeastern areas. The distribution of tsetse fly is confined to the
southwest of the country where the forest, riverine and savannah type of
Glossina spp are recorded. Absence of livestock movement control and
uechanical transmission extend the disease trypanosomiasis to all areas
beyond the extent of the tsetse distribution. No detailed study of tsetse
distribution has been conducted since 1976.
14.       Endoparasitic diseases, including gastro intestinal
helminthiasis, fascioliasis and lungworms cause considerable loss from both
mortality and reduced pruductivity in cattle, sheep and goats. These
diseases are probably of greater significance in the higher rainfall areas
of the highland where livestock populations on undrained communal grazing
are extrem-lv high. Undernutrition renders the effect of disease more
serious and deficiencies of both macro and trace elements occur. Copper,
manganese and zinc deficiencies have been identified but surprisingly, as
soils are known to be low in phosphate, aphosphorosis has not been
mentioned. The state of animal health in neighboring countries also
affects Ethiopia's livestock industry because nomadic herds move freely
across most boundaries. Rinderpest and CBPP are the most important
diseases in this respect, but not the only ones. Little knowledge exists
of the reservoir of diseases in wild animals and their potential as
carriers of exotic strains of FMD or of rinderpest.
15.       General estimation of the economic impact of disease on livestock
production can be made, but their effect on the development of export trade
in live animals and chilled carcases is unknown. Extraneous factors, other
than the domestic disease situation, frequently influence the International
meat trade. Processed meats are not affected, but the value of hides and
skins exported, Ethiopia's second largest foreign exchange earner, is
reduced due to tick damage, scarring and overall quality.
C. Animal Health Education
16.       A faculty of Veterinary Science of the University of Addis Ababa
has been established at Debre Zeit and admitted its first students in
1979. This provides a six-year course (the first year being an
introductory general science year) followed by five years at the Debre Zelt
campus.  The target of 40 annual admissions has not yet been achieved, and
the current studen': population is 122. The first 21 students, of whom 8
are to be retained for the development of faculty staff, graduated in
1985. This situatin will pertain for the first few years as a high
percentage of teaching staff are expatriate, thus limiting the numbers
available for Governrent field service. Appropriately, the curriculum
emphasizes preventive medicine, animal production and husbandry rather then
the finer points of curative medicine and surgery. This should ensure a
suitable graduate for the developing country situation. A good supply of
clinical material is presented at the college clinic, and an adjacent State



Annex 7
Page 6
Dairy Farm supplies further teaching material. Classroom, laboratory and
library facilities are limited but adequate, and the sh,rtage of dormitory
spaces is being rectified by a current building program. Commendably,
external examiners from international and domestic sources were invited to
examine the first final year examinees.
17.       Middle cadre Animal Health Assistants study a two-year course at
the Animal Health Training Institute sharing the same campus and many of
the facilities at Debre Zeit. This course which was initiated in 1963,
admits 90 students per annum studying a diploma cour.e of preventive
medicine, elementary diagnostics, veterinary therapeutics, and husbandry
and production.
18.       The most junior veterinary employees, the animal health
technicians (vaccinators), undergo a six-month course conducted by field
veterinarians at the Zonal level. Vaccinators and AHAs provide the
close contact at the farmer level for --tansion, advisory and treatment
services. Further expansion of graduate training facilities at this
juncture would place an intolerable strain on the veterinary faculty st
Debre Zeit and lead to a deterioration in graduate quality. For this
reason, careful deployment of graduate staff supported by recruitment of a
limited number of expatriate veterinarians through bilateral aid is
considered more appropriate.
D. Laboratory Services
19.       The National Veterinary Institute (NVI) produces a range of
veterinary biologicals for domestic use and has a small surplus for
export. Tts diagnostic services and those of the five Zonal laboratories
(Asmara, Bedelle, Bahar Dar, Shola and Sodo) are not coordinated in:o a
national disease surveillance system. In fact, the services provided by
the Zonal laboratories have deteriorated as international staff have
withdrawn, and currently provide little more than a diagnostic service
based on random samples from the field, much of which is miscellaneous and
inconsequential. Antigens, reagents and diagnostic methods are not
standardized so findings from the different zones are not comparable.
Laboratory equipment, media, chemicals and reagents in the zonal
laboratories are used so irregularly by staff that the accuracy of
diagnostic conclusions may be suspect. A complete review of existing
facilities is necessary before further funds are expended on replacing or
equipping new facilities. the NVI wish to relinquish much of their
diagnostic functi.on as the receipt of potential contaminated materials
presents a hazard to vaccine production. One such contamination incident
has reinforced this concern.
E. Tsetse and Trypanosomiasis
20.       Tsetse and trypanosomiasis survey and control is inadequate.  The
control unit has logically been relocated to Bedelle, much closer to the
known area of tsetse distribution in the southwestern areas of the
country. It is shortly to be reinforced by the arrival of techn.cal



- 86 -
Annex 7
assistance manpower from an FAO/TCP project (ETH/4523). While this
assistance is only proposed for one year, it should usefully serve to
re-establish survey capability, to determine manpower requirements and
design an effective work strategy for the unit. Currently staff are
limited in number and experience, and their effectiveness reduced by
inadequate transport and camping equipment -- essential prerequisites for
tsetse fly surveillance in remote areas. Little is known of the occurrance
of trypano-tolerant livestock in Ethiopia but two breeds, the Sheko and
Abigar breeds of the Kefa and Gambela areas respectively, are known to
exist in areas of tsetse challenge. Investigation of this phenomena
warrants urgent attention. Apart from the widespread incidence of the
disease, tr),.anosomiasis merits increased attention due to the resettlement
of refugees from the famine zones, within tsetse fly areas, at present
precluding the use of susceptible draught animals.



ETHIOPIA
FOURTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimates of Livestock Population, 1958/59-1981
Livestock      1958/5917    X      1963/64            1970              1974            1979       2     1981      19843/
Type
Cattle        21,300    +19.00   25,313    + 4.00  26,232   - 6.00  24,600  +5.00   25,900  +1.00   25,100   27,000
Sheep          18,850    +31.00   24,632    -49.00  12,6792/ +76.00  22,320  +4.00   23,200    x         23,300   42,000
Goats          14,400    +26.00   18,095    -38.00  11,2637/ +54.00  17,322  -1.00   17,322              17,200   42,000
Equines          NA        NA       6,407    + 4.00   6,669   + 3.00   6,849    x        6,850    x       6,880    7,000
Camels            600    +58.00       946    - 1.00      940     6.00   1,001   3.00       970    x         900    1,000
Poultry         NA         NA     41,000    +17.00  48,100   - 1.00  52,900  -1.00   52,500    x         53,500   50,000
Source:  FAO Production Yearbooks.
1/  1958/59 is an early year for FAO statistics; the consistency with later estimate ls doubtful.
2/ Probably a statistical error.
NA = not available.
x = no significant change.
3/ MOA estimate.
ISM 



- 88 -
Annex 7
Table 2
ETHIOPIR
rourth Livestock ODeeiopent Project
Livestock Popultion
I/       Ls'ock
total      Uni ts
nember5               8rea                                                                             Livestock      per
Region             PR', s      000)    S"'s    (000 hl)  Cattle             Sheep        Goats      Horses    Mules       Asses       Units     Sq. Km'.
. .. . ... ... ... ..   ...................... ........................................ ... ... .... ..... ...... ....... ...... ......... ....... ........ ...
Shew               S,365     1,336      1,091       85.S     S,576.3      5,352.0      3,402.0       446.4     332.1      959.4     S,848.1        68.4
Gojam              1,730        512        392      64.4     2,149.5       2,184.0        648.0      138.0       46.4     393.9      2,127.8       33.0
Ue1ega              2,123        366        398      69.8      1,837,5        50.0         270.0       23.3       72,5      159.9     1,513.1       21.7
Ilubabor               969        '47        19S      50.8        653.5        480.0        126,0       40,3       79.8       15.6       614.0       12.1
Kefa               !,j5        370        289      53.0     1,433.9       1,104.0        432.0       86.8     192.9       42.9      1,383.        26.1
Hararge             1,347        4r         288    254.8       1,095.3        696.0      1,116.0        3.1        7.3     226.2      1,068.6        4.2
IV Livestock           3, 49      3,246      2,643        58       '2,746       10,320         5,994        738       731      1,798    12,554.8      165.S
RrssI              1085         236         44         5        1,752        2,736        1,026        239       220        363       ,129.5       96.6
Ueio               1,152        650         8          9        2,452        2,35         2,106         62         81        390     2,463.8       31.2
Sidamo              i ,560       '39        233       1 7        3,614        1,896        1,69.        242        1!3        125     3,228.5       27.7
6ondar              .,059        33i        256         73        ,906        1,'52        1,350        109         96        491     !,984.2        7.0
6ao Goffa                '95       !80        !10         40         6o8           768          828         20         35        12        680.7       17.0
Bale                 S63        116        !49        28          339         ,08         1,350        107         17         5      1,453,0       '.!3
Er :ea                 36? ir                59 6 b  S899                       9 2          "38         31         58        !29       986.8        8.4
1grai1                           73        :b         Sb         .735         ,656        2,316         !'         99       468      1,384,9       30.2
Rew :nin g iegionls    K78  :,383              ,.85        o45      14,j65        :3,680       1 2006        828         13    2,102    14,911. 4        39,4
1O,967     ,8S39      3,328      1,.,4      27,21!       24,000        18,000       ,566       , S0     3,700   27,466.2        404,9
-:2325:.:: ::nS:::U33:s::::; S 232 S ::==:;=:;::n:::s;:hhzc:,:zs::u: :S-:;h:z a:=.h::SE::t:a:Z:SsS:::::s:::::-                        _:: 
Sour:c    EthIopian Highlands Rec,aatlion StAy,  8n Assessment of the Recent
Past and Present Lvestock Situet'on in the Ethiopian Highlands' by H,E. Jahnke.
Working Paper No. 7.    9nnex 4, Fage 2 and 3,
C6n,ers;on   -'tor5  s 3 i 45: :attle .7', sheep 5nd goats .1, horses  3,
mules .7, as,   5 .        ased on a ,50kg iuveweight fropical Livestock Unit.



ETH IOPIA
FOURTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMiENT PROJECT
Livestock and Total Agricultural Exports by Vaiue - 1974J75 - 1984/85
1974/75   1975/76    1976/77   1977/78   1978/79   1979/80   1980/81    1981/82   1982/83   1983/84   1984/85
--------------------------------------------- Birr M1llton -------------------------------------------- -
A. Value
Live Animals                 16.9        31.4         3.6         1.5        1.5       8.3         9.8        8.3         16.0       13.6       15.9
Meat (canned & frozen)        9.9         6.8         4.9         1.3        2.0       5.4         h.3        5.3         10.4        5.9        6.8
Hides and Skins              37.2        42.7        52.3        58.0      107.1    138.7         92.7       97.7         77.1       93.4      129.8
Livestock Total              b4.0       80.9         60.8       h0.8       110.6     152.4       108.8      111.3       103.5       112.9      152.5
Total Agrc.Exports          328.8       492.1       588.3      627.7       691.5    855.6        737.1      681.8       605.4       /95.7      676.4
Livestock as X of
Total Agric. Exports          19         16           10         10         16         18         15         16           17         14         23
B. Index
Live Animals                100         186          21           9          9        49          58         49          95          80         94
Meat (canned & frozen)    100            69          49          13         20        55          64         54         105          60         60
Hides and Skins             1(0         114         141         156        288       373         249        263         207         251        349
Livestock Total             100         126          95          95        173       238         170        174         162         176        238
Total Agric. Exports        t0o         150         179         191        210       260        224         207         184        242         206
Livestock as 2 of
Total Agric Exports         100          84          53          53         84        95          79         84          89          74        121
Source: Customs Office
212



ETHIOPIA
FOURTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Export. of Livestock Products by Weight - 1974/75-1984/8S
1974/75   1975/76   1976/77   1977/78   1978/79   1979/80   1980/81   1981/82   1982/83   1963/64   196/15
-   -   -   -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -    -   -   -    -  - '000    tons)   -    -    -    -    -    -     -    -   -   -   -  -     -  -    -    -    -    -     -   -   -   -  
A.  Weight
Live Animals                 10.6       21.1        2.2        0.9        0.6       3.0        I.6        3.6         5.3       4.5 .5
'tat (canned 4 frozen)        5.1        2.7        3.5        0.9 Y.8              2.1)        2.1        1.4        3.1       2.5        2.9
Hides and Skins               8. 1       7.4        8.1       11.9       11.6      IU.6        8.9       10.2         8.1       9.8       11.0
S. Index
Live Animals                  100       199          21          8          h        28        34         34          SO         42         61
heat (canned 4 frozen)        IJU        53          69         10         lb        J9        45         27          61         55         S?
Hides and Skins               1o0        93         101        149        145       133        III       128         101        123        136
'0
Source: Customs Office
Note: Ethiopian Fiscal Year



- 91 -                          Annex 8
ETHIOPIA
FOIlRTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
List of Documents Available in the Project File
A.   Documents Relating to Project Appraisal
1. Appraisal Working laper - Animal Health
2. Appraisal tiorking Paper - Animal Nutrition
3. Project Cost - Detailed Cost Tables by Component and Sub-Component
4. Economic Analysis - detailed calculation
5. Appraisal Mission Aide-Memoire
6. Pre-Appra.sal Mission Aide-Memoire
B.   Project Preparation Documents
7. Livestock Export Trade Development Study Terms of Reference
8. Preparation Report - National Animal Health Project
9. Preparation Report - Feeds and Forage Project
10. Preparation Report - Small-Scale Fattening Project
11. MOA Project Preparation Report
C.   Sub-Sector Documents
12. Livestock Suh-Sector Review



MAP SECTION



iBRD 19$93
"          E T H  I 0  P I A                                     _
FOURTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECF
PROJECT AREA
KEFA  Proicar Are-
Agro ec.o..ogcol Zo-es of hre Ceor,o.
H,ghi-od, ,obo.e 15G7 rrererl_
H ,gh Po.r-rol
f R I T R E\A                                                                         Lo.  Porer-ol
-                  '-/-                                                                 -Afi-honrers  Rr d
|   RL( w IfO U V is  A                         I                    e* .                                                                  _  A ll A eo rher   Rn   ds
*K-IRTO.M ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dr~roOrRr,d,
... JPre-e-r rr.ooreoAreo,
I iS    - >           <                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~ ¢lurnon:  200  300
LY~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r, Foresi Ae\OoU,7G                                     G
vs.   :                         _-{t.                 \                           P                     X ! G d A  E  \<  t KILOMETERS
A Y~~~~~~~~~k
WLEGA                                                                                                                 scM                  IA
r t           {'        \        ,>/          8  jOr e                               A\-w
|~~~~~~~~ _                                                                                               / '_ f-.*      _  _t         Wt '^-              _  _       _     _     _ _ _ _ _.....................  
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mr j 'C it\1080?
| tt    WELEGA ,,   >  +              <                           \                                  $C ,~~~~0  A L I A
I  LU,AO 0                                                                                                                                                                 >/
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IP                                  PR  m  R- A                                                C        o  A   L   A . ,'a.
_r>L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.,. A 1 ;' '/ 



