Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15468
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ETHIOPIA
FOURTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1782-ET)
MARCH 26, 1996
Agriculture and Environment Operations Division
Eastern Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
At Appraisal: Birr 2.07 = US$ 1.00
At Completion: Birr 6.22   US$ 1.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(Metric)
FISCAL YEAR
Borrower = July 8 - July 7
IDA = July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFRDMD    Animal and Fisheries Resources Development Main Department
AHRC        Animal Health Research Centre (Formerly CDIL - Central Disease Investigation
Laboratory)
AIDB        Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank
AISCO       Agricultural Input Supply Corporation
CDIL        Central Disease Investigation Laboratory (changed to AHRC during project
implementation
DPM         Deputy Project Manager
ERR         Economic Rate of Return
FLDP        Fourth Livestock Development Project
FMD         Foot and Mouth Disease
FSDU        Forage System Development Unit
GOE         Government of Ethiopia
IAR         Institute of Agricultural Research
IDA         International Development Association
ILCA        International Livestock Centre for Africa
MOA         Ministry of Agriculture
NAIC        National Artificial Insemination Centre
NVI         National Veterinary Institute
PARC        Pan African Rinderpest Campaign
PC          Project Coordinator
PCU         Project Coordination Unit
PM          Project Manager
SC          Service Cooperative
SORDU       Southern Rangelands Development Unit
TA          Technical Assistance
VEEU        Veterinary Epidemiology and Economics Unit



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ETHIOPIA
FOURTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CR. 1782-ET)
Contents
Preface   .        .................................................  ii
Evaluation Summary .......................................... iii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ASSESSMENT   ..................   I
A. Statement/Evaluation of objectives ...........................   1
B. Achievements of Project Objectives  ..........................  2
C. Implementation Records And Major Factors Affecting the Project ...                   .....  3
D. Project Sustainability  ...................................  7
E. Bank Performance  .....................................  8
F. Borrower Performance  ..................................  8
G. Assessment of Outcome .....................                                                  9
H. Future Operations  ...................  9
I. Lessons Learned ................... 9
Part II STATISTICAL TABLES
APPENDICES
A. Aide-memoire
B. MAP
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ETHIOPIA
FOURTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 1782-ET!
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Fourth Livestock
Development Project in Ethiopia, for which Credit 1782-ET in the amount of SDR 32.3 million
(US$ 45.2 million equivalent) was approved on April 28, 1987 and made effective on January
29, 1988.
The Credit was closed on December 31, 1994 (compared with the original closing
date of December 31, 1992).  The final disbursement took place on March 24, 1995.
Cofinancing for the project was provided by IFAD.
The ICR was prepared by staff of the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program (CP)
on behalf of AF2AE Division of the Africa Region and reviewed by Ms. S. Ganguly, Division
Chief, AF2AE and Gautam Sengupta, Acting Projects Advisor, AF2 and staff in AF2AE. The
ICR is based on information obtained from the project files and on the findings of an ICR
mission" which visited Ethiopia in September 1995. Due to additional internal reviews and
analyses, findings of this report may differ from those in the Completion Report submitted by
FAO/CP. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by providing input to the
Aide Memoire drafted by the FAO/CP completion mission. The Borrower's ICR is located in
the Africa Regional Information Center, since there is no summary. No completion report was
written by IFAD and no comments were received from them on this completion report.
Pietros Kidane (Mission Leader, Economist), Gerold Bodeker (Financial Analyst) and Nicholas Buck
(Livestock Specialist).






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ETHIOPIA
FOURTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CR 1782-ET)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
Between 1973 and 1987, IDA provided 12 credits totalling US$238 million to Ethiopia, which
included irrigation and rainfed agriculture, coffee development, livestock, agricultural research, marketing
and storage, credit and drought rehabilitation and resettlement programs.
The Fourth Livestock Development Project (FLDP) was the first five-year phase of a long-term
development program to increase livestock and agricultural production by improving animal health and
nutrition. The six main components were (i) animal health development, including field services within
a prescribed project area and animal health support, (ii) animal nutrition development through improved
forage production, intensive small-scale fattening and adaptive research, (iii) pilot range management
activities among semi-nomadic pastoralists in the southern rangelands, (iv) agricultural credit for
smallholder livestock development, including for fattening and veterinarian needs, (v) institutional
development of MOA through training and technical assistance and (vi) completion of a livestock export
trade development study. Unlike the three previous World Bank assisted livestock projects, which
focused on dairying, marketing, abattoir facilities and rangeland management, the FLDP concentrated on
support to smallholders through improving health services and developing animal feed. Focusing on
smallholder agriculture after the devastating famine of 1984/85 was indeed appropriate, as well as the
testing of some innovations on the Southern Rangelands Development Unit (SORDU) initiated under the
Third Livestock Development project, related to introducing low cost pastoral participation for project
sustainabil ity.
In spite of the difficult social and political conditions, including the civil strife, the ERR is still
attractive at 20 percent, but somewhat lower than the 26 percent that had been estimated at appraisal.
The outcome of the mid-term review which took place in late 1990 indicate the project was well focused
and responsive to the needs of the livestock sector. Overall, some 1.4 million farmers have adopted
forage production using tree and herbaceous legumes and grasses,which is well-beyond appraisal
expectations.
Implementation Experience and Results
Project start-up in 1987 was enhanced by the excellent support provided by the Project
Preparation Facility (PPF). A small Project Coordination Unit (PCU) was established within AFRDMD
(Animal and Fisheries Resources Development Main Department), which ensured that the project was
implemented by line MOA department staff and were held accountable. However, as implementation
progressed, overall delays were experienced due to a change in economic policy in 1990, change of
Government in 1991 and decentralization of many responsibilities to the regions in 1992, all of which
were beyond the project's control. Due to these circumstances, frequent changes in senior management
disrupted project implementation. Delays in implementing the animal health component were also



ii
experienced due to difficulties in procuring veterinary drugs, laboratory and vaccine production
equipment. The two-year extension of the closing date to December 1994 permitted the completion of
several components.
The project generally achieved its objectives, although with varying degrees between
components. Forage development, within the Animal Nutrition Component, successfully introduced some
exotic herbaceous and tree legumes in the country. A large number of extension manuals on growing
and feeding forages was produced under the project, which made a significant impact on extension
workers and farmers. After the initial importation of seeds, the project undertook adaptive forage trials
and demonstration plots as envisaged at appraisal. As a result of this process, farmers have begun to
appreciate the beneficial effects of the legumes on improving soil fertility and crop rotation and were
enabled to use modern livestock farming through production of high quality forage.
The animal health component established a diagnostic and epidemiological expertise for major
infectious diseases through the Animal Health Research Center (AHRC) (formerly the Central Disease
Investigation Laboratory) and the Veterinary Epidemiology and Economics Unit (VEEU), and vaccine
production at the National Veterinary Institute (NVI). Although the new AHRC facilities have not yet
become fully operational, the Center has established reliable modern diagnostic technology for rinderpest,
peste des petits ruminants and foot and mouth disease (FMD) and other important diseases. However,
after thorough deliberation, the proposed FMD and rabies vaccine production facilities were not
established, as they would not have been economically viable due to the small demand.
The veterinary field service activities suffered from civil war disruptions and the change in
policies by the new Government. It did not fully realize the project's objectives of improving the delivery
of drugs, vaccines and basic equipment in the rural areas. The project has made a major impact on the
MOA's technical and scientific knowledge through staff training and technical assistance related to
veterinary diagnosis, epidemiology and forage development. The livestock export trade study provided
the Government with livestock export strategies pertinent to the post-transitional phase of the Ethiopian
economy. With regard to SORDU, the project achieved only part of its objectives. Although 27 Service
Cooperatives (SCs) were planned to cover all the rangelands, only five were established, due to lack of
staff resources. Through veterinary clinics, shops and other activities, the existing SCs provide important
services to pastoralists and are useful mechanisms to channel extension advice. Four SCs employ
veterinary scouts, one is assisting pastoralists and one SC is in charge of a 17,000 ha ranch. However,
this is the only one out of the three envisaged ranches that was transferred to the management of a SC.
The project successfully contributed to strengthening MOA by acquiring technical know-how
through in-service training.  About 110 people received overseas degree programs and short-term
training, while 4,000 junior technical staff and 5,000 farmers received local training, many of whom now
manage newly established units such as VEEU, AHRC and the Forage Development Teams or used in
other capacities. A deliberate decision was taken at the outset that project management would be the
responsibility of existing departments and agencies rather than creating a new management unit. The
project was implemented by line MOA staff, which ensured sustainability and avoided many of the
problems experienced by similar projects in the past.
Under the Agriculture Credit, Part D of the project, medium-term loans were made through
AIDB (Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank) to SCs for onlending to producer cooperatives and
farmers. This part of the project was implemented by IFAD through a cooperative agreement with IDA.
About 90 percent of the loans were used to purchase draft oxen, with the smaller portion lent for beef
cattle fattening. The amount used for animal fattening was small due to the failure of cooperatives to
produce molasses-urea blocks, as obtaining liquid molasses was difficult.



iii
Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
The overall outcome of the project is rated satisfactory. After the regionalization process which
began in 1992, responsibility for the Animal Health and Animal Nutrition components was transferred
to Regions 3 (consisting of East and West Gojam, North and South Gonder and North and South Wello)
and 4 (East, West and North Shewa, East and West Harerghe, Ilubabor, Welega, and SEPAR), except
VEEU and AHRC, which remain with the MOA. These two institutions are to be managed in a
sustainable manner by the MOA which is committed to allocating sufficient resources. The veterinary
field services activity that aimed to reach rural areas through the service cooperative shops, is not
sustainable, as SCs were disbanded in most cases after the communist regime collapsed. Following the
liberalization of the economy, the private sector is gradually filling in this gap by providing veterinary
drugs wherever there is sufficient demand. The forage development activities are sustainable, as the
farmers enthusiastically are adopting them and the regions are willing to provide the necessary resources
to support the forage development programs. The regional governments also intend to gradually transfer
the growing and distribution of the forage seeds to the private sector.
Major lessons that emerged from the implementation of FLDP are:
(a)    Transfer of appropriate technology to local professionals and easy replicability of
programs, such as the forage development and disease investigation components, are
important ingredients for sustainability. Conversely, total dependence on public imports
for inputs could prove unsustainable as demonstrated by the limited availability of
veterinary drugs.
(b)    Well-conceived and focused TA is bound to make a lasting impact on the subject
programs, as demonstrated in the cases of forage development and integrated
VEEU/AHRC components.
(c)    To ensure an efficient sustainable animal health service, the private sector should have
responsibility for importing and distributing veterinary drugs and medicines, and clinical
field services should be privatized.
(d)    Production of forage seed and the development of forage technology at the farm level is
crucial to the development of smallholders' livestock farming.
(e)    Continuity of senior staff in program formulation and implementation is highly associated
with successful results.
(f)    Considerable time and resources can be saved if dubious components, such as the FMD
and rabies vaccine production, are excluded from the outset. Similarly, selection of
implementing agencies with limited experience and technical capabilities should be
resisted in order to avoid disappointing performances, such as that of the Technical
Services Department in the MOA, which was responsible for implementing AHRC.
(g)    Project design should include specific provision for all the activities that are necessary
for the successful implementation of components, i.e., taking for granted that molasses-
urea blocks would be produced hindered the animal fattening component.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ETHIOPIA
FOURTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CR 1782-ET)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.          The Fourth Livestock Development Project (FLDP) was envisaged at appraisal as the first
five-year phase of a long-term development program for the livestock sector, thereby forming an integral
part of the government's development strategy for livestock and small-holder agriculture. The overall
objectives were to increase livestock and agricultural production by improving animal health and
nutrition, increasing the efficiency of resource utilization at the farm level and strengthening support
services at the government level.
2.          The project consists of six main components: (i) animal health development, including field
services within a prescribed project area and animal health support including (a) expanded laboratory
services, (b) vaccine production and epidemiology analysis; (ii) animal nutrition development through
improved forage production, intensive small-scale fattening and adaptive research; (iii) pilot range
management activities among semi-nomadic pastoralists in the southern rangelands; (iv) agricultural credit
to support smallholder livestock development, including for fattening and veterinarian needs; (v)
institutional development of MOA. through training and technical assistance; and (vi) completion of a
livestock export trade development study.
3.          The Vice-Minister of MOA, Animal and Fisheries Resources Development Main
Department (AFRDMD), was the ex-officio Project Manager (PM). He was assisted by two Deputy
Project Managers (DPMs) -- the head of the Veterinary Service Department and the head of the Animal
Production Department -- with responsibility respectively for the implementation of the animal health and
animal nutrition components. A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) was established, and two coordinators
were to be appointed to assist the DPMs. Subsequently, however, only one Project Coordinator (PC)
was appointed.  The rangelands pilot component was implemented by the Southern Rangelands
Development Unit (SORDU), a semi-autonomous unit operating under the overall responsibility of the
Vice Minister of AFRDMD. The Agricultural Input Supply Corporation (AISCO) was designated to
import all veterinary drugs and vaccines, while the Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank (AIDB)
was to implement the credit component. The Institute of Agricultural Research (IAR) and International
Livestock Center for Africa (ILCA) became cooperating institutions in forage systems development.
ILCA was also responsible for implementing SORDU's research/survey activities.
4.          Unlike the past three World Bank assisted livestock projects, which concentrated on
dairying, marketing, abattoir facilities and on rangeland management, the FLDP correctly focused on
supporting smallholders by improving health services and developing animal feed. This approach was
sound, because most of the livestock in the country are found in the smallholder dominated highlands,
and livestock improvement means improving agricultural production and the well-being of smallholders.
Focusing on smallholder agriculture after the devastating famine of 1984/85 was indeed appropriate.
Testing some innovations on SORDU was also relevant, as this program was a relatively successful



2
undertaking within the range development activities contained in the Third Livestock Development
Project.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
5.          The project has generally achieved its objectives, although the level of attainment differs
between components. The most immediately apparent achievement is in forage development under the
Aniimal Nutrition Component, where the project successfully introduced some exotic herbaceous and
tree legumes in the country. After the initial importation of seeds, the project undertook adaptive trials
of these seeds and subsequently prepared demonstration plots, as envisaged at appraisal. By the end of
the implementation period, some 160 tons of different kind of forage seeds were produced and
distributed. About 10 million seedlings of tree legumes were raised and distributed to farmers for
backyard planting and to various institutions. The project also planted some 18,600 km of forage under
strip and alley planting systems; about 17,500 ha of undersowing with cereal crops; 11,000 ha of over-
sowing of grazing land and 9,000 ha of degraded areas as a conservation measure. Overall, some 1.4
million farmers have adopted forage production using tree and herbaceous legumes and grasses, which
is well-beyond appraisal expectations. About 2,500 farmers have been engaged to produce seeds of
forage legumes and grasses under the project. In this process, farmers have come to appreciate the
beneficial effects of the legumes on soil fertility and some farmers have commenced to rotate seed
production with other food crops. The production of high quality forage has enabled farmers to embark
on modern livestock farming. Abolition of the centrally planned economy has created a suitable condition
for producers to be involved in profitable businesses by feeding animals high quality forage to produce
milk or meat. An improved cow distribution program in Region 4 " (not foreseen at appraisal) is now
benefitting from the project introduced forages.
6.          Achievements within the Animal Health Component included the establishment of
diagnostic and epidemiological capability for major infectious diseases through two institutions developed
under the project -- the Aninial Health Research Center (AHRC) (formerly the Central Disease
Investigation Laboratory) and the Veterinary Epidemiology and Economics Unit (VEEU) -- and the
strengthening of vaccine production at the National Veterinary Institute (NVI). Although the new AHRC
facilities have yet to become fully operational (para 13), the Center has succeeded in establishing reliable
modern diagnostic technology for rinderpest, peste des petits ruminants and foot and mouth disease
(FMD). The work on FMD has provided the basis for selecting virus strains needed for FMD vaccines
in Ethiopia, and that on rinderpest has contributed to the national and continental surveillance and
epidemiological studies within the framework of the Pan African Rinderpest Campaign (PARC). AHRC's
findings have demonstrated the seriousness of pest des petits ruminants in Ethiopia, previously
unrecognized. The VEEU has undertaken, for the first time in the country, a systematic study of herd
health and productivity in nine former regions of the country, thus providing information which can be
used in quantifying and evaluating the impact of diseases on production.
I' The original areas of Shewa, Gojam, Welega, Ilubabor, Kefa and Hararge included in the project were subsequently
rezoned and designated as Regions 3, 4, 14 and the South Ethiopia People Administrative Region (SEPAR). The
partitioning of the geographical areas as of July 1994 consist of Region 3 - East and West Gojam, North and South
Gonder and North and South Wello;, Region 4 - East, West and North Shewa, East and West Harerghe, Llubabor,
Welega, SEPAR (includes Kiffa area); and Region 14 - Addis Ababa.



3
7.          After exhaustive deliberations, the project did not establish the proposed FMD and rabies
vaccine production facilities because it was concluded this would not to be economically viable due to
the small domestic demand. Instead, it strengthened NVI by (a) rehabilitating and expanding the plant's
capacity to produce its existing range of liquid and freeze dried vaccines to combat major livestock
diseases, (b) enabling the Institute to up-grade its manufacturing practice to international standards and
(c) doubling its production potential of vaccines for major livestock diseases such as rinderpest.
contagious bovine pleuropneumonia, sheep and goat pox, Newcastle disease, African horse sickness,
blackleg, anthrax, bovine and ovine pasteurellosis.
8.          The veterinary field service, in particular, was disrupted by the civil war and the change
in policies implemented by the new Government. The component did not fully realize the project's
objective of improving the delivery of drugs, vaccines and basic equipment in the rural areas. Although
the project, in its initial stages, expended considerable effort in training community-based representatives
in preparation for their operating Service Cooperative (SC) drug stores and providing basic services, this
was not followed up by establishing a sustainable system of drug supply. In fact, most of the SCs were
disbanded because of the change in policies after the war ended. The revolving fund to be maintained
by the Agricultural Input Supply Corporation (AISCO), proposed at appraisal to support this process, was
also not established. The support provided by the project to the National Artificial Insemination Center
(NAIC) to the Veterinary Faculty and to the Tsetse and Trypanosomiasis Control Unit (which was not
foreseen at appraisal) was useful in improving the operations and performance of these institutions.
9.          Institutionally the project has made a major impact by improving the technical and scientific
base of MOA through staff training and technical assistance. The developments in veterinary diagnosis,
epidemiology and economics and strengthening of the forage development team merit emphasis as major
achievements in developing the livestock unit of the MOA. Completion of the livestock export trade
study is also to be considered as an attained objective in that it has provided the Government with
pertinent livestock export strategies in the context of the post-transitional phase of the Ethiopian economy.
With regard to SORDU, the project achieved only part of its objectives, notably in the establishment of
five SCs. Other goals, such as continued pastoral investigation activities and transfer of all three ranches
to the SCs, have not been accomplished.
10.         The project still yields an attractive Economic Rate of Return (ERR), in spite of the difficult
and changing social and political conditions which characterized its implementation. The ERR is,
however, relatively lower than what had been estimated at appraisal, mainly because of the low
performance of the field veterinary services due to the lack of an efficient drug supply system and the
major interruption of project activities in 1991 caused by the civil war. The overall ERR calculated for
the project is 20 percent compared to the appraisal estimate of 26 percent. There are also some
differences in the ERR estimates at completion and appraisal estimates regarding the components. At
appraisal these estimates were: 32 percent for animal health, 15 percent for animal nutrition and 30
percent for fattening as opposed to current estimates of 28 percent, 44 percent and 35 percent,
respectively.
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
General
11.         As a result of a well planned Project Preparation Facility (PPF), project implementation
started promptly. Prior to project effectiveness, the PCU was already established, some vehicles were
procured and in-service training was conducted, terms of reference for consultants were drafted and work



4
programs were outlined. As implementation progressed, however, some of the components, particularly
animal health service delivery, experienced difficulties and delays, mailly due to problems in
procurement and civil works. The civil war seriously disrupted implemienltation of the project during
1990 and 1991. Changes in the Government's socio-economic policy in 1990 from a centrally planned
to a mixed economy and the overthrow of the Government in May 1991 also contributed to
implementationi delays. With the introduction of regionalization in 1992. responsibility for most of the
project components shifted to the regions, and this disrupted earlier lines of conmnunications, budget
processes and administration. The extension of the credit closing date by two years to December 31,1994
allowed the project to regain the lost ground.
12.         A mid-term review was undertaken for the project in late 1990. wlhere it was concluded
that the project was well focused and responsive to the needs of the livestock sector. Hence, no significant
changes were proposed, but it was recommended that a follow-up project be prepared to consolidate
FLDP accomplishments. This was done in 1992, with the assistance of FAO, but the Government of
Ethiopia (GOE) has not yet pursued the follow-up project to make it an investment reality.
Animal Health
13.         The timely procurement of veterinary drugs proved difficult and lagged behind the progress
made in strengthening the veterinary field services to which considerable assistance was directed in the
form of staff training and improved mobility. The main reason for the delay was due to impractical
Government and veterinary service requirements for testing drugs and slow bureaucratic procedures
between the veterinary service and AISCO's procedures. The bulk of the drugs under the project were,
therefore, not imported until the latter years of the project. About 64 percent of the funds for drug
purchase were expended in 1992, thus hindering the regular supply of veterinary drugs to the shops of
the SCs. Further, a sustainable supply was not achieved, as the revolving fund envisaged at appraisal
was not established. The delays in the procurement of veterinary drugs during the earlier part of the
project may also have been caused by the government's decision to use funds from other donors for this
purpose, which were not always forthcoming. In the later stages of the project, after the change of
Government, most of the SCs voluntarily disbanded. This meant that the method of field supply and
distribution of drugs envisaged at the outset largely collapsed. The new policies relied heavily on the
private sector to take over the procurement and supply of drugs and on the privatization of the veterinary
service to fill the role of the defunct SCs. Although the new policies are clearly superior in the long
term, a partial vacuum was inevitable during the transition period. The establishment of the AHRC was
also a major concern because of the delay in construction of the buildings. Albeit the construction
contract was awarded as early as August 1989, the laboratory facilities and associated buildings are still
incomplete and not fully commissioned. Up to 1991, the lack of construction material contributed to the
delay. The quality of the laboratory facilities is poor, with design flaws, such as narrow doors which
had to be torn down to allow access of large equipment. The AHRC represented the only major civil
work under the project, and will still require additional investments before it can become fully functional.
The primary cause of the difficulties experienced in the construction of the AHRC was the poor
performance of the contractor and supervisors. Supervision missions brought the problems to the
Government's attention, but were not adequately addressed. Fortunately, the TA personnel and the
trained staff had already commnenced their work on disease diagnosis and surveillance at the old
laboratories in Shola and Debre Zeit and had covered considerable ground before they moved to the new
premises. Success in FMD diagnosis, rinderpest surveillance and disease investigation mentioned earlier
have their roots in these old laboratories.



5
14.         The economic feasibility of the proposed establishment of the FMD and Rabies vaccine
production units was extensively discussed with MOA, NVI veterinarians and IDA supervision missions.
IDA pointed out that the limited FMD vaccine requirement by Ethiopia and the complexity of production
techniques could not economically justify a dedicated production unit, and advised that the supply be
imported to meet the country's needs. The borrower, however, was of the view that acquiring the
production technology domestically was an important step toward enhancing the country's self-reliance
in this area. The issue was settled in 1992 when it was agreed to forego the FMD and Rabies facilities
and instead to devote the funds to import FMD vaccine and to strengthen the NVI. The wisdom of this
decision became clear later, when GOE resolved that NVI was to become an autonomous institution and
to operate on a commercial basis. In the end, the importation of FMD vaccine was not done, but
expanding the production capacity of NVI's existing vaccine supply was successfully achieved. Within
the animal health component the project also provided support in terms of equipment and training that
improved the efficiency of the Veterinary faculty within the NVI, the National Artificial Insemination
Center and the Tsetse and Trypanosomiasis Control Unit.
Animal Nutrition
15.         Within the animal nutrition component, forage development was well planned. Seeds for
forage and tree legumes as well as for grasses were imported early and field trials were carried out
promptly by the Forage System Development Unit (FSDU) of the project. Subsequently, the Forage
Teams organized field demonstrations which secured good responses from farmers. A large number of
extension manuals on growing and feeding forages was produced by the project, and this has made a great
impact on extension workers and farmers. The Forage Teams also organized farmers to produce seeds
on contract, which were procured and distributed by the project in small amounts, free of charge by field
agents, in order to accelerate the introduction of the new technology. Seven forage introductory strategies
were developed for cultivated lands, range and pasture areas and for the farmers' backyard (Appendix
B of FAO/CP Completion Report of November 1, 1995). During the last year of the project, some 160
tons of seeds were produced and stored in the two stores established by the project, before they were
cleaned and distributed.
16.         The small-scale fattening program did not evolve as expected under the project, because
the supplemental feeding of crop by-products using molasses and urea did not materialize. At appraisal
it was assumed that cooperatives would produce molasses-urea blocks, but securing the supply of liquid
molasses to the SCs proved difficult. However, the project introduced another program based on farmer-
produced forage, following the traditional fattening model of the Hararge area. Thousands of animals
have been successfully conditioned/fattened under the project with the assistance of the Forage Teams.
Southern Rangelands Pilot Development
17.         Under the Project, SORDU was re-organized into five development sections in line with
project activities: (a) Cooperative Development, (b) Animal Health and Production, (c) Marketing and
Fattening, (d) Range Management and (e) Infrastructure. The Cooperative Development section was
central to the project, as SCs were expected to become the basis for providing essential services to
pastoralists. Initial plans called for 27 SCs aimed at increasing and strengthening extension efforts with
pastoralist groups for low cost participation in all the rangelands. However, only five were established
by the project mainly due to lack of resources, particularly with respect to staff, who were already fully
stretched even to provide assistance to the five SCs. By operating shops, veterinary clinics and other
activities, the SCs are providing important services to pastoralists, and in turn, have become useful
vehicles through which the project could channel its extension advice. Four SCs are employing veterinary



6
scouts, one is assisting pastoralists and one SC is managing a 17,000 ha ranch recently transferred to it
from the project. Only one of the three envisaged ranches was transferred to the management of a SC.
18.         The project has trained 12 veterinary scouts, and 20 pastoralists were trained as primary
animal health agents. A disease investigation laboratory was also established, but is not yet operational
for lack of appropriate staff. With regard to range management, project activities were limited to bush
control techniques by burning and clearing.  Data collection on these and other environmental
management, as well as on extension efforts, was initiated through the establishment of a Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit. Unfortunately, this was not continued when the Technical Assistance (TA) personnel
left. The data collected is also not used for evaluating the project's impact. SORDU's infrastructure
activities included maintaining and repairing roads, wells and small surface ponds. However, given the
limited capacity of the maintenance equipment, many ponds have silted-up and their water retention
capacity reduced. Water availability being the top priority in the area, pastoralists are frustrated by lack
of equipment for desilting their ponds, even against payment.
Livestock Production Credit
19.         Under Part D of the project for livestock credit, medium-term loans were made through
AIDB to SCs for onlending to producer cooperatives and farmers.  This part of the project was
implemented by IFAD through a cooperative agreement with IDA. About 90 percent of the credit was
extended for purchasing draft oxen through AIDB, instead of animal fattening, due to the low demand
from producers for fattening animals (para 16). Following the change in economic policy, many SCs
who lent to individual farmers are not functioning; hence the repayment records are disappointingly low
at about 35 percent. The project also assisted AIDB through staff training in dairy poultry, development
banking and the provision of vehicles.
Institutional Development
20.         One of the distinct features of FLDP was its efforts and success in acquiring technical
know-how through training which contributed to the strengthening of the MOA. Approximately 110
people attended overseas degree programs and short-term training. The project also provided local
training for about 4,000 junior technical staff and 5,000 farmers. These trained staff are now operating
and managing the newly established units such as the VEEU, AHRC and the Forage Development Teams.
Many are contributing to the work of the national PARC (Pan Africa Rinderpest Campaign) project or
serving in the regions. The 300 person-months of TA contributed significantly to strengthening MOA
by providing in-service and on the job training. MOA's mobility within the project area was significantly
improved by FLDP through the provision of a substantial number of vehicles (Table 5), enabling
coverage of the project area without difficulty.  The extension effort of FLDP was remarkable,
particularly in forage development.  Parallel to the field extension work (establishing forage
demonstration plots, organizing seed multiplication and discussions with farmers), the project produced
a large number of extension manuals and materials which have raised MOA's capability to communicate
with farmers. Diagnostic and epidemiology manuals have also proved very useful.
Livestock Export Trade Development Study
21.         This study was completed on time in 1990. It aimed to assess Ethiopia's potential to
expand the export of livestock and related products. Its main recommendations were to export live
animals to the Middle East and processed meat, such as corned beef and other cooked meat, to Europe.



7
The findings and recommendations of the study are considered still valid and of importance to the future
development of the livestock industry.
Project Organization and Management
22.         As institution building was an important project objective, a deliberate decision was taken
at the outset that project management would be the responsibility of existing departments and agencies
rather than creating a new management unit. The Credit Agreement specified that the project would be
implemented under the overall supervision of the Vice Minister responsible for the Animal and Fisheries
Resources development Main Department (AFRDMD) within MOA. The heads of the veterinary and
animal productions departments would have direct responsibility for carrying out the veterinary and
animal production related activities respectively. In essence this meant that the Vice Minister was the
Project Manager, and the two department heads were Deputy Project Managers.  A small Project
Coordination Unit (PCU) was established within AFRDMD to assist the Project Manager and his deputies
to execute the project. This innovative management structure ensured that the project was implemented
by line MOA department staff and ensured sustainability because only line staff were responsible. It
facilitated one of the main objectives which was to strengthen AFRDMD veterinary and animal
production support services. The small PCU. consisting of the coordinator. a seconded specialist from
each of the two departments. a training specialist and an accountant, were directly responsible to the two
deputy project managers.
23.         This method of management worked well and avoided many of the problems generally
encountered with the implementation of similar projects in the past. It avoided the problem associated
with an enclave unit, and thereby facilitated the strengthening of the veterinary and animal production
support services, as well as MOA's and AISCO's procurement, monitoring, recording and accounting
services. The fact that the project continued to operate throughout the civil war, albeit not without
serious disruption, as well as being able to adjust to the free market policies adopted after the civil war,
is a clear indication that the project management structure was appropriate and worked well.
24.         Nevertheless, frequent changes in senior management disrupted project implementation.
During the course of the project there were three changes of Vice Ministers, six changes of the Deputy
Project Manager for Animal Health Services, and four different Deputy Project Managers in charge of
Animal Production. While some of these changes were inevitable in view of the change of Government
after the civil war, the frequency of replacement in senior management is a clear indication of
unrestrained political interference during the implementation period.  This inevitably resulted in
discontinuity and disruption of project activities, as well as delays in tackling procurement and other
problems.
Project Costs and Financing
25.         As indicated in Table 8A, estimated total project costs are US$40.2 million, which is 70
percent of the US$57.2 million estimated at appraisal. IDA disbursed US$32.5 million (SDR 23.6
million) out of US$39.0 estimated, which is 83 percent of the total credit. IFAD disbursed US$6.4
million, which is about 83% of its total commitment at appraisal of US$7.7 million. About US$13.6
million (SDR 8.7 million) of the IDA credit remains undisbursed. Project costs are lower than planned
at appraisal due to (a) the exclusion of FMD and rabies production units, (b) operating costs were mainly
borne by the Government and (c) as a result of the very challenging political circumstances during the
project implementation period.



8
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
26.         After regionalization of the project which commenced in 1992, responsibility for the two
core components of the FLDP, Animal Health and Animal Nutrition, were transferred to Regions 3 and
4. Two exceptions are VEEU and AHRC. which remain with MOA. The sustainability of the latter two
units is practically assured, as the MOA is committed to making them work by providing adequate staff
and operating funds. MOA is also studying ways of establishing workable linkages between these two
units and the veterinary services in the regions. Within the Animal Health component. field services
concerned with the provision of drugs and clinical services through the SCs is unsustainable, although
some SCs in remote areas may persist to channel some drugs where accessibility is difficult. Fortunately,
however, and more appropriately, the private sector is emerging gradually to provide these services.
27.         The achievements made in forage development and improved animal nutrition are indeed
sustainable due to the enthusiastic adoption by producers and the liberalization of the economy. In
addition, the regional governments vow to support the forage programs by allocating the necessary
resources. They are also planning to charge for the forage seeds and gradually to eliminate any subsidy
and transfer the entire seed production and distribution business to the private sector.
28.         The sustainability of MOA's improved national level institutional capability can be
considered uncertain, because the core project trained staff have been relocated to the regions, and it is
not clear that the latter will be able to provide the necessary environment and resources for the staff to
perform adequately.
29.         Most of SORDU's activities in providing technical advice could be sustainable if the Region
ensures the provision of a budget at least at current levels. But the maintenance of the infrastructure,
particularly the ponds, may be unsustainable because the capability of SORDU in keeping the machinery
operational appears limited, and maintaining/repairing the infrastructure free of cost to the user is
expensive and unrealistic. There are indications, however, that pastoralists have confidence in the project
and may be willing to pay for these services.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
30.         The project was well prepared and the project design, albeit somewhat ambitious, has
largely "stood the test of time" as indicated by the sustainability of the two main components, Animal
Health and Animal Nutrition. As already indicated, the management structure was innovative and
effective in strengthening important core services and transferring technology know how to MOA. Some
criticism of the inclusion of FMD and Rabies vaccine production is warranted, as more analysis would
have indicated that it was virtually impossible to upgrade the existing facility to facilitate this vaccine
output, and a large-scale production plant could not be economically justified. At appraisal the level of
technical sophistication required to produce viral vaccines of the FMD type was seriously underestimated.
The small-scale fattening program did not evolve as expected because the supplemental feeding on crop
by-products using molasses and urea did not materialize. The appraisal mission should also have been
more conscious of the difficulties that Cooperatives would experience in the procurement and distribution
of liquid molasses to produce molasses-urea blocks under Ethiopian conditions. However, no provision
was made under the project for the supply of material or for the manufacture of the block. Despite these
shortcomings, which were rectified during implementation, the overall project design was sound and
effective.



9
31.         The Bank mounted 11 supervision missions. The first five, including one before project
effectiveness, consisted of only a livestock specialist, while the remaining six were multi-disciplinary with
an optimum mix of relevant specializations. Due to the civil war, no supervision was carried out in 1991.
Overall, the supervision missions were supportive and focused on the real issues affecting the
implementation of the project. The missions were aware of the political and social difficulties under
which the project was operating, hence were sympathetic to the project management and staff.
Nevertheless, this situation did not prevent them from taking firm positions, even counter to project
management's position, if this was found to be important from the country's development perspective.
A good example is the stance taken against the establishment of an uneconomical FMD vaccine
production unit. Supervision missions were unable to correct the frequent changes in project management
personnel. The main supervision shortcoming was probably the infrequent visits to SORDU during the
implementation period.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
32.         Considering the difficult political and social situation that prevailed during the greater part
of the implementation period, GOE's performance can be considered moderately satisfactory. In spite
of GOE's general doubts relating to the ambitious provision of large overseas training, vehicles and
technical assistance, it has had a liberal policy with FLDP, which indicates its commitment to the project.
However, GOE should have endeavored to improve project management and its performance. The slow
progress of the civil works and the poor quality of the buildings of the AHRC should have prompted
GOE to resolve the problems. Project management's laxity in ensuring that MOA's Construction
Department, in charge of all aspects of the project's civil works, gave high priority to the works was a
major shortcoming. With the exception of poor collection of subloans by AIDB and some delays in
submitting Audit Reports, GOE was generally in compliance with project covenants. MOA's frequent
change of the DPMs for Animal Health, and to a lesser extent the DPM for Animal Nutrition, was
detrimental to the project.
33.         One of the main problems throughout the project was MOA's inability to utilize project
funds allocated for operating costs. Out of a total of SDR 4.0 million (US$ 5.7 million equivalent)
allocated for this purpose, only SDR 1.8 million (US$ 2.5 million Equivalent) or 44 percent was utilized.
These funds were intended to cover a portion of incremental operating and maintenance costs for vehicles,
equipment and buildings as well as staff allowances and per diems. Although supervision missions drew
MOA's attention to the negative impact on project implementation and IDA eventually increased the
disbursement rate to 100 percent for this category, the problem was still largely unsolved by the closing
date. Cumbersome and inflexible financial procedures were at the root of the problem. The net result
was that the Government utilized a considerable amount of its own funds for operating expenses which
could have been disbursed under the credit if only submitted to IDA against the project.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
34.         The overall outcome of the project is considered satisfactory. The result would have been
highly satisfactory if it were not for the disappointing achievements in strengthening the field veterinary
services and sustainable drug distribution. Fortunately, however, other animal health activities have been
successful as the project has provided improved national veterinary diagnostic and investigatory services,
a national veterinary epidemiology capability and enhanced vaccine production.  The project also
succeeded in introducing forage production technology in the project area, thereby enhancing the feeding
of working and milking animals. This has become the basis for developing modern dairy farms using
healthier cows and/or conditioning and fattening animals for the local markets. The forage development



10
technologies have completely changed the outlook of farmers. They are appreciating the advantages of
using a smaller number of improved and well-fed animals, and the usefulness of growing forage crops
by rotating or in association with food crops. The demonstrated forage production technology, together
with the advent of economic liberalization and peace, had a positive effect on the traditional livestock
farmers. Environmentally, the project has improved large areas of degraded land, using forages, and has
successfully undertaken shrub control trials in the southern rangelands.  Furthermore, FLDP has
demonstrated the validity of organizing pastoralists into cooperatives in order to help themselves and as
a medium for the provision of project services. It has also contributed significantly to the economy by
improving milk and meat production (Appendix C of FAO's Completion Report) and in enhancing control
of rinderpest.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
35.         As mentioned in para 26, most of the project activities are now under the responsibility of
Regions 3 and 4 and are being managed by them. GOE's approach with regard to animal health is to
encourage the private sector to provide veterinary drug supplies and clinical services. This process has
commenced in the main urban centers and is expected to expand in smaller centers too, as demand for
such services increases. In the future, the public sector intends to concentrate on regulating animal health
aspects and controlling the major epizootic diseases; hence, major resources will be directed towards these
services. The VEEU and AHRC will operate under MOA, within its normal ministerial budget, but
additional input from some reputable institutions would be required in order to support the national
expertise developed under the project in order to continue their professional advancement.
36.         All regions assert their commitment to the forage production and vow to support this
scheme by allocating adequate resources. The regions propose to introduce a system under which farmers
pay for seeds and to involve the private sector (para 27).
I. LESSONS LEARNED
37.         Major lessons drawn from FLDP's implementation experience are the following:
(a)     Transfer of appropriate technology to local professionals and easy replicability
of programs, such as the forage development and disease investigation
components, are important ingredients for sustainability. Conversely, total
dependence on public imports for inputs could prove unsustainable as
demonstrated by the limited availability of veterinary drugs.
(b)     Well-conceived and focused TA is bound to make a lasting impact on the subject
programs, as demonstrated in the cases of forage development and integrated
VEEU/AHRC components.
(c)     To ensure an efficient sustainable animal health service, the private sector should
have responsibility for importing and distributing veterinary drugs and medicines,
and clinical field services should be privatized.
(d)     Production of forage seed and the development of forage technology at the farm
level is crucial to the development of smallholders' livestock farming.



11
(e)      Continuity of senior staff in program formulation and implementation is highly
associated with successful results.
(f)      Considerable time and resources can be saved if dubious components. such as the
FMD and rabies vaccine production, are excluded from  the outset. Similarly.
selection of implementing agencies with limited experience and technical
capabilities should be resisted in order to avoid disappointing performance, such
as that of the Technical Services Department in the MOA, which was responsible
for implementing AHRC.
(g)      Project design should include specific provisions for all the activities that are
necessary for the successful implementation of components. i.e. taking for
granted that molasses-urea blocks would be produced hindered the animilal
fattening component.



12
Table 1: Summary of Assessmeiits
A. Achievement of obiectives         Substantial     Partial    Negligible  Not Applicable
t/)           ()            )           (V)
Macro policies                        [E]                      LI]
Sector policies                      Li            Oi                         Li
Financial objectives                   i          Li                         Li 
Institutional development           [El           Li            Li           LI]
Physical objectives                  Li          Ei E                          i
Poverty reduction                   Ei                         Li            Li
Gender issues                       E             Li            L i
Other social objectives              Li             i                        Li 
Environmental objectives               i           O            L            L
Public sector management             Li          ELi                         L
Private sector development           L                         Li            Li
Other (specify)                      Li           Li            Li           Li
B. Project sustainability              Likely      Unlikely    Uncertain
(V)          (/)            )
F            L    Li
Hi ahly
C. Bank performance                  satisfactory   Satisfactory   Deficient
(V)          (V)          (V)
Identification                       Li          [             L
Preparation assistance               Li                        Li 
Appraisal                              i                        L i
Supervision                          Li              1         E



13
Highly
D. Borrower performance              satisfactory   Satisfactory   Deficient
(M)            )         (M)
Preparation                        T]          [  
Implementation                                 ZI          LIZ
Covenant compliance               LIZ                       L 
Operation (if applicable)           L]         7]           LII
Hi,ghlV                                   Highlv
E. Assessment of outcome          satisfactory   Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory  unsatisfactory
(M)          (V)           M))
Ol  Fm                                    LZ
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Preeedinrg operations
I. Addis Ababa Dairy Development             Milk production                 1971       Completed
2. Second Livestock Development              Marketing & processing          1973        Completed
of livestock and products
3. Agricultural Minimum Package               Increase crop production by    1973        Completed
supplying modern inputs
4. Drought Areas Rehabilitation               Rehabilitation                  1974       Completed
5. Rangeland Development (Third Livestock     Rangeland development          1975        Completed
Credit)
6. Second Agricultural Minimum Package        Increase crop production by     1980       Completed
supplying modern inputs
7. Drought Recovery Program                  Rehabilitation                  1985        Completed
Followjing operations
1. First Peasant Agric. Development          Increase food production in the    1988    Completed
highlands
1. National Fertilizer Sector Devel.         Increased crop production       1995       On-going
through fertilizer supply
2. National Seed Systems Development          Increased crop production       1995       On-going
through seed production and
Supply
..   ........,.



14
Table 3: Project Timetable
1;;;  |   ;1             ;;,$               ^;4;   l ............  ........:
Identifhcation/Preparatton                         1983/84 a!             1983/84'
Preappraisal Mission                               November 1984         July 15, 1985l
Appraisal Mission                                  January 1986           March 1986l
Negotiations                                       October 6, 1986        December 15, 1986l
Board prcsentation                                 April 21. 1987         April 28. 1987l
Signling                                           June 29. 1987          June 29. 1987l
Effective ness                                     September 29. 1987     January 29. 1988     
Mi.ter... review                                   October/Nov. 1990      October/Nov. 1990          l
Project completion                                 September 1995         September 1995
Credit closing                                     December 31, 1992      December 31, 1994
Prepared by consultants under the Third Livestock Development Project (Cr. 603-El) and financed under
P'PF 355-ET.
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
lFY88  lFY89 lFY90 lFY91 |FY92 lFY93   FY94   F Y95 [
Appraisal estitmate              7.6   17.3   268        32.9   37.2   39.0     -        -
Actual                           3.5    6.5   10.1   15.6   20.1   24.1   30.7    32.5
Actual as % of estimate        42.7   34.4   33.3   40.6   45.2   51.6   65.7    69.6
Undisbursed balance              13.3 1D
Date of final disbursement    March 24, 1995
''As of February 5, 1996.



15
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation
1. PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
A. ANIMAL HEALTH
Veterinary Field Services
SC Animal Health Centres                                            No.             90           211
Traininig FAHRs                                                     No.            900            135
Vaccinations 1992-95                                                No.        not specitied   696.528
Trypaniosomiasis treatments                                         No.                         42.605
Internal parasites treatments                                       No.                         164.645
Training farmers in animal health                                   No.                          4235
V EEU
Establish VEEU                                                   Institution        I
Traini epidemiologists                                              No.             3              5
Animal Health National Elements
AHRC Laboratory construction (formerly CDIL)                      complex           I
Rabies vaccine plant                                                No.             I             0
FMD vacciie plant                                                   No.                           ()
Statt housing at Bedelle                                            No.             6              3
Artificial Inseminiationi Centre                                 equipmenlt   Not toieseeni at  Delivered
appraisal
B.ANIMAL NUTRITION PROGRAM
Forage Seed Production
Seed stores                                                        No.             62
Forage seed production                                             toils          63             160
(1994/95)
Multi-purpose tree seedlings                                       No.        not specified    10 million
Contract seed producers                                            No.        not specitied     2. 500
Forage Systems Development
Forage strips                                                       km n                       18.629
Backyard torage                                                No. of trees                    89.999
No. of sites                    1,050
Under-sowinig                                                       ha             .           17.478
Stock exclusion                                                     ha                            930
Over-sowing of grazing land                                         ha                           11.097
Aerial Seeding Operation
- medium seeding rate                                      ha             ha           5.000
- very low seeding rate                                    ha             ha           4,000
Roadside sowiIng                                                    ha                          1.850
Participating SCs                                                  No.                           332
Small-Scale Fattening
By-product fattening scheme                                       No. of         12.500         3.890
tarmers
Forage fattenlilng scheme (cattle)                                No. of     not foreseen at    7,964
animals       appraisal
Forage fattening scheme (sheep/goats)                              No. of     not toreseen at    458
animals       appraisal



16
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project lmplementation
Extension Material Preparation
F;orage De velopmnent Manual                                        copie5      lot specitiedl    2000)(
|Fatteninig Manual                                                                                   983
|   otage Dev. Extensi.oi Manual                                                                    2'-.(000
Forage Fattening Extenisionl Manual                                    ,,5.30()
|C. SORDU
|Establishmentl of Service Cooperatives                                No.             27             5
|Tranisfer ol ranches to SCs                                           No.             3       
|Iraitning of Veterinary Scouts                                        No.        not specitied       12
|Traitlijoc of Pastoralist PAHC                                        No.                           '()
|Ranlge nlon tot ing                                                   sites                         17
|Manual bush clearing demonstration                                    ha                            75
Bush control by hurniing                                              ha                          14.()()(
II[. CIVIL WORKS BUILDINGS (Animal Health)
|Purchasing, Processing & Distribution Vet. Drugs
|Central Investigation~~~00 n Labraor
|Main Lah /Ottice                                   ~~~~~~1250 m2       j             j
Garage0I()() m2   .I
| Farm A nima I Exp                                  I U0 ~~~lOm2      t
Animal Laboratory                                                     100 mr2           I              i
Fencing             mtetres                                                           2()()0)         n a
Housing
Tye A                                                                  105 m2           tl             11
oTygpe B                                                               85Di             7              7
Type C                                                                 55i m2           7              7
CHa  Shed                                                             180 J             t              t
|Small workshop                                                        tOl m2            j
|National Veterinary Institute                                          Nsnit
Rabies Vaccinie Laboratory                                              No.             I              0
[FMD Vacettle Production                                                No.                            0
Large Anital 1ousitig                                                  No.              01
|Tsetse & Trypanosomiasis Control Unit
Bedelle Laboralory                                                    200 m02           1
CIVIL WORKS BUILDINGS (Forage Production)
SForage System  Development Unit
Fienl Laboratory                                                      70Lm2             I              0
Forage Seed Production Unit
GSeed Stor0age. Ofice                                                 105 IT            6
Seed Dry tng                                                          225 mr            6              ()
Statt Houses                                                           5() m'           6              na
Covered Dry Racks o20 m2                                                                6              na 
SORDU



17
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
1                                                                      , ','{ , a,  ' . '   ' " '"''"l'" ' '' '"''M '- ' ' ' '' 'g' "''W',''"' "''S"''" ' '' 'L' ' ' ' ' ' ........................ ,, .... ... . . . . , . . . . . . .   .
.. ... ....                                                              .
Laboratory                                                             lo  m2            l              l
Conference Hall                                                        100 m-            0
III. VEHICLES
Sedan (2WD)                                                              No               5              4
Station Wagon (4WD)                                                      No              27             27
Customised Pickup (4WD)                                                  No               5              0
Pickup standard (4WD)                                                    No              21             0
Pickup standard (2WD)                                                    No              14             59
Compact (4WD)                                                            No              27              0
Vehicles (unspecified - drug procuremiient etc)                          No               5             0
Truck 3 ton                                                              No               1              2
Truck 7 ton 4WD                                                          No              4               6
Double Cabin Pick-up                                                     No              9              82
Bus 30 seater                                                            No               3              3
Motor cycle                                                              No              173           214
Bicycle                                                                  No             443            n.a.
Hard Top Pick-up                                                         No              0               2
IV. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Animal Health
I.Epidemiology and Economics Unit
Sr. Epidemiologist                                                      m/m              30             28
Sr. Computer Specialist                                                                  12            12.5
Statistician Computer Specialist                                                         30             0
Epidemiology Consultant                                                                  8              6
Animal Health Economist                                                                  6              0
2.Animal Health Field Services
Pharmacy Study                                                                           2              5*
3.Central Disease Investigation Laboratory
Senior Veterinary Disease Investigator                                                   30             36
Laboratory Mngt. Advisor                                                                 20             8
4.HQ Veterinary Services
Lab and Workshop Design                                                                  2              2
5.Tsetse and Trypanosomiasis Control Unit
Other Consultants                                                                        10            n. a.
6.Project Coordination Unit
Sr.Livestock Development Advisor                                                         6              60
Livestock Training Advisor                                                               36             0
Microbiologist                                                           ..              3              0
Other Consultants                                                                        10             0
* Bulk Drug Importation Study (2 m/m); Drug Marketing Study
(3 mm).



18
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
f--E-:-;  ;   j  -E   E :k  .--:-E   E  -..,  ..   ::  ---E   . ........... ..
Animal Nutritioni
I.Forage Systems Development ULnit
Forage Systemis Agronomist                                           M/M             22             7
Biomiietriciani - Coitract                                                           20             0
Forage Agronomist                                                                    22            36
2.MOA Seed Production Unit
Seed Production Consultanits                                                          4             11
3.Small Scale Fattening Extensioni Service
Pioductioni Eco iom iist                                                             7              1
Drainage Consultant                                                                  2 5            0
Other Consultants                                                                     5             4
Pasture Ecoinomist                                                                   2.5            0
SORDU
I.Sordu Cooperative Development Program
Socio-Ecolnoillist (COOPS)                                                           14             31
Radio Equipment Consultant                                                            2             0
Consultancies lor Carrying out Studies                                               10             0
2.Sordu Research, Training,M & E
Research Super-visor                                                                 20             5
M & E Consultaiti                                                                    15             19
Institution Building
1.MOA Planning & Programming
Procurement Specialist                                               m/m             60            n.a.
Tech. Sup. Unit Advisor                                                              12            n.a.
Evaluation Econiomist                                                                24            24
2.MOA COOP. Prog. & Agr.Dev.Dept
Agric. Extension Methods                                             m/m              3             12
3.MOA Finance Dept
Senior Financial Advisor                                             m/m             12             0
Financial Officer                                                                    60             0
Sr. Computer Specialist                                                              17             0
Computer Specialist                                                                  60             0
4.Survey and Trials Program
Research Advisor                                                     m/m             18             0
Soil Expert                                                                          6              0



19
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operations
1. Key operating Indicators
in SAR/President's                           Estimated                                 Actual
Report
Not Applicable
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project 1'
I.Veterinary drug            To assess opportunities for  Completed 1986 (PPF)          Advised against bulk
importation study            bulk drug importation and                                  importations, made
repackaging                                                reccomendations for more
efficient use
2. Live Animal and Meat      To develop an economically    Completed 1990                Directed GOE to private
Export Study                 competitive livestock                                       sector entiy in livestock
and/meat export trade                                      trade; impact stxill evolving
3. Veterinary Drug           To design an efficient and    Completed 1992                Of continuing influenice in
Marketing Study              competitive marketing                                       the progressive iberlisation
strategy for veterinary drugs                              of the provision of all
and medicines                                              veterinaci   services
4. Herd Health &             To determine herd             Completed 1994                Original research in Ethiopia
Productivity Monitonng       productivity and constraints                                which confimns the poor
Stnudy                       amenable to health and                                      productivit    b ol cattle  in
production interventions                                   Ethiopian environment.
Given GOE commitment
should have major impacr in
directiiig epiderlnt(ilogrcai
research anid extension
In addition to the major studies, a series of working reports are-detailed in Appendix B. Addendum 1.



20
Table 8A: Project Costs
0 .0...... p- e.tha   ( US$'O)Latest
Component
Local          Foreign                            Total
costs           costs            Total
1. Animal Health             10,200          13,200           23,400           27,107
2. Animal Nutrition          2,400            2,800            5,200            2,985
3. S.O.R.D.U.                2,100            2,600            4,700            1,776
4. Agriculture Credit        3,100            3,200            6,300            6,395
5. M.O.A. Institution        2,200            3,100            5,300            1,568
Building
6. Livestock Export               0             500              500              409
Trade
Sub-total:                20,000           25,400           45,400
Physical & Price             4,100            7,700           11,800
Contingencies
Sub-total: i'             24,100           33. 100          57,200
minus taxes and duties      ( 5,300)                                       ______
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.     .. . .. . .   ..   ..   ...   .     .........   .   .. .   ....   .   :   .. : . ...  .   .   ....  .        ....   ....  77
TotalCost000;                L8000000008; 00 0$it:ii033~10  \0-)0 ;i0-ii057,2\00)ii  40,;0-24
-] Including taxes and duties.
bl Excluding taxes and duties.
Table 8B: Project Financing
(US$'000)
j  0f ;0t t 0 00 :-    0tS ouri;                      Appra\   2 :0t;t 0!l-020     tisale  La)t |t:   test
costs   costs         E otmatlEtmt
Governiment of Ethiopia    1                                10,500              1,362
IDA                                                         39,000             32,483
IFAD                                                         7,700              6,395
TOTAL                                                       57,200             40,240
n' Excluding taxes and duties.



21
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
The Economic Rate of Return (ERR) calculated for the project at completion is 20 percent.
Assumptions and basis for the analysis are provided in Appendix C of the FAO/CP ICR dated
November 1, 1995. The newly assessed ERR is lower than what had been estimated at appraisal
mainly because of the modest achievements in the field veterinary services. This is better illustrated
by comparing the re-estimated ERRs of each component at completion with that of appraisal. At
appraisal estimates were: 32 percent for animal health, 15 percent for animal nutrition and 30 percent
for fattening; as opposed to current estimates of 28 percent, 44 percent and 35 percent, respectively.
Furthermore, the interruption experienced during the civil war has disrupted the pattern of investment
and accrual of benefits.



22
Table 10. Status of Legal Covenants
Agr eaet  Section   Covenant, Statu    Original  Revised                                                                     DsrpinCmet:
TyptV it   i   e if .0     i   Daptes i   Dates                                          Cofovenant
4.01 (b)               9               C             7/7/87                -    Borrower to set up cost accounting                              Borrower set up cost
system  to monitor cost-effectiveness    accounting system which
of all types of vehicles,                                    became ineffective due to
recent regionalization
...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................
4.02                 3              C            4th Qtr                -    Borrower to ensure AISCO have                                    In compliance
fis. yr.                      sufficient funds to  meet local
expenditures for following fiscal year.
...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................
4.04                 2             NC                 -                 -    AIDB to ensure timely repayment of   Not complied with.
stib-loans provided unider the project.   Repayment is unsatisfactory.
...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................
5.01 (b)              1/9             CD              each                -    Have accounts audited, incl. special    In compliance, but with some
tI &   ii)                                          fis. yr.                      accounts by  independent auditors                            delays
acceptable to IDA and submit certified
copy to IDA.
5.01 (c)              1/9              C                 -                         Borrower to maintain separate                                In compliance
(i & ii)                                                                          records of expenditures and retain
for one year after completion of audit.
.................................................................I............................................................................................................................................................
DCA                I (c)            5/9/10              C           6/30/87                -    Borrower to employ specialists and                               In compliance
Sch. 3                                                                                              consultants listed in I (c) acceptable
to borrower and IDA.
.....................................................................I........................................................................................................................................................
11 (1) (a)          4/5/9               C                         -                Each Zonal Veterinary Officer to                              In compliance (now done by
submit work programme and budget   Regional Officer)
for following year for approval by
MOA.
.................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ..........
11(1) (c)             2/9              C            Mar. 31                -    Borrower, with IDA, review                                       In compliance
each year                       adequacy of drug and veterinary
equipment prices charged by AISCO.
.......................................................................................................... .. . . .. .. . .        .. ..    . . .. .. .    . .......................................................................... w__________,.................. _
II (1) (d)            5/9               C           Feb. 28                -    Borrower to furnish to IDA for                                   In compliance (now provided
each year                       comment list of Woredas to be                                by Awraja List)
serviced the following year and
final list by Mar. 31.
.........................................................I......................................I....... ............ .........................................................................................................
11(1) (0)            5/10               C                 -                -    Borrower to ensure positions listed                              In compliance (now filled by
in Annex to Schedule 3 filled in by                          MOA and Regional Offices)
MOA and by Zonal Offices.
Covenant Types                                                                                                                                                    Present Status
I Accounts/audit                                                                             7 Involuntary resettlement                                 C = Covenant Complied with
2 Financial Performance/operating revenue from Beneficiaries                                             8 Indigenous people                            CD = Complied with after delay
3 Flow and Utilization fo project funds                                                      9 Monitoring, review and reporting                                CP = Complied with partially
4 Counterpart funds                                                                           10 Implementation                                         NC = Not complied with
5 Management aspects of project or executing agency                                           11 Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary/resource allocation
6  Environmental covenants                                                                    12 Sectoral/cross-sectoral regulatory/instiEutional action
13 Other



23
Table 10. Status of Legal Covenants
A  remen1......                             .                                               .~ aed                    .   .                        n:;                      .  -   C
III (b)           5/10               C               7/7/87                  -         Borrower to transfer responsibilitv                          In compliance
for forage production and distribution
to Animal & Fisheries Dept. of MOA
III (d)              5               C                                                 Borrower to ensure ratio of Dev.                             In compliance (although
Agents to farm family is not less                            Coops have decreased in
than 1: 1,200 and that Dev. Agents                           number)
are servicing Cooperatives.
111 (d)             2                 C                   -                  -         Famiers to be paid cash for seed                             In compliance
sold to MOA and prices set annually
in consultation with IDA.
............................................................................................................................................................................................................................
IV (b)            5/10                C              7/7/87                  -         Borrower to transfer responsibility                           In compliance
for livestock fattening credit
programme to AIDB.
................................................................................................................................................................................................................I.............
IV (c)             5/9                C              Feb. 28                 -    SORDU to fumish to IDA for                                        In compliance
each yr.                          comment draft annual work
programme for following year.
........... ....................................................................................................................................................................................................................
IV (d)             5/9                C             June 30                  -    SORDU to fumish to IDA final                                      In compliance
each yr.                          annual work programme for following
year including IDA comments.
IV (o)              13               CP              7/7/88                  -    SORDU to complete study on                                        Not complied with. Only
transfer of 3 ranches in pilot                               one ranch transferred
project area to pastoralist
cooperatives.
.........................................................................................................................................................................I....................................................
IV (f)              13              NC              6/30/88                  -    Complete study on transfer of                                     Agreements reached that
cattle transport trucks from                                 this does not make sense
SORDU to Cooperative Organisations. under present conditions
.....................................................................................I...............................................................................I...........................................................
VI               13                C             12/31/88                  -        Borrower to complete Livcstock                               In compliance
trade study and review
recommendations with IDA by
3/31/89.
...........................I..........I..........................................................................................................................................................................................
Vill              5/9               C             12/31/88                  -    Prepare Mid Term Review and                                       In compliance
review findings with IDA.



24
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement Number and Title         I Describe and Comment on Lack of Compliance
Not applicable
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                   Revised               Actual
Stage    of                                          ...   ....    ........
Project Cycle       Wee
|Preparation to                                                             90.6   150.0|
appraisal                        l__ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _                        _ _ _ _
|Appraisal                                     ______55.0   101.6|
Negotiations through                                                       15.4    29.1
| Board  approval      ___________
Supervision                                                               177.0   388.7
|Implementation         11.0        46.2         14.0        48.9           13.5    45.3|
|Completion  Report                                         l______        ____ ____
| TAL- A               1.0        462                     :49O   714.1.    -   .



25
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Number                     Spedali2ed        Implemen-       oevelop-
Stage of         Mo-nth/    of 4ank       Days in        Staff Skills -      attion         ment         Types of
Prject ,Cye'        Year         Raft ,.,e.               represented '      status h      Objeetives    Problems s
Preparation           4/84        4            48           L,L,AHlF
Preappralsal          7-8/85      4           104            A,F,L,v
Appraisal              3/86       6           140           A. AE.AH.                              _
AN. E. F.SO
Negotiation Stage     4/87        2            16           A.L
Supervision    1      4-5/87      1            17            L                     HS              HS
2   6/88        I            15           L                       S             HS            P, PM
,,3 ,          11/88       1            7            L                                                     P
.,   4         4/89        I            13           L                      HS              S             PM
5         1/90                     7            L                      5              HS S
6         6/90        3           45            AH.E,L,AN,             S               S              P
7         10-11/90   4            68            AH,AN,E,L             HS              HS
8         1/92       3            21            AH,E.L                 S               S            W,P
9         9-10/92    4            38            A,E.EN.L               S               S          W,P.PM
10        5-6/93      4            64           AH,EN,L,L,              S              S           D.P.PM
11       2-3/94      5           110           AN.AH.E,EN,            U               U          C.D.P,PM
Completion Report     9/95        3            48           E,F,L                   S              S
A = Agriculturalist; AE = Agricultural Extension Specialist; AH = Animal Health Specialist; AN = Animal Nutrition Specialist;
E = Economist; EN = Environment Specialist; F = Financial Analyst: L = Livestock Specialist; R = Rangeland Management
Specialist, SO = Sociologist/Anthropologist
b' HS = Highly Satisfactory: S = Satisfactory; U = Unsatisfactory.
PM  = Project Management; P = Procurement; C = Compliance with Legal Covenants; W = War; D   Disbursements
d Partial Supervision in the Western Zone. Form 590 was not completed.






Appendix A
Aide-m6moire
A. Introduction
1.        A mission"from the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme visited Ethiopia
from 4 to 21 September 1995 to prepare an Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the
Fourth Livestock Development Project (FLDP). The mission worked mainly with the
Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), particularly with the team of project staff assigned to
prepare the ICR. In addition, meetings were held with the National Veterinary Institute
(NVI), the National Animal Health Research Centre (AHRC), the National Artificial
Insemination Centre (NAIC), the Agricultural Input Supply Corporation (AISCO), the
Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank (AIDB), the Institute of Agricultural Research
(IAR) and the International Livestock Centre for Africa (ILCA). Field visits were undertaken
in Regions 3, 4 and 14, and discussions were held with farmers and local authorities.
2.         The mission would like to express its appreciation to the officials of the MOA
for organizing its work programme efficiently and for their continued support. This aide
m,moire, which is subject to confirmation by IDA management, summarizes the mission's
observations and findings.
B. Background
3.         The FLDP was prepared under the Third Livestock Project (Cr.603-ET) in
1984/85, and appraised in March 1986. This led to the approval of an IDA credit of SDR
33.2 million on 28 April 1987. Subsequently an IFAD loan of SDR 4.5 million was also
approved to provide livestock production credit. Both the credit and loan, which were to be
disbursed over five years, accounted for about 82% of the total costs. The IFAD loan closed
at the end of December 1992, as scheduled, while the IDA credit was closed on December
31, 1994, following two years of extension.
4.         The primary objective of the project was to enhance livestock and agricultural
production by improving animal heath and animal nutrition. The main project components
comprised:
-  animal health development including the strengthening of field services in a
defined project area and expansion of national level laboratories, vaccine
production and epidemiological services;
-  animal nutrition development through improved forage production, intensive
small-scale fattening and adaptive research;
-  pilot range management and utilization by agro-pastoralists in the southern
rangelands;
"Consisted of Messrs. Pietros Kidane (Mission Leader, Economist), Gerold Bodeker
(Financial Analyst) and Nicholas Buck (Livestock Specialist).



ETHIOPIA: Fourth Livestock Development Project (Credit No. 1782-ET)
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix A: Aide-memoire
- credit for peasant livestock development, including for fattening and veterinarian
needs;
- institutional support to MOA through training and technical assistance; and
- a livestock export trade development study.
6.    The project provided for a project management in which the Vice-Minister of the
MOA Animal and Fisheries Resources Development Main Department(AFRDMD) became
the ex-officio project manager. He was to be assisted by two deputy managers: the head of
the Veterinary Service Department and that of the Animal Production Department, to be
responsible, respectively, for the implementation of the animal health and animal nutrition
components. A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) was to be established, and two coordinators
were to be appointed to assist the two Deputy Project Managers within the PCU.
Subsequently, only one project coordinator (PC) was appointed. The rangelands pilot
component was to be implemented by the Southern Rangelands Development Unit (SORDU),
a semi-autonomous unit operating under the overall responsibility of the Vice Minister of
AFRDMD. AISCO was designated to import all veterinary drugs and vaccines, while AIDB
was to implement the credit component. IAR and ILCA were to become cooperating
institutions in forage systems development. The latter was also to implement SORDU's
research/survey activities.
C. Project Concept and Design
7.    The idea of a fourth livestock project aimed at supporting peasants by improving
animal health services and developing animal feed, was sound. This is because most of the
livestock in the country are found in the peasant dominated highland areas, and improvement
of livestock means improving agricultural production and well being of peasants. Focusing
on peasant agriculture after the disastrous famine of 1984/85 was indeed pertinent. The past
three World Bank assisted projects had concentrated on dairying, meat marketing and
abattoirs, and rangelands management. Likewise, the idea of following-up SORDU with a
pilot programme to test some innovations, was also appropriate, particularly after the
realization that past range management efforts had not brought the desired results.
8.   In spite of the conceptual soundness, however, some anomalies can be observed in
the project design, particularly concerning project organization and management, veterinary
drug procurement and distribution and the inclusion of foot and mouth (FMD) and rabies
vaccine production units, which were later excluded on account of their complexity. While
the proposition to implement the project within the existing MOA structure was appropriate,
the designation of the Vice-Minister as the project manager was not, as he could not dedicate
the necessary time to manage the project being already fully occupied with other MOA tasks.
The idea that the two deputies would have accomplished the tasks of a project manager was
also not workable, since none of them would have the overall picture and responsibility for
the project, being each in charge for one component only. The same could be said with
2



ETlHIOPIA: Fourth Livestock Development Project (Credit No. 1782-ET)
Implementauon Completion Report
Appendix A Aide-rmemoire
regard to the two Project Coordinators. This arrangement has not facilitated the definition
of clear responsibilities and authority for policy guidance and for the day to day management
of the project, and has led to the obfuscation of the line of command. An error of judgement
was also made when the distribution of veterinary drugs was assigned to AISCO as it had
neither the experience and capability nor the network to undertake this task.
C. Project Implementation and Results
General
9.    The approval by IDA of a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) had enabled the project
to commence early. One year before the project was approved, the PCU was already
established, some in-service training was conducted, procurement of some vehicles completed
and preparation of work programmes and terms of reference for TA personnel drafted. This
progress continued in the following years with regard to animal nutrition, but not with that
of animal health as it was saddled with serious problems in veterinary drug and equipment
procurement and delay in civil works. Policy and government changes, civil unrest and the
reorganisation of the administrative structures into autonomous regions have interfered with
the project's pace of implementation, and the extension of the project by two years was
helpful. A brief account of project implementation is given below.
Animal Health
10.   Veterinary Drug Procurement and Distribution. Procurement of veterinary drugs
fell far behind schedule and was a major area of concern. Initially, the main reason for the
delay was impractical veterinary testings requirements, which proved cumbersome, time
consuming and unacceptable to some manufacturers. This was exacerbated by lengthy
bureaucratic procedures between the veterinarians and AISCO. Due to this, a regular and
sustained supply of drugs was not established. The major supplies arrived in two tranches in
1991 and 1992, but by this time the effort expended in training Farmers' Animal Health
Representatives (FAHR) and in encouraging Service Cooperatives (SC) to retail drugs had
been dissipated. At the same time the change of policy reduced the emphasis of SCs as a
drug outlet and the private sector was being encouraged to enter the market. The distribution
of drugs was undertaken by the MOA, hence AISCO did not sell the drugs with 40% mark-
up and the revolving fund was never established contrary to what had been envisaged at
appraisal.
11.   Veterinary Field Services. The main thrust of the Veterinary Field Services was to
improve the delivery of services to the primary animal producer by providing drugs, basic
equipment, vaccinations, trained advisers and diagnostic support at the local level. To this
end GOE staff were trained and equipped with means of transport before they were
redeployed into about 150 woredas that were accessible to road transport. The impact of the
3



ETHIOPIA: Fourth Livestock Development Project (Credit No. 1782-ET)
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix A: Aide-memoire
veterinary field service was constrained by lack of drugs and their service limited to
providing some vaccination services.
12.   Veterinary Epidemiology and Economics Unit (VEEU). The importance of the
VEEU and its potential cannot be over-emphasised. At establishment technical assistance
expeditiously installed computer hardware and developed appropriate software. At the same
time an intensive post-graduate training programme ensured that trained Ethiopian staff were
available to take over.An initial herd health and productivity monitoring programmne prepared
by the VEEU, established baseline cattle productivity data from 9 regions in the project area.
Complementary data collection, collation and dissemination programs were established for
veterinary field services, diagnostic laboratories and meat hygiene services. The VEEU has
recently been relocated to the new AHRC building. The close relation with diagnostic
capabilities at AHRC will certainly be of value to VEEU when more detailed disease
investigation are instituted. With VEEU, Ethiopia is uniquely equipped to plan national
animal health services.
13.   Central Disease Investigation Laboratory. This laboratory, now designated as the
Animal Health Research Centre (AHRC), was to be established as a national disease
diagnostic centre to replace and enhance those activities which had been accommodated at
(NVI). Its construction was the only major building programme envisaged at appraisal, and
preparatory work proceeded reasonably well as the construction contract was awarded in
August 1989. In spite of an early start of construction works, the laboratory and associated
buildings are still incomplete and not fully commissioned. The reason for the delays in the
earlier years are in part attributable to the lack of construction material. In addition, the
quality of the construction is poor and with serious deficiencies for a laboratory. This is
mainly due to the inadequate design and poor performance of the constructor and the
supervisors. The AHRC is now installing the laboratory equipment, and in many cases walls
had to be torn down to enlarge narrow doors that hinder the access of large equipment. It is
unfortunate that the TA input has not coincided with the full commissioning of the
laboratory. However, the TA made a valuable contribution in installing some of the scientific
equipment, training and preparation of manuals. Procurement delays in obtaining the
necessary range of re-agents, chemicals, stains and other consumables limits diagnostic
capability at present. The AHRC will not be fully functional without further investment.
14.   National Veterinary Institute. Project support to the NVI primarily directed to the
rehabilitation and improvement of its existing vaccine production capability. Although there
have been some shortcomings with the delivery of the appropriate equipment and some
damage to equipment in transit, the NVI now possesses considerably enhanced vaccine
production capability. This is claimed to have doubled its potential output, increased the
range of vaccines, and enhanced its export potential. The anticipated addition of an FMD and
rabies vaccine production units were excluded from the project, following the realization of
NVI's staff about their costs and staff requirements in the short time. In view of the emphasis
4



ETHIOPIA: Fourth Livestock Development Project (Credit No. 1782-ET)
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix A: Aide-m6moire
given to FMD control at appraisal, it is disappointing to find that the funds available for the
importation of FMD vaccine have been unutilized.
Animal Nutrition
15.    The animal nutrition component was most successful, and has effectively introduced
improved forage production appropriate for the different ecological zones. This was carried
out under three distinct activities namely forage seed and seedling production, forage systems
development and a small-scale fattening scheme. Throughout the implementation period,
project staff have shown commendable adaptability in the face of changing political and
economic circumstances, which was the main reason for success. The project has produced
an impressive array of staff manuals and extension material. This programme is generally
considered a major success in sub-saharan Africa.
16.   Forage Seed and Seedling Production. Herbaceous and tree legumes as well as grass
seeds were unavailable in the country and were initially imported by the project for
multiplication. Some 94 tons of seed have been imported over the project period which were
multiplied in MOA nurseries and in farmers' fields under contract. Local seed production has
risen continuously to a production of 160 tons in the year 1994/95, reflecting the increased
demand for seeds. Over 10 million seedlings were also raised and distributed to farmers.
Seed has been distributed freely; a justified approach during the introduction of new
technology but cost recovery will be introduced gradually. The project has built two seed
stores at Bahar Dar and Addis Ababa (Kaliti) to serve the north and south/central areas of
the country, respectively.
17.   Forage Development. As the project started, a Forage Systems Development Unit
(FSDU) was established to spearhead forage development. After accomplishing field trials
in the earlier years of the project, the importance of the FSDU was reduced, overshadowed
by the rapid forage development in the project area. Seven forage systems have been
developed under the project: a) sowing stock exclusion degraded grazing areas as a
conservation measure (930 ha); b) over-sowing with grass or legumes seeds by broadcasting
on farmers fields and on road sides (9,050 ha); c) establishing forage strips and alley strips
(2,300 Km); d) back-yard forage production by providing an array of multipurpose tree and
forage legumes and grasses (1,050 sites); e) under-sowing, particularly with annual legumes
in maize and sorghum fields (875 ha); f) sowing of pastures with mixed grass and forage
legumes (1,176 ha); and g) growing of forage under perennial trees (82 ha). The estimate
area covered is conservative as the project has supplied seeds to many institutions concerned
in forage development. These activities are likely to make a major contribution to Ethiopian
agriculture if pursued further.
18.   Small Scale Fattening. This activity was based on the success of limited trials in the
Nazareth/Modjo area of feeding crop bi-products supplemented with molasses and urea.
Difficulties arose in securing the supply of liquid molasses to the SCs which was the basis
5



ETHIOPIA: Fourth Livestock Development Project (Credit No. 1782-ET)
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix A: Aide-memoire
for the programme. In addition the credit for fattening was mostly diverted to the purchase
of draught animals. Subsequently, the proposed system also met competition from the rapid
re-emergence of private cattle feeding in the Nazareth area at the change of the economic
regime. This set-back did not discourage the project staff, as they have effectively introduced
over all the project area the traditional cattle fattening system of Hararge area, using fodder.
Some 8,000 cattle and 460 sheep/goats are reported to have been finished/fattened using
project produced forage in the different parts of the area. These figures are certainly an under
estimate as many farmers are finishing cattle with out the awareness of the project staff. The
system is seasonally practised to fit in with cereal production and to meet the local peak
demands for finished livestock.
Southern Rangelands Pilot Development (SORDU)
19.   A follow-on to SORDU with modified activities in: a) animal health and production;
b) range management; c) cooperative development; and d) cattle marketing and fattening, was
executed under the project. The support in animal health and production focused on
strengthening health and extension services. Twelve veterinary scouts have been trained by
the project, and are now providing their services at the SC's clinics. Twenty pastoralists have
also been trained as primary animal health agents. A disease investigation laboratory was
established, but is not yet functional due to the lack of trained personnel.
20.   Range management activities concentrated on bush control techniques, first hand data
collection on the ecology and its management, range monitoring, erosion control and
extension on these subjects. At project completion about 14,000 ha of range lands invaded
by bush have been controlled by burning and demonstrations have been made on bush
clearing in three locations over an area of 75 ha. Wider application of controlled burning
could not, however, be practised by the pastoralists as the ban on burning introduced by the
previous Government is still in effect. The project has apparently collected important data
on the rangelands, but this has not been analyzed in spite of the availability of a monitoring
and evaluation capability provided by the project through technical assistance, staff training
and a computer.
21.   The cooperative development aimed at developing participation by the pastoralists.
To this end the project supported five SCs through the provision of technical advice, financial
support and improving roads, ponds and traditional wells. Some of the accomplishments are:
construction of a grain store, office/veterinary drug store and consumer goods shop in two
SCs with 50% contribution by the latter; employment of veterinary scouts by four SCs; and
transfer of management of a 17,000 ha ranch from SORDU to one SC.
22.    Marketing and fattening activities have achieved limited success. Some prices were
collected by the project, but were not used for any purpose. Ranch fattening continues both
on the SORDU ranch and at the SC Sarite ranch, but the latter has water limitations which
should receive attention.Other activities such as the introduction of food for work for
6



ETHLOPIA: Fourth Livestock Development Project (Credit No. 1782-ET)
Implementauon Completion Report
Appendix A: Aide-memoire
construction of roads, evaluation of project interventions and preparation of a new rangelands
development project, were not carried out.
Livestock Production Credit
23.   Medium-term loans were made available through AIDB to SCs for on-lending to
producer cooperatives and individual farmers. However, about 90% of the loan was extended
for purchasing draft oxen, in pursuit of a reportedly successful IFAD programme which
preceded the project. Birr 1.7 million was advanced for animal fattening. The envisaged
cooperative production of molasses-urea blocks did not materialize and this has slowed
demand for fattening. The gradual introduction of improved forage technology has re-
stimulated demand for the fattening of animals. After the collapse of the previous regime and
the loss of authority of the SCs, the repayment of loans had deteriorated markedly and
arrears reached Birr 10.2 million. Being guaranteed by it, the arrears have been transferred
to the Government, which is preparing a strategy for recovering the loans. Re-payment of
principal and loan has so far been Birr 4.6 million or 35% of total loans.
24.   The AIDB has also benefitted under the project in the form of its staff training. Five
people were trained abroad for 3-4 months in dairy, poultry and development banking. Three
vehicles were also provided to facilitate staff mobility.
Institutional Development
25.   A significant institutional strengthening input was provided under the project in the
form of staff training, technical assistance, vehicles and other equipment, and this has
boosted MOA's capacity to implement the project. About 130 people were sent abroad for
degree courses programmes and for short term specialised training. A large number in
service and on the job training were also conducted by the TA personnel. In general the TA
(about 250 man-months) provided under the project was effective, and has been instrumental
in transferring technical know-how, particularly in forage development and veterinary
epidemiology. The wide project area was well covered under the project thanks to the supply
of a large number of vehicles, viz., 180 four wheel drive vehicles/pickups, 2 buses, 4 trucks,
4 sedan vehicles and 214 motor-cycles.
Livestock Export Trade Development Study
26.   The study was successfully completed in 1990. Its major recommendations were to
export live animals to the Middle East; cattle to be directed to the Yemeni market and small
ruminants to Saudi Arabia and to the Arab Emirates. The study considered the only entry to
the western export markets would be for canned products e.g. large tinned corned beef and
other canned products. There has been no clear follow-up on these recommendations.
7



ETHIOPIA: Fourth Livestock Development Project (Credit No. 1782-ET)
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix A: Aide-mcmoire
Project Management
27.   The early establishment of the PCU was not exploited to the advantage of project
management, because of the project's complicated organizational system ( para 8 ). The two
deputy project managers had only partial responsibility for the project and most of the day
to day management burden appear to have rested with the PC, who did not have direct
responsibility and authority. This situation reduced the effectiveness of project management.
Serious delays in veterinary drug procurement and in the construction of the AHRC as well
as financial difficulties were not addressed promptly because of the lack of specificity in the
lines of responsibility and authority. Because of this it was not easy to guide and supervise
agencies, like AISCO, supposedly serving the Project Management. Project management did
not have any authority in deciding project financing and budgeting, procurement or control
of vehicles which were the tasks of the relevant MOA Departments. The project was limited
to initiate and propose activities or prepare specifications. After that, actions were taken by
the concerned line departments and the PCU was not in a position to influence matters.
Mid-Term Review
28.   A mid-term review was carried out for the project in October/November 1990. The
IDA review mission concluded that the project was well focused and that it addressed the
major constraints of livestock farming in Ethiopia. Thus it recommended the continuation of
the project with out any significant changes. The mission also recommended the preparation
of a follow-up project in order to consolidate FLDP activities. This was done in 1992 with
the assistance of FAO, but GOE has not yet decided on further processing of the follow-up
project.
Project Costs and Financing
29.   At completion, total project costs were estimated at Birr 132.6 million or US$ 42.2
million excluding taxes and duties ie: 132 % and 81 % of the appraisal estimates,
respectively. IDA disbursed about US$ 32.5 million (SDR 23.6 million), while IFAD
disbursed US$ 6.4 million (SDR 4.4 million), financing 73% and 15% of the total project
costs, respectively. About US$ 13.6 million ( SDR 8.7 million) of the IDA credit remains
undisbursed. Project costs are lower than what have been estimated at appraisal due to the
exclusion of some activities from the project, such as FMD and rabies production units and
lower level implementation of some activities. The costs as expressed in US$ are lower due
to the depreciation of the Birr since 1992.
Project Impact
30.   The project has made a significant contribution to the peasant economy by providing
improved animal health and nutrition. This is understood to have increased efficiency of draft
animals and increased production of meat and milk. According to beneficiaries producing
8



ETHIOPIA: Fourth Livestock Development Project (Credit No. 1782-ET)
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix A: Aide-mdmoire
forage under the project, their financial returns are very attractive. Although economic
analysis have not yet been completed, the economic return of the project is expected to be
equally attractive. The seeding of eroded areas by grasses and legumes is also making
positive contribution to the conservation of soils and betterment of the environment.
Borrower and Bank Performance
31.   Throughout the project implementation period, the Bank Supervision Missions were
supportive and keen to assist the project and understanding of the prevailing difficulties in
the country. Often they were instrumental in resolving financial and other difficulties by
discussing with GOE higher authorities, or by recommending IDA's management to raise the
disbursement percentage and to extend- the project. Overall they have performed
satisfactorily. However, the lack of corrective measures to the cumbersome and paralysing
project management arrangement should be considered a shortcoming of supervision, since
remarks about management deficiencies were regularly made.
32.   Project implementation was carried out during a period characterized by political and
social problems which have influenced outcome. Taking these difficulties into account GOE's
performance can be generally considered satisfactory. However, the lack of authority given
to project management and their subjection to the line departments_of the MOA has limited
their achievements. The main difficulties in procurement, civil works and the delayed release
of funds are largely attributed to these factors.
D. Future Operations and Main Lessons Learned
33.   With the exception of the VEEU and AHRC, the project has been absorbed within
the administrative structure of the regions, following the regionalisation process of 1992/93.
FLDP is now managed by the Agricultural Bureaux of the Regions. Within the Regions
visited by the Mission, animal nutrition and SORDU components appear more visible than
the animal health component. The Regions are continuing the operations of FLDP and
explained that they will pursue the development commenced by the project by allocating the
necessary resources, particularly for forage development. The sustainability of this
component is not, therefore, in doubt. In addition, farmers are keen to adopt the modern
forage development technology. Sustainability of SORDU will depend on the availability of
backup services i.e. mechanical repair and maintenance of ponds and roads, drug and vaccine
supply, consumer goods and marketing services. The pastoralists appear to have confidence
in the project and the willingness to pay for services. Alternative capital investment
opportunities are essential for their security. Doubts, however, remain with regard to the
sustainability of animal health field services. The resolution of this is expected to come partly
from the private sector, which is currently being encouraged to be involved in the livestock
industry by GOE. VEEU and AHRC should contribute considerably to more effective
planning. The present difficulties of AHRC are under discussion within MOA and are
9



ETHIOPIA: Fourth Livestock Development Project (Credit No. 1782-ET)
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix A: Aide-memoire
expected to be resolved soon. The operations of these institutions will be guaranteed from
the resource allocations of GOE.
34.   Main lessons learned are:
-   Transfer of technology  to  local professionals  and  easy  replicability  of
programmes, such as the forage development component, are important
ingredients for sustainability. Conversely, total dependence on the public imports
of inputs will prove unsustainable as demonstrated by the limited availability of
veterinary drugs.
-   A well conceived and focused TA input is bound to make a lasting impact on the
subject programmes as demonstrated in the cases of forage development and
VEEU.
-   Continuity of senior staff in programme formulation and implementation is highly
associated with successful results as shown by the animal nutrition component.
-   Lack of clear line of command and authority renders senior staff helpless and
frustrated, leading to poor performance.
-   A high level decision making body for policy guidance and for resolution of
project problems is a must, particularly where the authority of project staff is
limited.
-   Considerable time and resources can be saved if dubious components, such as the
FMD vaccine production, are excluded from the outset.
E. Next Steps
35.   The mission will prepare a draft ICR for submission to IDA by mid-October 1995.
GOE has prepared a draft ICR which will be transmitted to IDA after its finalisation.
10



IBRD 19693
5'               X                                           "        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E T H I O  P I A
FOURTH LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KErA PROJECT AREA
EFA P,ole-t A,eo-,
j   \                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Aoso ecoIo5g,e01 Zooo, ol 5k. Conroo
J   t                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~H,0hlood, (ohooa 500 mo.er.,
H,gh PoF.1-oI
OAloreother Rood,
O.  _1n,,,9.d A-res
m-rn Fo-etor1es
..,oneB.odr..
)  ; \ t                    3 \                                ~~~ ~~~ ~ ~~~~~100  2Wu  300
*t 8 4 t\ T i A v " 0 KILKOMEYTRS
WEL                                                                                                               M  A P1  LR OI A AA  _s AI
sr          IL  Alr                                         2         +      W        w  E L 5!        /DJIBOUTIuY
(n H A R  HRGE                                                                                                                   E
4.   o)                                u~~~~~~~~~PILOT PROJECT AREA           -                        BOMAlIA                                                 .
U 5A N DA <           x                ~~K   E                  Y, A    /S                                       ,_
M^AY I19B6









IMAGI NG
Report No:       15468
Type: ICR.



