OFFICIAL
DOLU IMENTS
CREDIT NUMBER 1782 ET
Project Agreement
(Fourth Livestock Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
AGRICULTURAL INPUT SUPPLY CORPORATION
Dated                              , 1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1782 ET
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated               , 1987, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and AGRICULTURAL INPUT
SUPPLY CORPORATION (AISCO).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between Ethiopia (the Borrower) and the Association, the
Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-two million
three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 32,300,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that AISCO agrees to undertake
such obligations toward the Association as set forth in this
Agreement;
(B) by a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and AISCO (the AISCO Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment), part of the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the
Development Credit Agreement will be made available to AISCO on
the terms and conditions set forth in said AISCO Subsidiary Loan
Agreement; and
WHEREAS AISCO, in consideration of the Association's enter-
ing into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) AISCO shall pursue the purposes of the
Project, as declared by the Borrower and as set forth in
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and, to this end,


﻿- 2 -
AISCO shall carry out part of Parts A.8 and A.9 of the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial and agricultural practices, and
shall provide, or cause to be provided, prompty as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, AISCO shall carry out its responsibilities re-
garding Parts A.8 and A.9 of the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 3 to the Development
Credit Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time.
Section 2.02. Except as the Associaton shall otherwise
agree, procurement of goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4
to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. AISCO shall carry out the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of this Agreement
for Parts A.8 and A.9 of the Project.
Section 2.04. AISCO shall duly perform all its obligations
under the AISCO Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.05. AISCO shall, at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of Parts A.8 and A.9 of the Project, the performance of
its obligations under this Agreement and under the AISCO Subsid-
iary Loan Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of
the Credit.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of AISCO
Section 3.01. AISCO shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative and
financial practices under the supervision of qualified and


﻿-3-
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers.
Section  3.02. AISCO   shall, at all    times, operate and
maintain its plant, machinery, equipment and other property and,
from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering
andfinancial practices.
Section 3.03. AISCO shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) AISCO shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting prac-
tices, its operations and financial condition.
(b) AISCO shall:
(i) have   its   accounts  and   financial   statements
(balance sheets, statement of income and expenses
and related statements) for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than eight months after
the end of each such year: (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said accounts and financial statements
as well as the audit thereof and said records, as
the Association shall, from time to time, reason-
ably request.


﻿-4-
Section 4.02. (a) AISCO shall take all necessary steps to
ensure that its net cash flow during any given fiscal year shall
be not less than the local fund requirement of AISCO's estimated
operating cost for the following fiscal year.
(b)  For the purposes of this Section, the term "net cash
flow" means the difference between cash revenues and the sum of
cash operating costs, debt-related charges and payments, and any
other cash payments.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of AISCO hereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) the   date  15  years  after   the  date  of  this
Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates, in
accordance with its terms, before the date specified in subpara-
graph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly
notify AISCO of this event.
Section 5.03. All provisions of this Agreement shall con-
tinue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between


﻿- 5 -
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                   Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wUI)
For Agricultural Input
Supply Corporation:
P.O. Box 100077
Telex:
21482
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of AISCO may be taken or executed by the
General Manager or such other person or persons as AISCO shall
designate in writing, and AISCO shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. The Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.


﻿-6-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have cause this Agreeement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                     V, V_J, CAV   ,
Regional Vice President
Africa
AGRICULTURAL INPUT SUPPLY CORPORATION
By
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


