CREDIT NUMBER 1782 ET
Development Credit Agreement
(Fourth Livestock Development Project)
between
ETHIOPIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated         L   J   Y          ,1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1782 ET
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated           9         , 1987, between ETHIOPIA
(the Borrower) and INTERNAtIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) the Borrower intends to contract from International
Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) a loan (the IFAD Loan)
in an amount equivalent to two million dollars ($2,000,000) to
assist in financing part of the Project on the terms and condi-
tions set forth in an agreement (the IFAD Loan Agreement) to be
entered into between the Borrower and IFAD;
(C) Parts of the Project will be carried out by Agricul-
tural and Industrial Development Bank (AIDB) and Agricultural
Input Supply Corporation (AISCO) with the Borrower's assistance
and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available
to AISCO part of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this
Agreement and to AIDB part of the Fund Loan as provided in the
IFAD Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and AISCO;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.


﻿-2-
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respec-
tive meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a) "AIDB" means the Agricultural and Industrial Develop-
ment Bank, established pursuant to Proclamation No. 158 of 1979
of the Borrower;
(b) "AISCO" means the Agricultural Input Supply Corpora-
tion, established pursuant to Proclamation No. 269 of 1984;
(c) "AISCO Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Association and AISCO of even date herewith, as the same may
be amended from time to time;
(d) "AIDB Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and AIDB pursuant to
Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time;
(e) "AISCO Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and AISCO pursuant to
Section 3.01 (e) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time;
(f) "MOA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture;
(g) "IAR" means the Borrower's Institute for Agricultural
Research or any successor thereto;
(h) "ILCA" means the International Livestock Center for
Africa;
(i) "SC" means any service cooperative, established pur-
suant to Proclamation No. 138 of 1978 and participating in the
carrying out of the Project;
(j) "PA" means any peasant association establishing under
the Borrower's Proclamation No. 71 of 1975 and participating in
the carrying out of the Project;
(k) "SORDU" means the Southern Rangelands Development Unit;


﻿-3-
(1) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
(m) "Project Preparation Advance" means the project pre-
paration advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters, dated October 9, 1985, and
November 21, 1985, between the Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to thirty-two million three hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 32,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule I to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
Irom time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in its Central
Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
(c) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn
and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.


﻿-4-
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1992,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time.     The commitment charge shall accrue
from a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts shall be
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be
cancelled.
(b)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each January
1 and July 1 commencing July 1, 1997, and ending January 1,
2037. Each installment to and including the installment payable
on January 1, 2007, shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%)
of such priacipal amount, and each installment thereafter shall
be one and one-half percent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Sectioon 3.01. (a) The Borrower having declared the objec-
tives of the Project set forth in Schedule 2 of this Agreement,
reiterates its commitment to such objectives and, to this end,
shall carry out Parts A.1 through A.7, B, C, E and F of the
Project, and shall cause AIDB to carry out Part D of the Project,
all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial and agricultural practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Borrower shall carry out Parts A.1 through
A.7, B, C, E and F of the Project in accordance with the Imple-
mentation Program set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement,
as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement
between the Borrower and the Association.
(0) The Borrower shall cause AISCO to perform, in accor-
dance with the provisions of AISCO Project Agreement, all the
obligations of AISCO therein set forth, shall take and cause to
be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facili-
ties, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to
enable AISCO to perform its obligations, and shall not take, or
permit to be taken, any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
(d) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the IFAD
Loan to AIDB under a subsidiary loan agreement (the AIDB Subsid-
iary Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and
AIDB under terms and conditions, which shall have been approved
by the Association, which shall include: an interest rate of 2%
per annum during fiscal years 1987 and 1988; and an interest rate
of 4% per annum thereafter.
(e) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit,
allocated to, and withdrawn from, Categories (5) and (6) of the
table set forth in Schedue 1 to this Agreement, to AISCO under a
subsidiary loan agreement (the AISCO Subsidiary Loan Agreement)
to be entered into between the Borrower and AISCO, under terms
and conditions which shall include: a repayment period of five


﻿- 6 -
years following one year of grace, an interest rate of 2% per
annum during fiscal years 1987 and 1988, and an interest rate of
4% per annum thereafter.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be covered by the provisions of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The orrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations 6et forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05,
9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insur-
ance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and
reports, maintenance and land acquisitions, respectively), in
respect of Parts A.8 and A.9 of the Project, shall be carried out
by AISCO pursuant to Section 2.03 of the AISCO Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) By July 7, 1987, the Borrower shall begin
to implement maintenance procedures to ensure that: (i) MOA's
vehicles will be inspected after: (A) five years of service or
when they reach 140,000 km of mileage, whatever will be earlier;
and (B) after eight years of service or when they reach 200,000
km of mileage, whatever will be earlier; and (ii) vehicles found
to be beyond economic repair shall be disposed of promptly.
(b) By July 7, 1987, the Borrower shall estiblish a pilot
cost accounting system for its vehicles to adequatE-y monitor the
cost-effectiveness of the various types of vehicles.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take all measures necessary
to ensure that AISCO shall have, at its own disposal, starting at
the beginning of the fourth quarter in each fiscal year, suffi-
cient funds to meet the local fund requirement to cover the esti-
mated operating costs of AISCO for the following fiscal year.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause AIDB to carry on
its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with sound
administrative, financial and banking practices under the


﻿- 7 -
supervision of qualified and experienced management as'sisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause AIDB to take all mea-
sures necessary to ensure timely repayment of sub-loans provided
under the Project.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to
be maintained, records and accounts adequate to reflect, in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, re-
sources and expenditures in respect of Parts A.1 through A.7, B,
C, E and F of the Project of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section, including the Special Account for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate   auditing   principles   consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than eight months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said accounts and the audit thereof and
said records as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, separate re-
cords and accounts reflecting such expenditures;


﻿-8-
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the com-
pletion of the audit for the fiscal year in which
the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
such expenditures;
(iii) enable   the   Association's   representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a seperate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the pro-
ceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of such
expenditures were used for the purposes for which
they were provided.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) AISCO shall have failed to perform any of its obliga-
tions under the AISCO Project Agreement.
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situa-
tion shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that AISCO
will be able to perform its obliga-ions under the AISCO Project
Agreement.
(c) Proclamation No. 158 of 1979 of the Borrower shall have
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to
affect materially and adversely the ability of AIDB to carry out
Part D of the Project.
(d) Proclamation No. 269 of 1984 of the Borrower shall have
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to
affect materially and adversely the ability of AISCO to perform
any of its obligations under the AISCO Project Agreement.


﻿- 9 -
(e)  The Borrower, or any other authority having jurisdic-
tion, shall have taken any action for the dissolution or the dis-
establishment of AIDB or AISCO, or for suspension of AIDB's or
AISCO's operations, unless the Association has been satisfied
that an organization has been established by the Borrower to
replace AIDB or AISCO, as the case may be, which shall be capable
of carrying out the responsibilities of AIDB or AISCO under this
Agreement and adequate arrangements have been made therefor.
(f) (i) Subject to this subparagraph:
(A) the right of the Botrower to withdraw the
proceeds  of   the  IFAD  Loan  made  to  the
Borrower for the financing of the Project
shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
the terms of the IFAD Loan Agreement; or
(B) the IFAD Loan shall have become due and pay-
able prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Bank that:
(A) such suspension, cdncellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of
the Borrower to perform any of its obliga-
tions under such agreement; and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obliga-
tions of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower;
(b) any of the events specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
(c) any event specified in paragraph (f) of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of subpara-
graph (ii) of that paragraph.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
IFAD Loan Agreement, except for the effectiveness of this Agree-
ment, have been fulfilled;
(b) the AIDB Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and AIDB;
(c) the AISCO Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed
on behalf of the Borrower and AISCO; and
(d) the Borrower has entered into cooperation agreements
with: (i) IAR and ILCA, for the implementation of Part B.3 of the
Project; (ii) ILCA, for the implementation of Part C.2 of the
Project; and (iii) AIDB, for the implementation of Part D of the
Project. Such cooperation agreements to be satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Association.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the AISCO Project Agreement has been duly autho-
rized by AISCO and is legally binding upon AISCO in accordance
with its terms;
(b) that the AIDB Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized by the Borrower and is legally binding upon the Bor-
rower and AIDB in accordance with its terms; and
(c) that the AISCO Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized by the Borrower and is legally binding upon the Bor-
rower and AISCO.


﻿- 11 -
Section 7.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sec-
tion 4.02 of this Agreement and the provisions of paragraph (b)
of Section 6.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine    on
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate or on the date 20 years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be earlier.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
P.O. Box 1905
Addis Ababa
Ethiopia
Cable address:                    Telex:
MINFIN                             21147
Addis Ababa
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as cf the day and year first above
written.
ETHIOPIA
By
Authorized Representive
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                                00k
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Works                     2,900,000         100% of foreign
expenditures and
75% of local
expenditures
(2) Goods                     4,100,000         100% of foreign
expenditures and
75% of local
expenditures
(3) Technical                 2,900,000         100%
assistance
(4) Training                  1,600,000         100% of foreign
expenditures and
85% of local
expenditures
(5) Veterinary                5,800,000         100% year one,
drugs and                                  60% year two
medicine                                   and three, and
40% thereafter
(6) Vaccines                    800,000         100%
(7) Operating                 9,500,000         75% year one
costs                                      through year
three, and
50% thereafter


﻿- 14 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(8) Livestock                   400,000         100%
Export Trade
Study
(9) Refunding of                800,000         Amount due pur-
Project Prepara-                           suant to Section
tion Advance                               2.02 (c) of this
Agreement
(10) Unallocated              3,500,000
TOTAL              32,300,000
2.   For the purposec of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower;
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement; and
(b) payments made, or to be made, in respect of Part C.2 of
the Project during any given year of execution of the Project
before the Association shall have received the final annual work
program of SORDU for any such year pursuant to the provisions of
paragraph IV (d) of Schedule 3 of this Agreement.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to increase livestock and
agricultural production, to increase foreign exchange earnings
through increasing exports of livestock, hides and skins, and
import substitution, and to strengthen the capacity of MOA and
AISCO.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Animal Health Development
Field Service Development in Wolaga, Ilubabor,
Kafa, Gojam, Shewa and Harerge
1.   Upgrading of existing veterinary service staff through
training and supervision.
2.   Provision of vehicles, clinic equipment, furniture and
staff support equipment.
3.   Improving the diagnostic support capability of the
veterinary services.
Nationally-oriented Veterinary Activities
4.   Establishment of a Veterinary Epidemiology and Econo-
mics Unit within M0A Headquarters, Veterinary Services
Department, and a Central Investigation Laboratory and
provision of a workshop to repair laboratory and
veterinary equipment and refrigerators.
5.    Installation of a low-cost facility for the National
Veterinary Institute for typing and production of foot
and mouth disease vaccines.
6.   Provision  of  equipment  for  vaccine  partition  and
packaging.
7.   Construction and equipping of a rabies vaccine produc-
tion facility for the National Veterinary Institute.


﻿- 16 -
8.   Procurement of drugs and veterinary equipment and
distribution thereof to: (i) existing MOA Awraja/Woreda
clinics; (ii) service cooperatives; and (iii) licensed
private pharmacies.
9.   Provision of technical assistance for the carrying out
of a study for AISCO on drug procurement, packaging and
distribution systems and provision of storage and
transport facilities for AISCO.
Part B:   Animal Nutrition in Gojam, Shewa and Harerge
1.   Expansion of the capacity for forage seed and seedling
production on small MOA seed production units, through
the Ethiopian Seed Corporation and within PAs and PCs,
in those areas where the soil conservation programs and
the intensive extension systems are being implemented
and cattle-fattening and milk production systems are
established.
2.   Implementation of a broad, farm-level adaptive research
program, through the Forage Systems Development Unit,
aimed at developing, inter alia: (a) crop systems in-
corporating forage legumes; (b) annual and perennial
fodder crop systems; and (c) improved utilization and
management of community grazing land.
3.   Provision of technical assistance.
4.   Training of staff in preparation and application of
service cooperative development and land usq plans
aimed at improving livestock and grazing land manage-
ment.
5.   Implementatiocn of a small-scale cattle-fattening scheme
using crop residues supplemented with molasses and
urea.
6.   Carrying out of a study to determine the need for a
facility to conduct microbiological studies and produce
legume inoculum.


﻿- 17 -
Part C:   Southern Rangelands Pilot Development
1.   Carrying out of a pilot program to test innovations for
improving pastoral system productivity in the Southern
Rangelands, including, inter alia, the establishment of
pastoralist-based SCs, testing cost sharing schemes for
water development and road maintenance and testing of
technical interventions and provision of technical
assistance therefor.
2.   Carrying  out   of   pastoral  investigation   research
activities.
3.   Carrying out of a feasibility study regarding the
possible transfer of ownership and operation of the
cattle transport trucks of SORDU to a cooperatively
owned organization.
Part D:   Agricultural Credit
Provision of sub-loans by AIDB to SCs for onlending
to individual farmers on terms set forth in the Annex to
this Schedule for: (i) purchase of cattle and sheep for
fattening, including purchase of sheds, feed and equip-
ment therefor; (ii) purchase of veterinary drugs; and
(iii) equipment and other items which would contribute to
increasing agricultural productivity.
Part E:   Institutional Development of MOA
Provision of technical assistance, training and equip-
ment to:
1.   strengthen the Planning and Programming Department in
monitoring and evaluation, and to the Technical Support
Unit in the application of procurement procedures;
2.   strengthen the Agricultural Development Department to
expand the ongoing improved crop adaptive trials and
survey program;
3.   strengthen the Agricultural Extension Department to
expand the training and visits extension project into
additional regions;


﻿- 18 -
4.   strengthen the Finance Department to develop improved
financial systems;
5.   strengthen the Organization and Management Service to
expand management training; and
6.   strengthen the Training Service to develop training
programs for MOA administrative staff and trainers.
Part F:   Livestock Export Trade Study
Carrying out of a study to review the potential live-
stock export markets and make detailed recommendations for
developing and sustaining such markets.
T  P  i
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1992.


﻿- 19 -
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
1.   Terms of sub-loans made by AIDB to SCs under Part D of the
Project:
Interest:                         5% per annum during fiscal
years 1987 and 1988, and
7% thereafter
Duration:                         3 to 5 years
2.   Terms of credits provided by SCs to individual farmers:
Interest:                         7% per annum during fiscal
years 1987 and 1988, and
9% thereafter
Duration:                         3 to 5 years
Individual farmers' contribution: not less than 10% of total
estimated value of the
investment, including the
beneficiaries' labor and
contribution in kind


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 3
Implementation Program
I.   Project Management
(a) The Project shall be implemented under the overall
supervision of the vice-minister responsible for the Animal and
Fishery Resources Development Main Department within MOA.
(b) The head of the Veterinary Service Department (CVO) and
the head of the Animal Production Department shall manage the
carrying out of Parts A and B of the Project with the assistance
of a small Project Coordination Unit, to be established and main-
tained during execution of the Project within the Animal and
Fishery Resources Main Department.
(c) By June 30, 1987, the Borrower shall employ a farm
management specialist, a livestock training consultant, an audio-
visual specialist, a seed production specialist, a molasses/urea
consultant, a service cooperative consultative planning advisor
and a forage briquetting technician whose qualifications and
experience are satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.
II. Animal Health Development
1.   Field Service Development
(a) This   component shall be implemented by      the Zonal
Veterinary Officers of the respective zones where this Part of
the Project will be implemented. The Zonal Veterinary Officer
shall be responsible, administratively, to the Zonal General
Manager and, technically, to the CVO. The annual work program for
each zone, covering all activities to be carried out under the
Project in such zone during the following year and to include a
budget shall be approved by MOA.
(b) The types of drugs and veterinary equipment needed for
the Project shall be specified by the CVO.
(c) By March 31 of each year of execution of the Project,
the Borrower shall review, in consultation with the Association,
the adequacy of the prices charged by AISCO for the sale of drugs
and veterinary equipment financed under the Credit.


﻿- 21 -
(d) By February 28 of each year of execution of the
Project, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, for com-
ment, a list of Woredas proposed to be serviced during the fol-
lowing fiscal year under Parts A.1 through A.4 of the Project,and
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association the final list not
later than March 31 of each year; such final list to take into
account the comments made by the Association.
(e) During execution of the Project, the Borrower shall
take all measures necessary to ensure that the positions referred
to in the Annex to this Schedule shall be filled in MOA head-
quarters and its Zonal, Awraja and Woreda offices, selected to
participate in the Project.
2.   Nationally Oriented Veterinary Activities
The National Veterinary Institute shall be responsible for
the carrying out of Parts A.5, A.6 and A.7 of the Project.
III. Animal Nutrition
(a) The Animal Production Department Head of MOA shall
manage the carrying out of Parts B.1 through B.6 of the Project,
with the assistance of an Animal Nutrition Coordinator.
(b) By July 7, 1987, the Borrower shall transfer the res-
ponsibility for selected forage seed/seedling production and dis-
tribution to the Animal and Fishery Resources Development Main
Department within MOA.
(c) Field activities within the respective zones shall be
managed by the Zonal Animal Production Department Head.
(d) The Borrower shall ensure that: (i) the ratio between
Development Agents and farm families in areas covered by Part B.1
of the Project would be not less than an average of 1:1200; and
(ii) all Development Agents, who are assisting in the execution
of  Part   B.1  of  the   Project,  shall  service   the  service
cooperatives within the area covered by the Project.
(e) In areas which would not be affected by the food for
seed program of the Borrower, farmers shall be paid cash for seed
sold to MOA; such seed price to be set, annually, in consultation
with the Association.


﻿- 22 -
IV. Southern Rangeland Pilot Development
(a) SORDU shall carry out Part C.2 of the Project with the
assistance of ILCA.
(b) By July 7, 1987, the Borrower shall transfer the res-
ponsibilities for the stocker-feeder credit program to AIDB.
(c) By February 28 of each year of execution of the
Project, SORDU shall furnish to the Association a draft annual
work program for the following fiscal year and afford the
Association a reasonable opportunity to comment on any such work
program.
(d) By June 30 of each year of execution of the Project,
SORDU shall furnish to the Association a copy of the final annual
work program for the subsequent fiscal year; such work program to
take into account the comments made by the Association.
(e)  By July 7, 1988, SORDU shall complete a study on the
feasibility of transferring the three ranches in the pilot
project area to pastoralist cooperatives.
(f) By June 30, 1988, the study referred to under Part C.3
shall be completed.
V.   Agricultural Credit
MOA and AIDB shall cooperate in the execution of Part D of
the Project as agreed upon in the cooperation agreement referred
to in Section 7.01 (c) (iii) of this Agreement.
VI. Livestock Export Trade Study
By December 31, 1988, the Borrower shall complete the study
under Part F of the Project and review its recommendations with
the Association by March 31, 1989.
VII. Training and Fellowships
All overseas training courses to be carried out under the
Project and the qualification and experience of MOA staff members
proposed to participate in overseas training shall be acceptable
to the Borrower and the Association.


﻿- 23 -
VIII. Mid-term Review
By December 31, 1989, the Borrower shall prepare a mid-term
review under terms of reference acceptable to the Borrower and
the Association and review the findings of the mid-term review
with the Association.


﻿- 24 -
Annex to Schedule 3
A.   MOA - Veterinary Field Services Staffing Pattern
Zone                   -  Zonal Veterinary Officer
-  Assistant Veterinary Officer
Awraja                 - Awraja Veterinary Officer
-  Awraja Health Assistant
- Animal Health Technician
- Laboratory Assistant/Pharmacist
Woreda                 - Animal Health Assistant
-  Animal Health Technician
Service Cooperative/   - Animal Health Assistant
Development Center
B.   Project Coordination Units
Headquarters           - Project Coordinators (2)
-  Accountant (local recruitment)
- Cashier (local recruiment)
- Administrative Clerk/Executive Officer
-  Secretary/Typist
C.   MOA - Planning and Financing Staff Patterns
Zone
Planning and Programming Department
Planning Head                               1
Planning and Monitoring Team:
- Planning Economists                       2
- Junior Economists                         2
- Assistant Statisticians                   2
Evaluation Team:
- Evaluation Economist                      1
- Socio-Economists                          2
- Statistician                              1
- Enumerators                               6


﻿- 25 -
Awraj a
Planning and Programming Department
Budget and Programming                      4
Monitoring Team                             4
Socio-Economic Team                         2
Finance Department
Chief Accountant                            1
Capital Budget Accountant                   1
Recurrent Budget Accountant                 1
Cashiers                                    2
Woreda
Planning Budget Officer                     1
Accountant                                  1
Cashier                                     1


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Ethiopia
may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
$400,000 or less and contracts for works shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Association.
2.   Contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
$400,000 or less may be procured under contracts awarded through
limited international bidding procedures on the basis of evalua-
tion and comparison of bids invited from a list of at least three
qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in accor-
dance with the procedures set forth in Sections I and II of
the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56
thereof).
3.   Contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
$50,000 or less may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of
at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.


﻿- 27 -
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $400,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished
to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
(c)  The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.
2.   The figure of 20% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall
be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satis-
factory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 28 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)  the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (8) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to this Agreement;
(b) the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated, from time to time, to the Eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $2,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as
the Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests,
the Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and depo-
sit into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required
to replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding
the amount of payments made out of the Special Account for Eligi-
ble Expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the


﻿- 29 -
Association from the Credit Account under the respective Eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably request,
showing that such payment was made for Eligible Expenditures.
5.    (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible Categories, minus the amount
of any outstanding special commitment entered into
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Asso-
ciation shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of
such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible
Expenditures.
6.    (a)  If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2


﻿- 30 -
of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into
the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for Eligible Expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


