Report No. 1182a MA                                          FILE  COPY
Malaysia
Appraisal of a Third Highway Project
February 22, 1977
Transportation Division
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Region
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS*
Currency Unit        =     Malaysian Dollar (M$)
US$1                 =      M$2.50
M$1                   =     US$0.40
M$1 million           =     US$400,000
*The exchange rate is floating; the rate used in this
report is indicated above.
FISCAL YEAR.
January 1 - December 31
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 foot (ft)                      0.3048 meters (m)
1 mile (mi)                      1.6093 kilometers (km)    2
1 square mile (sq mi)            2.59 square kilometers (km )
2,204 lbs or 0.9842 long
ton or 1.1023 short ton =      1 metric ton (m ton)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADT          -   Average Daily Traffic
c.i.f.       -   cost, insurance, freight
ERR          -   Economic Rate of Return
FEPU         -   Federal Economic Planning Unit
FMWU         -   Federal Ministry of Works and Utilities
FPWD         -   Federal Public Works Department
GDP          -   Gross Domestic Product
HP&PTU       -   Highway Planning and Public Transport Unit
KAMPSAX      -   KAMPSAX International A/S (Danish Consultants)
KAMPSAX-SSP  -   the joint venture of consultants KAMPSAX AND SSP
MAS          -  Malaysian Airline System
MR           -  Malayan Railway
PWD          -   Public Works Department
SEPU         -   Sabah Economic Planning Unit
SMWC         -   Sabah Ministry of Works and Communications
SPA          -   Sabah Ports Authority
SPWD         -   Sabah Public Works Department
SSP          -   Sepakat Setia Perunding (Malaysian Consultants)
TMP          -   Third Malaysia Plan
UNDP         -   United Nations Development Programme
vpd          -   vehicles per day



MALAYSIA                          FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SILMiIARY ...............................................    i-iii
I.    INTRODUCTION  ..........................................                          1
A. The Project                   ..1................... 
B. Previous Transport Projects                   ..1........... 
C.   Project Preparation  ...............................                        2
II.    THE TRANSPORT SECTOR  .2................................                          2
A.    Economic  Setting  ................................ .                      2
B.    The Transport Modes  ..............................                        3
C.  Planning and Coordination ............                                       5
III.    HIGHWAYS   ............................................. .                        6
A.    The Network  ......................................                        6
B.    Road Transport  ...................................                        7
C.    Highway Administration  ...........................                        8
D.    Highway Planning and Financing  ...................                        9
E.    Highway Design and Construction  ..................                       10
F.    Highway Maintenance  ..............................                       10
IV.    THE PROJECT  ...........................................                         12
A.    Description  ......................................                       12
B.    Cost Estimates  ...................................                       15
C.    Financing  ........................................                       17
D.    Implementation and Procurement  ...................                       18
E.    Disbursements  ....................................                       19
V.    ECONOMIC  EVALUATION  ...................................                       20
A.   General ............................................                       20
B.   Roads  to be Reconstructed  .........................                      20
C.   Roads  to be Upgraded  ..............................                      23
D.   The Sabah Maintenance Program  .....................                       23
E.   Pavement  Strengthening  in Johore  ..................                     23
F.   Conclusion  ........................................                       24
VI.    RECOMMENDATIONS  .......................................                         24
This report has been prepared by Messrs. J.G. Yenny (Economist), H.J.van Helden
(Consultant) and R. Alexander (Engineer).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



*-2-
ANNEXES
1.   Outline Terms of Reference for the Transport/Railway Study
2.   Outline Terms of Reference for the Kota Kinabalu Urban Study
TABLES
1.   State of Sabah:  Public Development Expenditures for Transport
First, Second and Third Five Year Plans
2.   State of Sabah:  Annual Change in Length of Road Network By
Pavement Type and Administrative Class
3.   State of Sabah:  Motor Vehicle Registration
4.   State of Sabah:  Road Expenditures 1970-75
5.   State of Sabah:  Revenues from Motor Vehicle Taxation 1970-75
6.   State of Sabah:  Summary of Highway Design Standards
7.   State of Sabah:  Design Standards for the Project Roads to be
Reconstructed
8.   Equipment for the Four-lear Highway Maintenance Program in Sabah
9.   Road Upgrading Program in Sabah - Proposed Roads for Design
and Construction
10.   Estimated Cost of Project
11.   Project Implementation Schedule
12.   Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
13.   Estimated Traffic and Growth Rates on Project Roads
14.   Estimated Future Traffic. on Project Roads to be Reconstructed
15.   Vehicle Operating Costs
16.   Road Reconstruction in Sabah - Estimated Cost and Benefit Streams
17.   Road Upgrading Program in Sabah - Estimated Cost and Benefit Streams
18.   Road Maintenance ProgramL in Sabah - Estimated Cost and Benefit Streams
19.   Pavement Strengthening i.n Johore - Estimated Cost and Benefit Streams
CHARTS
1.   Federal Ministry of Works and Utilities:  Organization
2.   Federal Public Works Department:  Organization
3.   Sabah's Public Works Department:  Organization
MAPS
1.   Peninsular Malaysia, IBED 10050 R3
2.   Sabah, IBRD 12223 Ri



MALAYSIA
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD HIGHWIAY PROJECT
SUMMARY
i.        During the Third Malaysia Plan, 1976-80, the Government of Malaysia
will emphasize investment in the less developed parts of the country and the
consolidation and maintenance of existing infrastructure elsewhere. This
project supports the Government's policy, and focuses on the improvement and
maintenance of roads in the state of Sabah, and the maintenance and strength-
ening of roads in Peninsular Malaysia.
ii.       The further development of Sabah depends upon better land connec-
tions between isolated development centers on its west and east coasts. So
far the Sabah Government has rapidly expanded and maintained its road network
largely with its own forces. The practice of Sabah's Public Works Department
(SPWD) has been to produce the maximum length of roads with the limited funds
available rather than constructing fewer roads to sounder engineering and
construction standards. The consequence has been that many roads cannot be
properly maintained unless they are upgraded. Additionally, expansion of road
maintenance activities has been hampered by the lack of equipment and a suit-
able organization. Now that a basic road network is approaching completion,
the Sabah Government is ready to upgrade its main roads and improve its
maintenance.
iii.      The situation is quite different in Peninsular Malaysia, where the
road network is well developed (86% paved) and generally well maintained.
The problems identified by the Bank-financed maintenance study were the
organization of maintenance and the critical condition of the pavements of
many roads because they are old and were not initially built for the present
high levels of traffic. The application of pavement strengthening overlays
in Peninsular Malaysia is a priority item to prevent serious damage to many
road sections.
iv.       The proposed highway project will be the sixth Bank-financed trans-
portation project in Malaysia and the second for Sabah. Previous lending
for transport totalling US$93.6 million consisted of a port project in Sabah,
and one railway, two highway and one urban transport project in Peninsular
Malaysia.
v.        The Third Highway Project comprises reconstruction of 146 miles of
trunk roads and the improvement of road maintenance in Sabah, including the
procurement of equipment and 290 mi of upgrading works on road sections
totalling 530 mi. The project also includes a pilot road maintenance and
pavement strengthening program in Peninsular Malaysia; a transport/railway
study primarily aimed at defining the future role of the Malayan Railway (MR);
and an urban study for Kota Kinabalu, Sabah's capital city.   Provision is
also made in the project for various consulting services to carry out these
studies and to assist in the execution of the construction and maintenance
elements in Sabah. The project was prepared through feasibility, engineer-
ing and maintenance studies financed in part under the first and second high-
way loans (851-MA and 931-MA).



- ii -
vi.       Civil works and the procurement of maintenance equipment will be
carried out by contracts awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement. The local
road construction industry is small because of the country's practice in the
past to execute road works by force account. Under the project, road upgrad-
ing work in Sabah and pavement strengthening in Peninsular Malaysia will be
carried out by contract and thus provide an opportunity for local contractors
to win contracts and to develop and expand their capacity to undertake these
and larger works. Tenders for the reconstruction works in Sabah, valued at
US$46 million, were opened at the end of November 1976. Tenders have been
evaluated and awards to the lowest bidders are expected before the end of
March 1977. While three local or local-expatriate firms were prequalified
to tender, expatriate firms were the lowest bidders; however, local firms
will probably participate as subcontractors.
vii.      Supervision of the reconstruction works in Sabah will be by a
qualified expatriate-local joint venture. Local consulting firms in Sabah
have had limited opportunities in the past to become involved in road works;
however, under the project several qualified firms, monitored by the SPWD and
assisted by a small expatriate technical support team, will be selected for
engineering and supervising the upgrading work. The same support team will
assist in implementing the maintenance program in Sabah. Engineering and
supervision of the pavement strengthening works in Peninsular Malaysia will
be carried out by the staff of the state public works departments, assisted
by the Federal Ministry of Works and Utilities (RFWU). The transport/railway
and urban studies will be carried out by foreign consulting firms with local
associates.
viii.     The estimated total cost of the project is US$108 million with a
foreign exchange component of US$69 million or 64%. The proposed loan of
US$35 million will finance 39% of the portion of the project subject to
financing by the Bank estimated to total about US$90 million and represents
62% of the foreign exchange component of this portion of the project. The
cost estimates for the project are based on the tenders mentioned in vi above
and the costs of services for similar works and studies.
ix.       The responsibility for execution of the Sabah component of the
project will rest with the Sabah Ministry of Works and Communications with
ultimate control by the federal Government of MIalaysia. Road maintenance and
pavement strengthening in Peninsular Malaysia will be the responsibility of
the FMWIU and the transport/railway study will be supervised by the Federal
Economic Planning Unit and the Federal Ministry of Communications. The Kota
Kinabalu urban study will be supervised by the Sabah Economic Planning Unit.
x.        The benefits of the Sabah component of the project are measured
in terms of vehicle operating cost savings, as well as savings in costs of
maintenance and road repair works needed to make roads passable after the
rains. The economic rates of return are 14% for reconstruction, 22% to 26%



- iii -
for upgrading, and 29% for maintenance. The benefits of pavement strengthen-
ing in Peninsular Malaysia result primarily from the prevention of major
damage to roads which would entail later reconstruction at much higher costs.
The economic rate of return of this work has been estimated at 28%. The
average economic rate of return on reconstruction, maintenance, upgrading
and strengthening works, which account for 99% of all project costs proposed
for financing by the Bank is 18%. The transport/railway study will assist
the Government in its reappraisal of the MR's role in the transport sector
and prepare the base for future Bank assistance to the MR. An urban planning
study for Kota Kinabalu, Sabah's capital is also included. It will inter alia
consider the feasibility of developing a new industrial port north of the
city.
xi.       The project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$35
million to the Government of Malaysia for a term of 17 years including a 3-1/2
year grace period.
February 1977






MALAYSIA
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
A.   The Project
1.01      The Government of Malaysia is seeking Bank financing for a project
consisting of: (a) the reconstruction of two roads totalling 146 miles in the
state of Sabah; (b) the improvement of highway maintenance in Sabah, including
road upgrading; (c) a pilot road maintenance and pavement strengthening pro-
gram in Peninsular Malaysia; and (d) a transport/railway study in Peninsular
Malaysia and an urban study for the capital of Sabah, Kota Kinabalu.
B.   Previous Transport Projects
1.02      This proposed highway project will be the sixth Bank-financed trans-
portation project in Malaysia and the second in Sabah. Previous lending for
transport totalling US$93.6 million included a port project in Sabah (Loan
774-MA of US$16.1 million in 1971), and in Peninsular Malaysia, a railway
project (Loan 799-MA of US$16 million in 1971), two highway projects (Loan
851-MA of US$16 million in 1972 and Loan 931-MA of US$19.5 million in 1974),
and an urban transport project for Kuala Lumpur (Loan 1214-MA of US$26 million
in 1976).
1.03      After initial delays because of contractors' mobilization difficul-
ties, port construction works in Sabah are now virtually complete. The rail-
way project in Peninsular Malaysia is 24 months behind schedule due to late
ordering and receipt of material. The Malayan Railway (MR) was unable to meet
the financial targets set by the Loan Agreement for 1973 to 1976 but the Gov-
ernment now seems to be dealing with the fundamental problems of the MR. A
new general manager was appointed a year ago, external managerial and techni-
cal expertise is being sought, and consultants will shortly be retained for
a transport/railway study with emphasis on the future role of the MR. Prelim-
inary information for 1976 indicates improvements in the MR's financial posi-
tion and operations and the possibility of meeting the Loan Agreement's
financial target for 1977 if the recovery trend continues.
1.04      The First Highway Project (Loan 851-MA), is about 11 months behind
schedule. Progress on the Second Highway Project (Loan 931-MA) is also
slower than expected. Three out of four contracts for the latter project were
awarded shortly before the increase in oil prices in 1973. A period of
uncertain prices and shortages of materials and equipment followed which
caused contractors to take longer to mobilize than previously planned. Poor
initial management by contractors has also contributed to slow progress.
There have been delays on the part of the Government in relocating utilities,
issuing permits and licenses, acquiring land and removing squatters from the
right-of-way. Much progress has been made to acquire land with the inclusion
of a site and services component in the 1976 Urban Transport Project which
provides alternative sites for the squatters. Nevertheless, it will probably
be necessary to extend the Second Highway Project's closing date by at least
two years to late 1979.



-2-
C.   Project Preparation
1.05      Except for the urban project, all Bank transport projects in Malay-
sia, including this one, were identified by the 1968 General Transport Survey
financed by the UNDP, executed by the Bank, and carried out by R.R. Nathan
Associates (US). In 1973, the Government retained US consultants King and
Gavaris together with R.R. Nathan Associates to study the feasibility of three
roads in Sabah. In March 1974, a Bank mission visited Sabah to review the
study and concluded that detailed engineering could start on the southern part
of the west coast road and the east coast road at agreed reduced standards.
The Bank also recommended that the economic feasibility of the proposed
improvements should be confirmed. After some delay, the Government retained
Danish consultants KAMPSAX International A/S (KAJIPSAX) in association with a
local consultant Sepakat Setia Perunding (SSP), referred to as KAMPSAX-SSP, as
consultants for the detailed engineering and feasibility study of the west and
east coast roads. This study, begun in February 1975, was financed under the
Second Highway Project (Loan 931-MA).
1.06      The maintenance component of the project is based on a country-wide
highway maintenance study completed in December 1976 by consultants KAMPSAX-
SSP and financed under the First Highway Project (Loan 851-MA). The Bank and
the Government concur with the recommendations of the study and have agreed to
implement them in Sabah and in a pilot program for three states in Peninsular
Malaysia.
1.07      During the initial years of the Third Malaysia Plan (TMP) the
Government will emphasize the development of the less developed parts of the
country. For this reason the Government decided to postpone the reconstruction
of sections of Route I, Malaysia's main highway on the already well developed
west coast of Peninsular Malaysia, including sections of this highway north,
south and through Ipoh, Malaysia's third largest city, which had earlier been
identified for possible inclusion in the project. These reconstruction works
may form part of a future Bank highway project.
1.08      This report is based on information provided by the Government and
consultants and on findings of an appraisal mission composed of Messrs. Yenny
(Economist) and van Helden (Consultant) in March 1976.
II. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   Economic Setting
2.01      The Federation of Malaysia comprises 13 states, 11 on the Malay
Peninsula (Peninsular Malaysia, 51,000 sq mi) and 2 in North Borneo, Sabah
and Sarawak (77,500 sq mi), about 900 miles from the rest of the country.
In part because of their distance from Peninsular Malaysia and in part be-
cause of historical circumstances, the two Borneo states have a relatively
high degree of autonomy.



- 3 -
2.02      Because this project is primarily concerned with the development of
roads in Sabah the economic and sector background discussions will concentrate
on the state of Sabah rather than on Malaysia as a whole. Sabah is a relative-
ly isolated area. The state has no overland connections with Sarawak, nor with
the Sultanate of Brunei, nor with the neighboring Indonesian province of Kali-
mantan that occupies most of Borneo.
2.03      Sabah's 30,000 sq mi  are predominantly mountainous and covered with
dense tropical forests. The population of only 850,000 is growing at around
5% p.a., which includes substantial immigration from the Philippines and
Kalimantan. The state's population is primarily concentrated on the coasts,
around or in the immediate hinterland of the ports. Except for the Pegalan
Valley parallel to the west coast across the Crocker Range, the interior is
only sparsely populated. Transport between towns has traditionally been by
sea with roads radiating out from the ports, rather than forming a unifying
network. In recent years the Sabah Government has actively pushed road
construction to connect various parts of the state, but the road system
remains substandard. Sabah is now concentrating on upgrading the basic
system. The main purpose of this project is to assist in this pursuit.
2.04      Sabah's economy has been led by the rapidly growing forestry and
logging sectors which in 1974 contributed nearly 40% of the state's Gross
Domestic Product (GDP) and 80% of its export earnings. Timber exports reached
M$870 million (US$350 million equivalent) in 1974, more than twice the 1969
value. Because of a slack in world demand, particularly in Japan the main
customer for Sabah timber, the 1975 level of production was about 10% lower than
that of 1974 and, since prices also dropped, 1975 export revenues were 35% lower
than those of 1974. In 1976, however, export revenues regained about 10% as
timber prices started to recover.
2.05      Sabah's economic dependence on timber should diminish with the
development of its off-shore oil and copper deposits. In addition there is
a concerted effort to raise Sabah's agricultural output by planting oil palm
and cocoa and by substantially increasing the Government's assistance to
rice farmers. Forecasts show the state's GDP continuing to grow at 5% to 6%
p.a. in real terms during the next few years. Although income statistics
are lacking, there is a great disparity between the incomes in the modern,
export related sectors and the traditional rural agricultural sector which
accounts for the majority of the population.
2.06      Labor, particularly skilled labor, was in very short supply dur-
ing the timber boom. Wlhile the situation improved somewhat in 1975, the
renewed demand for timber will again place a stress on the labor supply and
induce further immigration from the Philippines and Indonesia.
B.   The Transport Modes
2.07      The further development of Sabah depends upon more road connections
between the isolated development centers as an alternative to coastal ship-
ping, which is slow, and air transport, which is expensive. About M$350



-4-
million or 24% of the state's total development expenditures is earmarked for
Sabah's transport sector in the TMP (1976-80). Roads account for the largest
share of the sector's allocation (over 70%) followed by ports and airports
(Table 1).
Highways
2.08      Details on the state's road sector are given in Chapter III.
Railways
2.09      The Sabah State Railway (96 mi), which runs from Kota Kinabalu
southwards along the west coast to Beaufort (70 mi) and turns into the
Crocker Range to reach Tenom in the Pegalan Valley, was the first all-weather
land transport facility in the state. As roads have been built or improved,
railway freight traffic has decreased from an annual average of over 3 million
ton-miles during 1966-70 to an annual average of less than 2 million ton-miles
in 1972-74.  Volumes are very small and traffic figures vary substantially
from year to year.  Passenger traffic has increased slightly and is now con-
tributing two-thirds of the revenues versus 50% in 1970.  In the last few
years expenditures have been twice as high as revenues, with deficits reach-
ing M$2 million a year. Because of the low traffic volumes and short dis-
tances between towns on the west coast (averaging only 6 mi between stations)
there is no doubt that a paved highway would provide more efficient service
than the railway. The Sabah Government is aware of this problem and assur-
ances have been received from the Government that service would be phased out
between Papar and Beaufort once the west coast road, financed under this
project, opens. In particular, the Government has agreed not to make any new
capital investments in the Sabah Railways and to provide the Bank with a plan
for phasing out railway service within one year of the opening of the road
between Papar and Beaufort. During that year the Government will close down
minor stations and reduce passenger service between the two cities.
2.10      From Beaufort the railway turns inland to serve Tenom and the
surrounding logging areas in the Crocker Range. There is presently no direct
road connection between Tenom and the west coast and in 1974 this section of
the railway carried 45,000 tons of freight (twice as much as on the coastal
section of the line) and 53,000 passengers. Service on this section must
continue until better road connections are built between the Pegalan Valley
and the west coast. This will be a difficult and costly project since the
railway passes through narrow gorges where there is no room to build a
parallel road. If the railway roadbed were converted to road use, service
would be disrupted for a considerable time.
Ports
2.11      The large number of ports in Sabah, some of which are only 50 miles
apart, is because of the lack of all-weather roads. Even with the construction
of rudimentary road links in the last few years, the smaller ports are los-
ing traffic. Once a good road network is completed, port activities will



- 5 -
probably concentrate in Kota Kinabalu (the capital), Sandakan (the largest
city), and Tawau (a rapidly growing town with a rich hinterland); the road
distances from Kota Kinabalu to Sandakan and from Sandakan to Tawau are
only about 220 to 230 miles, respectively. The importance of the port at
Labuan, a small offshore island, will depend upon the success of the new
free trade zone being developed there.
2.12      At present there are seven ports under the jurisdiction of the
Sabah Ports Authority (SPA), but over 90% of the cargo, except logs which
are loaded from roadsteads, passes through the three ports of Kota Kinabalu,
Sandakan and Tawau. New facilities, partially financed under the 1971 Loan
774-MA, are now virtually completed at the first two ports. Consultants are
working on a 20-year master plan for Sabah's ports and also on the feasibil-
ity of port expansion at Tawau. While wharf traffic (excluding logs) for
all Sabah ports grew about 17% per year between 1970 and 1974, it increased
three-fold at Tawau. There are also small jetties on various rivers which
are utilized for both passenger transportation and commodities in areas with
no roads. Rivers are also intensively used for floating logs to loading
points on the coasts.
2.13      The SPA is also considering the construction of an industrial jetty
at Sapangar Bay about 10 miles north of the present Kota Kinabalu port. The
concept of developing Sapangar Bay into an industrial zone must be related
to a general development plan for Kota Kinabalu, including consideration of
the cost and convenience of transport for persons and goods between the pro-
posed industrial zone and the rest of the urban area; and also the compati-
bility with other land uses, existing or planned. The Government has re-
quested the Bank's assistance (para 4.10) for an urban study of Kota Kinabalu,
to examine the above questions and other issues facing the city's future
development.
Air Transport
2.14      Air transport is vital for connecting Sabah with the rest of Malay-
sia and neighboring countries, as well as for internal communications. The
Malaysian Airline System (MAS) offers daily Boeing 737 service between Kuala
Lumpur and Kota Kinabalu. MAS and foreign carriers also operate direct routes
between Sabah and Singapore, the Philippines, and Hong Kong. Internally, MAS
has a fleet of seven Fokker F27-500 and four Britten Norman Islander (BNI)
aircraft exclusively assigned to service Sabah and Sarawak. In Sabah, five
airports are served daily: Kota Kinabalu, Sandakan, Tawau, Lahad Datu and
Labuan. Kota Kinabalu and Labuan accommodate international jet aircrafts
while the others receive the Fokkers. Another six minor airports are served
by the BNIs. Passenger traffic, now over half a million passengers p.a., has
roughly doubled since 1970. With the current limited road network civil
aviation will continue to play a important role in connecting the east and
west coasts with remote locations in the interior.
C.   Planning and Coordination
2.15      The 1968 General Transport Survey which reviewed all aspects of
transport planning in Malaysia identified investment requirements up to 1975.



- 6 -
For Sabah the study emphasized mainly the development of roads and the recon-
struction of the ports of Kota Kinabalu and Sandakan. The recommendations
have generally been followed with the construction of the two ports just
completed. With regard to roads the practice of the Sabah Public Works De-
partment (SPWD) seems to have been to produce the maximum length of roads
with the limited funds available rather than constructing fewer roads to
sounder engineering and construction standards. Consequently many roads
become impassable during the rainy season and others require heavy repairs
shortly after construction. Now that the basic network is approaching comple-
tion, the Sabah Government is ready to embark on a consolidation phase. In
upgrading the roads it will be important to select levels of improvement which
are economically justified (para 3.14).
2.16      Transport coordination is not an issue in Sabah.  Once the west
coast road from Papar to Beaufort is reconstructed, railway service between
Papar and Beaufort will be phased out (para 2.09). When this phaseout is
completed there will be no major issues of modal competition. Some short
distance passenger traffic will divert from air transport to roads as the
latter are improved, e.g. between Lahad Datu and Tawau after the east coast
road is reconstructed.
2.17      Until very recently, transport planning in Sabah was rather limited,
and left to the individual departments of the state Government dealing with
the various modes, with SPWD responsible for roads. Roads were built where
needed, but inadequate planning led to the shortcomings mentioned in para
2.15. Late in 1975, prompted by the economic slump and under pressure from
the federal Government, a Sabah Economic Planning Unit (SEPU) was created
on the model of the Federal Economic Planning Unit (FEPU). The SEPU will
help coordinate Sabah's transport development.
III. HIGHWJAYS
A.   The Network
3.01      Sabah's road network comprises about 2,350 miles of roads of which
only 28% are paved. This contrasts sharply with Peninsular Malaysia where
86% of the 12,000 mile network is paved (Table 2). The Sabah network has a
very low density in terms of area, 0.08 mile of road per square mile versus
0.2 in Peninsular Malaysia. The population of the state is so small, however,
that the comparison appears more favorable on a per capita basis, 2.8 mi/
1,000 inhabitants versus 1.2 in Peninsular Malaysia. The very sparse popu-
lation spread over a vast area explains why road expenditures per capita in
Sabah have been and will continue to be high and why the network is still
rather undeveloped. There are no federal roads in Sabah. The network is
classified administratively into trunk, district and local roads.
3.02      The conditions of Sabah's roads lag far behind those of Peninsular
Malaysia where federal and state roads were already well developed before
independence. However, in Sabah many roads were initially built by private
companies as penetration roads to serve logging and plantation interests



- 7 -
rather than as through roads to serve public transport. On the east coast,
the Sandakan area is still not connected to the Tawau area, and the through
road Lahad Datu-Tawau is only a few years old. These roads were in poor
condition when turned over to the state, since they were not built to sound
engineering standards. Therefore, a considerable upgrading program was needed
to put the roads in a condition where they could be properly maintained.
Although substantial progress has been made in recent years, much remains to
be done. The situation is further aggravated by undertaking an extensive
paving program with inadequate funds, resulting in recently upgraded and paved
roads which are already showing deficiencies. Whereas in Peninsular Malaysia
emphasis must now be on strengthening pavements to protect prior investments
in the generally adequate system, the emphasis in Sabah must be on upgrading a
large part of the system and completing the integration of the road network.
3.03      Traffic densities are on the average much lower in Sabah than in
Peninsular Malaysia. For several years to come many road sections will con-
tinue to carry traffic volumes which are too low to justify asphalt paving.
Well maintained gravel roads would be adequate, but many road sections can-
not be satisfactorily maintained until drainage, embankment levels and gravel
surfaces have been upgraded. Excessive funds are now expended on emergency
repairs to keep roads passable during and after heavy rainfalls.
B.   Road Transport
3.04      Between 1970 and 1975 Sabah's motor vehicle fleet grew at an average
annual rate of over 10% (Table 3). About 57,000 vehicles were registered
in 1975; less than 10% of these were motorcycles compared with Peninsular
Malaysia where about 60% of the fleet consists of motorcycles. Indeed,
the per capita ownership of cars in Sabah is higher than in West Malaysia
with 1 car for 20 inhabitants versus 1 for 25. Most of the vehicle fleet is
located in and around the three largest cities of Kota Kinabalu, Sandakan,
and Tawau. Motor vehicles of many makes are assembled in Malaysia and pro-
tected by high import duties. The total tax levied on directly imported
vehicles amounts to 70% of the c.i.f. price compared with some 20% for
vehicles assembled in Malaysia.
3.05      The distribution of traffic on Sabah's road network reflects the
concentration of vehicles in the major towns and the poor conditions and
limited mileage of the total road network. The most heavily trafficked roads
are the paved sections of the west coast road from Kota Kinabalu north to
Tamparuli (25 mi) and Kota Belud (50 mi) and south to Papar (27 mi). Volumes
are well in excess of 1,000 vehicles per day (vpd) in the rural sections and
much higher near the towns; elsewhere, traffic volumes are low, ranging from a
few vpd to 200-300 vpd, mostly 4-wheel drive. SPWD conducts regular traffic
counts every year, but poor road conditions prevent regular passage during
the rainy season and result in traffic counts on the rural sections that
are often erratic.
3.06      Public transport of both passengers and goods is regulated in
Sabah in a similar, although somewhat simpler, way than in Peninsular Malay-
sia. Licenses are issued by the Transport Authority Board under the Sabah



-8-
Ministry of Works and Communications (SMWC) on the basis of general esti-
mates of transport demand in various areas of the state. Service seems
generally adequate. Bus licenses cover routes as well as maximum fares.
The authorized fares for buses are Mi 15 per passenger for the first mile
and Mi 5 for each subsequent mile while those for taxis are M$1.00 and Mi 80
respectively. Licenses for transport of goods do not distinguish between
common carriers and "carriers for own goods" as they do in Peninsular Malaysia,
but service regions and routes are regulated. There are no maximum freight
rates as the uneven and poor quality of most roads would make such regulation
impractical; rates therefore vary greatly.
3.07      The road traffic ordinance which regulates the types, weights, and
sizes of vehicles dates from 1953 and is inadequate for the operation of
modern road transport. The limits for trucks are based on vehicle size and
unladen weight rather than on axle load. Both size and weight limits are
unnecessarily restrictive and exemptions are granted fairly freely after con-
sultation with SPWD since bridge capacity is the limiting element on many
routes. As Sabah is embarking on a large and costly program of upgrading its
public road network, the road traffic ordinance should be revised to protect
road investment by proper axle load regulation and enforcement. A modifica-
tion to the ordinance specifying maximum laden axle loads has been prepared by
the state of Sabah and agreed with the Bank; assurances were obtained from the
Government that the modification will be introduced and enforced by January 1,
1978. The project includes the procurement of weighbridges to improve the
enforcement of the road traffic ordinance (para 4.05).
C.   Highway Administration
3.08      Because there are no federal roads in Sabah, the SPWD is responsible
for the planning, design, construction, maintenance, and administration of the
highway network. It receives occasional assistance from the Federal Ministry
of Works and Utilities (FMWU) on planning and engineering matters (para 3.10
and Charts 1 and 2). The SPWD's responsibility is not limited to roads but
also covers the construction and maintenance of airports, water supply, and
all governmental buildings. It is organized under a director-general into
headquarter functions of planning and administration, and field functions
through divisions which handle both construction of civil works and mainte-
nance of public facilities. However, the project provides for reorganiz-
ing highway maintenance by establishing separate divisions exclusively for
this purpose (paras 3.19, 4.05 and Chart 3).
3.09      The total SPWD engineering and architectural staff numbers only
50 at present, about half of which are still expatriates. Agreements cover-
ing 20 expatriate positions were recently renewed with the UK. A number of
young engineers joined the department in 1976 from the first class of Malay
engineers to graduate locally and more are expected to join in 1977. Some of
them will have the opportunity to be trained by the consultants retained for
supervision of the project roads. In view of Sabah's good development



-9-
prospects, the claims on SPWD, not only for roads but in other fields, should
continue to exceed the capacity of its staff. Consequently, until a more
advanced stage of development is reached, consultants' assistance will be
necessary for the planning, designing and execution of major road projects.
D.   Highway Planning and Financing
3.10      The feasibility studies and detailed engineering for the preparation
of this project, as well as recent studies financed by Japan for the Crocker
Range Crossing, were contracted for and supervised primarily by the Highway
Planning and Public Transport Unit (HP&PTU) of the FMWU, with some assistance
and participation of the SPWD. The newly created SEPU (para 2.17) became
involved in the latter stages of project preparation and is expected to con-
tinue to assist the SPWD in future highway planning activities.
3.11      During the country's first (1966-70) and second (1971-75) plan
periods, Sabah's investment in roads exceeded the original allocations;
capital expenditures on roads were respectively about M$85 million (55%
above allocation) and about M$190 million (50% above allocation). The TMP
(1976-80) allocation for Sabah is presently M$250 million. It is expected
that the TMP allocation will be increased during the mid-plan review as was
done in the previous two plans, to cover the implementation of the Japanese-
aided Crocker Range Crossing and to continue work on other projects now
underway such as the Sandakan-Lahad Datu road. Because of the large size,
low population density, and early stage of development of the state (para
3.01), its road investment per capita has been about 5 times larger than in
Peninsular Malaysia over the last 10 years. Total road expenditure, including
maintenance and administration, reached M$60 million in 1975 (Table 4), twice
the 1970 level. This is about one-fourth of the total road expenditure in
Peninsular Malaysia and emphasizes again the need for very careful road
planning in Sabah.
3.12      Highway expenditures in Sabah are financed from both federal and
state budgetary resources supplemented by foreign grants and loans. Because
the special constitutional status of the state of Sabah differs in many
respects from that of states in Peninsular Malaysia 1/, it is very difficult
to ascertain exactly how expenditures and revenues are channelled between
the federal Government and the states. Since there are no federal roads in
Sabah, the state receives only the federal allocation for the maintenance of
its roads like the Peninsular Malaysia states (para 3.17). This amount is
supplemented, however, by federal grants determined on an ad hoc and project
basis.
3.13      Road user taxes are not earmarked but form part of the general re-
venue both at the federal and state levels. In Sabah, revenues from these
1/   For instance, some road user revenues are kept by Sabah but not by states
in Peninsular Malaysia.



- 10 -
taxes increased faster than road expenditures, tripling between 1970 and 1974
from M$22 million to about M$70 million, and matching expenditures in 1973
and 1974 (Table 5). In 1975, however, revenues from road user taxes were down
by a third following the fall in timber export revenues (para 2.04) whereas
road expenditures remained at their 1974 level. Nevertheless, for Malaysia as
a whole, revenues from road user charges still amount to more than twice the
total expenditures on roads. This is explained by the high user charges on
private cars, e.g. progressive license charges for larger models and high
duties on gasoline, which should be seen as taxes on consumption rather than
taxes directly reflecting the cost of using roads.
E.   Highway Design and Construction
3.14      Sabah's official design standards for roads, although revised in
1971, do not closely reflect the characteristics of the network and thus do
not provide adequate guidance for design. The main problem is that most
Sabah roads fall within one large range of Average Daily Traffic (ADT) namely,
300 to 2,500 vpd for which a wide range of surface widths (18 ft to 24 ft) is
prescribed (Table 6). While some roads need to be reconstructed to higher
standards to achieve a more permanent and maintainable condition, such
standards should not be used for roads with low traffic volumes unless they
can be economically justified. Assurances were obtained from the Government
that appropriate modifications to the design standards, as agreed with the
Bank, will be introduced by July 1, 1977.
3.15      It has been SPWD's practice to construct roads and improvements to
its own design by force account. SPWD's supervision of its construction works
has sometimes resulted in compromising specifications when available funds
were insufficient to achieve the construction targets. It is now recognized
that contractors should be used for construction and experienced consultants
for design and supervision of major road projects.
3.16      The road construction industry in Malaysia is small because of the
country's practice in the past of executing road works by force account.
There are only two or three local contractors qualified to execute major road
construction projects; however, a number of local contractors have the capa-
city to undertake simpler road works. The upgrading of roads by contract in
Sabah and the pavement strengthening program in part by contract in Peninsular
Malaysia (paras 3.19, 4.05 and 4.07) will provide a significant long-term
work program that should help develop and expand the local consulting and
construction industries.
F.   Highway Maintenance
(a) Sabah
3.17      The SPWD maintains the highway network using its allocation of fed-
eral funds of M$5,000 per mile which is supplemented by state funds (para 3.12).
The workload is presently divided among 21 districts within 6 SPWD field divi-
sions. These divisions now carry out road maintenance, new construction and
the other SPWD activities listed in para 3.08 with a common pool of equipment



- 11 -
which is generally overage. Maintenance suffers because under this organi-
zation priority is often given to new construction (this will be remedied
under the proposed project, paras 3.19, 4.05, 4.07, Chart 3). A major problem
of road maintenance in Sabah is the poor initial standards of many roads.
Because these roads lack proper drainage and pavement structure, they cannot
be placed under normal maintenance and thus costly repair works have to be
repeated each year after the rains to reopen them to traffic. Additionally,
the level of maintenance on other roads is inadequate mainly because of the
shortage of maintenance equipment.
(b) Peninsular Malaysia
3.18      In Peninsular Malaysia, the state PWDs execute maintenance works
using the federal allocations to the states of M$5,000 per mile for state
roads and M$2,900 per mile for the routine maintenance of federal roads.
In addition, the federal Government provides the states with most of the
equipment needed for road maintenance and finances the periodic resurfacing
of federal roads. The states have considerable freedom in the use of the
state road maintenance funds, and in practice the amounts actually spent on
road maintenance vary from state to state and year to year. The amount of
M$5,000 per mile is arbitrary because actual needs vary greatly with traffic
densities and road conditions, but on average the system seems to work rea-
sonably well and most toads are adequately maintained. However, the cost
of maintenance tends to be high for the following reasons: (i) road main-
tenance is one of several activities assigned to state PWD's. As a conse-
quence priority is not always given to road maintenance operations and
delays lead to higher costs at a later date; (ii) the quality of some mainte-
nance operations is inadequate e.g., the materials for producing pavement
overlays requires more control and earth shoulders and drainage ditches need
to be kept below pavement surfaces to permit proper drainage; and (iii) the
pavements of many roads are in critical condition and some are beginning to
fail as they had not been initially built for the present volumes of traffic
which frequently exceed 10,000 vpd.
(c) Government's Plan to Improve Maintenance
3.19      The key recommendations of the maintenance study (para 1.06), gene-
rally accepted by the federal and Sabah state Governments, are the establish-
ment of separate road maintenance organizations in each state which will be
adequately equipped and staffed to carry out improved maintenance operations,
a road upgrading program in Sabah to permit normal maintenance to be per-
formed thereafter, and a program of pavement strengthening in Peninsular
Malaysia to avoid costly reconstruction of collapsed pavements. In line
with these recommendations, the Government has prepared a four-year mainte-
nance program for Sabah that includes road upgrading, and a pilot program for
improved road maintenance and pavement strengthening for the states of Johore,
Perak and Kelantan in Peninsular Malaysia. The project includes these two
programs (paras 4.05-4.08). Assurances were received from the Government that
in substance the technical recommendations of the maintenance study will be



- 12 -
adopted, and that the new maintenance organization as recommended in the
study will be introduced in the remaining states of Peninsular Malaysia
during the TMP.
IV. THE PROJECT
A.   Description
4.01      The main objective of the project is to improve Sabah's highway
network through the reconstruction and upgrading of priority links and the
development of its maintenance capacity. A further objective is to protect
road investments in Peninsular Malaysia through a pilot road maintenance and
pavement strengthening program in three states.
4.02      The proposed project conisists of:
(a) the reconstruction to paved standards of 128 mi,
and to gravel standards of 18 mi of trunk roads
in Sabah, including supE!rvision by consultants;
(b) a four-year maintenance program for Sabah including
procurement of equipment, upgrading 290 mi on 13 road
sections and assistance by consultants;
(c) the development of pilot road maintenance and pavement
strengthening programs for the states of Johore, Perak
and Kelantan in Peninsular Malaysia including pavement
strengthening of about 120 mi in Johore;
(d)  (i) a transport/railway study in Peninsular Malaysia; and
(ii) an urban study in Kota Kinabalu.
(a) Reconstruction and Supervision of Roads in Sabah
4.03      Two sections of trunk roads in Sabah, totalling 128 mi, will be
reconstructed to paved standards: Papar-Beaufort (37 mi) on the west coast,
and Lahad Datu-Semporna (91 mi) on the east coast. A third section Beaufort-
Sindumin (35 mi) on the west coast will be upgraded to an all-weather gravel
standard. Standards for the three sections are given in Table 7. The exist-
ing roads are rough gravel roads with poor horizontal and vertical alignment.
Inadequate drainage makes the roads impassable during periods of heavy rain
which are frequent on both coasts. Travel speeds are extremely low, averaging
about 15 mph. The Papar-Beaufort road will follow an entirely new alignment
reducing the distance between the two towns from 48 to 35 mi; a 2-mile con-
nection to Papar is included in the project. The Lahad Datu-Semporna road
will generally follow the existing alignment with local improvements. The
pavement on both roads will be a 2.2 ft double bituminous surface treatment
(DBST) on a 33 ft wide formation (including shoulders). Paving of the
Beaufort-Sindumin section has been deferred in view of its low economic re-
turn, but some 18 miles will be rec:onstructed to raise the road above flood
level and ensure all-weather passage.



- 13 -
4.04      Sabah proposes that supervision of construction be provided by
KAMPSAX-SSP who prepared the detailed engineering and tender documents for
the roads above (para 1.05) and who assisted SPWD in evaluating tenders
for the works which were received on November 24, 1976; this would be
an acceptable arrangement as the performance of the joint venture had been
satisfactory. About 290 man-months of services are required of which 140
would be supplied by KAMPSAX. SSP's involvement under the proposed project
will be greater than in the past because of the earlier experience it gained
in working with KAMPSAX. Additionally, the FPWD will provide SPWD with a
project coordinator and a few engineers to ensure proper administration of
the works by SPWD.
(b) Four-Year Maintenance Program for Sabah, including Equipment
Procurement, Road Upgrading and Consulting Services
4.05      The three main impediments to achieving a satisfactory level of
maintenance are (i) organizational deficiencies, (ii) insufficient equip-
ment, and (iii) the unmaintainable condition of some roads. Sabah has
adopted the recommendations in the maintenance study (paras 1.06 and 3.19)
and its program for improving this situation. The study recommends estab-
lishing five separate divisions to deal exclusively with road maintenance
(Chart 3), the permanent assignment to these divisions of existing and addi-
tional equipment items to be purchased (Table 8), and the upgrading of 290 mi
on 13 road sections totalling 530 mi (Table 9) which will then permit the
sections to be properly maintained by the new divisions. Workshops are now
adequate in number, location and facilities to service existing and new
equipment. Bank financial assistance is attached to the procurement of main-
tenance equipment (capital costs), the upgrading of 12 road sections by
contract (the one remaining section of road will be upgraded by SPWD's own
forces), and a technical support team (para 4.06). Equipment procurement also
includes the purchase of six weighbridges which will be located on main roads
(map) to control vehicle weights. Sabah's recurrent budget for maintenance is
now about M$18 million p.a. and will rise to about M$21 million under the
maintenance program.
4.06      Three qualified local consulting firms will carry out the final
engineering and supervision of construction for the 12 road sections to be
upgraded by contract. Man-month costs for these services cannot be readily
determined because of the scattered nature of the works; the total cost is
estimated at about 8% of the estimated construction cost and will be financed
entirely by the Government. A foreign consulting firm will provide a techni-
cal support team to SPW4D headquarters to cover design, construction, mainte-
nance and quarry operations. The latter team, which would provide about 80
man-months of expert services, will assist SPWD in all matters related to the
implementation of the maintenance program and the supervision of design, ten-
dering and construction of the upgrading works. The opportunity to be given
to local firms, probably from Sabah, to design and supervise the upgrading
works will add to their experience and skills and increase their capacity to
undertake more complex assignments in the future.



- 14 -
(c) Pilot Road Maintenance and Pavement Strengthening
Program in Peninsular Malaysia
4.07      The federal Government has generally adopted the recommendations
of the maintenance study for Peninsular Malaysia (paras 1.06 and 3.19) which
aim at improving the efficiency and the technical standards of maintenance.
The main thrust of a national maintenance program will be to reorganize main-
tenance by establishing a separate maintenance unit in the FPWD to assist the
states in planning and coordinating maintenance efforts and in evaluating and
designing pavement strengthening needs; and a separate section in each state
PWD that is adequately staffed and equipped to deal exclusively with mainte-
nance. As implementation of the recommendations on a national scale will take
several years to achieve,. the federal Government has decided to initiate them
through a pilot program for the states of Johore, Perak and Kelantan in order
to gain experience and then judge how best to implement the recommendations in
the remaining states.
4.08      Implementation of the pilot program has already started.  Main-
tenance equipment is in the process of being procured for the three states;
some equipment is also on order for the strengthening works (totalling about
250 mi) in Perak and Kelantan as these states will carry them out by force
account. Johore will carry out the pavement strengthening by contract; this
work comprises about 120 mi of Federal Route I and is the only item in the
pilot program for which Bank financial assistance is provided. All pavement
strengthening will be preceded by corrective roadway drainage works, includ-
ing digging deeper ditches, to dry out the pavements' base and subbase and
thus possibly reduce the thickness and cost of the pavement strengthening
required.
(d) Studies
4.09      Transport/Railway Study.  As indicated in para 1.05, all previous
Bank transport projects, as well as this one, were identified by a comprehen-
sive transport survey conducted in 1967-68. The resulting report made pro-
jections of transport demand for various modes to 1975. The rapid economic
development of Peninsular Malaysia, the opening of new areas to settlement on
the east coast, and the lesser reliance placed on the port of Singapore have
changed some of the characteristics of the transport sector. Of particular
concern to the Government is the role and condition of the railway (para
1.03). At the Government's request a transport/railway study has been in-
cluded in the project for Bank financing. The terms of reference have been
agreed to (Annex 1) and include: updating sector information, making new
projections of transport needs, and examining the future role of the rail-
way in the overall transport pattern of Peninsular Malaysia. The study is
expected to require about 50 man-months of expatriate assistance. Consul-
tants (Canadian Pacific Consulting Services) have been selected from a
short list of five firms and a contract is now being negotiated. The study
may result in future Bank assistance to the MR.



- 15 -
4.10      Kota Kinabalu Urban Study.  Kota Kinabalu, the state capital of
Sabah, is growing very rapidly. The lack of efficient land use planning and
control measures, the wide disparities of housing standards, deficiencies
and disparities in basic infrastructure and services, inadequate flood control
within the immediate vicinity of the urbanized area, the proliferation of
private and public development schemes among which the proposed industrial
zone with a new jetty at Sapangar Bay (para 2.13) are creating a number of
problems. The federal and state Governments wish to engage consultants to
undertake a study leading to a plan for the future development of the city
and have requested the Bank's assistance. Such a study is, therefore, included
in the project for Bank financing. It could result in further Bank lending
for the urban area. Terms of reference have been agreed (Annex 2) and in
December 1976 six consulting firms were invited to submit proposals. The
Urban Projects Department will participate in the selection of consultants and
the supervision of the study. The study is expected to require between 50 and
60 man-months of both expatriate and local expertise.
B.   Cost Estimates
4.11      The total cost of the project, including contingencies, is estimated
at US$108 million, with a foreign exchange component of US$69 million, or 64%.
The base for all costs is November 1976. Details are given in Table 10 and
summarized below. The project costs are separated into those elements proposed
for Bank financing and those not proposed for Bank financing.



- 16 -
M$ Million            US$ Million       % Foreign
Exchange
Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Component
I. Elements Proposed
for Bank Financing
A.  Road Reconstruction
in Sabah (146 mi)           43.7   71.3  115.0   17.5   28.5   46.0        62
B.  Capital Costs of
4-Year Road Main-
tenance Program in
Sabah, including Road
Upgrading
(i)  Procurement of
equipment, in-
cluding weigh-
bridges                  -      9.7    9.7      -     3.9    3.9    100
(ii)  Road upgrading          8.6   12.8   21.4    3.4    5.2    8.6        60
C.  Pilot Pavement Strength-
ening Program in Johore,
Peninsular Malaysia (120
mi of Federal Route I)       5.1    7.7   12.8    2.0    3.1    5.1        60
D.  Consulting Services for:
IA and B, and for Trans-
port/Railway Study in
Peninsular Malaysia and
Urban Study of Kota Kina-
balu in Sabah                5.5    6.0   11.5    2.3    2.3    4.6        50
Subtotal A-D      62.9  107.5  170.4   25.2   43.0   68.2        63
E. Contingencies:
Physical                     5.5    9.5   15.0    2.2    3.8    6.0        63
Price                       14.5   25.0   39.5    5.8   10.0   15.8        63
Subtotal E        20.0   34.5   54.5    8.0   13.8   21.8       63
Total I           82.9  142.0  224.9   33.2   56.8   90.0       63
II. Elements Not Proposed
for Bank Financing
A.  Right-of-Way                  2.5     -     2.5    1.0      -      1.0      0
B.  Other Consulting Serv-
ices (Domestic) for
IB(ii)                       2.5      _     2.5    1.0      -     1.0       0
C.  Capital Costs of
Pilot Road Maintenance
and Pavement Strength-
ening Program in Pen-
insular Malaysia             9.5   30.5   40.0    3.8   12.2   16.0        76
Total II          14.5   30.5   45.0    5.8   12.2   18.0       68
Total Project Cost, I and II         97.4  172.5  269.9   39.0   69.0  108.0       64



- 17 -
4.12      Cost estimates for the reconstruction works in Sabah are based on
quantities derived from completed engineering and on international tenders
received in November 1976. Tenders have been evaluated. The cost estimates
take into account the value of the lowest bids; awards to the lowest bidders are
expected by the end of March 1977. The cost estimates for equipment are based on
a detailed list of proposed purchases and current unit costs. The costs for the
upgrading works in Sabah and pavement strengthening in Johore are based on
comprehensive engineering assessments of the work and quantities by consultants
and by the states involved, and the application of unit price rates from recent
tenders for similar works.
4.13      Cost estimates for various consulting services are based on a
detailed review of man-months and unit costs for similar work or studies in
Malaysia; an exception are the local services for engineering and super-
vision of the upgrading works for which a percentage of construction cost
was used (para 4.06). In summary, the costs of the expatriate services,
including foreign travel, equipment and all other related expenses, are:
Type of Expatriate Service                Average Cost in US$ Equivalent
per man-month            per mi
Construction Supervision in Sabah                 6,000                5,000
Technical Support Team for SPWD:                  7,500             Not relevant
Studies:                                          8,000             Not relevant
All these estimates are reasonable.
4.14      A contingency allowance of 10% has been added to cover quantity
increases on all items, except for the roads to be reconstructed in Sabah
where only 8% has been added because the tender prices already provide for
a 2% quantity increase. Allowances for price escalation have been provided
as follows: 12% p.a. in 1977-79 and 10% p.a. thereafter for all civil works;
10% for equipment; and 8% p.a. in 1977-79 and 7% p.a. thereafter for all con-
sulting services. These allowances are considered adequate.
4.15      The foreign exchange component of the various project elements have
been estimated by consultants and are 62% for the reconstruction works and 60%
for the upgrading and pavement strengthening works. The foreign exchange com-
ponent of the consulting services for reconstruction supervision is relatively
low because of the significant involvement by the local firm, SSP (para 4.04);
the component for the studies is high because the work will be mainly carried
out by expatriates. These estimates appear reasonable.
C.   Financing
4.16      The proposed loan of US$35 million equivalent will cover 39% of the
total cost of the project elements proposed for Bank financing (para 4.11)
and represents about 62% of the foreign exchange component of such cost. The
Government will finance the remaining project costs of US$73 million equiva-
lent as part of the SPWD and federal annual development budget. Additionally,



- 18 -
the annual recurrent costs of the road maintenance programs in the states of
Johore, Perak, Kelantan and Sabah will be financed through the annual budgets
of the PWD's in each of these states.
D.   Implementation and Procurement
4.17      The SMWC will be responsible for carrying out the reconstruction
element of the project and the road maintenance and upgrading program for
Sabah through its SPWD assisted by qualified consultants; assurances were
obtained from the Government that suitably qualified consultants for super-
vising the reconstruction element will be engaged prior to the commencement
of construction. The responsibility for the pilot maintenance project in
Peninsular Mfalaysia will rest with the FMWU through its FPWD, and the respon-
sibility for the transport/railway study will lie with the FEPU and the
Federal Ministry of Communications. The SEPU will supervise the Kota Kinabalu
Urban Study. The federal Government will retain overall responsibility for
the Sabah elements of the project and appropriate arrangements for effective
control have been agreed between SMWC and the federal Government and confirmed
during loan negotiations.
4.18      All civil works assisted with Bank finance will be carried out under
unit price contracts awarded after international competitive bidding following
Bank Group Guidelines for Procurement. Thirteen contractors were prequalified
for all or part of the reconstruction works, ten were foreign firms, two were
joint ventures of foreign-local firms, and one was a local firm. Six firms
presented tenders, but the only local interest was from one foreign-local
joint venture. Expatriate firms were the lowest bidders but local contractors
will probably participate as subcontractors. Construction should start around
June 1977 and be completed 30 months later. The tender documents were agreed
to and contain adequate provisions for performance guarantees, retentions,
price escalation, etc.; similar documents will be used for the remaining civil
works. In respect of the upgrading and pavement strengthening works, a new
prequalification of contractors will be carried out by mid-1977 and it is
expected that some local firms will be successful in winning contracts as these
works are small, ranging in value from US$800,000 to US$2,000,000, and within
the capacity of local contractors to execute. Tendering for these works should
begin early in 1978 as soon as designs and tender documents are completed for
the first sections. Work on individual sections will take from 9 to 24 months
to complete. All civil works contracts under the project will be entered into
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, and should be completed by
mid-1980.
4.19      The maintenance program in Sabah will be implemented over a four-
year period and purchases of equipment following Bank Guidelines and inter-
national competitive bidding should be completed before the end of 1977.
For the purpose of bid comparison, a preference of 15% of the c.i.f. price of
imported goods, or the customs duty, whichever is lower would be extended to
local manufacturers. The pilot maintenance program in Peninsular Mfalaysia is
under implementation and further measures will be implemented in the next two
years on the basis of experience gained (para 4.08).



- 19 -
4.20      The Bank Group Guidelines are being followed for the procurement
of all consulting services and all agreements for services will be entered
into under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The Government
has invited a proposal from KAMPSAX-SSP to supervise the reconstruction work
(para 4.04) and proposals for the Kota Kinabalu urban study (para 4.10).
Proposals for the technical support team and for the upgrading works (para
4.06) will be requested from a short list of firms by the end of March 1977.
The transport/railway study is expected to start in March 1977 and last nine
months and the urban study should start in the second half of 1977 and also
take nine months to complete.
4.21      The project is not expected to have any significant adverse ecolog-
ical effects.  On the contrary, the paving of the roads will eliminate the
dust raised by vehicles traveling on gravel roads and proper drainage will
reduce erosion and flooding.  Land acquisition is only significant for 35
mi of the west coast road since other sections follow existing alignments.
Because of the rural character of the areas traversed by the project roads,
land acquisition in Sabah is not expected to be a problem as was the case in
previous road projects in the vicinity of Kuala Lumpur. Assurances were
received from the Government that all land will be acquired in a timely
fashion for the project. A detailed project implementation schedule was
agreed with the Government, including key actions dealing with the establish-
ment of the new maintenance organizations and staff for them (Table 11).
4.22      The current and likely near-term shortage of labor in Sabah (para
2.06) has precluded consideration by the Government of more labor intensive
methods for road construction or maintenance. The pavement strengthening
program in Peninsular Malaysia involves largely the placement of 1-1/2" to 4"
of asphaltic concrete on existing roadways and is an operation that is capital
intensive.
E.   Disbursements
4.23      Disbursements from the loan will be on the basis of:
(i) 35% of the total cost of construction items for which
Bank financing is proposed, including physical contin-
gencies and price escalation;
(ii) 100% of the c.i.f. cost of directly imported equipment
and weighbridges for Sabah; or 100% of the ex-factory
price of such items if manufactured locally or 70% of the
price of such items if imported but locally procured; and
(iii)  100% of the foreign exchange cost of consultants services
proposed for Bank financing. For the urban study in Sabah
disbursement could alternatively be 80% of total cost.
On this basis and upon the schedules for project execution (para 4.21),
an estimated schedule of disbursement has been prepared (Table 12). It is
expected that disbursement would be completed by June 30, 1981.



- 20 -
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   General
5.01      The Third Highway Project for Malaysia focuses on road improve-
ment in Sabah, where further development depends on improved land connections
between isolated development centers. So far, the Sabah Government has been
expanding and maintaining its road network largely with its own forces with
only occasional assistance from the federal PWD. The only external assistance
received for roads, except for the numerous expatriates still serving in the
SPWD, has been an Australian technical and financial grant for the construc-
tion of the east-west highway between Ranau and Sandakan. The road was not
built by contractors but by SPWD's own forces; some pavement problems are
reported already only a few years after opening to traffic. In addition to
the economic benefits described below, this project will hopefully demonstrate
the validity of proper planning, engineering, and execution and set standards
for future road work in Sabah.
5.02      The project offers an overall and graduated approach to the improve-
ment of roads in Sabah through (a) the reconstruction of two major trunk roads
on the west and east coasts, which already carried traffic in excess of 200
vpd in 1976, (b) the upgrading of other priority trunk roads with traffic
levels around 100 vpd, and (c) the improvement of maintenance for the entire
network. The project will reduce transport costs through savings in vehicle
operating costs and savings in heavy maintenance and repairs which are regu-
larly needed after heavy rains. The project will also improve communications
between various towns and villages, and thus reduce the present isolation
of a scattered population by providing easier and faster transport.
B.   Roads to be Reconstructed
5.03      The economic analysis of the project roads to be reconstructed was
carried out by consultants KAMPSAX-SSP, who updated an earlier feasibility
study (para 1.05). The consultants' estimated traffic flows are based on SPWD
counts, the results of a 1973 origin-destination survey, and special counts
carried out in 1975 and early 1976. As mentioned above the present condition
of the roads causes traffic flows to be erratic and there is some uncertainty
attached to existing traffic average levels. However, base year traffic
volumes used for the economic evaluation are at the lower end of the range of
available data; they are given in Table 13. Traffic counts on both project
roads are over too short a period to derive any valid trends for estimating
future traffic.  Projections were based on trends in motor vehicle registra-
tion, fuel consumption, and their relationship to GDP and population. Given
the low level of development in Sabah, traffic growth rates are expected
to continue at high levels for the earlier part of the project's life and
to taper off in the later years. They range between 14% and 10% p.a. for
cars for the first 5 years after completing the project to 7% and 5% after
about 15 years, and are somewhat lower for trucks and buses. Expected growth



- 21 -
rates and corresponding future traffic volumes are given in detail in Tables
13 and 14. Diverted traffic for the Papar-Beaufort section of the west coast
road was estimated on the basis of rail traffic volumes (para 5.04). A re-
cent Peninsular Malaysia study of price elasticity of transport demand as a
function of income was used to project generated traffic. Benefits of the
proposed road reconstruction are mainly savings in vehicle operating costs
(Table 15) and reductions in maintenance and repair costs. Because of pre-
sent low travel speeds on the existing roads (para 4.03), passenger time
savings will be substantial but they have not been quantified.
(a) The West Coast Road
Papar to Beaufort
5.04      The coastal plain between Papar and Beaufort is presently served
by the railway, while the existing road, which originated as a logging
track, takes a circuitous route through the foothills of the Crocker Range.
Beaufort is a small town of about 3,000 people which functions as a re-
gional market center. Because the population is served by rail, the road
has been left in poor condition and carries relatively little traffic (100
to 200 vpd). Distances between the various coastal towns are very short
and volumes of goods are too small for an efficient railway operation. This
is illustrated by the recurrent and increasing deficits of the railway
(para 2.09). There are 4 stations between Papar and Beaufort located only
6 miles apart which ship and receive between 500 and 2,000 tons of rail-
freight p.a. The maximum freight density on the line is about 25,000 tons
p.a. or the equivalent of 14 5-ton trucks/day. The passenger density is
about 250,000 p.a. or the equivalent of 25 buses/day. Travel is slow, with
the fastest railcar averaging about 25 mi per hour and the passenger trains
about half as much. When the new road is opened it is expected to carry the
railway traffic, and railway service will be discontinued. The traffic
diverted from the railway is estimated to total about 190 vpd in 1980.
5.05      The new road is 13 mi (or 27%) shorter than the existing road and
will provide a direct paved link between Beaufort and the port and markets
of the state capital Kota Kinabalu. Besides the sizeable savings due to the
shorter distance there will be considerable savings of vehicle operating costs
due to the improved alignment and surface. Savings on the new road range from
40% for cars to 53% for trucks. In the absence of detailed economic costs of
rail transport, it was assumed that rail transport costs are midway between
the road transport costs on the existing road and those expected on the new
road. Thus benefits assigned to diverted traffic were taken as 50% of the
savings in vehicle operating costs accruing to normal traffic. The first
year benefits due to diverted traffic resulting from this estimate are about
M$700,000 and appear to underestimate the real magnitude of benefits; an
indication of this is the present financial deficit of the railway in recent
years of M$2 million per year, which will be eliminated when railway service
is discontinued. The streams of costs and benefits are shown in Table 16.
The economic rate of return (ERR) calculated over an assumed 20-year service
life of the investment is 14%. The sensitivity of the ERR was tested by
varying construction costs by +10% and benefits by +20%. The ERRs ranged
from 11% to 16%.



- 22 -
Beaufort-Sindumin
5.06      This is the last section of the west coast road before the border
with Sarawak. While there are plans to construct a link with Sarawak in
the future there is no road on the other side of the state line at present.
Consequently, traffic averages only about 180 vpd, and is somewhat higher
towards Beaufort and lower towards Sindumin. The paving of this section,
which was considered in the earlier stages of project preparation, will be
deferred in view of the low return resulting from low traffic volumes and from
construction costs which are higher than anticipated. On the basis of traffic
projections it is expected that paving would become justified by about 1984
when traffic would approach 400 vpd. Meanwhile certain sections, totalling
about half of the total length and which are frequently flooded, will be
reconstructed to gravel standards to ensure all-weather passage. Quantified
benefits are in terms of savings in vehicle operating costs, and considerable
savings in the heavy maintenance and repairs now regularly undertaken after
heavy rains. There will also be social and economic benefits resulting from
the year-round opening of the road which have not been quantified. The
quantifiable benefits of the investment are calculated for the 6 years between
completion in 1978 and 1984 when traffic levels are expected to justify paving
of the road. It has been assumed that by 1984 the investment would still have
a 75% residual value. The streams of costs and benefits are shown in Table
16; the ERR is 16%. The sensitivity of the ERR was tested by varying construc-
tion costs +10% and benefits +20%. The ERRs range from 12% to 21%.
(b) The East Coast Road: Lahad Datu to Semporna
5.07      This road will improve the land connection between three east
coast towns: Lahad Datu, Semporna, and Tawau. The road from Tawau to the
intersection with the proposed road (28 mi) is being paved by SPWD's own
forces. While small ships still call at Lahad Datu, the existing road is
already competitive with coastal shipping, the slightly higher financial
cost being more than compensated by the speed of delivery. The port of
Semporna has practically no calls. After valuable timber is extracted, the
forest is being replaced by oil palm and coconut plantations, first in the
vicinity of the existing towns, but gradually expanding along the road.
Cocoa is being introduced near Tawau and is reportedly doing very well.
5.08      Traffic is presently higher on the branch road to Semporna, with
near 300 vpd than toward Lahad Datu with 220 vpd. Generated traffic is ex-
pected to be larger on the latter section, however, particularly when Lahad
Datu will later be connected to Sandakan. Savings in vehicle operating
costs on the new road range from 35% for cars to 50% for trucks. They are
somewhat lower than for the west coast road since the project follows the
existing hilly alignment while on the west coast the new Papar-Beaufort road
will be in the coastal plain. There will also be some savings in maintenance
costs. The streams of costs and benefits for each section are given in Table
16. The ERR over a 20-year service life is 14% for both sections. The
sensitivity of the ERR was tested by varying construction costs +10% and
benefits +20%. The ERRs range from 12% to 17%.



- 23 -
C.   Roads to be Upgraded
5.09       The project will upgrade 290 mi on 13 trunk road sections totalling
530 mi. A separate economic analysis has been done for the two types of
upgrading work planned, i.e. for sections requiring raised embankments and
a gravel course, and sections requiring only a gravel course. The analysis
is done on the basis of average costs and benefits per mile and using a con-
servative average traffic density of 100 vpd/mile in 1977 with two-thirds
light and one-third heavy vehicles and growing at an average of 9% p.a. till
1985 and 6% thereafter. About three-quarters of the benefits of the new
gravel course come from vehicle operating cost savings, and the rest from
reduced maintenance costs. For the sections requiring raised embankments,
savings in maintenance and repair costs needed after the rains account for
50% of the total benefits. Benefits have been calculated for 10 years after
the investment, assuming that on average traffic levels on these roads would
justify further upgrading by that time (Table 17). The ERRs are 22% for road
sections with raised embankments and gravel course, and 26% for those with
gravel course only. The sensitivity of the ERR was tested by varying con-
struction costs + 10% and benefits + 20%.  The ERRs range from 16% to 33%.
D.   The Sabah Maintenance Program
5.10       The benefits of the program made possible by the purchase of equip-
ment and the reorganization will be mainly in terms of protecting the invest-
ment in roads already improved and roads which will be reconstructed and
upgraded through the project. The surface condition of most roads in Sabah
is poor and vehicle operating costs are unduly high. The improvement in
maintenance will also result in reduced vehicle operating costs and improved
communications between areas frequently isolated during the rains. It has
been assumed that vehicle operating cost savings would average 5% on paved
roads and 10% to 15% on gravel roads one year after the new maintenance divi-
sions are allocated the new equipment. For calculating vehicle operating cost
savings, sections of the network to be maintained have been grouped according
to traffic densities (Table 13). The sections to be upgraded (290 mi) will
be brought under routine maintenance in about 4 years, following completion of
upgrading works. For the purpose of the analysis, costs have been defined as
the capital cost of the new equipment and technical assistance for the program
and the difference between the recurrent costs of maintenance with and without
the project (Table 18). Benefits have been calculated over a 7-year period
estimated to represent the average life of the equipment, and the ERR is 29%.
The sensitivity of the ERR was tested by varying the capital cost of the
program +10% and benefits +20%. The ERRs range from 18% to 38%.
E.   Pavement Strengthening in Johore (Peninsular Mialaysia)
5.11       The benefits of pavement strengthening result primarily from the
prevention of major damage to roads which would entail later reconstruction
at much higher costs. While the cost of reconstruction can be estimated,
the exact timing of future failures is more difficult to pinpoint. The
pavements of road sections to be strengthened under the project have been



- 24 -
tested in the field and are all within a few years of the end of their
useful life, and some should have been strengthened already. Consequently,
it has been assumed that all sections would have failed within the four
years following the proposed strengthening and that failures would be
equally spread over this four-year period.  While vehicle operating costs
would also increase as a particular road section approaches failure, bene-
fits due to vehicle operating cOSt savings with the project have not been
quantified, as they would vary greatly from section to section.  Thus, the
estimated ERR of 28% on the basis of reconstruction cost savings alone is on
the conservative side (Table 19). The sensitivity of the ERR was tested by
varying the estimated cost of pavement strengthening and reconstruction by
+10%. The ERRs range from 22% to 34%.
F.   Conclusion
5.12      There are no unusual risks associated with the project.  The risks,
normally, are in the estimates of traffic growth rates and savings in vehicle
operating costs and they have beein fully covered by examining the sensitivity
of the EERs to variations in costs and benefits. The average ERR on the
project components above, which account for 99% of all project costs proposed
for financing by the Bank, is 187;. This excludes the two studies financed
under the project.
VI.  RECOMIENDATIONS
6.01      During loan negotiations:
(a)  satisfactory assurances were received on the following
principal points:
(i)  the phasing out of railway service between Papar
and Beaufort following the opening of the road
to traffic (para 2.09);
(ii) the modification of legislation regarding vehicle
weight limitation including enforcement aided by
the weighbridges to be procured under the project
(para 3.07);
(iii) the implementation of the maintenance and upgrading
program in Sabah and the maintenance and pavement
strengthening program in Peninsular Malaysia sub-
stantially in accordance with the recommendation
of the maintenance study (para 3.19); and
(iv)  the consultancy arrangements for the project, parti-
cularly the supervision of the road reconstruction
work in Sabah (paras 4.04, 4.06, 4.09 and 4.10).



- 25 -
(b) confirmation was obtained on an implementation schedule for the
project (para 4.21, Table 11).
6.02      The project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$35
million to the Government of Malaysia for a term of 17 years including a 3-1/2
year grace period.






ANNEX 1
Page 1
MALAYSIA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Outline Terms of Reference for the
Transport/Railway Study
Background
A comprehensive General Transport Survey was conducted in 1967-68.
The resulting report entitled "Transport Development in Malaysia" made pro-
jections to 1975 of transport demand for various modes, including railways,
and recommended investment programs. Based on this survey, a railway
project was prepared, which was supported by a World Bank Loan (Loan 799-MA
(1972) - US$16 million). The project aimed at modernizing the Malayan Railway
(MR), improving its efficiency and achieving financial viability. Investments
and a parallel "Program of Action" were both included. While some progress
has been achieved, the overall results have not measured up to expectation
and, in particular, the MR's finances have steadily deteriorated. There have
been changes in the overall transport situation since the last survey, with
traffic patterns changing in a radical manner, generally to the disadvantage
of the railway and a stage has been reached when a fresh review of the rail-
way's role and of the sectoral developments is needed. The present study
will, however, be confined to Peninsular Malaysia.
Objectives of the proposed study
The objectives of the study would briefly be:
(a) to update information and review developments in all
sectors of the economy particularly in the agricultural,
forestry, industrial and transport sectors as they
affect the railway system, since the General Transport
Survey in 1967-78;
(b) to study in depth the situation of the railway system
in regard to competition with other modes, especially road
transport and coastal shipping, and assess the effect on
this, of governmental policies in the sector as a whole
in regard to investment, pricing and regulation;
(c) to develop, in the light of overall economic growth
prospects in Peninsular Malaysia, forecasts of
transport demand for each year during the next four
years 1977-80 and for 5-year periods (1981-85) and
1986-90);



ANNEX 1
Page 2
(d) to evaluate and quantify the contributions made
to the national economy by the respective transport
systems and their relative "worth" to the national
economy, current and prospective, given the total
national investments in the respective transportation
modes;
(e) to determine where the MR can have a definite economic
advantage over other modes, both for freight and
passenger traffic, in handling its share of the fore-
cast demand; and taking into account, amongst others,
the recent increase in fuel oil price and environmental
considerations; and
(f) to consider and recommend a realistic comprehensive
corporate and strategy plan for MR, with a detailed
investment program (with priority rating) for the
years 1977-80 and an indicative program for the
next 10 years, together with other parallel measures
(operational, management, etc.) needed to enable MR
to play its appropriate role in the economy; any
other changes needed in regard to investment, pricing
and regulatory policies in the sector also to be in-
dicated.
February 1977



ANNEX 2
Page 1
MALAYSIA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Outline Terms of Reference for the
Kota Kinabalu Urban Development Study
I.   INTRODUCTION
1.        The Government of Malaysia and the State Government of Sabah
propose to engage a team of consultants to undertake a detailed Urban
Development Study of Kota Kinabalu and the surrounding areas within a
radius of 15 mi or so.
2.        Kota Kinabalu is the focal growth center of Sabah and the hub of
economic activities for the region. The town has a reasonably diversified
employment base and has the potential to develop into a main industrial
and tourist center for the region. With the completion of the new port and
the proposed development of the liquid cargo port at Sapangar Bay, coupled
with the expansion of the Likas Industrial Estate and the completion of the
Kota Kinabalu airport, the future prospect of Kota Kinabalu developing into
a main industrial and commercial center for Sabah is assured. With the tempo
of development taking place currently, Kota Kinabalu is facing a number of
problems, notably lack of efficient land use planning control measures, a
wide disparity of housing standards, deficiencies and disparities in basic
infrastructure and services, and inadequate flood control within the immediate
vicinity. Added to these are the even greater disparities in basic services
between the town and the villages along the coast and the surrounding areas.
In addition, if not suitably controlled, any future development of the town
and the surrounding areas will pose a real threat to the environment and the
natural beauty which the coast in and around Kota Kinabalu now possesses.
3.        The proposed study addresses the above problems and is designed
to lead to rapid implementation of high priority projects consistent with a
sound economic development strategy for the urban region. A number of studies
have been undertaken and are currently being implemented in the State of Sabah,
including water supply and sewerage study for Kota Kinabalu, ports develop-
ment study, regional master-plan study for Sabah and hydro-power study for
Sabah Electricity Board. These will no doubt have an impact on Kota Kinabalu
town. Therefore this Study is essentially a complement focusing on urban
infrastructure needs and problems of the state capital region.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
II. SCOPE AND OBJECTIVES
4.        Given the present stage of Kota Kinabalu's development, the
broad objectives of the Study are: to identify and design a program
which will
Firstly reinforce Kota Kinabalu's position as a
major growth pole for the State of Sabah and as far
as possible create the job opportunities and
physical/social environment for rapid development
consistent with the objectives of the new economic
policy;
Secondly ensure that the supporting activities and
infrastructure are in line and keep pace with economic
expansion.
5.        The Study is intended to prepare a Capital Development and
Improvement Program (CDIP) for Kota Kinabalu with emphasis on employment
and income generation and provision of urban services for low-income
population groups at costs which can be recovered from residents and
businesses without need for public subsidies. To this end, the Study
will:
(a) review and further identify the proposed program
components, define the scope of the components and
select appropriate sites;
(b) establish the physical, economic, social, financial
and institutional feasibility of the program components;
(c) prepare site plans, engineering designs, cost estimates
and tender documents for selected program components; and
(d) assist in staff training.
6.        Some of the possible components of the CDIP are:
(a) integrated sites and services (for residential,
commercial and small-scale industrial development)
within the Study area;
(b) an industrial estate in the Sapangar Bay area;
(c) a liquid and bulk cargo jetty at Sapangar Bay;
(d) upgrading of infrastructure services of squatter
and low-income kampong areas in and around Kota
Kinabalu;



ANNEX 2
Page 3
(e) facilities for low-cost transport/public transport;
(f) institutional and policy actions;
(g) credit for small-scale businesses; and
(h) technical assistance.
III. SCOPE OF CONSULTANT SERVICES
A.   General
7.        The Study area is to be primarily limited to the immediate urban
region of Kota Kinabalu within a radius of 15 or 20 miles, but the Study
should cover all significant impact zones and axes as required by the detailed
analyses.
8.        The Study shall be based primarily on analyses and extrapolations of
existing data including the recent 1970 Census of Population and Household
Survey. Collection of new data shall be kept to a minimum level consistent
with the nature and objectives of work required herein.
9.        The consultants shall perform all technical and administrative
studies, economic analyses, financial investigations, and related work
herein described, as required to attain the objectives given in Section
II hereof. In the conduct of this work the consultants shall cooperate
fully with the Government, which will provide agreed data, services, and
facilities. The consultants shall be solely responsible, however, for the
analysis and interpretation of all data received and for their findings,
conclusions and recommendations.
10.       The study shall be divided into two phases as follows:
PHASE 1: The consultants shall:
(a) analyze the current situation and trends and prepare
projections for employment, population, housing and
related socio-economic services (health, education,
commerce, recreation etc.) in the Kota Kinabalu
Region, using mostly available data supplemented when
needed by data obtained by the consultants;
(b) determine land use and infrastructure needs to accommodate
the growth of the various elements of urbanization projected
in (a) above and recommend the optimal location of these
needs over time;



ANNEX 2
Page 4
(c) review and assess the present and any proposed institutions
dealing with planning, financing, implementing, operating
and maintaining urban infrastructure and services in the
Kota Kinabalu Region, and recommend any changes and/or tech-
nical assistance deemed necessary;
(d) prepare terms of reference for technical assistance;
(e) on the basis of the above develop a CDIP with priority
ranking of projects giving particular consideration to
the list in para 6 and reviewing previous feasibility
studies done for items (a) to (d) in para 6;
(f) prepare preliminary site plans, engineering designs and
cost estimates for the priority projects; and
(g) carry out economic social and financial feasibility
analyses for the priority projects.
An Interim Report shall be submitted after completion of tasks (a) to (d).
The report shall include a list of projects likely to be included in (e)
so that the Steering Committee can interact and provide guidance to finalize
(e) and carry out (f) and (g). The draft Final Report would then summarize
(a) to (d) and cover in further details (e) to (g).
PHASE 2: The consultants shall:
(a) on the basis of the Government's comments on the draft Final
Report clarify, revise and/or complement their recommenda-
tions; and
(b) prepare final site plans, engineering designs, cost estimates
and tender documents for selected program components.
February 1977



TABLE 1
MALAYSIA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
State of Sabah
Public Development Expenditures for Transport
First, Second and Third Five Year Plans
(M$ Million)
First Plan              Second Plan              Third Plan
Mode                  1966-1970                1971-1975                1976-1980
Allocation    Actual    Allocation    Actual 1/    Allocation
Roads                      49.5         79.8       128.4       187.9           208.9
SWPD Plant and              4.7          4.7     (incl. in       5.0           41.1
Equipment                                       above)
Civil Aviation              6.0         14.3        46.6        35,3            46.7
Ports and Maritime          7.3          5.8        60.3        76.2            55.0
Services
Railways                    1.3          3.9         8.0         9.6              -
Total            68.8       108.5        243.3       314.0          351.7
Achievement in %                       158                     129
In % of Total Public                                            31.8           2 4. 2
Development Expenditures
1/ estimated as of February 1976
SOURCE: Second Malaysia Plan and Third Malaysia Plan
Februarv 1977



TABLE 2
MALAYSIA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
State of Sabah
Annual Change in Length of Road Network
By Pavement Type and Administrative Class
(In Miles)
Pavement Type
Year      Paved    Gravel      Earth     Total
1970       322      1,112       362      1,796
1971       345      1,161       362      1,868
1972       375      1,217       362      1,954
1973       406      1,262       362      2,020
197i4      431      1,287       362      2,080
\~ ._       J
1975       664            1,690          2,354
Malaysia Total
1974    10,989      3,354    1,005      15,348
Administrative Class
Year     Trunk    District and Local    Total
1975       894            1,460          2,354
SOJRCE:  1970 - 74 HP&PTU and Malaysia Highway Maintenance Study October 1974
1975      PWD Sabah
Februarv 1977



TABLE 3
MALAYSIA
THIRD HIGHiAY PROJECT
State of Sabah
Motor Vehicle Registration
(In Thousands)
Year    Motorcycles   Cars 1/ Buses    Trucks    Others    Total
1970         5.2        22.1     .5        4.8       2.4       35.o
1971         4.7        26.3     .5        5.9       3.0       40.4
1972         5.2        29.2     .5        6.5       3.2       44.6
1973         5.1        31.4      .6       7.3       3.6       48.0
1974         5.2        34.3     .6        8.9       3.9       52.9
1975         5.2        37.4      .7       9.9       4.2       57.4
Malaysia Total
1975       755.0       467.6    9.8      106.4      45.9   1,384.7
Average Annual Growth Rates (% p.a.)
1970-75      0          11     7          16        12         10.5
1/ includes taxis and hire cars
SOURCE:  HP&PTU and Sabah Road Vehicles Department
February 1977



TABLE 4
MALAYSIA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
State of Sabah
Road ERcpenditures 1970-1975
(M$ Million)
1970    1 971    1972    1973    1974    1975 /
Administration       1.1     1.3      1/      1/      1/       1/
Maintenance          6.9     8.4      9.0     8.7    17.7    16.5
Construnction and    21.4    21.5    34.7    34.o    43.7   43.4
Improvement       -        -
Total     29.4    31.2    43.7   42.7    61.4    59.9
Malaysia Total
Federal and      131.5  147.2   210.5   217.6  292.6  344.5
State Roads
1/ recurrent expenditures combined with maintenance
2/ estimates
SOURCE: HP&PTU March 1976
February 1977



TABLE 5
LALAYSIA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
State of Sabah
Revenues from Motor Vehicle Taxation 1970-1975
(M$ Million)
Item        1970    1971    1972    1973    1974    1975
Driving Licenses       .5       .6      .7     1.5      1.7     1.7
Motor Vehicle         2.7     3.1      3.4     6.4      7.2     7.8
Licensing Fees
Other Road Vehicle    .2        .2      .3      .5       .7      .7
Fees
(registration,
examination,
driving tests)
Import Duty and
Excise Tax on:
Gasoline:        11.2    12.8    15.0    24.8    26.6    19.2
Vehicles:        (7.0)   (8.5)   (9.0)    9.4    28.4    11.0
Tirss and Parts: (.3)    (.4)   (1.0)    1.6       5.7      3.6
Total  21.9    25.6    29.4    44.2    70.3    44.0
Malaysia Total Revenues 428.8   478.6  557.7   660.8   747.2   748.5
From Vehicle Taxation
Note:  (  ) indicates mission estimate
SOJRCiE: Sabah Economic Planning Unit from Financial Statement, Sabah and
Statistics Department: Import Custom Revenue
February 1977



TABLE 6
MALAYSIA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
State of Sabah
Summary of Highway Design Standards
Administratively, the roads are divided into three classes:
Class I     -   Trunk Roads:  specified roads serving the whole country,
linking main population centers.
Class II    -   District Roads:  main roads feeding into a town area or
linking sections of a town.
Class III   -   Local Roads:  all other roads carrying purely locally
generated traffic.
Carriageway Width and Surface
Grade      Width            Surface           Average Daily Traffic
A      min. 24'         bituminous              over 2,500
B      18' -                "                   300 - 2,500
C      12? - 18'                                 50 - 300
D      up to 14'           it                    up to 75
E         18'           more than                50 - 600
6"' gravel
F      full forma-      less than                up to 75
tion not less   6"' gravel
than 24'
Design Speeds in mp
Mountainous    Hilly    Level and Rolling
Class I                        20          40               60
Class II                       20          30               50
Class III                      1',         20               40
February 1977



TABLE 7
MALAYSIA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
State of Sabah
Design Standards for the Project Roads to be Reconstructed
Terrain
Geometric Features           Flat   Rolling   Hilly   Mountainous
Design Speed (mph)          60        50       40          30
Minimum Radius
of Curvature (ft)        1,040       700      430         230
Maximum Gradient (%)         3         6        8           9
Roadway Features             Paved Standards            Gravel Standards
------in ft-------
Width of Pavement               22.0                        18.0
Type of Pavement           Double Bituminous               Gravel
Surface Treatment
Width of Shoulders               5.5                         3.0
Width of Right-of-Way          132.0                       132.0
Structural Design Features
(all areas)
Axle Loads                   10 m tons
Bridge Design              Based on British Standard 153 - HA
Loading checked for 45 units of HB
Loading along center line
Bridge Width               24 feet + 2 x 4 feet (sidewalks)
Pavement Design            Based on cumulative 10 ton axle loads
in a 20-year period using Road Note 29
of the British Road Research Laboratory
February 1977



MALAYSIA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Equipment for the Four-Year lighway Maintenance Program in Sabah /a
Maintenance Divisions /b                                                                   Paving
West Coast North        West Coast South          (Labuan District) /b         Interior                 Sandakan                    Tawau             Teams /c          Totals
Total          To be   Total            To be   Total            To be   Total            To be   Total            To be   Total            To be    To be                      To be
Type of Vehicle               Re-  Exist-  fro-        Re-  Exist-  Pro-        Re-  Exist-  Pro-        Re-  Exist-  Pro-    Re-  Exist-  Pro-    Re-  Exist-  Pro-                 Pro-      Re-  Exist-  Pro-
or Equipment                quired  ing    cured  quired  inm    cured  quired  ing   cured  guired  ing    cured  quired   ing   cured  quired   ing    cured                      cured   quired  ing    cured
Pickup (I 1/2 ton)            13     Nil       13      10     Nil      10        2    Nil         2       12   Nil        12       7    Nil M               7     Nil        7                 51    Nil        51
Truck Utility (4 ton)          5    Nil         5       4    Nil         4       3    Nil         3        2   Nil         2       4     Nil        4       3     Nil        3                 21    Nil        21
Tipper (10 ton)               20     Nil       20      Nil   Nil       Nil    Nil   Nil         Nil       23   Nil        23      Nil   Nil       Nil    Nil   Nil          Nil        7       50    Nil        50
Water Tanker (1200 Gal.)   5    Nil             5       1    Nil         1       1    Nil         1        6   Nil         6       2    Nil         2       3     Nil        3                 18    Nil        18
Grader, Medium (130 h.p.)  5          2         3       1      1       Nil       I    Nil         1        6     2         4       2      1         1       3       2        1                 18       8       10
Loader (1 1/2 cu.yd.)          5       2        3       1      1       Nil       I    Nil         1        6     2         4       2       1        1       3       2        1                 18       8       10
Backhoe!Loader                 2       2      Nil       I      I       Nil       i      i       Nit        2    2        Nil       I      1       Nil       I       I       Nil                 8       8      Nil
Roller, 3-wheel (10 ton)   9           7        2       3      3       Nil       1      1       Nil       12     8         4       4       3        1       6       5        1         2       37     27        10
Roller, Tandem  (4 ton)        1    Nil         1       1    Nil         1       1    Nil         1        2   Nil         2       1    Nil         1       1    Nil         1         4       11    Nil        11
Vibrating Plate                3    Nil         3       3    Nil         3       2    Nil         2        2   Nil         2       3    Nil         3       2    Nil         2                 15    Nil        15
Compactor Rammer               3    Nil         3       2    Nil         2       2    Nil         2        2   Nil         2       2    Nil         2       2    Nil         2                 13    Nil        13
Mower Pedestrian               4    Nil         4       4    Nil         4       2    Nil         2         2   Nil        2       4    Nil         4       2     Nil        2                 18    Nil        18
Tipper (6 ton)                 6      6       Nil       7      7       Nil       3      3       Nil        7     7       Nil    10       10       Nil      15     15        Nil                48       48    Nil
Paver                                                                                                                                                                                  I                         I
Bitumen Sprayer                                                                                                                                                                        2                         2
Pneumatic Roller                                                                                                                                                                       3                         3
Chip Spreader                                                                                                                                                                          2                         2
Mechanical Broom/Tractor                                                                                                                                                               3                          3
Weighbridges                                                                                                                                                                           6                          6
/a In future, some equipment may be reallocated to other divisions on basis of requirements.
/b  There will be five divisions.  Labuan District is part of the West Coast South Division, but being on an offshore island,
equipment is shown separately since it cannot be moved easily within the rest of the division.
/c Equipment is for all paving work (surface treatments or premix). None available now.
February 1977



TABLE 9
MALAYSIA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road Upgrading Program in Sabah
Proposed Roads for
Design and Construction
Road                                  Miles
1               Ranau-Tambunan                             39
2               Tambunan-Keningau                          28
3               Keningau-Tenom                             29
4               Tenom-Tomani                               24
5               Keningau-Nabawan                           38
6               Ranau-Sandakan                            148
7               Papar-Kota Kinabalu                        30
8               Kota Kinabalu-Kota Belud                   42
9               Kota Belud-Langkong                        30
10 1/            Langkong-Kudat                             44
11               Langkong-Pingan Pingan                     29
12               Tawau-Sungai Merotai                       17
13               Tawau-Kunak/Semporna Junction              32
1/ This item is to be carried out by PWD Sabah with its
own forces.
February 1977



TABLE 10
MALAYSIA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Cost of Project
_    M$ (million)                        u5$ (million)
Foreign
Project Elements                                                      Local    Foreign    Total             Local    Foreign    Total             Exchange %
1. Proposed for Bank Financing
A. Road Reconstruction in Sabah
1. West Coast Road:
(a) Papar-Beaufort (37 mi)
(b) Beaufort-Sindumin (18 mi)                                14.8        24.1       38.9            5.9         9.7       15.6              62
2. East Coast Road
(a) Lahad Datu-Ciram (48 mi)                                 12.6        20.6       33.2            5.1        8.2        13.3              62
(b) Giram-Semporna (43 mi)                                   16.3       26.6        42.9            6.5        10.6       17.1              62
Sub-Total A                                                  43.7        71.3      115.0           17.5        28.5       46.0              62
B. Capital Costs of 4-Year Road Maintenance
Program in Sabah, including road upgrading
1. Procurement of Equipment, including
weigh bridges                                                   -         9.7        9.7              -         3.9        3.9              100
2. Upgrading of 12 Road Sections                                  8.6       12.8        21.4            3.4        5.2         8.6              60
Sub-Total B                                                   8.6        22.5       31.1            3.4         9.1       12.5              73
C. Pilot Pavement Strengthening Program in
Johore, Peninsular Malaysia (120 mi of
Federal Route 1)                                                  5,1        7.7        12.8            2.0        3.1         5.1              60
D. Consulting Services for
1. IA, construction supervision                                   4.8        3.2         8.0            2.0        1.2        3.2               40
2. IB, technical support team to Sabah
Public Works Department                                      09          1.2        1.5            0.1         0.5        9.6               80
3. Transport/Railway Study in Peninsular
Malaysia                                                      0.2         0.8         1.0           0.1         0.3        0.4               80
4. Kota Kinabalu Urban Study in Sabah                             0.2        0.8         1.0            0.1        0.3         0.4              80
Sub-Total D                                                   5.5         6.0       11.5             2.3        2.3        4.6              50
Sub-Total I                                                      62.9      107.5       170.4           25.2       43.0       68.2               63
Contingencies
Physical (810 on IA, 10% on all other items)                         5.5         9.5       15.0            2.2         3.8        6.0              63
Price (For IA, IB2 and IC: 12% p.a. through 1979,
10% p.a. thereafter; For IB1  10%; For ID: 8% p.a.)                _45        25.0        39.5            5.8       10.0        15.8              63
Sub-Tota 1                                                   20.0        34.5       54.5            8.0        13.8       21.8               63
Grand Total 1                                                       82.9       142.0      224.9           33.2        56.8       90.0              63
II. Not Proposed for Bank Financing (including
contingencies)
1. Land Acquisition in Sabah for IA                                  2.5          -         2.5            1.0          -         1.0               0
2. Domestic Consulting Services for Detailed
Engineering and Construction Supervision of IB2                   2.5          -         2.5            1.0          -         1.0               0
3. Capital Costs of Pilot Road Maintenance and
and Pavement Strengthening Program (maintenance
equipment and construction 1/) for States of
Johore (excluding IC), Perak and Kelantan.                        9.5       30.5        40.0            3.8       12.2        16.0              76
Sub-Total II                                                     14.5       30.5        45.0            5.8       12.2        18.0              68
Grand Total I and II                                                97.4       172.5      269.9           39.0        69.0      108.0               64
1/ Maintenance equipment for the 3 States totalling about US$5 million equivalent; construction of about 250 mi of pavement strengthening
in States of Perak and Kelantan and preparatory drainage improvement works for Federal Route I in Johore, to be carried out by State
Public Works Department, and totalling about US$11 million equivalent.
February 1977



MALAYSIA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
Project Element                                         Key Actions                        Dates for Completing Key Actions
In Sabah
A.  Reconstruction of East              1.  Tender Evaluation                                       January 1977
and West Coast Roads in            2.  Contract Award                                          March 1977
Sabah (146 mi)                      3.  Notice to Proceed                                      April 1977
B.  Four-Year Highway Maintenance
Program, including Road Up-
grading, in Sabah
(i)  Maintenance Program           1.  Issuance of Administrative Circular by
PWD Covering New Maintenance Organization              June 1, 1977
2. Appointment of Additional Staff:
1977             1978
Engineers                                      3                3
Technicians II                                 2                3
Technicians III                                3                0
Overseers                                     25               30
3. Establishment of Required Maintenance
Crews for all Divisions                                By end of 1978        > H
(ii)  Procurement of Equipment      1.  Tender Documents                                        February 1977           r
2.  Invitation to Tender                                   March 1977
3.  Open Tenders                                           May 1977
4.  Evaluation of Tenders                                   June 1977
5.  Contract Awards                                         July 1977



Project Element                                         Key Actions                        Dates for Completing Key Actions
(iii)  Upgrading Program             1.  Prequalification of Contractors                         December 1977
(530 mi) /a                   2.  Invite Tenders (for 3 packages in total):
For Package 1                               April 1978
For Package 2                               July 1978
For Package 3                               October 1978
3. Open Tenders:
For Package 1                               June 1978
For Package 2                                September 1978
For Package 3                               December 1978
4. Evaluation, Contract Award, Notice
to Proceed:
For Package 1                               July 1978
For Package 2                               October 1978
For Package 3                               January 1979
C.  Pilot Road Maintenance and
Pavement Strengthening
Programs in the States of
Johore, Perak and Kelantan
in Peninsular Malaysia
(i)  Pilot Road Maintenance        1.  Issuance of Administrative Directive from
Programs                           Federal PWD to Pilot States                            By end of 1977
2. Establishment of Road Maintenance Sections
in these States to Cover Maintenance of
Federal and State Roads (organization, staff
and equipment)                                         By end of 1977
3.  Creation of Additional Posts for the Federal                                 > 
Road Maintenance Section (FRMS)                        June 1977             X vQ
4.  Appointment of all Staff Required in FRMS who
are to Provide Technical Advice to the Pilot                                 0 _
States and the other States, to Coordinate
Implementation of the Pilot Programs and Ad-
ditional Programs to be Initiated Subsequently
in other States, and to Prepare Maintenance
Programs for the Remaining States by the end
of the TMP                                             June 1978



Project Element                                         Key Actions                        Dates for Completing Key Actions
(ii)  Pavement Strengthening of    1.  Corrective Drainage Works by State PWD                    By end of 1977
Federal Route I in Johore    2.  Final Benkelman Beam Testing                              April 1978
(120 mi) /b, /a               3.  Pavement Design and Tender Documents                    May 1978
4.  Prequalification of Contractors (start Dec'77)          March 1978
5.  Invite Tenders                                          May 1978
6.  Open Tenders                                            July 1978
7.  Evaluation                                              September 1978
8.  Contract Award/Notice to Proceed                        October 1978
(iii)  Pavement Strengthening of    1.  Final Corrective Drainage Works and
Federal Roads in Perak            Benkelman Beam Testing                                   By end of 1978
and Kelantan by the Re-       2.  Final Design and Quantity Estimates                      By end of 1978
spective State Public
Works Departments             3.  Start Construction of First Sections                     June 1978
(250 mi) /c                   4.  Complete Construction of Last Sections                  December 1980
D. Consulting Services
(i)  For A above, Construction    1.  Invite Proposal                                           December 1976
Supervision, by Expatriate
Consulting Firm               2.  Letter of Appointment                                    February 1977
(ii)  For B above, Technical        1.  Invite Proposals                                         February 1977
Support Team to Sabah         2.  Evaluation                                              March 1977
PWD HQ, by Expatriate         3.  Negotiations                                             April 1977
Consulting Firm               4.  Letter of Appointment                                   April 1977
(iii)  For B(iii) above, Detailed   1.  Invite Proposals                                         May 1977
Engineering and Construc-    2.  Issue Letter of Appointment                              August 1977
tion Supervision, by three   3.  Completion of Tender Documents
Local Consulting Firms /a          (for Roads 1-9 and 11-13)                              March-June 1978       e  3
(one for Roads 1 and 6;
one for Roads 2, 3, 4 and                                                                                          M
5; and one for Roads 7, 8,                                                                                      @  j
9, 11, 12 and 13)
(iv)  For Transport/Railway Study  1.  Issue Letter of Appointment                               February 1977
in Peninsular Malaysia, by
Expatriate Firm               2.  Draft Final Report                                      December 1977



Project Element                                            Key Actions                           Dates for Completing Key Actions
(v)  For Kota Kinabalu Urban          1.  Invite Proposals                                           December 1976
Study in Sabah, by Ex-          2.  Evaluation                                                  April 1977
patriate and Local Firms        3.  Start and Complete Negotiations                             May 1977
4.  Letter of Appointment                                      May 1977
5.  Draft Final Report                                         January 1978
E. Other
(i)  Acquisition of Right-of-             Detailed Survey for Purpose of
Way for A above                      Compensation                                               June 1977
(ii)  Introduction of Modifica-
tions to Road Traffic
Legislation in Sabah                                                                            January 1, 1978
(iii)  Introduction of Modifica-
tions to Road Design
Standards in Sabah                                                                              July 1, 1977
/a Roads to be upgraded as listed in Table 9.
/b Earlier dates for the listed actions may be given for those portions
of the upgrading work for which final testing and design work have been completed.
/c Detailed program for completing engineering and implementing construction to be
provided by the Government in August 1977.
>
q
February 1977                                                                                                                    0



TABLE 12
MALAYSIA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
Bank Fiscal Year                            Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter                                 at End of Quarter
(US$ '000)
1976/77
March 31, 1977
June 30, 1977                                      2,000
1977/78
September 30, 1977                                 4,500
December 31, 1977                                  6,500
March 31, 1978                                     9,600
June 30, 1978                                     13,700
1978/79
September 30, 1978                                17,500
December 31, 1978                                 20,500
March 31, 1979                                    23,400
June 30, 1979                                     26,100
1979/80
September 30, 1979                                28,300
December 31, 1979                                 30,100
March 31, 1980                                    31,600
June 30, 1980                                     32,800
1980/81
September 30, 1980                                33,700
December 31, 1980                                 34,400
March 31, 1981                                    34,800
June 30, 1981                                     35,000
February 1977



TABLE 13
MALAYSIA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Traffic and Growth Rates on Project Roads
AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC
Roads to be Reconstructed in Sabah            Cars    Buses    Trucks    Total
West Coast Road (1975)
Papar-Beaufort                          60        10       60        130
Beaufort-Sindumin                      125         5       50        180
East Coast Road (1975)
Lahad-Datu-Balung Junction             140       10        70        220
Balung Junction-Semporna               200         5       90        295
Roads under the Maintenance and Upgrading Programs in Sabah
Maintenance 1/           Upgrading   Total
Paved         Unpaved
Mileage at ADT
levels below          137   137  390   340  1,060            290       2,354 miles
ADT (1977)           1,000   500  300   100      50           100
Average Traffic Composition: 65% cars & light vehicles, 30% trucks & 5% buses.
Pavement Strengthening Program in Peninsular Malaysia:  1975 ADTs on Federal Route I
in Johore range from 3,600 vpd to 9,700 vpd with a weighted average of 5,500 vpd.
GROWTH RATES (in % per annum)
Roads to be Reconstructed in Sabah            Cars    Buses    Trucks
West Coast Road
1975-1985                                10      2.5        8
1985-1995                                 7      1.7        5
1995-2005                                 5      1.7        4
East Coast Road
1975-1985                                14      3.5       11
1985-1995                                 9      2.3        7
1995-2005                                 5      2.3        4
Roads under the Maintenance and Upgrading Programs in Sabah
Average Daily Traffic
1977-1985                                         9
1985-1995                                         6
1/ Maintenance will be extended to the 290 miles to be upgraded following
completion of the upgrading works in about 4 years.
SOURCES: Consultants' and Mission's Estimates
February 1977



TABLE 14
Page 1 of 4
MALAYSIA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Future Traffic on Project Roads to be Reconstructed
Average Daily Traffic
West Coast Road: Fapar-Beaufort Section
Cars                            Bus                           Trucks
Year  Normal   Diverted  Generated  Normal   Diverted Generated  Normal   Diverted Generated  Total
Traffic  Traffic   Traffic    Traffic  Traffic  Traffic    Traffic  Traffic  Traffic
1 275    60         0          0          10         0         0          60         0         0         130
1 )76    66         0          0          10         0         0          65         0         0         141
1?77      73        0          0          11         0         0          70         0         0         154
1)78      80        0          0          11         0         0          76         0         0         167
l'79     88        0          0          11         0         0          82         0         0         181
1 80      97      173         20          11        10         7          88        iu        16         432
1981    106       191         22          12        10         7          95        11       18         1072
1?82    117       210         24          12        11         7         103        12        19         515
l 983    129      231         26          12        11         7         111        13        20         560
1 814   1141      254         29          12        11         8         120        14       22          611
1 vQ5    156      279         32          13        11         8         130        15       24          668
1q,6    167       299         34          13        12         8         136        16       25          710
1q37    178       319         37          13        12         8         143        17       26          753
1 8     191       342         39          13        12         8         150        17       28          800
1 IF,    204      366         42          14        13         8         157        18       29          851
1'0   218        392         45          14        13         8         165       19        31          905
1 D1    234       421         48          14        13         8         174        20       32          964
1 -2    250       449         51          14        13         9         182       21        34       1,023
1 * 3    267      480         55          15        13         9         191       22        35       1,087
1 'L    286       513         59          15        13         9        201        23        37       1,156
t'`5    306       550         62          15        14         9         211       24        39       1,230
1 > 96    321     578         65          15        14         9         219        25       41       1,287
1 n37    338      607         68          16        14        10         228       26        42       1,349
1~ 38   354       638         71          16        14        10         237       27        44       1,411
1 :-?    372      670         74          16        14        10         247       28        46       1,477



TABLE 14
Page 2 of 4
MALAYSIA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Future Traffic on Project Roads to be Reconstructed
Average Daily Traffic
West Coast Road: Beaufort-Sindumin Section
Cars                  Bus                  Trucks
Year    Normal  Generated    Normal   Generated    Normal  Generated    Total
Count     Count       Count      Count       Count    Couit
1975       125         o           ,         0          5u                    180
1975       138         C           -0        o          S          j          197
I ?      1 1        a)                                5 o0     5)          214
197        166         a                     0          63         '          234
1979       163                                O                    0          257
19a0       201        14           6         l3                               295
19i1 21                                                  7)        .          33
;)3?      244        30                     1          So         3          367
W3         268        33           593                                        401
W4         295        36           o                   10J                    438



TABLE 14
Page 3 of 4
UALAX~IA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Future Traffic on Project Roads to be Reconstructed
Average Daily Traffic
East Coast Road: Lahad Datu-Balung Junction Section
Cars                   Bus                 Trucks
Year    Normal  Generated    Normal  Generated    Normal  Generated    Total
Traffic  Traffic      Traffic  Traffic      Traffic  Traffic
1975     140     3               1u       3             7j        0           220
1976     160         0           10       0             7b        0          248
1977     184         0           11       0             86        0           279
1 97 8   207         0           11       0             96        0           314
1979     23o         0           11       0'           106        0           353
1980     27r       46            1d       3           1ld        2            469
1981      307       92           12       6            131       39           587
1932      350     105            13       6           145        44           663
1983      399     120            13       7           161        48           748
1984     455      137            14       7           179        54           8146
1985      519     156            14       7            199       63           955
1996      566     170            14       7           213        64        1,034
1987     617      185            1:)      7           228        68        1,120
1988      6T2     202            1v        8          243        73        1,213
1989      733     220            15        8          261        78        1,315
1990      799     243            lo       8           279        84        1,426
1991      87.     261            ltz       8          296        89        1,542
1992      949     285            17        8          319        96        1,674
1993    1034      310            17        8          342       102        1,813
1994    1121      338            17        9          365      113         1,966
1995    1229      369            1d        9          391       117         2,133
1996    1290      337            li        9          407      122          2,233
1997    1355    406              19        9          423      127          2,339
1998    142Z    427              19        9          440      132         2,1449
1999    149,3    44R             19       10          457      137          2,564



TABLE 14
Page 4 of 4
M=AYSIA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Future Traffic on Project Roads to be Reconstructed
Average Daily Traffic
East Coast Road: Balung Junction-Semporna Section
Cars                  Bus                 Trucks
Year   Normal  Generated    Normal  Generated    Normal  Generated    Total
Traffic  Traffic      Traffic  Traffic      Traffic  Traffic
1975      200       0           4         a            90       0           294
1976      228       0           4         0           100       0           332
1977      260       0           4         0           111       0           375
1978      296       0           4         0           123       0           423
1979      338       0           5         0           137       0           480
1980      385      41           5         1           152       9           593
1981      439      81           5         1           168      17           711
1982      500      92           5         1           187      19           804
1983      571    105            i         1           207      21           910
1984      650    120                      1           230      23         1,029
1985      741    137            6         2           256      26         1,168
1986      80o    149            6         2           273      28         1,266
1987      881    163            6         2           293      30         1,375
1988      960    177            6         2           313      32         1,490
1989     1047    193            6         2           335      34         1,617
1990     1141    211            6         2           358      37         1,755
1991     1243    229            6         2           384      39         1,903
1992     1355    250            7         2           410      42         2,066
1993     1477    273            7         2           439      45          2,243
1994     1610    297            7         2           470      48          2,434
1995     1755    324            7         2           503      51          2,642
1996     1843    340            7          2          523      53          2,768
1997     1935    357            7          2          544      55          2,900
1998     2032    375            d          2          565      58          3,040
1999     2134    394             a         2           58d     60          3,186
February 1977



TABLE 15
MALAYSIA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicle Operating Costs
(M$ per Mile)
Cars                 Buses               Trucks
Without   With       Without    With      Without   With
Project   Project   Project    Project  Project   Project
Roads to be Reconstructed in Sabah
West Coast Road
Papar-Beaufort                      .58       .36        2.48       1.18     1.74        .83
Beaufort-Sindumin                   .54       .40        2.36       1.48     1.66       1.04
East Cost Road
Lahad-Datu - Balung Junction        .58       .38        2.48       1.24     1.74        .81
Balung Junction - Semporna          .54       .36        2.36       1.18     1.66        .83
Roads to be Upgraded in Sabah
(gravel surface)                      .54       .45        2.36      1.77      1.66       1.25
SOURCE: Consultants and Mission's Estimates
February 1977



TABLE 16
Page 1 of 4
MALAYSIA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road Reconstruction in Sabah
Estimated Cost and Benefit Streams
(In M$ 000 Excluding Taxes)
West Coast Road: Papar-Beaufort Section
Year            Costs                           Benefit
Construction    Maintenance       Vehicle           Total
Supervision         Cost 1/      Operating
Right of Way        Savings          Cost
and                            Savings
Resurfacing               -
1977         11,305.0             0.0               0.0               0,0
1978a        .219PG0O             0.0               0.0                .0o
1979          8, 0750 ,0 0                           .                0.0
1980               0.0  j          0.0         3,695.3           3,695.3
1981               0.0            0.0          3,981.5           3,981.5
1982               0              0.0          4 291 9           4F291.e
198         i                     0.0          .2  6, 
19884  0'0                       0.0          4994,QS   ,      j,9Q4,5
1985                             0.0 0.0       5                 5,391.4
1986              4 25*7          0.0          5,67448          5,674 .6
198?               0,0            0.0                           5,974,5
1988               0.0            0.0 ,291.!                    6,291.5 
1989               0.00.0 6O626.7                                6#62b.7
1990               0.0            0.0          6,981.3           6,981.3
1991               0,0            0.0          7,356.5           7,356.5
1992               0.0            0.0          7,753.5           7,753.5
1993        1    245.7            0.0          FR173*6           a,173.6
1994               0. 0           0.0          8,818.            8,618.3
1995               0.0            0.0          91089,0           9.089.0
1996               0.0  I         0.O a46Q.6                     ,49.
199?               0.0            0.0            ,b.6    ,866.8
1998        :      00.0           O .0        Ir)2814           j0,Z81.4
1999..             0.0            0.0         1O,71a.1          10,714.1
The ERR is 13.8%
l/ This column is the difference between the maintenance costs with and without the
project. It has been assumed that the existing road would continue to receive
some maintenance and that its cost would just about cancel any benefit due to
the lower maintenance cost on the project road.



TABLE 1 6
Page 2 of 4
MALAYSIA
THIRD HMHWAI PROJECT
Road Reconstruction in Sabah
Estimated Cost  and Benefit  5treams
(In N$ 000 Eioluding Taxes)
West Coast Road: Beaufort-$indumin Section
Year            Costs                           Benefit
Construction    Maintenance       Vehicle           Total
Supervision         Cost 1/'    Operating
Right of Way        Savingi          Cost
and                             Savings
asourfacwK,
1977         3946 .0           57$ .0               0.0           573.0
1978         6,435.0           573.0                0.0           57 3.0
1979              0.0          573.0             956.2         1,529.2
1;80             0.0          573.0           1,051.9          1,624.9
1I81              0.0          573.0 -         1,154.6          1,727.6
1982              C.0          573.0           1,251.7         1,824.7
1983              0.0          573.0           1,357.4       ;1930.4
1984         -7,425.0-         573.0           1,472.4         2,045.4
The ERR is 16.4%
1/ This column is the difference between maintenance costs with and
without the project. Without the project, it is assumed that 4
inches of gravel have to be applied two times a year to maintain
the section prone for flooding in passable condition. With the
project, it is assumed that 1 inch of gravel would have to be ap-
plied every 2 1/2 years. Given the low traffic volumes and the
harsh weather conditions (heavy rains), these maintenance works
have been assumed independent of traffic intensity.



TABLE 16
Page 3 of 4
MALAYSIA
THIRD HIGHIWAY PROJECT
Road Reconstruction in Sabah
Estimated Cost and Benefit Streams
(In M$ 000 Excluding Taxes)
East Coast Road: Lahad Datu-Balung Junction Section
Year            Costs                             Benefit
Construction     Maintenance       Vehicle            Total
Supervision         Cost  1/      Operating
Right of Way        Savings           Cost
and                              Savings
,Resurfacin__
1977          13,875.0           300.0                 0.0           300.0
1978          22,200. 0          30 0.0               0.0            300. 0
1979          19,425.0           300.0                0.0            300.0
1980                 C.O         107.0           4,856.8           4,963.8
1981                 0.0         107.0            5,155.4          5,862.4
1982                 0.0         101.0            6,408.7          6,515.7
1983                 C.0         107.0            7,140.6          7,247.6
1964                C.0          107.0           7,960.9           8,067.9
1985                 C.O         13r.C            8,880.3          8,987.3
1986              442.4          107.0           9,539.7           9,646.7
1987                0.0          107.0          10,250.4         10,357.4
198 6                            1 070 .0        11,016.5         11,123.5
1989                0.0          107.0           11,842.5         11,949.5
199                 0.0          10 7.0          12,733.1         12,840.1
1991                0.0          107.0           13,693.6         13,800.6
1992                U.0          107.0           14,729.5         14,836.5
1993              442.4          107.0           15,846.9         15,953.9
1994                c.0          107.0          17,052.4          17,159.4
1995                C.0          107.0          18,353.0         18,460.0
1996                0.0          1or.0           i9151.1         19,258.1
1997                0.0          107.0          19,984.6         20,091.6
1998                C.0          107.0          20,855.2         20,962.2
1999                0.0          101.0          21,764.5         21,871.5
The ERR is 14.2%
1/  This column is the difference between the maintenance costs with and without
the project. It has been assumed that, during construction, traffic will be
maintained by the contractor at a cost already included in the construction
cost. Thus the savings are equal to the total maintenance costs of the existing
road. Given the very small contribution of maintenance savings to the total
benefits, about 2% the first year, they have been held constant rather than
increasing with traffic volumes in order to simplify calculation.



TABLE 1 6
Page 4 of 4
MALAYSIA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road Reconstruction in Sabah
Estimated Cost and Benefit Streams
(In 1M$ O0 Excluding Taxes)
East Coast Road: Balung Junction-Semporna Section
Year            Costs                           Benefit
Construction    Maintenance       Vehicle           Total
Supervision         Cost 1/      Operating
Right of Way       Savings          Cost
and                             Savings
Resurfacing
1971           8,t295.0         127.5               0.0           127.5
1978           9948C.0          127.5               0.0           127.5
1979            ,925.0           127.5              0.0           127.5
1980               C.0           51.4           2t185.2         2,236.6
1981                C.0          51.4           2,504.9         2,556.3
1982               C.0           51.4           2,802.5         2,853.9
1983                C.0           51.4          3,136.5         3,187.9
1984               0.0           51.4           3,511.3         3,562.7
1985               O.0           51.4         , 3,932.2         3,983.6
1986             193.9           51 .4          4,234.3         4.285.7
1987               0.0           51.4           4,560.3         49611.7
1988               0.0           51.4           4,912.1         4,963.5
1989               0.0           51.4           5,291.6         5,343.0
1990               o.a           5 1 . 4        5,701.2         5,752.6
1991               0.0           51.4           6,143.2         61194.6
1992               0.0           51.4           66210,-.3       6,671.7
1993             193.9           51.4           7,135.4         7,186.8
1994               0.0           51.4           7,691.4         79742.8
1995               0.0           51.4           8,291.8         8,343.2
1996               C.0           51.*4          8,658.0         8,709.4
1997               C.0           51.4           9,040.6         S0C92.0
1998               C.0           51.4           9,440.4         9,491.8
1999               0.0           51.4           9,858.2        9,909.6
The ERR is 14.4%
1/ see footnote preceeding page.
February 1977



TABLE 17
Page 1 of 2
MALAYSIA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road Upgrading Program in Sabah
Estimated Cost and Benefit Streams
(In M$ 000 Excluding Taxes)
Roads with Gravel Course and Improved Ditches
Year         Cost                              Benefit
(per mile)                         (per mile)
Maintenance            Vehicle          Total
Cost   1/              Operating
Savings                Cost
Savings
1979          60.0
1980                             5.0                    10.0            15.0
1981                             5.0                    10.9            15.9
1982                             5.0                    11.9            16.9
1983                             5.0                    12.9            17.9
1984                             5.0                    14.1            19.1
1985                             5.0                    15.4            20.4
1986                             5.0                    16.3            21.3
1987                             5.0                    17.2            22.2
1988                             5.0                    18.3            23.3
1989                             5.0                    19.4            24.4
The ERR is 26%.
1/ This column is the difference between the maintenance costs with and
without the project. It has been assumed that while the cost of
maintenance both with and without the project would increase with
traffic, the difference would remain constant. This is a conservative
assumption.



TABLE 17
Page 2 of 2
MALAYSIA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road upgrading Program in Sabah
Estimated Cost and Benefit Streams
(In M$ 000 excluding Taxes)
Roads with Raised Embankments and Gravel Course
Year             Cost                               Benefit
(per mile)       Maintenance            Vehile              Total
Cost  1/              Operating
Savings               Cost
Savings
1979            110.0
1980                             15.0                   10.0               25.0
1981                             15.0                   10.9               25.9
1982                             15.0                   11.9               26.9
1983                             15.0                   12.9               27.9
1984                             15.0                   14.1               29.1
1985                             15.0                   15.4               30.4
1986                             15.0                   16.3               31.3
1987                             15.0                   17.2               32.2
1988                             15.0                   18.3               33.3
1989                             15.0                   19.4               34.4
The ERR is 22%.
1/ See footnote on p. 1.
February 1977



TABLE 18
MALAYSIA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road Maintenance Program in Sabah
Estimated Cost and Benefit Streams
(In M$ Million Excluding Taxes)
Year                 Costs                                    Benefits
Equipment     Increase in                Savings in Vehicle
and         Recurrent                 Operating Costs                Total
Consultants       Costs 1/        On Paved Roads      On Gravel Roads
350,000              94,000
vehicle mile/day   vehicle mile/day
in 1978             in 1978
1977          2.3
1978          9.2             1.0                  .34                 .37            .71
1979                          1.5                 1.85                2.02           3.87
1980                          3.0                 4.03                4.40           8.43
1981                          3.0                 4.39                4.80           9.19
1982                          3.0                 4.79                5.23         10.02
1983                          3.0                 5.22                5.70         10.92
1984                          3.0                 5.69                6.20         11.89
1985                          3.0                 6.20                6.78         12.98
The ERR is 29%
1/ This column is the difference between recurrent costs of maintenance with
and without the project. It reflects the gradual build-up of the new or-
ganization with new equipment over 3 years. It has been assumed that af-
ter the build-up period, the cost of maintenance both with and without the
project would increase with traffic, but the difference would remain constant.
February 1977



TABLE 19
MALAYSIA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Pavement Strengthening in Johore
Estimated Cost and Benefit Streams
(In M$ '000 Excluding Taxes)
Year            With Prolect                     Without Project
Cost of                     Cost of Reconstruction
Strengthening                     after Failure 11
Overlay                           (per mile)
(per mile)
1                112.0
2                                                   50.0
3                                                   50.0
4                                                    50.0
5                                                    50.0
The ERR is 28%
1/ The cost of reconstruction per mile is estimated at M$200,000.
It has been assumed that without the project, all sections would
have failed within four years and that one-fourth would fail every
year.
February 1977



MALAYSIA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
FEDERAL MINISTRY OF WORKS AND UTILITIES
MINISTER
SECRETARY GENERAL
SABAH AND OTHER 
STATE MINISTRIES
OF WORKS
HIGHWAY PLANNING |                                ROAD
AND                                               SOAFET
PUBLIC TRANSPORT                                 SCOUNCT
UNITCONI
ROAD TRANSPORT  l                 ROAD TRANSPORT                   PUBLIC WORKS
LICENSING BOARD                   DEPARTMENT                       DEPARTMENT                          PUBLIC UTILITIES
NOTE:
THE MINISTRY OF WORKS
AND TRANSPORT BECAME
MINISTRY OF WORKS
DEPUTY DIRECTOR      AND UTILITIES IN
DEPUTY DIRECTOR         GENERAL               MARCH 1976.
GENERAL                  (ENGINEERING         NEW ORGANIZATION
(DEVELOPMENT)           SERVICESI             CHART NOT AVAILABLE
SEE CHART 2
FOR DETAILS
April 1976
World Bank-15989



MALAYSIA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT
MINISTRY OF WORKS AND UTILITIES
DIRECTOR GENERAL~~DEUT  DRETO  GNEA
DEPUTY DIRECTOR GENERAL                                                            |                      EPT  D RECTOR GENERAL|
(DEVELOPMENT)                                                                                           | (ENGINEERING SERVICES)
F    ROADS               LDING           ~~~~~~~WATER       EUCATO                                          MECHANICAL                             ELECTRICAL
DiVISION  isi ON         SUPPLIES       CIVI WORKS UI
DSDIVISION V DIVISIONEDIVISION                                                                DIVISION
PROJECT           PROJECT
COORDINATION      SECTION               DEINIMPLEMENTATION                    PROJECT          MAINTENANCE                     STRSACCOUNTING                       QUANTITY
SECTION            DEVELOPMENT          SCIN           SECTION                MANAGER          SECTION                         DIVISIN          DIVISION            DIRVISION
FEDERAL LAND                                                                                                                                     DVSO
MAIN CIVIL VVORKS UNIT
LAND ACQUISITION UNIT                    DESIGN AND
RESEARCH
SERVICE RELOCATION UNIT                 DIVISION
AUDIT AND ACCOUNTING UNIT
SOIL
DESIGN      ~RESEARCH
Ap,Il 1976
Wodld Ba,,k-1 5990



CH{ART 3
MALAYSIA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
STATE OF SABAH
NEW ORGANIZATION OF PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT
STATE MINISTRY OF WORKS AND COMMUNICATIONS
DIRECTOR
DEPUTY DIRECTOR
D DVISIONS        ll HEADQATR                                                                          TEAMS
_ADMINISTRATION
|OTHER PWD   l               ROAD                         -   DEVELOPMENT_                                          HtWA
ACTIVITIES    _  _   MAINTENANCE
-  ROADS AND AIRFIELDS
HYDRAULICS                                             PROJECTS
SOUTH            with 6 Districtsand        -    BUILDINGS
DIVISION          Workshop Cente-
at Kota Kinabalu
_  DESIGN AND INVESTIGATIONS
_  MECHANICAL
WEST COAST      with 4 Districtsand_
NORTH          Workshop Center-    ELECTRICAL
DIVISION        at Kota Bel.d
-  QUANTITY SURVEY
-    ARMED FORCES
|   SANDAKAN   | with 4 Distrits               ACCOUNTS
_    DIVISION  and Workshop
Center at Sandakan
-    STORES
TAWAU      |  it h 4 Districts            -  TRAINING
DIVISION      and Workshop Center
at Tawsau                   _ INTERNAL AUDITING
NTERIOR   -~ith 3 Districts
_   D t V I St O N  end Workshop Center
at Keningau
February 1977
World Bank-15988



IBRD 10050R3
MALAYSIA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
PEOPOSSD .ROJET APILOT POg"RAM FOR ROA MAINTENANRCE
/                   T          J         Ns                                            - :         r I I A I t  A'    K    tPROPOSED PFROECT ROADS FOR PAVEMENT STRENGTHENING
> H~                           Z A  L  A  [n                         ^                        fEDEAAL ROADS AIODIROUTE NUMBERS
1_   / ''    >--               -                  -                               -      -        OTHER PRINCIPAL FtOADS
KengDrr                  t               .      ;                          -                  - - --- PRtNCIPAL ROAD UNDER CONSTRUCTION
-*.---RAILWAYS
< % 0 Jd . . .  ........ OETfILwED ENGINEERiNG Proi  -proi 0v1-MA
. f\ ]S   </   _t                      t k                     -        rT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OORUCTION AtND tMPROVEMEUT Seond HbNway,.. 
Alor Setor                                                                                A 7W  ,/  ;1 ,gOt  KLANO VALLEY REJOIN
STATE BOUNDARIES
:                                                                                 - ' '  /    '   /t   -   {}  )       p  tINTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
SO niR                                                    h                                    tOE
Kepe                                                       a                                                            2  V 1zt  
RApND Bolos  -~~~~~~~~~~Kol 
.   .   .         351A~~TION IV                  0z                           Koarl            ,        ........ .   
ykt, MertOja,,
-    ere~ .ulrol --13-fl1(   -    -,                                           S-              
KucTkurO -
IOO ~ ~  ~    ~     ~    ~    ETIW
.  .    ..   .    ..  X  eECT[CiN  E          >               X      ,             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Kuala I  una
.   , t   <    t    a        HCo~~~~~~meron                                   '
.  . .           t   !   \9        2 ~~~~~~~~~~Highlands>               
I~~~~~V
.                      <    t 5vo,A Chireo  5o
4, 010\(                                                                          leatu 
Tanjong MalimN   ET04                                             0. Onbo g\\,CX  
TI~~~~~~~~T 
- . fo X ~~~~~~~KLANVG  VALE  [ .
-  -     t_      >  |  bJ W~~~LMPUR  \       //5                                     
X . . 8> , -. / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Encl :
.   wowZor                       KALIMIOTA Sw u.t nyO rlI Fr,  '   0~Srm                 X
sh N" Om                                                                               ' r- A 
%,   tct   j     '         <      0             ' $          ),                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mersin%
X;e   H   0 s>< .t ch -0 
9;~~~~~~~~~~~~MNA                            S u't7 O N . e                                                                           PORE  2{- 'v t      t.l0      



