Document of
The Worild Bank
§Li p  T~-            IA '> UFOR O"1CECAL USE ONLLY
EjTUH(]      7fi  tlRejcon No. P'2002-MA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
MALAYSIA
FOR A
THIRD HUGHWAY PROJECT
March 1, 1977
' ThMis d1ome hao a nu o te31 d   and u n e y be mse by rbpieas omly b3 a oe Krfomoe OT
ge o1ftl~c duie~~~s. llb cmeoucos mun imeaot erwse be dtcoend itriomn Worn(I Inmh ahDodtoun.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS*
Currency Unit         =    Malaysian Dollar (M$)
US$1                       M$2.50
M$ 1                  =    US$0.40
M$ 1 million          =    US$400,000
*The exchange rate is floating; the rate used in
this report is indicated above.
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ERR          - Economic Rate of Return
c.i.f.       -  cost, insurance, and freight
FMWU         - Federal Ministry of Works and Utilities
FPWD         -  Federal Public Works Department
GDP          - Gross Domestic Product
KAMPSAX      -  Kampmann, Kierluff & Saxild A/S (Danish Consultants)
KAMPSAX-SSP  - The joint venture of consultants KAMPSAX and SSP
PWD          - Public Works Department
SEPU         -  Sabah Economic Planning Unit
SMP          - Second Malaysia Plan
SMWC         - Sabah Ministry of Works and Communications
SPWD         -  Sabah Public Works Department
SSP          -  Sepakat Setia Perunding (Malaysian Consultants)
TMP          - Third Malaysia Plan
UNDP         - United Nations Development Programme
vpd          - vehicles per day
GOVERNMENT OF MALAYSIA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO MALAYSIA FOR A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Malaysia for the equivalent of US$35.0 million to help finance the
Third Highway Project. The loan wouldhi'ave a term of 17 years, including
three and a half (3-1/2) years of grace, with interest at 8.5% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest economic report, "Malaysia:  Second Plan Performance and
Third Plan Issues," (No. 1177-MA) was distributed to the Executive Directors
on September 20, 1976. Detailed data on Malaysia's economy are shown in
Annex I.
3.        By most economic indicators, Malaysia has done well in the past
and, in particular, during the Second Malaysia Plan (SMP) period, 1971-75.
The per capita income of US$735 is among the highest in Southeast Asia.
Public and private investment activity has been stepped up and, as a result,
economic growth, which during the 1960s averaged 6% a year, increased during
the SMP to 7.5%.  Progress has been made i-n reducing-the economy's dependence
on rubber, and the manufacturing sector has performed well, both in terms of
output and employment. With a high export component in GNP, the country is
very vulnerable to external fluctuations, which were significant during the
SMP. During the S'econd Plan the proportion of agricultural households in
poverty in Peninsular Malaysia was reduced from 68% to 63%. In addition, in
spite of the increased investment activity and resulting current account
deficits in the balance of payments, Malaysia managed to maintain a strong
external position with relatively low debt service payments and growing
international reserves.
4.        Notwithstanding this good performance during the SMP there are, of
course, still substantial racial inequalities in income and employment as
well as considerable poverty; 44% of the population is considered to be
in poverty. In 1970 in Peninsular Malaysia the per capita income among
Malays, who constitute a little over half of the population, was only half
that of the Chinese and 60% of that of the Indians who, together, make up
most of the remainder of the population. This inferior income position of the
Malays is related to the concentration of Malays in traditional smallholder
agriculture and the complementary meager ownership of corporate assets and
poor representation of Malays in the modern industrial sector, especially
in managerial, professional, supervisory and clerical occupations. These
inequalities have threatened the stability of the country and prompted the
Government in 1971 to introduce the New Economic Policy (NEP). The NEP is
designed to achieve national unity through the two-pronged objective of
eradicating poverty and restructuring society to eliminate the identification
of race with economic function.
This documcnt ha c ratricted distribution and may be used by fecipients only in the pWromanc
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Dank authoriatlon.



- 2 -
5.        The Government recently approved the Third Malaysia Plan (TMP)
(1976-80). In addition to reconfirming the goals of the New Economic Policy,
the TMP stresses that national unity as well as social and economic progress
can only be achieved in an environment of security and order, and the Plan
includes an expansion and strengthening of the security forces. The major
objectives of the TMP are: (a) to reduce the overall incidence of poverty
from 44% in 1975 to 34% by 1980 (which would mean reducing poverty in the
agriculture sector from 63% to 49%); (b) to increase Malay employment in the
modern sectors of the economy (from the 1975 Malay share of employment in
these sectors of 32% towards the 1990 goal of 50%); (c) to increase the share
of Malays in the equity ownership of the corporate sector (from the 1975
Malay share of 8% to 16% in 1980); and (d) to promote the participation of
Chinese and Indian Malaysians in agriculture and services.
6.        One of the principal means set out in the TMP to reduce poverty
is to raise agricultural production. In the Third Plan one quarter (M$4.7
billion) of the total development expenditures are allocated to this sector
(compared with 22% or M$2.1 billion in the SMP). Of this more than one third
will be spent on increasing productivity in existing agricultural areas. In
addition, one million acres of new land are targeted for development. As a
means of reducing poverty, the TMP also provides for improving housing
(M$2.5 billion) and other essential services for the poor in both rural and
urban areas. The TMP also stresses that greater attention will be given to
improving the less developed states in Malaysia.
7.        The TMP goals are set out in a framework of substantial economic
growth. The target growth rate for GDP is set at 8.5% per annum. The
investment rate, in real terms, is projected to increase from 18% to 19.5% of
GDP, resulting in an investment of M$44 billion, in current prices, over the
TMP period. Public development expenditures are set at M$18.6 billion and a
higher level of M$20 billion is targeted if resources become available.
8.        An examination of the external circumstances likely to prevail
during the Plan period suggests that Malaysia can pursue an ambitious invest-
ment and growth strategy. With the likelihood of an improvement in the terms
of trade and an increase in oil production, Malaysia's external capital
requirements should not exceed US$1.4 billion during the period. To support
the development program, about half of this inflow would need to be loans to
the public sector. If project loans from multilateral sources (IBRD and ADB)
remain at approximately current levels, there will need to be an increase in
assistance from bilateral sources such as Japan and the OPEC countries, as
well as higher levels of market borrowing.
9.        Debt service obligations at present are about 3.2% of exports
of goods and nonfactor services and should not rise beyond 6% by 1980.
This level is well within Malaysia's debt servicing capacity. Disbursed
Bank loans outstanding represent about 26% of Malaysia's total external
public debt outstanding and disbursed. The Bank's share in Malaysia's debt
service payments is about 18% and is expected to drop to about 14% by 1980.



- 3 -
10.       In general, Malaysia can reasonably expect to be able to raise
sufficient resources during the next five years to continue a high growth and
socially oriented development strategy. In the public sector, the main focus
will have to be on the rural sector, especially on improving productivity on
existing farms where most of the poor live. In the private sector, a con-
tinued high level of investment will be important in increasing Malay partici-
pation in industry. While there has been some apprehension by the Chinese and
to some extent the foreign community over the Government's efforts to raise
the participation of Malays in the modern sectors, the Government is concerned
by this reaction and it is taking steps to address non-Malay complaints in
order to encourage a high rate of private investment. All the eyidence points
toward a strong economic performance during the Third Plan, including a more
than 8.5% growth rate, enabling considerable progress in achieving the goals
of the New Economic Policy and Third Malaysia Plan.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAYSIA
11.       The Bank has made 34 loans to Malaysia for projects in education,
population, agriculture, forestry, industrial finance, power, water supply,
sewerage, telecommunications, ports, railways, roads and urban transport. Six
Bank transportation loans have been made to Malaysia amounting to US$93.6 mil-
lion and consisting of one railway, two highway, one urban transport and one
port project. The First Highway Project (Loan 851-MA) is about 11 months behind
schedule, due to initial shortcomings in the contractor's project management.
Progress on the Second Highway Project (Loan 931-MA) is also slower than expected.
Most of the contract awards for the Second Highway Project were made shortly
before the 1973 increase in oil prices. A period of uncertain prices and
shortages of materials and equipment followed, which caused contractors to
take longer to mobilize than previously planned. Poor initial management by
contractors and Government delays in relocating utilities, acquiring land, and
removing squatters also contributed to the slow progress.
12.       Although in a few cases disbursements have been slower than expected,
the execution of Bank projects in Malaysia has generally been satisfactory.
As of January 31, 1977, the loans to Malaysia held by the Bank amounted to
US$669.2 million. In addition, the Bank made a loan in 1965 to the Public
Utilities Board of Singapore (Loan 405-MA), guaranteed by Malaysia, to finance
the Johore River Project. The amount held by the Bank under that loan, as of
January 31, 1977, was US$4.1 million. Eleven loans have been fully disbursed.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans as well as notes on the
execution of ongoing projects.
13.       Bank assistance to Malaysia is consistent with and supports the
country's policies to eliminate racial and geographical imbalances in income
distribution. The Bank will continue to provide assistance to Malaysia's
agricultural programs - including land development, rehabilitation and settle-
ment, and improvement of production in low income farming areas - which are the
effective means of reducing unemployment and income disparities. The Bank will
also continue to assist in financing infrastructure development, including urban



-4-
services and housing for the poor and transport projects that improve producer
and market links. The Bank has helped the Government to prepare projects in
the course of its lending operations and its sector work and has also helped
to strengthen public agencies responsible for carrying out important parts of
Malaysia's development program. The Bank will continue this policy, which
will be reflected in the loans to be presented to the Executive Directors in
the next few years. These loans would be for projects involving agricultural
extension, irrigation, rural development, land settlement, development finance
companies, education, and in some infrastructure sectors including transport
and power.
14.       IFC has been active in Malaysia since 1963 and has made six invest-
ments totaling US$8.69 million. The total commitments under the investments
held by IFC as of December 31, 1976 amounted to US$1.75 million (Annex II).
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
15.       The Federation of Malaysia is made up of 13 states.    Eleven states
are located in Peninsular Malaysia, which occupies the southern one-third of
the Malay Peninsula, jutting southward from the mainland of Asia. The two North
Borneo states, Sabah and Sarawak, joined Malaya in 1963 to form the Federation
of Malaysia. Separated from Peninsular Malaysia by about 900 miles of South
China Sea, the Borneo states are relatively isolated and retain a high degree of
administrative and economic autonomy. Sabah has no overland connections with
Sarawak, and transport systems within the two states are underdeveloped, con-
strained by mountainous and riverine terrain. Transport modes are much better
developed in Peninsular Malaysia, where population is concentrated along the
coastal lowlands. Peninsular Malaysia has a well-developed highway network, a
railway line on the east and west coasts, and a comprehensive air service.
Coastal shipping is largely limited to bulk movements of vegetable oils and
timber.
The State of Sabah
16.       The major portion of the proposed project is for the state of Sabah.
Sabah represents 23% of the area of Malaysia. The state is predominantly
mountainous, covered with dense tropical forest. The population of only
850,000 is growing at around 5% p.a.; the high growth rate is, in part,
because of the large number of laborers immigrating from the Philippines and
Indonesia. Most people live on the coasts around the ports. Average per
capita GDP is above the national average, but there is a great disparity
between the incomes in the modern export oriented sector and the traditional
rural agricultural sector which accounts for the majority of the population.
The state's economy is led by timber production which contributes nearly 40%
of the state's GDP and 80% of its export earnings. Other major export commodi-
ties have been palm oil and rubber. Only about 2% and less than 25% respec-
tively of the state's imports and exports are traded with Peninsular Malaysia.
Sabah's economic dependence on timber should diminish with the development of
its offshore oil and copper deposits. In addition, the Government is making a
concerted effort to raise its agricultural production, particularly for the
low income smallholders. During the next few years, the state's GDP is



- 5 -
forecast to grow 5% to 6% per year in real terms. Improved road transport
will play a critical role in opening up new areas for development and improving
marketing for rural producers.
Transport Modes
17.       Transport modes in Sabah include coastal shipping, highways, avia-
tion, river transport and the railway. In the past, because of the poor road
connections between towns and the minor role played by the railway, coastal
shipping and aviation have been particularly significant.
18.       Because of very poor access to the interior, population has largely
concentrated along the state's extensive coastline. There are a large number
of ports, some of which are only 50 miles apart. In recent years, however,
the smaller ports have been losing traffic as a result of the improvement of
the roads and now over 90% of the cargo, except logs which are loaded from
roadsteads, passes through the three major ports of Kota Kinabalu, Sandakan
and Tawau.
19.       In addition to the Malaysian and foreign airline services connect-
ing Kota Kinabalu with Kuala Lumpur and neighboring countries, the Malaysian
Airline System provides internal services between 11 airports in Sabah,
serving 5 of them daily. Total air passenger traffic has doubled since
1970, rising to over half a million per annum.
20.       River transportation is used primarily for floating logs to loading
points on the coasts; it is also used for passenger and goods transport in
areas not serviced by roads.
21.       The Sabah State Railway is only 96 miles long, running from Kota
Kinabalu southwards through Papar and Beaufort and then inland to Tenom in
the Pegalan Valley. It was the first all-weather land transport facility
in the state. As roads have been developed, railway freight traffic has
decreased from an average of over 3 million ton-miles during 1966-70 to an
average of less than 2 million ton-miles in 1972-74. In the last few years,
railway expenditures have been twice as high as revenues, with deficits
reaching M$2 million a year. In view of the low rail traffic volumes and
the short distances between towns, the government has decided to upgrade
the highway between Papar and Beaufort and to phase out the railway service
between these two points. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
Sabah will start to phase out the railway service at and in between Papar and
Beaufort at the time reconstruction work is completed on the road connecting
the two cities. (See Section 4.03 of the Loan Agreement.) In addition,
Sabah is not planning to make any new capital investments in the railway and
will review the justification of all railway service in light of Sabah's
improved and expanding road network. However, there is now no direct road
between the west coast and the inland rail station at Tenom, so service to
the terminal point will have to continue until better road connections are
built.



-6-
Transport Planning
22.       Until very recently, transport planning in Sabah was rather limited.
It was left to the individual departments of the state government dealing with
the various modes, with the Sabah Public Works Department (SPWD) responsible
for roads. Roads were built where needed but inadequate planning led to
using available funds to produce the maximum length of roads rather than
constructing fewer roads to sounder standards. Late in 1975, a Sabah
Economic Planning Unit (SEPU) was created, modelled after and associated with
the federal Economic Planning Unit. The SEPU will help coordinate Sabah's
transport development.
The Highway Network and Road Usage
23.       Sabah's road network comprises about 2,350 miles of roads of which
only 28% are paved. This percentage contrasts sharply with Peninsular Malaysia
where 86% of a 12,000 mile network is paved. The road density is very low in
terms of area, 0.08 miles of road per square mile compared to 0.2 in Peninsular
Malaysia. Because the population of the state is so small, the per capita
density appears more favorable: 2.8 miles per 1,000 inhabitants compared to
1.2 in Peninsular Malaysia. The siting and general condition of Sabah's
roads are considerably inferior to those of Peninsular Malaysia. Unlike
Peninsular Malaysia where federal and state roads were already well advanced
before independence, many of Sabah's roads were initially built as private
roads to serve logging and plantation interests. As a result, the present
system does not provide adequate linkages between towns and is of poor
quality - long stretches of the roads become impassable during the rainy
season and maintenance costs are excessively high.
24.       Despite Sabah's poor road network, Sabah's motor vehicle fleet grew
between 1970 and 1975 at an average annual rate of over 10% and numbered
57,000 vehicles in 1975, of which 65% were cars, 17% trucks and 9% motorcycles.
Per capita ownership of cars is high, with one car for 20 inhabitants. Most
of the vehicle fleet is located in and around the three largest cities of
Kota Kinabalu, Sandakan and Tawau. The most heavily trafficked roads are the
paved sections of the west coast road from Kota Kinabalu north to Tamparuli
(25 miles) and Kota Belud (50 miles) and south to Papar (27 miles). On these
roads, traffic volumes are well in excess of 1,000 vehicles per day and much
higher near the towns. Elsewhere, traffic densities are low, ranging from a
few up to 300 vehicles per day, most of which are four-wheel drive. Traffic
densities in Sabah are on the average much lower than in Peninsular Malaysia,
and, for several years to come, many road sections will continue to carry
traffic volumes which are too low to justify asphalt paving.
Highway Administration and Planning
25.       The Sabah Public Works Department of the Sabah Ministry of Works
and Communications is responsible for highway construction and maintenance
and has received assistance for highway planning from the federal Government
and, recently, from the newly created Sabah Economic Planning Unit. Both the
SPWD and SEPU are understaffed in relation to their respective responsibili-
ties. This situation is expected to continue in the near future with the



- 7 -
current shortage of skilled manpower. Consequently, consultants' assistance
for planning, designing and executing major road projects will continue to be
necessary for the next few years.
Highway Financing and Expenditures
25.       Highway expenditures in Sabah are financed from both federal and
state budgetary resources. The state receives a federal allocation for road
maintenance, which is supplemented by federal grants on an ad hoc project
basis. Road user taxes are not earmarked but form part of the general
revenues. In Sabah, revenue from these taxes increased faster than road
expenditures, tripling between 1970 and 1974 from M$22 million to about
M$70 million, and matching expenditures in 1973 and 1974.
26.       In the Third Malaysia Plan, the proposed allocation to Sabah high-
ways for 1976-80 is M$250 million (US$100 million). This amount would be
insufficient to carry out the planned road development program in Sabah
which, in addition to this project, includes the Sandakan-Lahad Datu road and
the proposed Japanese-financed Crocker Range crossing. It is expected,
however, that the allocation will be increased during the mid-plan review as
was done in the previous two plans: in the First and Second Plan, actual
expenditures on Sabah's transport sector were 158% and 129% respectively
of the initially proposed allocations.
Highway Design and Construction
27.       Sabah's official design standards for roads, although revised in
1971, do not provide adequate guidance for design. While some roads need to
be reconstructed to higher standards to achieve a more permanent and maintain-
able condition, the standards should be economically justified. Assurances
were obtained from the Government during the negotiations that appropriate
modifications to the design standards, as agreed with the Bank, will be
introduced by July 1, 1977. (See Section 4.04 of the draft Loan Agreement.)
28.       It has been SPWD's practice to construct roads and improvements to
its own design by force account. SPWD's supervision of its construction
works has sometimes resulted in compromising specifications when available
funds were insufficient to achieve the construction targets. It is now
recognized that contractors should be used for construction and experienced
consultants for design and supervision of major road projects. Because of
the practice of executing road works by force account the road construction
industry in Malaysia is small. There are only two or three contractors who
have the capacity to undertake major road construction; however, there are a
number of contractors who are capable of undertaking minor works.
29.       Road failure is further exacerbated by the inadequate control of
heavy vehicles. Sabah's road traffic ordinance, introduced in 1953, does
not properly regulate and enforce axle loads. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that the Sabah state government will introduce the necessary
modifications in the road traffic legislation in consultation with the Bank,
to become effective by January 1, 1978. (See Section 4.04 of the draft Loan
Agreement.) The project includes the procurement of weighbridges to improve
the enforcement of the amended road traffic ordinance.



-8-
Highway Maintenance in Sabah
30.       A major problem of road maintenance in Sabah is the poor initial
standards of many roads. Because these roads lack proper drainage and
pavement structure, they cannot be placed under normal maintenance and thus
costly repair works have to be repeated each year after the rains to reopen
them to traffic. Additionally, the level of maintenance on the other roads
is inadequate because of the shortage of maintenance equipment and inadequate
organization (highway maintenance is only one of many duties of the SPWD
field divisions). Also, in the past the emphasis has been on the construction of
new roads, rather than on the maintenance of existing roads. Sabah's recurrent
budget for maintenance is now about M$18 million p.a. Once new equipment is
received and the new maintenance organization is in place, the state has advised
us it will budget at least M$20 million for annual road maintenance and will
provide adequate additional funds to allow for increased traffic and the expan-
sion of the road network.
31.       The country-wide highway maintenance study was completed in December
1976 by the Danish consultants KAMPSAX and the Malaysian consultants Sepakat
Setia Perunding (SSP), financed under the First Highway Project (Loan 851-MA).
The central recommendation of the study is that separate road maintenance
organizations should be established and equipped and staffed to carry out ade-
quate maintenance operations. The state government has confirmed that it is
in broad agreement with the consultant's study and,intends to implement the
study's basic recommendations. In addition, the state has accepted the study's
proposal to upgrade certain roads to permit them to be maintained normally.
Highway Maintenance in Peninsular Malaysia
32.       In Peninsular Malaysia highway maintenance has generally been good,
but the use of funds could be rationalized and the efficiency of operations
improved. The cost of maintenance tends to be high because (i) road main-
tenance is one of several activities assigned to the state's Public Works
Department (PWD) and often does not receive very high priority which leads to
delays and higher costs at a later date; (ii) the quality of some maintenance
is inadequate; and (iii) the paving on many roads is in very poor condition
because they were not built for the current volume of traffic. Since the
cost of reconstructing collapsed pavements would be much higher than prevent-
ing this situation by the timely application of a strengthening overlay, the
maintenance study proposed that high priority should be given to pavement
strengthening. The study also recommended that separate road maintenance
units should be created both within the federal and state PWD's.
33.       The Government has generally accepted the consultant's recommenda-
tions and prepared a pilot maintenance program for three states in Peninsular
Malaysia: Johore, Perak and Kelantan. The Government plans to adopt the
study's technical recommendations throughout the 11 states in Peninsular
Malaysia and to introduce during the TMP the new maintenance organization
recommended in the study for Peninsular Malaysia.



- 9 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Description
34.       The project was first identified in R.R. Nathan Associates (US)
1968 General Transport Survey, financed by the UNDP and for which the Bank
acted as Executing Agency. Subsequently, the engineering and economic feasi-
bility of the Sabah portion of the project was studied by US consultants, King
and Gavaris (who worked with R.R. Nathan Associates) and KAMPSAX International
A/S in association with Sepakat Setia Perunding (SSP). The maintenance
component of the project, as indicated above, is based on a country-wide study
by KAMPSAX and SSP.
35.       The main object of the project is to improve Sabah's highway
network through the reconstruction and upgrading of priority links and the
development of its maintenance capacity. A further objective is to protect
road investments in Peninsular Malaysia through a pilot road maintenance
and pavement strengthening program in three states. The proposed project
consists of:
(a) the reconstruction to paved standards of 128 mi, and to gravel
standards of 18 mi, of trunk roads in Sabah, including supervision
by consultants;
(b) a four-year maintenance program for Sabah, including procurement
of equipment, upgrading 290 mi on 13 road sections and assistance
by consultants;
(c) the development of pilot road maintenance and pavement strengthen-
ing programs for the states of Johore, Perak and Kelantan in
Peninsular Malaysia, including pavement strengthening of about
120 mi in Johore;
(d) (i) a transport/railway study for Peninsular Malaysia; and (ii) an
urban study of Kota Kinabalu.
(a) Reconstruction and Supervision of Roads in Sabah
36.       Two sections of trunk roads in Sabah, totalling 128 miles, will be
reconstructed to paved standards: Papar-Beaufort (37 mi which includes a
2 mi connection at Papar) on the west coast and Lahad Datu-Semporna (91 mi)
on the east coast. A portion of a third section, Beaufort-Sindumin (35 mi) on
the west coast, will be upgraded to an all-weather gravel standard. The
existing roads are all rough gravel roads. Inadequate drainage makes the
roads impassable during periods of heavy rain which are frequent on both
coasts. Travel speeds are extremely low, averaging about 15 mph. The Papar-
Beaufort road will follow an entirely new alignment, reducing the distance
between the two towns from 48 to 35 mi, while the Lahad Datu-Semporna road
will generally follow the existing alignment. Both of these roads will be
paved. Paving of the Beaufort-Sindumin section has been deferred in view



- 10 -
of its low economic return, but some 18 miles will be reconstructed to raise
the road above flood level to ensure all-weather passage.
37.       Sabah has selected the Danish consultants, KAMPSAX, with Malaysian
consultants, SSP, to supervise construction. These consultants, who are
satisfactory to the Bank, prepared the detailed engineering and tender
documents for the roads and assisted the Sabah Public Works Department (SPWD)
in evaluating tenders for the works which were received in November 1976.
The federal Public Works Department (FPWD) will provide Sabah with a project
coordinator and a few engineers to ensure proper administration of the works
by the SPWD.
(b) Four-Year Maintenance Program for Sabah
38.       As recommended in the consultant's maintenance study, Sabah will
establish five separate SPWD divisions to deal exclusively with road mainte-
nance. These divisions will be adequately equipped and staffed to carry out
improved maintenance operations. The state has also decided to upgrade
290 miles on 13 road sections which will then permit the sections to be
properly maintained by the new divisions. Workshops are now adequate in
number, location and facilities to service existing and new equipment. The
Bank loan will finance the procurement of the additional equipment required;
the upgrading of 12 road sections (one road section will be upgraded by
SPWD); and a foreign consulting firm which will oversee design, construction,
maintenance, and quarry operations. Three qualified consulting firms will
carry out the final engineering and supervision of construction for the 12
road sections to be upgraded.
(c) Pilot Road Maintenance and Pavement Strengthening Program in
Peninsular Malaysia
39.       The main thrust of the Peninsular Malaysia maintenance program will
be to reorganize maintenance by establishing a separate maintenance unit in
the FPWD to assist the states in planning and coordinating maintenance
efforts and in evaluating and designing pavement strengthening needs, and a
separate section in each state PWD that is adequately staffed and equipped to
deal exclusively with maintenance. Because implementation of the recommenda-
tions of the maintenance study on a national scale will take several years to
achieve, the federal Government has decided to initiate them through a pilot
program for the states of Johore, Perak and Kelantan in order to gain exper-
ience and then to judge how best to implement the recommendations in the
remaining states.
40.       Implementation of the pilot program has already started.    The pro-
posed Bank loan will finance the pavement strengthening of about 120 miles
of Federal Route I in Johore; the pavement strengthening in the other two
pilot states will be funded by the Government. In addition to the physical
benefits, we expect that the organizational restructuring will substantially
improve road maintenance, providing a very significant benefit to the highway
network in Peninsular Malaysia.



(d) Studies
41.       Transport/Railway Study.   The rapid economic development of Penin-
sular Malaysia, the opening of new areas to settlement on the east coast, and
the lesser reliance placed on the port of Singapore have changed some of the
characteristics of the transport sector since the last comprehensive transport
survey (1967-69). Of particular concern to the Government is the role and
condition of the railway. At the Government's request, a transport/railway
study for Peninsular Malaysia has been included in the project for Bank
financing. The terms of reference include: updating sector information,
making new projections of transport needs, and examining the future role of
the railway in the overall transport pattern of Peninsular Malaysia. The
study is expected to take 50 man-months of expatriate assistance.
42.       Kota Kinabalu Urban Study.   Kota Kinabalu, the state capital of
Sabah, is growing very rapidly. The lack of efficient land use planning and
control measures, the wide disparities of housing standards, deficiencies and
disparities in basic infrastructure and services, inadequate flood control
within the immediate vicinity of the urbanized area, the proliferation of
private and public development schemes (including the proposed industrial
zone with a new jetty at Sapangar Bay) are creating a number of problems.
The federal and state Governments have requested the Bank to assist in
financing a study to help plan for the future development of the city. The
study is expected to take betweeen 50 to 60 man-months of both expatriate and
local expertise.
Project Costs and Financing
43.       The total cost of the project, including contingencies, is estimated
at US$108 million, with a foreign exchange component of US$69 million, or
64%. The proposed loan of US$35 million equivalent will cover 32% of total
project costs and represents about 51% of the foreign exchange component. The
Government will provide the funds required to finance the remaining project
costs of US$73 million equivalent in the SPWD and federal annual development
budgets. The annual recurrent costs of the new road maintenance programs in
the states of Johore, Perak, Kelantan and Sabah will be financed through the
annual budgets of the PWD's in each of the states. Detailed cost estimates
are given in Annex III.
44.       Cost estimates for the reconstruction works in Sabah are based on
quantities derived from completed engineering and on international tenders
received in November 1976. Tenders have been evaluated and awards to the
lowest bidders are expected by the end of March 1977. The cost estimates
for equipment are based on a detailed list of proposed items and current
unit costs. The costs for the upgrading works in Sabah and pavement streng-
thening in Johore are based on comprehensive engineering assessments of the
work and quantities by consultants and by the states involved, and the
application of unit price rates from recent tenders for similar works.
45.       Cost estimates for various consulting services are based on a
detailed review of man-months and unit costs for similar work or studies in
Malaysia, except for the local services for engineering and supervision of



- 12 -
the upgrading works for which a percentage of the construction cost was used.
The average cost per man-month in the equivalent of US dollars is estimated
to be 6,000 for construction supervision in Sabah, 7,500 for technical
support for SPWD, and 8,000 for the studies.
46.       A physical contingency allowance of 10% has been added to cover
quantity increases on all items, except for the roads to be reconstructed in
Sabah where only 8% has been added because the tender prices already provide
for a 2% quantity increase. Allowances for price escalation have been
provided as follows: 12% p.a. in 1977-79 and 10% p.a. thereafter for all
civil works; 10% for equipment; and 8% p.a. in 1977-79 and 7% p.a. thereafter
for all consulting services.
Implementation
47.       The Sabah Ministry of Works and Communications (SMWC) will be res-
ponsible for carrying out the reconstruction element of the project and the
road maintenance and upgrading program for Sabah through its SPWD assisted by
qualified consultants. Assurances have been obtained from the Government that
suitably qualified consultants satisfactory to the Bank will be engaged to
supervise the reconstruction element will be engaged prior to the commencement
of the work. (See Section 3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement.) The responsi-
bility for the pilot maintenance project in Peninsular Malaysia will rest with
the federal Ministry of Works and Utilities through its FPWD, and the responsi-
bility for the transport/railway study will lie with the federal Economic
Planning Unit and the federal Ministry of Communications. The Sabah Economic
Planning Unit will supervise the Kota Kinabalu Urban Study. The federal
Government will retain overall responsibility for the Sabah elements of the
project and appropriate arrangements for effective control have been agreed
between SMWC and the federal Government and confirmed during loan negotiations.
(See Section 3.01 of the draft Loan Agreement.)
48.       Land acquisition, which is only significant for 35 miles of the
west coast road, is not expected to be a problem as it has been with previous
road projects in the vicinity of Kuala Lumpur. Assurances were received from
the Government at negotiations that all land will be acquired in a timely
fashion. (See Section 3.05 of the draft Loan Agreement.)
49.       The current and likely near-term shortage of labor in Sabah has
precluded consideration by the Government of more labor intensive methods
for road construction or maintenance. The pavement strengthening program
in Peninsular Malaysia is capital intensive and cannot be done with labor
intensive methods.
50.       The upgrading of roads by contract in Sabah and the pavement
strengthening program in Peninsular Malaysia will provide a significant
work program that should help develop and expand the local road construction
industry. It is expected that several local firms will be successful in
winning contracts ranging in value from US$800,000 to US$2,000,00.



- 13 -
Procurement
51.       All civil works financed by the Bank, in Sabah and in Peninsular
Malaysia, will be carried out under unit price contracts awarded after
international competitive bidding following Bank Group Guidelines for
Procurement.
52.       The purchases of equipment for the maintenance program in Sabah
will follow Bank Guidelines and international competitive bidding should be
completed before the end of 1977. For purposes of bid comparison, a prefer-
ence of 15% of the c.i.f. price of imported goods, or the customs duty,
whichever is lower, would be extended to local manufacturers. The Bank Group
Guidelines will also be followed for the procurement of all consulting
services and all agreements for services would be entered into under terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Disbursements
53.       Disbursements from the loan will be on the basis of:
(i) 35% of the total cost of civil works for which Bank financing
is proposed;
(ii)  100% of the c.i.f. cost of directly impofted equipment for Sabah
or 100% of the ex-factory price of such items if manufactured
locally, or 70% of the price of such items if imported but locally
procured; and
(iii) 100% of foreign exchange expenditures of the consultants services
proposed for Bank financing. For the urban study in Sabah, disburse-
ments would be 80% of total costs.
It is expected that disbursement would be completed by December 31, 1980.
A schedule of disbursements is given in Annex III.
Justification and Benefits
Reconstruction of Roads in Sabah
54.       The Project offers an overall and graduated approach to the improve-
ment of roads in Sabah through (a) the reconstruction of two major trunk
roads on the west and east coasts, which already carried traffic in excess of
200 vpd in 1976; (b) the upgrading of other priority trunk roads with traffic
levels around 100 vpd; and (c) the improvement of maintenance for the entire
network. The project will reduce transport costs through savings in vehicle
operating costs and savings in heavy maintenance and repairs which are regularly
needed after heavy rains. The project will also improve communications between
various towns and villages, and thus reduce the present isolation of a scattered
population by providing easier and faster transport.



- 14 -
(a) The West Coast Road
Papar to Beaufort
55.       The coastal plain between Papar and Beaufort is currently served by
the railway, while the existing road, which originated as a logging track,
takes a circuitous route through the foothills of the Crocker Range. The new
road is 13 miles (or 27%) shorter than the existing road and will provide a
direct paved link between Beaufort and the port and markets of the state
capital, Kota Kinabalu. Besides the sizeable savings due to the shorter
distance, there will be considerable savings of vehicle operating costs due
to the improved alignment and surface. Savings on the new road range
from 40% for cars to 53% for trucks. In addition, when the new road is
opened it is expected to divert all traffic from the railway which will then
be closed. The economic rate of return (ERR) calculated over an annual 20
year service life of the investment is 14%.
Beaufort-Sindumin
56.        This is the last section of the west coast road that runs to the
border with Sarawak. The traffic averages only about 180 vpd, and the paving of
this section has been deferred. Certain sections, totalling about half of the
total length and which are frequently flooded, will be reconstructed to gravel
standards to ensure all-weather passage. Quantified benefits are in terms of
savings in vehicle operating costs and considerable savings in the cost of the
heavy maintenance and repairs now regularly undertaken after heavy rains.
There will also be social and economic benefits resulting from the year-round
opening of the road which have not been quantified. The quantified benefits
of the investment are calculated for the 6 years between completion in 1979
and 1984 when traffic levels are expected to justify paving of the road. The
ERR is 16%.
(b) The East Coast Road: Lahad Datu to Semporna
57.        This road will improve the land connection between three east coast
towns: Lahad Datu, Semporna, and Tawau. The road from Tawau to the intersection
with the proposed road (28 miles) is being paved by SPWD's own forces. While
small ships still call at Lahad Datu, the existing road is already competitive
with coastal shipping, the slightly higher financial cost being more than
compensated by the speed of delivery. After valuable timber is extracted, the
forest is being replaced by oil palm and coconut plantations, first in the
vicinity of the existing towns, but gradually expanding along the road. Cocoa
is being introduced near Tawau and is reportedly doing very well. Savings in
vehicle operating costs on the new road range from 35% for cars to 50% for
trucks. They are somewhat lower than for the west coast road since the project
follows the existing hilly alignment while on the west coast the new Papar-
Beaufort road will be in the coastal plain. There will also be some savings in
maintenance costs. The ERR over a 20 year service life is 14%.



- 15 -
(c) Roads to be Upgraded
58.       The project will upgrade 290 miles on 13 trunk road sections total-
ling 530 miles. The remaining 240 miles will be placed under normal mainte-
nance. A separate economic analysis has been done for the two types of
upgrading work planned, i.e. for sections requiring raised embankments and a
gravel course and sections requiring only a gravel course.    The analysis is
done on the basis of average costs and benefits per mile and using a conser-
vative average traffic density of 100 vpd/mile in 1977 with two-thirds light
and one-third heavy vehicles and growing at an average of 9% p.a. until 1985
and 6% thereafter. About three-quarters of the benefits of the new gravel
course come from savings of vehicle operating costs and the rest from reduced
maintenance costs. For the sections requiring raised embankments, savings in
maintenance and repair costs needed after the rains account for 50% of the
total benefits. Benefits have been calculated for 10 years after the invest-
ment, assuming that on average traffic levels on these roads would justify
further upgrading by that time. The ERR are 22% for road sections with
raised embankments and gravel course and 26% for those with gravel course
only.
(d) The Sabah Maintenance Program
59.       The benefits of the program made possible by the purchase of equip-
ment and the reorganization will be mainly in terms of protecting the invest-
ment in already improved roads and the roads which will be reconstructed and
upgraded through the project. The surface condition of most roads in Sabah
is poor and vehicle operating costs are unduly high. The improvement in
maintenance will also result in reduced vehicle operating costs and improved
communications between areas frequently isolated during the rains. It has
been assumed that savings in vehicle operating costs would average 5% on
paved roads and 10% to 15% on gravel roads one year after the new maintenance
divisions are allocated the new equipment. For calculating savings of
vehicle operating costs, sections of the network to be maintained have been
grouped according to traffic densities. For the purpose of the analysis
project costs have been defined as the capital cost of the new equipment and
technical assistance for the program and the difference between the recurrent
costs of maintenance with and without the project. Benefits have been
calculated over a seven-year period which is estimated to represent the
average life of the equipment. The ERR is 29%.
(e) Pavement Strengthening in Johore, Peninsular Malaysia
60.       The benefits of pavement strengthening result from the prevention
of major damage to roads which would entail later reconstruction at much
higher costs. While the cost of reconstruction can be estimated, the exact
timing of future failures is more difficult to pinpoint. The pavements of
road sections to be strengthened under the project llave been tested and are
all within a few years of the end of their useful life. Consequently, it
has been assumed that all sections would have failed within the four years
following the proposed strengthening and that failures would be equally
spread over this four-year period. While vehicle operating costs would also
increase as a particular road section deteriorates to the point of being



- 16 -
unusable, benefits due to savings in vehicle operating costs with the proj-
ect have not been quantified, as they would vary greatly from section to
section. Thus, the estimated ERR of 28% on the basis of reconstruction cost
savings alone is on the conservative side.
61.       The average ERR on the project components above, which account for
99% of all project costs proposed for financing by the Bank, is 18%. This
excludes the two studies financed under the project.
62.       There are no unusual risks associated with the project.    Although
previous highway projects experienced delays, we believe this project should
be free of these problems because we do not foresee a period of uncertain prices
and material shortages and we have been advised that there is no problem in
this project with land acquisition, which delayed the Second Highway Project.
A risk factor has been taken into account by examining the sensitivity of the
rates of return to variations in the costs and benefits. In each case, the
lower rate of return was acceptable.
Environmental Effects
63.       The project is not expected to have any significant adverse eco-
logical effects. On the contrary, the paving of the roads will eliminate the
dust raised by vehicles traveling on gravel roads and proper drainage will
reduce erosion and flooding.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
64.       The draft Loan Agreement between Malaysia and the Bank, the Report
of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) and the Article
and Agreement and the text of a resolution approving the proposed loan are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
65.       Features of special interest in the Loan Agreement are described in
paragraphs 21, 27, 29, 47 and 48 of this report.
66.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
64.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
March 1, 1977
Washington, D. C.



Page 1 of 14 Oka.
U*IAISIA        - SOCIAL IUiAECVUs DATA SWEET
LARD AK& £TUSU KM)
------ - --- - --                       M~~~ALAYSIA                            REFERENiCE COUNTRIES (19703
TOTAL        329.7                                          MOST RtCCLNT
AGQIl.         ..190                                   91     ESTIMATE            PERU            PORTUGAL MM)
Gl,. PEX CAPIA   CUSS)                      200        400          700./                                         5.
POPULATION (RI1093. MILLION)                0.0       10.4         12.0                13.3          9.1        50.4
POP!ULATION DENSITY
PER SOUARE KH.                          24.0.       32.0         36.0                10.0        99.0         26.0
PEEt SO. KRl. AGRICULTURAL LAND            .       291.0          ...                           201.0         52.0
VITAiL STATISTICS
AVERAGE 611TH RATE (/THOU)              115.6       42.2         38.7               4Z.9         2Z.7        4.3.8
AVERAGE DEATH RtATE 1/TNOI)             17.8        12.9          9.9               14.7          7.9         10.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE C/THUU)           62.0        40.811       7?.9/j             65.          5.           648.5
LIFE EXPECTANCV AT BIRTH (YRS)          51.7        56.7        59.11                53.04       66.1c        61.0
GROSS REPRODUCTIDN RATE                  2.9         2.611a      2.J1Za              2.9          1.5          3.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATE CE)
TOTAL                                    2.8         2.6         3.0                 2.8          0.1I(b       3.4
URBAN                                    5.5         3.0         5.5                 5.0          154.8
URBAN POPULATION (3 Of TOTAL)              25.9       26.8         30.2                53.0         37.0        58.7
AGE STRtUCTURE (PERCENiT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                          43.8$/a c   44.71        4. S.D0/a                       28.5         46.2
I5 TO 64, (EARS                         534A7       52. IL-                         52.07.-      61.a         50.1
65 TEARS AND OVER                        2.6Ej       3.Zlj        .                   3. 07w      9.1          3.7
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                        O.9a.      aO9/a                            O. 9/a      0.6          1.0
ECONOMIC OEPENDENCY RAT10                   9*'L       t 16Z   ~    .                   1.57        1.1          2.0
FAMILY PLANNIAG
ACCEPTORS ICUNOULATIVE. THOU)              .       Z22.2      - 371411                 ....5.5
USERS (I OF MARRIED WOMEN)                .          80Oj         .
EMPLOYMRENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)            2300.0kf    2900.  a .                      4300.0/a     320.       13000.0
LABOR ~ORCE IN AGRICULTUARE (Z)           536.0        3.0a                           45.0 a       3315 -O      40.0
UNE4PLJYED (Z Of LABOR FORCE)               2.O 8j    A6 Oj          *5oE
INCOPME OISTRIRIUTION
Z OF PRIVAT- 1INCOME RECO0 AT-
HIGHEST   SE OIF HOUSEHCOLS             Ir. @1      26.3          ..314,                           .          31.
HIGHEST 201 OF HOUSEHGOLS               44. 0       560           ..6Z.A                           .          6 3.2
LOWEST   201 OF HOUSEHOLDS               6. 5        3.5          I.18 c                           .           4.2
LOWEST   401 OF HOUSEHOLDS              to.         11.2          ..17~                      .                10.2
DISYMRIaUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
E DWRE) Of TOP 10% OF ONWERS                 ..          .           .93.0                           ..         31.1
I OWNED BY SMALLEST 1DE OWNEkSs.                                     .                  0.1          ..0.3
HEALTH ANO NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                6500.                  44 0D.       ~       19200        11000        1440.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSoW           2600.0      1080.0a     1o00.ab             3200.         900         Isd 1a10.
POPULATION PEN HOSPITAL BED              290. /      2T0.0j     270.0a               470. 0       160.0o       9 30. 0
.PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (I OF REQUIREMENTb)                        93 9   d                        98.0        118.0        110.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)                             49                              62.0         8 5.0        65.0
-0   WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE                       20.         a .d                24.0         4 0.1       28.O/a
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4                  .         5.5          .                  12.4           .          9.8
EDUJCAT IUN
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMIARY SCHOOL                         91.a        80a         92. a:             101.0o        95.0        120 6. 0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                        194        'S' 49O:O"   3IZ 0Zj-F d          35.0o       52.0          3.
YEARS OF SCROOLING PROVIDED 
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)                13.8&       13.01a      1 3.0O&             12.0         13.0         12.0
voCATIONAI. ENROLLNENT
it OF 6ECONDARY)                         S.O/        3.011 O     3. OzjA              7.0k       32.0         24.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (Z)                    46.07iA     55.0       60.qXh-              61.0        65.0         76.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROoaR (AVERAGE)                                                              ..           ..a        2.2
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT                   .           .1
PIPED HATER (I)                            6.A.~                  .                     ..                     1.0/b
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
CE OF ALL OVELLINGS)                       .        43.0/          .                   .         85.0         59.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (1)                         .        30.0/          ....                                       28.0
CONSUMRPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)             37.0       41.0        40.0                134.0       142.0        276.0
PASSENGERt EARS (PER THOU POP)             13. 0      27.0        31..0                17.0        57.0         24.0
ELECTRICITY (KNWHYR PER CAP)             200.a1      sint. 011   5 10. O&4070                     87.           6.
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                   08         401         2                     .           4.          3.
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ONl REVERSE



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 4 poses
Unless otherwis  noted, data for 1960 refer to any year betwee   1959 and 1961, for 1970 betwee   1968 and 1970, sod for Most Rec..st Estimate betsne
1973 and 1975.
-P  Mesico h.. been, selected aaobjection country since it has set a rapid path of Industrial eaponaic       in rho sense Misyl'sjdotrial base
is reistively snaIl sod the country h.n the capacity and Plans to expand its industrial production rapidly Is the fotore.
MAIAYSIA      1960    I  Want MaIylayI;     lb  1957-508    Ic  1957,    Id  Ragist-red applican.ts for wok, 1962;     /e   Podor-tion of Malaya
1910    I   Want Malaysia;    lb  Regiscerad applicants for work      In  Personne  in g   rosaaent services;   Id  1964-66,    Is  12-18
ynara af age;    if   Piped water inside.
MO-ST RECENT ESTIMATE:   Ia  West Malays ia ;  /b  1972,    it  Personnel In gavemet     -arvic.,     Id  12-18 yeasr of age
PERU         1970     la Eslades Indian jungle popslatios;      lb  Urban arenas only;    Ic  Ecoonsicaly action p.pslstion;     /d  inclding    -veieg
PORTUGlAL    1970     I  Under revision;     lb  Dun to emigration, population growth rate is lowr than rate ofnaulicrse                /c  Porisgal
continental only;     Id  Including tidwiwe;     Ia  12-16 years of age.
MEXICO       1970     /   1964-66;    lb  ma ids only.
R9, Sept. 16, 1976
DEF INrT IiS OP SOCIAL INDICATORS
Land Are  (thon ke1                                                                  Pocutatio  per asralag person - PopuLation divided by somber of practicing
T.iL.- Total suf- aceare    comprising land area and inland watern.                     male ad femle graduate coron, "trained" or "certified' n            -se, it;
Agrio.  N-Mot recen.t estimate of agrica1turo1 ares used tem,porarily or                auxiliary personel with training or-    prine
peroanatly for crops, pastures, market & kitchen gardens or to lie                 Pseulatio  par hospital bad - Population divided by somber of hospitl1 beds
follo.                                                                               available in pablic ad private general ad     peciaiced bo-pila1 and
rehabilitation canters; esoludes -srig hones and estabiihionets for
fgr   ca1     tJ       GN IP per capita estiaieo at eurot .art pricen,                  custodial ad prevetive care
er1Waqi46byobis)m o*vorisou method - World Rank Atlas (19173-75 balis);           Per capita supply of calories (L of requirements) - Computod from energy
1960, 197O and 1915 data                                                             equivalent of net fend supplies available in country per capito per day.
avilable supplino comprise dasstic production, imports less exports,
PPoplaion and Vital   -taistics                                                         and hiunges in, stack; set sopplies ecolode aimaI feed, seeds , qsaeti-
M., I(. d-yr I       - AaorJot    ct'.,       c..'.....ss                       ties -nd in food processing sod looses In dis-rbstics,. rqioe
-e-rge of tw   end-year estAnste.. 1960, 1970 ad 1975 data.                          -er  esctxated by F60 based on physiological needs foe n..-I ocivity
and health considering eneirowonenta1 tonperaitur, body udighis, age ad
______________________________C Mid-yar   per   ilo"               so  diotributionts of popslstiom, and allowing 101% for wasteat house
Peculation density - pehqaeh                    oulto          qabl                           leel
meter (100 hectares) of total area.                                                P',r caIta  -pply of proteI (gas     e  day) - Protein consent of pee
Pooltiondesty-t_1      stit hes      1crc     -ed - Coaps-d as above for               caIta net supply of food prday       c   upy    of.fd is defined a
ogricsirurol loud only.                                         a~~~~boe requiremets for all cowtries established-by USDA Econsic
Octal Statistics                                                                         R.e-aih Services provide isp o ninisa   alvai      f 60 gra    of statl
puteic pet day, asd 20 g9o-   cf animal osd pulse p-Lais, of ubih
Crude birth rate per thoussd - A-sul live births per thosand of old-                     10 gras should be animal proteis; these standards ore l1nr than tbose
year .poplotion; inn-year or itbsetic av-rgen sndiog In 1960 and 1970,                of 75 gras of total protein and 23 gras of anina1 protein as as
and fie-yar averagending In 1975 for osat recent ettxate,                             average for the word, prepened by FAO Sn the Third World Food Survy.
Crude death rate pr thouad - A.Isna death. per thonsand sf      id-year               Per capita protein supply from animal ad eslse - fro-ici   supply of food
popolattenn, ten-year arithnoetic averages ending is 1960 and 1970, and               derived from animals sad psises in grasa per day.
ftv--y-a average ending in 1915 for soot recent estinste.                          Death rate C/thou) ages 1-4 - A-..ua deatho per thousand in oge group
Infant mortatity rate i/thou) - Annual deaths of Se.ant under one year of                1-4 years, to children In this age group; suggested aonindi-tsr of
ale pr chsaosdlivebirths.                                                        mal-tfition.
Lif eeecony a brth fyrs   - Averge otaber ef years of life reaining
at birch, osually five-year overages endisg In 1960, 1970 and 1975 f.r             Edu-tion
developing conre.Adiusted enoletratio - prinry school - Enrolloent of all agesa
Oreos r-prod-tion rate     Average conkr of live dasghters a onsa    will                percentage oftprimary nchssl-sge population, icolod-c children aged
bear in her sora    reproductive period if she esperienoe.s present age-              6-l11 yearn but adjusted for different lesgths of primay educa.tion,
speciflo frility rates; ....slly fiven-year averges esding in 1960,                   forcontries with enivers-1 eds...cion, enr..tlcet may excd iSOT
1970 an   975 for developing -osstries,                                               sioce smo  pupils ore beu or above rhe official uchvol age.
Population"growh cute (7) -total-Compound annual growth rates of mid-                 Ad looted esolatratio - aecendary ochoot - Compoted as abov,
year ppuLotion for 1950-60, 1960- 70, and 1970-75.                                    secondary education requices at least four yeors of approved primary
Popultion groth rete1%) - urban - Computed like growth rate of total                     instruction; provides genral, voctiona     or teaher training
popolation, different defInitions of orba   areas may affect compara-                 instntio      for pupils of 12 to 17 years of age. o--esponde.c.
hility of data _aong coireo,cussaegnrlyeetdd
Urbn oplaIonCloftoal      -   a  ie  frban to total population,                   Year efshoigpoie            frt and seod level) - Total yer- of
difrn  eIntoseurban area      may affect comparbility of data                  coln;a.eodr              ee,vctoa          ntuto       a    epr
emon   eso-e,tnl                                                                          rcmltl         cldd
Age strctore (percest) - Children (0-l4 years), working-age (15-64 yearn),            V ocatioma1 emrstlloet (7. of secodary) - Vocational istituison
andpretired (6) years and over) as percentages of mid-year population,                include techaical, industrial or other p-vgrans hbich operate-
le depedency ratio - Ratio of population under, 15 and 65 and aver t0                     independently or as depariento of secondary i-otitstions.
chose    ages 15throug   64                                                         dult literacy rate (7.) - Literte adults (able to read sod write)a
Ic.ononie depodmZ  rti       Ratio of population ocdr 15 and 65 and aver                  percentage of total adsIt population aged 15 years and ever.
totelb rfrt  in age group of15-64 years.
Pails elamin    - acceptors (c-ansltive, thou) - C,o1ultive muber of                  Hoo teg
acceptors  f birth-control devices under auspice   of mational fanily              Person  Pa r reoo (average) - Average muber of persn    per roo  in
plsan ing progra since inception,                                                     occuPied conventional. dweIligo in urbo area; dwelligs e-etodo
Paily7 elsniBg - uses   ('7.,of marid - - -) - Percentages of maried                       -P         tt     tes     d-    .pidars
was   of child-beringag     (15-4  years) who use birth-cotrol dei...vcesn                      I-ps inegi otru tures pad uno  Ccupie   port..pd  oeto
t. .11 --t.d  -   I. .-   age gronp.                              d_~~Occuped dwllgswtotpedaer()-Ocuidonninl
to all married wasn i sam age group.                            dulIogs in urban ad rural area     vithont InsIde or otaide piped
H.Pl.voent                                                       m -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~wter facilities as percentage of all1 occapiad dwellings.
Teta1 labor forc    (thonasd) - Econoically action person, including                     cais, e.,letricityinlvg quarters asx. pecn     oftotal dweIliag    i
armned forces and uneplyed but excluding housewive, studants, etc.;                   uranan    rural annIsqa.                preto         otldli.i
Laborfortein a ricutue('7.) - Agrioult-Ia labor fsrce (in franinag,                 raral dwelLings only.
f_orsany, h,oting ad fPinig) as percentages of total labor force.
Inmlyd (    ilbrforce) - Dn-mplopd a- usualy defined as person                      Cogatmption
who are ahle ad willing to take a job, out of a job on a give    day,              Madio reevr      etrhnsn           l  ypso      eevr     frrdebod
remained out of a job, and smoking work far a specified   ixios  period               cast  n genra I     blic per thonsad of poplation; excludes
nor exceding as, week; may net he coparable betwee     countries due to               aL.i sececier            nae,trn   adinyrswergsttonc
different definitions of ,oempleyed and amrce of data, e.g. , employ-                 radio setsd  oi     ffc;dt      fri   recent years mayot begtctomarabl
on sfflee statistics, samPle survys, cmulnyaaepoymet inetura-e                       since mea  eorris abslished lIcesig
Inc-    distribution - percentage of private Pmoe(shi e            dkn)sating -es than eiht Pperoa                         ecuesiP.ncs           eassa
reeniond b   ihs     5?rcest 20?X,     -pooet 20? ad pcorent h? of                     mtili tary vehcle."
bosholds.                                                                        Electricity (boh/yr per cap) - Aemu-l  --soptlon of industrial, com-
Di.tftb.i- of 1-d  -r-  P - Pereotg"  of1-d  ~d  y -Itmercial ,ypublic andpprivate electricity in, kilatt bourn per e.pita,
Dintrbotio of  jadonrshp-Pretgso             a    we    ywatis                       gasral    based on produrtlo  data, mithont alloanc    for losnes in
10? and poorest ID   f land ~owers.                                                   gr:dahtb  sInIng for imports, and export    of eleetricity.
Health end Nutrition                                                                  Nesrn        /yr per cap) - Per capita anua     anssaption in kilsgra
Population per physician - Population divided by nusher of pra-ticing                     -it         rsd     tcpdto            t    e   pt        -rt
Physicians quslified fro a me.dical school at university leve.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1975                      ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (% in constant prices)
US$ Mln       Z          1960-65     1965-70     1970-74      1975
GNP at Market Prices         9,012      100.0         6.9          5.6         9.2        1.2
Gross Domestic Investment    1,885       20.9         9.4          7.7        16.7      -25.4
Gross National Saving        1,741       19.3        11.8          7.9        12.9       15.9
Current Account Balance       -144       -1.6
Exports of Goods, NFS        4,098       45.5         4.1          6.5         7.3        3.8
Imports of Goods, NFS        3,961       43.9         3.3          5.7        11.3      -18.8
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1970
Value Added                Labor Force /1                V.A. Per Worker
US$ Mln         %             Mln.       %                  US$            %
Agriculture         823         29.7           1.5      46.9                   549         54.4
Industry            760         27.5           0.5      15.6                 1,520       149.5
Services          1,184         42.8           1.0      31.3                 1,184       116.4
Total/Average    .             .
2,767        100.0            3.2     100.0                 1,017       100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                      Federal Government
M$ Mln             % of GDP            M  Mln             xof GDP
1975        1975       1972-74         1975        1975      1972-74
Current Receipts            6,173        27.8       23.6           5,117        23.1      19.7
Current Expenditures        5,968        26.9       22.0           4,900        22.1      19.0
Public Authorities Surplus     96         0.4        0.9             .            . _
Current Surplus               301         1.3        2.5             217         1.0       0.7
Capital Expenditures        3,060        13.7       10.4           1,266         5.7       4.7
Foreign Borrowing (net)     1,011         4.6        1.3             912         4.1       1.1
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES             1969     1970      1971     1972     1973     1974      1975
(Million M$ outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi-Money               3,724    4,131     4,666    5,770    7,574    8,729    10,001
Bank Credit to Public Sector          909      833     1,045    1,186    1,375    1,746    2,148
Bank Credit to Private Sector       1,841    2,246     2,572    3,014    4,586    5,278     6,084
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money or Quasi-Money as % of GDP     33.1     33.3      36.0     40.4     40.0     37.8     45.1
Consumer Price Index (1967 = 100)    99.4-   101.3     102.9    106.2    117.4    137.8     144.0
Annual Percentage Changes in:
Consumer Price Index                 -0.4      1.9       1.6      3.2     10.5     17.4       4.5
Bank Credit to Public Sector          6.4     -8.4      25.5     13.5     15.9     27.0      14.6
Bank Credit to Private Sector         9.0     21.9      14.6     17.2     52.2     15.1      15.3
NOTE:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate
prexailing during the period covered.
L Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.
"Unallocated" consists mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
not available
not applicable



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4 pages
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                      MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1973-75)
1973     1974    1975                              US$ Mln      %
(US$ million)
Exports of Goods, NFS        3,171  4,420    4,098
Imports of Goods, NFS        2,739  4,441    3,961       Rubber                  1,023      28.3
Resource Gap (deficit = -)     432   - 21      137       Tin                       500       13.8
Timber                    581       16.1
Interest Payments (net)        -40   - 50      -57       Palm Oil                  397      11.0
Petroleum                 249        6.9
Other Factor Payments (net) -230     -199     -172       All Other Commodities     865      23.9
Net Transfers                 - 62   - 58     - 52
Balance on Current Account     100   -328     -144           Total               3,615     100.0
Direct Foreign Investment      172     373     229
Net MLT Borrowing /1                                     EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1975
Disbursements              80    182      550
Amortization               24     52       75                                        US$ Mln
Subtotal                   56    130      475
Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed     1,220
Other Capital (net)          ( -92  (    1   (-489       Non-Guaranteed Private Debtt
Other items n.e.i.           (__     (       (_ _        Total Outstanding & Disbursed     1,220
Increase in Reserves (-)      -236   -176     - 71
Net Official Reserves                               -     EST=ERVICE RATIO FOR 1975 /2
(end year)                   1,411  1,615    1,695                                           X
Fuel and Related Materials                               Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed       3.2
Imports                      163    418      426       Non-Guaranteed Private Debt         ..
of which:   Petroleum       49    215       ..       Total Outstanding & Disbursed      3.2
Exports                      152    345      402
of which:   Petroleum      110    281     -359
IBRD/IDA LENDING (December 31, 1976)
(US$ million)
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                             IBRD
Average rate during period:                              Outstanding & Disbursed            305.5
M$ per US$      US$ per M$         Undisbursed                       341.0
Outstanding incl. Undisbursed      646.5
1971          3.05            0.33
1972          2.82            0.35
1973          2.44            0.41
1974          2.41            0.41
1975          2.40            0.42
Nov. 1976          2.53             0.40
/L  Medium and long-term capital flows are obtained from World Bank debt data and
are not comparable with balance of payments estimates.
/2 Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and nonfactor services.
not available
not applicable



ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAYSIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (AS OF JANUARY 31. 1977)
Amount in
US$ million
Loan                                                                   (Less Cancellations)
flumber  Year      Borrower                    Purpose                 Bank     Undisbursed
Eleven Loans fully disbursed                                           209.2 /1
599     1969     Malaysia                 Education (I)               8.8          2.3
672     1970     Malaysia                 Land Settlement             13.0         0.4
700     1970     National Electricity
Board                  Power (V)                  20.0          0.3
753     1971     Malaysia                 Telecommunications (II)    18.7          1.6
774     1971     Sabah Ports Authority    Ports                       16.1         2.3
799     1972     Malayan Railway
Administration         Railroad                   16.0          0.6
810     1972     Malaysia                 Education (II)              15.5        12.2
851     1972     Malaysia                 Urban Transport             16.0         1.5
(Highway I)
880     1973     Malaysia                 Population                   5.0         4.6
885     1973     Malaysia                 Land Settlement             25.0        15.0
908     1973     Malaysia                 Water Supply (II)           13.5         4.2
931     1973     Malaysia                 Highway (II)                19.5         9.1
967     1974     Malaysia                 Land Settlement             40.0        30.9
973     1974     Malaysia                 Agricultural Development    45.0        43.0
974     1974     Malaysia                 Education (III)            19.0         18.6
1031     1974     National Electricity
Board                  Power (VI)                 43.3         27.2
1044     1974     Malaysia                 Land Settlement             36.0        33.3
1115     1975     Malaysia                 Agricultural Research
and Extension             28.5        28.4
1178     1975     National Electricity
Board                  Power (VII)                35.0         34.8
1213     1976     Malaysia                 Kuala Lumpur Sewerage       21.5        21.5
1214     1976     Malaysia                 Kuala Lumpur Urban
Transport                 26.0        26.0
1294     1976     Malaysia                 North Kelantan Rural
Development               21.0        21.0
1329     1977     Malaysia                 Education IV                35.0        35.0
Total effective commitment                          746.6
of which has been repaid                          67.1
Total now outstanding                               679.5
Amount sold                   22.5
of which has been repaid    12.2                   10.3
Total effective loan now
held by Bank                                      669.2
Total undisbursed                                               373.8
/1 In addition, Malaysia is Guarantor for Loan 405-MA of February 26, 1965,
to the Public Utilities Board in Singapora (amount being held by the Bank
as of January 31, 1977 - US$4.2 million).



ANNEX II
Page 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (AS OF DECEMBER 31.1976)
Type of            Amount in US$ Million
Year                                Business        Loan       Equity        Total
1964   Malaysian Industrial
Development Finance         Development
Ltd. (MIDF)                 Financing         -         1.31          1.31
1966   Tasek Cement Ltd.           Cement           1.28        0.28         1.56
1968   Malayawata Steel Ltd.       Steel            2.45        1.01         3.46
1969   Malayawata Steel Ltd.       Steel             -         0.23          0.23
1970   India-Malaysia
Textiles Ltd.               Textiles         1.25       0.25          1.50
1974   Malaysian Industrial
Development Finance         Development
Ltd. (MIDF)                 Financing         -          0.63         0.63
Total gross commitments                      4.98        3.71         8.69
Less: repayments, sales, cancellations,
terminations and write-offs           3.58       3.46          7.04
Total investments now held by IFC            1.50       0.25          1.75
Total undisbursed                            ____



ANNEX II
Page 3
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Loan No. 599   Education Project; US$8.8 Million Loan of May 23, 1969;
Effective Date: September 16, 1969; Closing Date:
March 31, 1977
The project aims at improving Malaysia's technical, vocational, and
agricultural education. Construction of all project institutions has been
completed. The quality of the completed facilities is satisfactory. Deliveries
of furniture and equipment to the project schools are near completion. Project
implementation is about 27 months behind schedule because of earlier site
problems. Project schools are operating at 90% capacity and are functioning
satisfactorily. Although no final evaluation has yet been made, the schools
appear to have achieved low dropout rates and high pass rates. The total
project cost is close to the original cost estimate. About US$700,000 of the
loan amount has been transferred to the Second Education Project.
Loan No. 672    Second Jengka Triangle Land Settlement Project;
US$13.0 Million Loan of May 20, 1970; Effective
Date: August 20, 1970; Closing Date: May 31, 1977
Loan No. 885   Third Jengka Triangle Land Settlement Project;
US$25.0 Million Loan of March 30, 1973; Effective
Date: June 22, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The projects (including the First Jengka Triangle Land Settlement
Project which has been completed) consist of clearing the forest, planting
62,000 acres of oil palm and 35,000 acres of rubber, and settling 10,000
families in the Jengka Triangle (State of Pahang). The Federal Land Devel-
opment Authority (FELDA), responsible for the execution of the projects,
operates efficiently, keeping high standards of planting and maintenance.
Physical works under the second project have been satisfactorily completed.
The remaining undisbursed loan amount of US$0.4 million will be spent for the
purchase of fertilizers. Under Jengka III clearing and planting have been
completed. Delays of about six months in the planting program and in infra-
structure development will result in similar delays in housing and settler
intake. Standards of agricultural development under both projects are
generally satisfactory. However factory operations are an unsatisfactory
aspect of FELDA's operations. Measures for improved factory design, opera-
tional standards, and financial control have been recommended by recent
supervision missions.
Loan No. 700   Fifth Power Project; US$20.0 Million Loan of July 16, 1970;
Effective Date: September 29, 1970; Closing Date: April 30,
1977
The Fifth Power Project (the third stage extension of the Port
Dickson Thermal Power Station; three 120 MW units) is almost completed.
The third and last unit is expected to be commissioned in February 1977
and disbursements under the loan are expected to be completed by the end
of April 1977.



ANNEX II
Page 4
Loan No. 753   Second Telecommunications Project; US$18.7 Million Loan of
June 21, 1971; Effective Date: August 18, 1971: Closing
Date: February 28, 1977
Project execution is substantially complete. The two pending
work items are likely to be completed by end of 1977. The loan is fully
committed and disbursements are expected to be completed by end February 1977.
Loan No. 774   Sabah Ports Project; US$16.1 Million Loan of June 30, 1971;
Effective Date: August 24, 1971; Closing Date: December 31,
1977
Work has been satisfactorily completed on the new berths at Kota
Kinabalu and Sandakan. Slow progress in completing the access road to Sandakan
will delay full use of the latter facilities until mid-1977. The new head-
quarters building has been occupied. The total and foreign exchange cost of
the works is now estimated about 1.5 times the appraisal estimate at US$47.1
million and US$24.4 million, respectively. Settlement of a large outstanding
claim will delay the final account and the closing date of the loan has been
extended by one year to December 31, 1977.
Loan 799  Railway Project; US$16.0 Million Loan of February 11, 1972;
Effective Date:  April 17, 1972; Closing Date:   March 31, 1977
All equipment and material has been received. Project completion,
now 18 months behind schedule, will be further delayed by about six months
to June 1977, due to damage caused during recent heavy rains to the earth
works on the Port Dickson line (a postponement of the present closing date
will be required). Malayan Railway (MR) operations showed an all-round
improvement during 1976 although the key efficiency indicators were well
below acceptable standards, especially those pertaining to locomotive and
rolling stock maintenance. As the result of a successful marketing drive,
freight traffic during 1976 registered a recovery for the first time in
five years and increased by 24% compared with 1975. Passenger traffic
continues to grow modestly. These results are expected to produce MR's
first annual profit since 1962, yielding a financial return of 1% in 1976
on net fixed assets in use. Audit reports are two years in arrears due
to the delay in submission of accounts to the Auditor General by MR.
Efforts are being made to clear the backlog.
Loan No. 810   Second Education Project; US$15.5 Million Loan of April 5,
1972; Effective Date: July 7, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1977
The project is financing the establishment of a curriculum develop-
ment center, science schools for the University of Penang, vocational schools,
and an educational television system. Implementation has improved but is
still about 14 months behind schedule mainly due to earlier delays in the
appointment of consultant architects for the Science University, the approval
of the campus plan by the University and the preparation of documents by the
Public Works Department. All civil works contracts have been awarded and most



ANNEX II
Page 5
of the construction is scheduled to be completed by late 1977. The recent
estimate of the project cost is about 35% above the appraisal estimate. The
Government is aware of this cost overrun and is prepared to finance it.
Progress on equipment procurement is satisfactory.
Loan No. 851    Kuala Lumpur Urban Transport Project (Highway I);
US$16.0 Million Loan of July 20, 1972; Effective
Date: September 20, 1972; Closing Date: April 30, 1977
The project is designed to improve the transport facilities
between Kuala Lumpur and the adjacent town of Petaling Jaya. It consists of
the improvement of about six miles of Federal Route 2, including detailed
engineering, widening of the road, construction of interchanges and cycle
tracks, and relocation of services. Civil works are about 11 months behind
schedule due to initial shortcomings in the contractor's project management.
These problems have since been overcome. The contractor is, however, exper-
iencing financial difficulties as a result of the low tender price which did
not allow for the subsequent rapid inflation. The project also includes a
transport study for metropolitan Kuala Lumpur (completed), a national road
maintenance study (completed), and detailed engineering of about 137 miles of
Federal Route 1 (completed).
Loan No. 880   Population Project; US$5.0 Million Loan of February 9,
1973; Effective Date: June 21, 1973; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
The civil works component of the project continues to make progress.
About 105 buildings out of 571 have been completed and an additional 107 are
under construction. The National Family Planning Board is in the process of
procuring a computer for establishing a management information system. Program
performance in 1976 was even better than in 1975, when the number of new
acceptors was the highest since 1971. Program administration has improved
considerably since the new Director General joined NFPB in July 1976. The
Government is trying to intensify family planning efforts in urban areas to
effectively reach the urban poor. The Government continues to extend the
services to rural areas as part of maternal and child health services.
Loan No. 908    Second Kuala Lumpur Water Supply Project; US$13.5 Million
Loan of June 14, 1973; Effective Date: August 27, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The first part of the project, comprising ordinary water works,
was completed in 1976 and most of the works are in operation. The contract
for the other major work of the project, the Langat Dam (60 m high, estimated
to cost US$14 million), was awarded in mid-1976. Construction has started
and the dam is expected to be completed by mid-1980, about two years behind
schedule, and will cost about 25% more than originally estimated. Further
extensions of all water works will be needed soon. The Water Department, in
charge of the water supply in Kuala Lumpur, performs well although it is
still short of staff. Financial management needs further strengthening.



ANNEX II
Page 6
Loan No. 931   Second Highway Project; US$19.5 Million Loan of August 22,
1973; Effective Date: October 25, 1973; Closing Date:
August 31, 1977
Overall, the project is about 50% completed. Progress is behind
schedule due to delays in land acquisition and eviction of squatters from the
right-of-way, late grant of licenses by the Selangor State Government to
operate quarries, and late approval of work permits for expatriate staff.
Poor management in the case of some of the contractors also contributed to
slow progress. Although some measures have been taken to remedy these
deficiencies and improvement is noticeable, construction progress is still
below the revised targets. Bidding for a last contract section was deferred
to the spring of 1976 to give the Government more time to acquire the right-
of-way; the contract was awarded in August 1976. Consulting services for
various studies and detailed engineering are satisfactory and on schedule.
An extension of the project's closing date by two years to August 31, 1979
will be necessary. Construction costs have escalated sharply because of
rapid inflation and the total project cost is now estimated to be US$50 mil-
lion compared to an appraisal estimate of US$37 million. The disbursement
rate for the construction and improvement of roads was reduced as of January
1, 1976 from 55% to 40% of actual expenditures.
Loan No. 967   Johore Land Settlement Project; US$40.0 Million Loan of
February 27, 1974; Effective Date: May 16, 1974; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
The project, implemented by FELDA, consists of planting 65,000
acres of oil palm and settling 4,400 families in the state of Johore. The
agricultural development is progressing satisfactorily in line with the
appraisal estimates. Delays in road development, due in part to coordination
problems between FELDA and Kejora (a regional development authority) have
delayed settler intake by up to two years. However, improvements are expec-
ted since construction of roads is now being contracted to private contrac-
tors, and since responsibility for coordination has been unified under the
Ministry of Lands and Regional Development.
Loan No. 973   Western Johore Agricultural Development Project; US$45.0 Million
Loan of April 5, 1974; Effective Date: August 14, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project includes main and feeder drains, coastal embankments
and tidal gates to improve drainage in an area of 134,000 ha (330,000 ac) in
southwest Peninsular Malaysia, as well as an integrated agricultural develop-
ment program with changes in cropping patterns to improve farm incomes,
intercropping, opening up of 24,000 ha of new land, Farmers Development
Centers and improvements in research, extension and crop processing. A
Project Division has been set up to direct and coordinate the various agen-
cies involved in project execution, to monitor and evaluate project progress
and to prepare a feasibility study for a second state project. Due to the
need to re-evaluate some of the design criteria and delays in survey contracts
and approval of required staff, construction is now nearly two years behind



ANNEX II
Page 7
schedule. However, sufficient staff have now been allocated to complete final
design and tendering. Five major works contracts have been let; construction
is accelerating and may still be completed in 1979. While preparation of a
formal Agricultural Development Master Plan is still incomplete, the Project
Director has organized the various agricultural agencies into a coordinated
project unit and has elicited from them detailed plans and programs for the
major crops.
Loan No. 974   Third Education Project; US$19.0 Million Loan of April 5,
1974; Effective Date: June 26, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project assists the Government to develop technical training,
preservice teacher training, and an East Malaysia educational television
system. Implementation is about seven months behind schedule due to earlier
delays in the selection of sites for the Teacher Training Colleges (TTCs).
Contracts have been awarded for all 13 project institutions. Construction
began in early 1976 and most of the project institutes are scheduled for
completion in late 1978. The estimated total project cost is about 25% over
appraisal estimate. Disbursements remain slow but should improve in 1977.
The Project Unit is functioning satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1031  Sixth Power Project; US$45.0 Million Loan of July 25, 1974;
Effective Date: October 22, 1974; Closing Date: June 30,
1980
Loan No. 1178  Seventh Power Project; US$35.0 Million Loan of December 17,
1975; Effective Date: March 10, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
The Sixth Power Project (275 KV transmission lines from Temengor
to Papan and Port Dickson to Malacca and extension of transmission and
distribution system) and the Seventh Power Project (the Prai Power Station
Extension, 3 x 120 MW) are both on schedule.
NEB's financial position is currently sound as Government has
paid M$39 million of equity funds and has undertaken to pay an additional
M$30 million early in 1977. A rate of return of 8.2% was earned for 1976,
exceeding the rate of 8% as required under the covenants in Bank Loan Agree-
ments.
Loan No. 1044 Keratong Land Settlement Project; US$36.0 Million Loan of
October 3, 1974; Effective Date: January 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
The project, implemented by FELDA, consists of planting 55,000
acres of oil palm, settling 3,400 families, constructing two palm oil mills
and establishing two urban settlements. The agricultural development is
progressing satisfactorily. However, progress of urban and regional develop-
ment and of phasing in nonagricultural activities is still unsatisfactory.
Lack of progress in constructing village infrastructure and in housing has
delayed settler intake for the oil palm project. The July 1976 Supervision



ANNEX II
Page 8
Mission's findings and recommendations for corrective measures were trans-
mitted to the implementing agency, the Pahang Tenggara Development Authority
and to the Ministry of Land and Regional Development under which control of
regional authorities and land development agencies has recently been unified.
Loan No. 1115 Agricultural Research and Extension Project; US$28.5 Million
Loan of May 30, 1975; Effective Date: October 21, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Project implementation continues to fall further behind schedule;
however, the major bottleneck (Terms and Conditions of Employment of Inter-
nationally Recruited Scientists) was overcome with the Government of Malay-
sia's approval of Terms and Conditions of Employment on August 19, 1976
and accepted by the Bank on September 22. This is the first indication
that the project could begin to show some progress. Action is also being
taken to expedite procurement according to local procedures and the first
requests for reimbursement under the loan were received. Further delay can
be expected due to normal administrative difficulties in recruitment of
scientists. Little physical progress can be expected before late 1977 or
early 1978 although trends and intent should be identifiable by April 1977.
Loan No. 1213 Kuala Lumptr Sewerage Project; US$21.5 Million Loan of
March 11, 1976; Effective Date: August 25, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
The project is the first stage, 1976-81, of a 30-year master
plan for the sewerage of the Kuala Lumpur Metropolitan area. It includes
the extension of sewage collection (about 70 miles of trunk and lateral
sewers) to serve an additional population of 200,000 in Kuala Lumpur Federal
Territory; the institution of a separate Sewerage Department within Kuala
Lumpur City Hall with its own accounting system and financial autonomy;
engineering and management consultants services; staff training; preparation
of sewerage and pollution control in the Kuala Lumpur Metropolitan area. The
project is in its initial stage; it has started about six months behind
schedule because of delays in engaging consultants but can be completed on
time. Work is proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan 1214 Second Kuala Lumpur Urban Transport Project; US$26.0 Million
Loan of March 11, 1976; Effective Date: September 30, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The main objective of the project is to increase the efficiency
of the transport system in Kuala Lumpur. Public transport services will
be improved while the use of private cars will be restrained. Although the
project is essentially an urban transport project, it also contains important
components and initiatives in other urban sectors such as squatter upgrading
and development of new low-cost settlements. The main components are: (a)
about 7 miles of new roads and 10 miles of road improvements; (b) traffic
engineering and control schemes; (c) sites and services for about 1,400
households and 150 businesses; (d) upgrading of infrastructure services for



ANNEX II
Page 9
about 2,100 households, and (e) feasibility and engineering studies for a
Kuantan Urban Development Project and for a national sites and services
program. Related policy measures include the introduction of minibus
services, traffic priorities for high-occupancy vehicles and area road
pricing. Progress is generally satisfactory, the main exception being the
postponement of loan effectiveness from June 14 to September 30, 1976 caused
by administrative delays in executing the relending agreement between the
Government and Kuala Lumpur City and the Urban Development Authority.
Loan No. 1294 North Kelantan Rural Development Project; US$21.0 Million
Loan of July 21, 1976; Effective Date: October 28, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project includes the Lemal Irrigation component which will
provide drainage and flood protection to 30,000 gross ha and intensive
irrigation to 12,000 net ha of padi; construction of 190 km of rural roads
throughout North Kelantan; 15 small irrigation schemes serving 1,300 ha
of padi; construction, rehabilitation and equipping of 25 Farmers Develop-
ment Centers; and establishment of an effective agricultural extension
service serving Kelantan. The project start-up period has seen rapid
implementation of the Farmers Development Center component, good progress on
the agricultural extension component with planning, staffing and preparation
of equipment specifications proceeding on schedule and a welcome degree
of cooperation between the Farmers Organization Authority and the Kelantan
Department of Agriculture in joint planning of agricultural service buildings
and field operations. Some delay in engineering of roads and irrigation
works has occurred due to delays in approval of staff, but this problem
appears to have been largely resolved.
Loan No. 1329 Fourth Education Project; US$35.0 Million Loan of
November 18, 1976; Effective Date: January 14, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project is designed to improve the quality of primary schooling
and to redress exisiting imbalances in the provision of primary education
by providing additional classrooms in poverty areas, facilities for teacher
in-service training and one teacher training college in Sarawak. The project
includes three new Industrial Training Centers and expansion of two existing
ones. It includes also a study on community education in preparation of
government investment in nonformal education.



ANNEX III
Page 1
MALAYSIA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:               Malaysia
Amount:                 US$35.0 million.
Terms:                  17 years including three and a half (3-1/2) years
of grace, at an interest rate of 8.5% per annum.
Project Description:    The proposed project will improve the transport network
in Sabah through the reconstruction of trunk roads and
a four-year maintenance and road upgrading program,
including the procurement of equipment. The project
will also assist in the establishment of a pilot road
maintenance and pavement strengthening program in
Peninsular Malaysia. In addition, the project includes
a transport/railway study in Peninsular Malaysia and an
urban study in Kota Kinabalu in Sabah.
Estimated Costs:                          Local         Foreign       Total
--------(US$ million)----------
I. Elements proposed for
Bank financing
(a) Road reconstruction in
Sabah (146 mi)                  17.5          28.5          46.0
(b) Capital costs of four year
Sabah Road Maintenance
Program, including road
upgrading                        3.4           9.1          12.5
(c) Pilot Pavement Strengthening
Program in Johore (120 mi)       2.0           3.1           5.1
(d)  Consulting services              2.3           2.3           4.6
(e)  Contingencies:                   8.0          13.8          21.8
Subtotal                     33.2          56.8          90.0



ANNEX III
Page 2
Estimated Costs:                          Local        Foreign       Total
-(US$ million)----------
II.  Elements not proposed for
Bank financing, including
right of way, domestic con-
sulting services and pilot
road maintenance and
strengthening program in two
states in Peninsular Malaysia         5.8          12.2         18.0
Total Project Costs:                 39.0          69.0        108.0
Estimated Disbursements
Fiscal Years                  Annual           Cumulative
(July 1 - June 30)            Disbursements     Disbursements
---------US$ million----------
1977                         2.0                  2.0
1978                        11.7                 13.7
1979                        12.4                 26.1
1980                         6.7                 32.8
1981                         2.2                 35.0
Procurement Arrangements:
All civil works and equipment financed by the Bank
would be carried out under international competitive
bidding following Bank Group Guidelines for Procure-
ment. The Bank Group Guidelines would also be used
for the procurement of all consulting services.
Rate of Return:        The composite rate of return is 18%.
Consultants:           To assist in Sabah in road reconstruction and the
maintenance program, and for a Transport/Railway Study
in Peninsular Malaysia and an Urban Study of Kota
Kinabalu in Sabah.
Appraisal Report       Report No. 1182a-MA, dated February 22, 1977.



ANNEX IV
Page 1
MALAYSIA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable for Key Events
(a) Time taken by country to prepare the projects: Four years.
(b) Project prepared by consultants Kampsax-SSP under contract to FMWU.
(c)  First presentation to IBRD          : March 1974
First mission to consider project   : March 1974
Preappraisal Mission                : October 1975
(d)  Departure of Appraisal Mission      : March 1976
(e)  Completion of negotiations          : January 14, 1977
(f)  Effectiveness                       : July 1977



ANNEX IV
Page 2
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.



ANNEX IV
Page 3
Section III: Special Conditions
(a)       The Borrower has agreed to phase out, or cause to be phased out,
the railway service between Papar and Beaufort, starting with the opening
of the road between such cities reconstructed under this project (para-
graph 20).
(b)       The Borrower shall introduce and enforce, cause to be introduced
and enforced, not later than July 1, 1977, or such other date as may be
agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, the modifications to the road
design standards of Sabah as agreed with the Bank (paragraph 27).
(c)       The Borrower has agreed to introduce and enforce, or cause to be
introduced and enforced, not later than January 1, 1978, or such other date
as may be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, modifications to the
road traffic legislation of Sabah as agreed with the Bank (paragraph 29).



IBRD 10050R3
Ilo.                                     102-103                  MALAYSIA        104- FsRUARY  77
ToBoknk                                        THIRD    HIGHWAY      PROJECT
WPcdong  'Besa.                   \                        '      CPROPASEG PROJECT PILOT PRIOG3RAM FOR ROAD MAINTENANCE
PROPOSED PROJECT ROADS FOR PAVEMENT STRENGTHENING
% ____T         H   A   I L                                   FEDERAL ROADS AND ROUTE NUMBERS
________Jl /  -.><.. OTHER PRINCIPAL ROADS
Kcngo r                       )) - ,PRINCIPAL ROAD UNDER CONSTRUCTION
-s---..  RAZIWAYS
.......*. DETAILED ENGINEERING  UProb-L,an,pra (F0 9 H-ghA y)
CONSTRUCTION AND IMPROVEMENT SecoRd H,ghVay
Alor Selor ~~~~~~~~~~~~OIL .~s',C VALLEY REGION
o-6                                 \\\ > * SC_. _ t \ |-STATE BOUNDARIES                        6-
ii  KED~~~A H  )-INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
2      PotoS~~ ~ Kampang  20   4i
W.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rj         01    4-         6p      J
Koneptr I?ln,/O~o~2                                             Ap  69  Rp  IS     MI
PEN/VIJ{   BkirMerlojoP           g-)       v      ( 
t IJX  X  r          S    X \       ~~~~~~~      ~       ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Kuai u@L
.       (   E'    F /gF ^  t. (   g~P F  F i A TAd ~     
Kuala Kura                                        TA\A/GGA /VU                          5
Pcrt W,rld   B Tsin h   /                                    \\SEC   Du
<;ECTtONF~~         ~    ~    ~~TIONN,           Kual unut
g       0hicnds+,4            gig    =   H~~~~~~~~~~~al  Chukc I
-4-                                                      Jecntut                                 \ 4--
<}5 ~ ~~~                   ~   ~~ L Z  A A/t                       5oG
0              KLANG VALLEY
_- Kuala Se lcng RE IONS h                                        S e,
3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.l PrJrh                        End..0 ; \             3
e ondarme, shown on this -sap do not  S
mnply)  -4,or.eo-en  or acteplance  by  the
World d zan  and leo afilat( 
X                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dickson  G n  S_ t 
"t°  \   Ipr   /     0+    0      Of 5     d             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MersingX
kTHAILAND,--
C CAMBOCOIA B                           Mal
5'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
r<t  inggr
'i> r                    Ksobi S/PIIPy ban                 UC<_>zun 
0cso               INDONESI                                            SINiAPORE
iSooaS, I  ~N O N Ei51APORE,  *- K-ALIMANTAN  S u m o t r a
I  ' 0~  N  E'(S  I  A    I                                               s1s3  I154



IBRD 12223R1
S t 3''\ t*HINAv v s  wTAIWAN  116                           10                            1180                           1190                         FEBRUARY 1977
/tstt C4) pPTH2
);^g  £C,<h.     g vPHILIPPINES
.     AM'j VIT0                                                                                                 MALAYSIA                                   70
; GP<wt'O/ .0UEh' /   -h                          J K       C    8                                      THIRD    HIGHWAY     PROJECT
_ < SRv.AREAtoF (XX n                                                                                         udat ( SABAH ROADS
BRUNEI    AFREA OF
MALAYSIA-      MAP                                        itas
RINGAPOlC   /Pnn7
P-ja, Pingan                                                      PROPOSED PROJECT ROADS FOR RECONSTRUCTION
______ _____ ______ _____ ____,    Larigkong s  is 1  
The bounda.ries shown on this msap do not  y   F    y          /         ,\(  >_                                0_       PROPOSED PROJECT ROADS FOR UPGRADING
imply endorsement or acceptance by the                                                                                    PROPOSED PROJECT WEIGHBRIDGES
World Bank and its affiliates.     Kota  ludY P
SULU SEA                  EXISTING ROADS
TuaaX  /  WEST COAST  K           <                                         PRIMARY HIGHWAYS (PAVED)
SCU?H £NINVA SEA                                                                                         -    -    PRIMARY HIGHWAYS (GRAVEL)
Sapoangrg vTmaui\ CROCKER f
(apaar      PRANGE CROSSING                                                     -4- 4itI RAILWAYS
-60                   KOTA KINABAL             _ / \ R                                                                                                          6
5~~   ,'~~anau~                                                      -----.~--RIVERS
'  /   <A'\ -R-/  lX    ANAI-SANOAKAN    euranndakan_                               RESIDENCY BOUNDARIES
N  /     I     (Built hr PWO sasth Australian al-ita ti-!
papar           \/'                   ]                                                 __-       STATE BOUNDARIES
WEST COAST NO        J                       'T-  an-                                                 -    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Kuala Penyu,                 Q     bulupidTm
,<Membakut  /     j
LABUA                       akeuna          Tulid                                                     _
BUA2(~~~~  Beauf~  0"
XOnl/( ~      - )t        A17S, (     SS                              <        / 
$2Pitang  25    ~~Nab wan         (6)                       /, 
'0"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
ff   Sin,u<Cy>/                                                                                   S>
to/ ,1 /Kltmabong
I ublToma ) NTERIOR                                                                 EAST COAST ROAD
RRUI'IEI  ARA7AKTAWAU                                                                                na z
"I~~~~~~~~~a
N <  t -   -\ BALUNOG
L.     J                                                                                  JUI     . k  ._.                           10  20  30   40   50 JUNTIOA
N                                          ~~    ~~~  ~~~   ~~~   ~~~~~~~~~~~~0 2p~ 0  40 60  0
awau n~O                                               t
KILOMETERS
I -                                 . i0.  _ _  "   , ,,,  1f   _  < }   2  > \   118°      1190                           1200



