CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1376 MA
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Third Highway Project)
between
MALAYSIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 4, 1977


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 4, 1977, between MALAYSIA (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿- 3 -
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or re-
ferred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-
five million dollars ($35,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in ac-
cordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1982 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.


﻿Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and one-half per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall oe payable
semi-annually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿- 5 -
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out or cause to be
carried out Parts A and B of the Project through the Public Works
Department of Sabah under the overall responsibility of the-Bor-
rower's Ministry of Works and Utilities, Part C of the Project
through the Borrower's Public Works Department, Part D (i) of the
Project through the Borrower's Economic Planning Unit, and Part
D (ii) of the Project through the Sabah Economic Planning Unit,
all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial and engineering practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in suner-
vising Parts A and B (ii) of the Project, the Borrower shall em-
ploy or cause to be employed engineering consultants whose quali-
fications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall
be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be employed
prior to the commencement of works for Parts A (i) and A (ii) of
the Project, and prior to the awarding of any contracts for works
for Part B (ii) of the Project.
(b) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Parts B
(ii) and D of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
emn)loyment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, re-
ports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project;
(ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to
the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Loan and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.


﻿-7-
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire all such land and
rights in respect of land    shall be required for the carrying
out of Part A of the Project, in sufficient time so as to enable
contractors to carry out their agreed work programs without delay,
and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after such acquisition,
evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land and rights-in
respect of land are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.06. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
roads reconstructed under Part A of the Project shall conform to
the design standards set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall carry out and cause to be
carried out Parts B and C of the Project in accordance with road
maintenance and strengthening programs established in agreement
with the Bank.


﻿- 8 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of for-
eign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external
debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of
the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization
or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, jpso facto and at no cost to the Bank,
equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or per-
mitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision
to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any constitutional
or other legal reason such provision cannot be made with respect
to any lien created on assets of any of its political or admini-
strative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no cost
to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other charges
on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets satisfac-
tory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;


﻿9
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative subdi-
vision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or-oper-
ating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carry-
ing out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall phase out, or cause to be
phased out, the railway service between Papar and Beaufort, start-
ing with the opening of the road between such cities reconstructed
under the Project to traffic.
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall introduce and enforce,
or cause to be introduced and enforced, not later than January 1,
1978 or such other date as may be agreed between the Borrower and
the Bank, the modifications to the road traffic legislation of
Sabah agreed with the Bank.


﻿- 10 -
(b) The Borrower shall introduce and enforce, or cause to be
introduced and enforced, not later than July 1, 1977 or such other
date as may be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, the
modifications to the road design standards of Sabah agreed with
the Bank.
Section 4.05. (a) The Borrower shall continue: (i) to cause
its road network to be adequately maintained and (ii) to cause all
necessary repairs thereof to be rade promptly, all in accordance
with sound engineering practices and shall provide promptly, as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources re-
quired for such maintenance and repairs.
(b) The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all necessary
action to ensure that the dimensions and axle-loads of vehicles
using its roads do not exceed limits appropriate to the structural
and geometric design standards of such roads.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall develop, and continue to
collect and record, in accordance with appropriate statistical
methods and procedures, such technical, economic and financial
information as shall be reasonably required for proper planning
of maintenance, improvements and extensions of its road network,
including traffic counts and surveys.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date July 5, 1977, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance or Deputy Minister of
Finance of the Borrower or such other persons as the Minister of
Finance of the Borrower shall appoint in writing, are designated
as representatives of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Treasury
Kuala Lumpur 01-01
Malaysia
Cable address:                Telex:
TREASURY                      FEDTRY MA30242
Kuala Lumpur
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 13 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Airee-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
MALAYSIA
By Is/ Zain Azraai
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. S. Kirmani
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of ex-
penditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works for            20,900,000         35%
Parts A and B (ii)
of the Project (ex-
cept item 10 under
Annex 2 to Schedule
2) and strengthening
of Federal Route I
in Johore under Part
C of the Project
(2) Equipment                   3,900,000
(a) directly im-                             100% of foreign
ported                                  expenditures
(b) imported but                             70%
locally pro-
cured
(c) manufactured                             100% of local
locally                                 expenditures
(ex-factory)
(3) Consultants' ser-           2,300,000
vices


﻿- 15 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(a) for Parts A,                            100% of foreign
B (ii) and                             expenditures
D (i) of the
Project
(b) for Part D (ii)                         80%
of the Project
(4) Unallocated                7,900,000
TOTAL      35,000,000


﻿- 16 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase
or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy
of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding 'he provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of


﻿- 17 -
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such
Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall,
proceeds of the Loan which are then.allocated to another Category
and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other
expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then appli-
cable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under
such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or lim-
iting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the
Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of:
Part A:   In Sabah:
(i) Reconstruction to paved standards of the
following trunk roads:
Papar to Beaufort (37 miles); and
Lahad Datu to Semporna (91 miles); and
(ii) Reconstruction to gravel standards of about
18 miles of the trunk road from Beaufort to
Sindumin (35 miles).
Part B:   A four-year maintenance program for Sabah including:
(i) procurement, installation and placing into
service of the equipment specified in Annex
1 to this Schedule 2, as such Annex may be
modified from time to time by agreement be-
the Borrower and the Bank; and
(ii) upgrading of the road sections specified in
Annex 2 to this Schedule 2, as such Annex may
be modified from time to time by agreement
between the Borrower and the Bank.


﻿- 19 -
Part C:   A pilot road maintenance and pavement strengthening pro-
gram for the States of Johore, Perak and Kelantan in
Peninsular Malaysia, including strengthening of about
120 miles of pavement of Federal Route I in Johore.
Part D:   The following studies:
(i) A transport/railway study in Peninsular Malaysia;
and
(ii) An urban study in Kota Kinabalu in Sabah.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1981.


﻿- 20 -
ANNEX 1 TO SCHEDULE 2
Equipment for Part B (i) of the Project
Type of Vehicle/Equipment                         Number of Units
Pickup (1-1/2 tons)                                     51
Truck, Utility (4 tons)                                 21
Tipper (10 tons)                                        50
Water Tanker (1,200 Gallons)                            18
Grader, Medium (130 H.P.)                               10
Loader (1-1/2 cu. yd.)                                  10
Roller, 3-wheel (10 tons)                               10
Roller, Tandem (4 tons)                                 11
Vibrating Plate                                         15
Compactor Rammer                                        13
Mover Pedestrian                                        18
Paver                                                    1
Bitumen Sprayer                                          2
Pneumatic Roller                                         3
Chip Spreader                                            2
Mechanical Broom/Tractor                                 3
Weigh Bridges                                            6


﻿- 21 -
ANNEX 2 TO SCHEDULE 2
Upgrading of Roads in Sabah
under Part B (ii) of the Project
Road                                   Approximate Mileage
1.   Ranau-Tambunan                               39
2.   Tambunan-Keningau                            28
3.   Keningau-Tenom                               29
4.   Tenom-Tomani                                 24
5.   Keningau-Nabawan                             38
6.   Ranau-Sandakan                              148
7.   Papar-Kota Kinabalu                          30
8.   Kota Kinabalu-Kota Belud                     42
9.   Kota Belud-Langkon                           30
10. Langkon-Kudat                                 44
11. Langkon-Pingan Pingan                         29
12. Tavau-Sungai Merotai                          17
13. Tawau-Kunak/Semporna Junction                 32


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                             (expressed in dollars)*
On each April and October 1
Beginning April 1, 1981
through   October 1, 1993                      1,295,000
On April 1, 1994                                    1,330,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 23 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                          1.50%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                          3.00%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                          5.50%
More then eleven years but not
more than fifteen years
before maturity                          7.50%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                          8.50%


﻿-24 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works shall
be procured in accordance with procedures consistent with those
set forth in Part A of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in August 1975
(hereinafter called the Guidelines) including the pertinent pro-
visions of the General Introduction thereto, on the basis of in-
ternational competitive bidding.
2.   Bidders for the works included in Parts A and B (ii) of the
Project and the strengthening of Federal Route I included under
Part C of the Project shall be prequalified as described in para-
graph 1.3 of Part A of the Guidelines.
B.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the ex-
factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and sim-
ilar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and
(iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expen-
ditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their
use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 25 -
2.   Goods manufactured in Malaysia may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following pro-
visions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be fol-
lowed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Malaysia,
if the bidder shall have established to the satis-
faction of the Borrower and the Bank that the manu-
facturing cost of such goods includes a value added
in Malaysia equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory
bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bid- offering goods manufactured
in Malaysia.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be


﻿- 26 -
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of cus-
toms duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions b. the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before quali-
fication is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the procedure to
be followed, and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure
as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified bid-
ders, together with a statement of their qualifications and of the
reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification
shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Bank for its comments
before the applicants are notified of the Borrowe.'s decision, and
the Borrower shall make such additions to, deletions from, or modi-
fications in, the said list as the Bank shall reasonably request.


﻿- 27 -
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more and all contracts for
equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report, by the consultants referred to in
Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement, on the evaluation and compari-
son of the bids received, together with the recommendations for
award of the said consultants and such other information as the
Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.


﻿- 28 -
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execu-
tion and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of
such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for
award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably re-
quest. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such de-
termination.


﻿- 29 -
SCHEDULE 5
Design Standards for Project Roads
Under Part A of the Project
The various road sections shall be reconstructed in
accordance with the design standards set out below:
Geometric Features                           Terrain
Flat   Rolling   Hill   Mountainous
Design Speed (mph)           60       50       4o        30
Minimum Radius            1,040      700      430       230
of Curvature (ft)
Maximum Gradient (W)          3        6        8         9
Roadway Features              Paved Standards          Gravel Standards
---------------in ft.---------------------
Width of Pavement                22.0                    18.0
Type of Pavement         Double Bituminous surface       Gravel
treatment
Width of Shoulders                5.5                     3.0
Width of Right-of-Way           132.0                   132.0
Structural Design Features
(all areas)
Axle Loads                      10 m tons
Bridge Design            Based on British Standard 153 - HA
Loading checked for 45 units of HB
Loading along center line
Bridge width                    24 feet = 2 x 4 feet (sidewalks)
Pavement Design          Based on cumulative 10 ton axle loads
in a 20-year period using Road Note 29
of the British Road Research Laboratory


