,KC  /  /'7  C - k<  A V                  ror keterbnce
Document of           Not to be taken from this room
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL, USE ONLY
Report No. 7375-BEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PEOPLES' REPUBLIC OF BENIN
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS DU BENIN (OPTB)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
October 7, 1988
Africa Technical Department
Africa Country Department 1
This document has -a restrdetd distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance- ofI
their official dudes. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = CFAF Franc (CFAF)
$1.0           -  CFAF 300 (floating)
FF 1           =  CFAF  50 (fixed)
FISCAL YEAR
Government  =  January 1 - December 31
OPTB        =  January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB   - African Development Bank
BCEAO -  Central Bank for West African States
CCCE  -  Caisse Certrale de Cooperation Economique (France)
CCP   -  Postal Checking System
CEN   -  National Executive Council
CIDA  -  Canadian International Development Agency
CNE   -  National Savings Bank
DEL   -  Direct Exchange Line
EIB   -  European Investment Bank
EPIC  -  Industrial or Commercial Public Enterprise
FAC   -  Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (France)
GDFCF -  Gross Domestic Fixed Capital Formation
GDP   -  Gross Domestic Product
GNP   -  Gross National Product
GOB   -  Government of Peoples' Republic of Benin
ICB   -  International Competitive Bidding
ITU   -  International Telecommunications Union
LIB   -  Limited International Bidding
MFE   - Ministry of Finance and Economy
MIC   - Ministry of Information and Communications
OPTB  -  Office des Postes et Telecommunications du Bdnin
PNAM  -  National Maintenance Improvement Plan
PPF   -  Project Preparation Facility
SAC   -  Structural Adjustment Credit
SAP   -  Structural Adjustment Program                                     a
SOE   -  Statement of Expenditures



NJu. L. ILEAL UoL UNLY
PEOPLES' REPUBLIC OF BENIN
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS DU BENIN (OPTB)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJ  T SUMMARY                .     .......................    - iii
I.  INTRODUCTION ........                     ..      .... .    1
Project History ............. .          ........ .    1
Economic Context ..                   .....  1
II.  THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR . . ...............    2
Sector Background ......................... .          2
Sector Issues .....   4
Sector Strategy and Goals ................. .          4
III.  THE ENTITY .        .     ..................................    6
Institutional Background             ....  6
Institutional Issues               ...   7
Organization and Management    ...   7
Staff and Training              ...   8
Accounting System              ....  9
Audit                     ... 9
Billing and Collection ... 10
Institutional Strategy and Goals   ...                10
IV. THE ROLE OF THE BK    ... ..11
V.  THP, PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT.......                        12
The Telecommunications Investment Program..   12
The Project    ...12
Objectives   ..12
Description. .                                     13
Cost ..14
Financing . .15
Procurement. .                                     16
Disbursement. .                                    17
Project Implementation: . .                           18
Timetable and Organization  . .18
Performance Indicators. .                          19
Program Contract and Action Plan .19
This report is based on the findings of a mission composed of
Messrs. Stephen Brushett (Task Manager). Philippe Lecharny, Martin Page,
and Herman Ruud.
This documcnt has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its conternts may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Page No.
VI.  FINANCIAL ANALYSIS     .................. .........  19
Past Performance          .................    19
Present Position ...................... .....   21
Projected Financial Performance ............   21
Financial Restructuring ....................  23
Projected Financing Plan .................. .  23
VII.  ECONOMIC ANALYSIS .      ................. ..........  24
Tariffs ........... .       ................  24
Benefits .........    .      ...............   24
Least Cost Solution           .       .        25
Return on Investment           ..             25
Risks             .. .    26
Environmental and Health Aspects ...........  26
VIII.  RECOMMENDATIONS .................. ..... . .....  .26
Agreements Reached at Negotiations   ..   26
Conditions of Credit Effectiveness   ..   27
Recommendation .........     .     ........ .   28
List of Annexes and Charts
Page No.
1.  Basic Data - Benin Telecommunications .......   29
2.  Comparative Telecommunications Data .........    31
3.  Demand for Connection to the Planned
Telephone System      .      ............. .    32
A. Draft Program Contract ......................   33
5.  Institutional and Management Action Plans ...   39
6. Actual Organization Chart ...................   44
7.    Staff  Summary  ........... . .   ................ .  46
8. Project Description .........................       47
9.  Investment Program.(1988-93) ................   50
10.  Schedule of Technical Assistance for
Improvement in OPTB Management ............    52
11.  Schedule of Disbursement             . .         53
12.  Implementation Schedule .....................      54
13.  Performance Indicators .................... .    56
14.  Assumptions Underlying Financial
Projections .......             ........   60
15   Telecommunications Tariff       .. .. .   71
16.  Return on Investment ........................    73
17.  List of Documents in Project File ...........    79
MAP: No. IBRD 21009



PEOPLES' REPUBLIC OF BENIN
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS DU BENIN (OPTB)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrowers         Peolples' Republic of Benin (GOB).
Beneficiary:      Office des Postes at Telecommunications du Benin (OPTB).
IDA Credit:       SDR 12.5 million ($16.0 million equivalent).
Terms:            Standerd IDA, 40 years maturity.
Onlending Terms:  GOB will onlend the credit proceeds to OPTB at an
interest rate of 7.5Z. The repayment period will be 20
years including five years grace. Interest will be
capitalized. though OPTB will pay the equivalent of the
credit commitment and service charges during the grace
period. OPTB will bear the foreign exchange risk.
Proiect
Obiectivess     The project will support: (a) the execution of a program
of institutional and management improvement in the
telecommunications sector: (b) the improvement of the
quality of service to present subscribers, and the
extention of the provision of services on a least cost
basis; and (c) the improvement of the financial position
and performance of OPTB, with a view to creating a
positive flow of funds from the sector. The project
will support the objectives of the GOB structural
adjustment program (SAP) and in particular the
improvement of public resource management and of
investment programming.
Project
Descrigtion:    The project comprises:  (a) the 1988-92 investment
program which is the first phase of the medium term
development strategy, ac agreed between GOB, OPTB and the
donors at the November 1987 round-table; and (b) the
action plan for management and institut.onal improvement
in the sector as agreed between GOB, OPTB and the donors
in March 1988. The ma5n components include: (i)
training and technical assistance for institutional and
management improvement, particularly in the areas of
accounting and financial management including tariffs;
planning and project execution; computerization;
management information systems; commercial management and
operatic,s, postal and financial services' operations;
and manrower development; (ii) rehabilitation and
replacement of local networks in Cotonou and Porto Novo
to meet demand to year 2000, i.e., 34,000 lines; (iii)
replacement and extension of switching capacity in
Cotonou and Porto Novo and of the interexchange network;



- ii -
(iv) rehabilitation and selected upgrading of the trunk
transmission network; and tv) installation of multi-
access systems for rural telecommunications.
Prolect Benefits  The project would help rehabilitate and develop an
And Risks:       essential infrastructure sector and improve productivity
in other sectors. The ptoject will help meet unsatisfied
demand through improved service quality and efficient
network expansion, especially in Cotonou and Porto Novo.
The project will contribute to the realization of the
SAP, inter alia, through improved investment programming
and public resource management in the telecommunications
sector. The risk that poor investment coordination could
lead to inappropriate decisions is already being
minimized, inter alia, through the 'ovember 1987 donor
round-table meeting. The risk that inappropriate
institutional structures and poor sector management could
negate the expected project benefits is being minimized
by the agreement reached in March 1988 on an appropr-.ate
action plan and through the adoption of the new OPTB
statutes and a program contract between GOB and OPTB to
be signed before credit effectiveness. The risk that the
poor financial situation of OPTB could compromise project
objectives is to be minimized through the adoption of a
financial restructuring program.
Estimated Costs:
----GCFAF Billion---        -- $ Million-----
Local  Foreign Total   Local Foreign Total
1. Local network                 2.0      5.5    7.5     6.8   18.2   25.0
2. Transmission                  0.5      3.3    3.8     1.7    9.9   11.6
3. Switching centers             0.6      2.1    2.7     1.9    7.1    9.0
4. Rural telephony  -            0.1      0.4    0.5     0.3    1.5    1.8
5. Institutional development    0.2       1.1    1.3     0.5    3.7    4.2
6. Training center               0.2      0.4    0.6     0.5    1.4    1.9
Total base cost             3.5    12.9   16.4    11.7   41.8   53.5
Physical contingencies        0.3     1.0    1.3      0.9    3.0    3.9
Price contingencies           0.8     1.6    2.4      2.5    5.4    7.9
Total telecommunications
project                     4.6    15.5   20.4    15.1   50.2   65.3



- iii -
Financing Sources:
---S Million Equivalent---
Local     Forrign    Total
IDA                                3.5       12.5      16.0
ADB                                 --       16.0      16.0
CCCE                               1.3        7.7       9.0
CIDA                               0.7        2.8       3.5
EIB                                3.1       10.9      14.0
FAC                                 --        0.3       0.3
OPTB                               6.5         --       6.5
Total                  15.1        50.2      65.3
Estimated Disbursements:a/
-------$ Million Equivalent----------
IDA FY           FY89     FY90      FY91     FY92     FY93
Annual            1.5       6.7      2.9      2.6      2.3
Cumulative        1.5      8.2      11.1     13.7     16.0
a/  Based on expected project implementation rather than the standard IDA
profile due to completion of most procurement activity prior to credit
effectiveness.
Economic Rate of Return: 282
Staff Appraisal Report:   No. 7375-SEN, dated October 7, 1988
MaP:  IBiD No. 21009



a
S



PEOPLES' REPUBLIC OF BENIN
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS DU BENIN (OPTB)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
Proiect History
1.01     The Government of the Peoples' Republic of Benin (GOB) first
requested the assistance of IDA in 1982, for the financing of the telephone
cable requirements of the telecommunications sector. Further to the work
of two brief reconnaissance missions, IDA produced a sector report in
October 1963.  The report concluded that:  (a) desp4te substantial past
investment in the bector, telecommunications actually constituted a Major
bottleneck for economic development, largely due to the insufficiency and
poor maintenance standards of local networks; and (b) the operating entity,
the Office des Postes et Telecoumunications du Benin (OPTB), was
ineffective due to manpower, organizational and financial constraints. The
purpose of the project is to provide the necessary resources to resolve
these problems.
1.02     The request of GOB for an advance of $500,000 under the Project
Preparation Facility (PPF) was approved by IDA in March 1984. This advance
contributed to the cost of preparatory engineering and management
assistance to the project. Work was substantially complete by November
1986. A second advance of $250,000 was approved in June 1987 to finance
the cost overrun due to exchange rate fluctuation. A third advance of
$500,000 was approved in February 1988 to help finance the costs of
finalizing tender documentation and of the technical assistance and
training required for project execution and program coordination. The
project cost has been estimated at $65 million, for which an IDA credit of
the equivalent of $16 million has been requested. The project is expected
to be completed in five years.
Economic Context
1.03     The IDA strategy in Benin is to support GOB '.4fforts aimed at
economic recovery and financial stabilization, to be executed through a
structural adjtustment program (SAP). This sZ.pport will be tendered through
a structural adjustment credit (SAC), appraised in July 1988 and to be
presented to the Board before December 1988, and through a series of
relevant sector specific lending operations, including in the
telecommiuncations sector. The principal goal of the SAP is to raise the
real GDP growth rate over the medium term to three percent annually within
a viable macroeconomic framework. The main objectives of the SAP are tot
(a) strengthen GOB capacity to manage its resources, including restoration
of the viability of the budget; (b) improve allocation of resources for
investment in favor of high quality projects that remove specific
bottlenecks to growth; (c) reform the policy environment to enabl.e private



- 2 -
sector contribution to the higher growth objective; (d) reorganize the
banking system to enable it to resume effective financial intermediation;
and (e) remove policy and regulatory constraints on the performance of the
public enterprise sector.
1.04     The project is expected to make a significant contribution towards
the achievement of these objectives. The project supports the 1988-92
telecommunications investment program, which has been focussed on the high
priority works needed to eliminate network bottlenecks and which will thus
contribute to the encouragement of business development, particularly in
the  rivate sector.  The implementation of this program is to be reviewed
on an annual basis with IDA participation (para 6.09). The project also
supports an action plan for management and institutional improvement in the
sector. To this end, a program contract ('contrat de programme*) is to be
concluded between GOB and OPTB (para 3.04). A series of measures are
provided for which would improve the policy and regulatory environment in
the se tor, and would permit more rapid and appropriate sector growth in
line with demand.  Public rew,urce management should be strengthened
through control of current consumption of telecommunications services and
elimination of arrears of payments. An appropriate framework for sector
pricing will be created through the introduction of specific financial
parfazmace objectiwv and of a tariff review mechanism.
II. THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
Sector Background
2.01     As of December 1987, there weLe 12,848 direct exchange lines
(DELs) installed in Benin, of which 7,637 were in Cotonou (Annex 1). The
average annual growth in DELs over the previous ten years %as 7.3Z.
However, the rate of growth since 1980 has only been 52 per annum. This
level of service corresponds to a density of just over 0.3 DEIs per 100
population, slightly under the averake for sub-Saharan Africa (Annex 2).
The density is estimated for Cotonou at 1.4 per 100 and for Porto Novo at
1.0 per 100, both very low for cities of some importance for business.
Automatic service is available in only 31 towns. Outside of these, access
to telephone sorv4._ is limited and there is no rural telecommunications
system. About 15X of present subscribers are classified as government or
parastatal, and 78Z are private subscribers of whom the great majority are
either full or part time business users. 7? of available lines a:e
reserved for service and test purposes. The number of government lines is
not excessive by regional standards, though the percentage of lines for
service purposes appears high. The official waiting list, which represents
the lower limit of unsatisfied demand, was 7,504 at May 1987. This is
however considered an unreliable indicator as long waiting times and lack
of information in the past on expansion plans tended to discourage
registration by waiters. Informal estimates put unsatisfied demand at
present tariff levels as at least double this figure.
2.02     There are 34 automatic telephone exchanges with a total capacity
of 23,600 DELs in Benin. The capacity of the four exchanges in Cotonou
alone is 10,000 DELs. The exchange capacity fill is thus 562 which is low



by regional standards and reflects the shortage in the subscriber cable
network, some underdimensloning of the exchanges and shortages of spare
parts and maintenance equipment. Most of the exchanges, which utilize
crossbar electromechanical technologies., have been installed in the last 10
years, though the Ganhi exchange in Cotonou which assures national transit
is nearly 25 years old. The Ganhi exchange as well as those in Abomey and
Bohicon are saturated.
2.03     There is one automatic telex exchange, installed in 1978, with a
capacity of 528 lines of which 278 were connected to subscribers, 942 of
them in Cotonou. There remains however a small unsatisfied demand for
telex service due to a lack of cable pairs. There is a well developed
domestic transmission network based around a backbone microwave system
extending to the borders with Niger. Togo and Nigeria. The system, first
installed in 1974, now covers 1,180 km and is mostly equipped to 960
channels. The system is currently under adaptation to handle television
transmission and will be extended to the border with Burkina Faso. The
availability and quality of international communications is good. There is
a digital HT20 international exchange linked to a satellite earth station
type A which were both installed in June 1984. At present levels of usage,
the facilities are only used 20-25Z. Benin is also linked to COte d'Ivoire
and Nigeria by submarine cable.
2.04     Local telephone cable networks are largely insufficient and poorly
designed and maintained. Other than in the three centers of Cotonou, Porto
Novo and Abomey the configuration is rigid. Existing underground cables
are not ducted and are poorly protected from humidity and water seepage.
Abnut one third of the overhead network of 1,994 km is out of service at
any one time. Maintenance personnel are poorly organized and lack adequate
training. Therefore the quality of service offered is low, though there
has been little effort to date to routinely collect data and monitor
performance. Fault incidence and duration on local cable networks is
extremely high due to poor maintenance of overhead cable and inadequate
ducting and protection for underground cable. Fault incidence averages
three per subscriber per year where a figure of one would be a regional
norm. Fault duration is relatively lengthy with only 20Z of faults cleared
the same day and only 70Z within eight,days. Partial data suggest the call
completion rates for long distance and international calls is about 50Z
which is around regional average.
2.05     Total investment in the telecommunications sector through OPTB in
the period 1980-85 is estimated at CFAF 11.1 billion. This is equivalent
to about 32 of total capital formation in Benin in the period. In terms of
regional comparisons, telecommunications investment as a percentage of GDP
has been relatively high, at 0.8Z over the period 1980-83 about double a
representitive sub-Sahara Africa sample (Annex 2). However, this
investment has not always been carried out in a cost effective manner.
Asset cost/DEL is relatively high in Benin due to firstly a number of
inappropriate investments being undertaken, for exwaple the 34 district
towns subproject, and secondly inadequate provision for investment in local
networks in major urban centers, resulting in past investment elsewhere in
the system not being fully utilized. This is reflected also in the
relatively low usage rates of the telephone service. In 1936, estimated
revenue per subscriber was CFAF 320,000, which is both one of the lowest in
West Africa, and which has been declining in real terms since 1983.



-4-
2.06     Past sector financial performance has been poor in relation to
potential. Profitability has been moderate due to low usage rates and
relatively high operating costs. The average rate of return of 13Z over
the period 1981-86 is misleading due to very low rates of collection of
telecommunications billings averaging 55Z. On a cash basis
telecommunications has not typically covered its operating cost and
investment requirements and has had to finance the deficit through firstly
drawings on GOB Treasury and secondly through a strong negative working
capital position including a large net debt on pos.al operations
(para 6.02).  The situation risks being aggravated as debt service
requirements on past foreign loans fall due from 1985 onwards.
Sector Issues
2.07     The main sector issues which arise from the foregoing discussion
and which require to be addressed in any sector strategy are as follows:
(a)  Los service level relative to demand:
Informal estimates put unsatisfied demand at present tariff levels
at double the official waiting list of 7,504, i.e., total demand
equivalent to more than double the present service level
(para 2.01).
(b)  Low effective utilization of the existing network:
The exchange capacity fill is 56Z due to shortages in the
aubscriber network, underdimensioning of some exchanges and
shortages of maintenance equipme-t. A number of exchanges are
saturated (para 2.02).
(c)  Inadequacy of local subscriber networks:
Local networks are insufficient and largely poorly designed and
maintained (para 2.04).
(d)  Weaknesses in maintenance and organization:
Maintenance personnel are poorly crganized and lack adequate
training. Fet&lt incidence and duration is extremely high by
regional standards (para 2.04).
(e)  Poor planning and coordination of investment:
There has been significant recent investment in the sector, but
this has not been carried out in a cost effective manner with the
local network inadequacies leading to low utilization of existing
assets (para 2.05).
(f)  Poor past financial performance:
Lov usage rates and relatively high operating costs have led to
only moJderate profitability in the sector. The cash position has
been in deficit because of very low collection rates (para 2.06).
Sector Strategy and Goals
2.08     In affirmation of the importance of telecommunications for the
economic development of Benin and of the need to effectively respond to the
issues, GOB has established its goals for the sector as follows:



5
(a) to satisfy demand for service in the most important
centers;
(b) to improve the quality of service offered to all
subscribers;
(c)  to redress the financial situation of the sector; and
(d) to establish the basis for the creation of a digital
network.
2.09     A number of steps have already been taken to meet these goals.  A
National Master Plan for Telecommunications was prepared in 1986 with
assistance from the International Teleconmunications Union (ITU). The plan
determined the network configuratlon required to permit the introduction of
digital technologies and to meet all anticipated demand up to year 2005.
Demand was projected rather optimistically to grow at 8.32 per annum on
average. A lower figure of average just under 6.5Z has been retained for
the purposes of project planning however on the basis of a more sanguine
assessment of medium term economic developments in Benin and on the
assumption that the SAP is effectively implemented. It has not been
assumed that all demand can be immediately met other than in Cotonou and
Porto Novo, consistent with GOB's sector goals (Annex 3). Thus whilst
projected demand by year 2000 is over 44,000 DELs, it is expected that only
33,000 DELs would by then be connected. This implies however a tripling of
the network over 15 years and an equivalent density of 0.70 DELs per 100
population by year 2000.
2.10     On the basis of this Master Plan, a medium term investment program
of priority telecommunications works has been identified (para 5.01). The
program, costed at about $65 million equivalent of which 76Z is in foreign
exchange, has been drawn up after a meeting of GOB, OPTB and interested
donors in November 1987 and will be supported by the project. The program,
which includes a significant component for local network rehabilitation and
replacement, is expected to be executed over the period 1988-92.
2.11     A National Maintenance Improvement Plan (PNAM) has been drawn up
in June 1986 with the help of ITU. The PNAM is currently under execution
and provides for the materials, equipment and technical assistance
necessary for improvement of the existing network in the provincial towns.
Targets for improvement over the program period have been set as follows:
(a) raise call completion rates to an average 70Z per year; (b) reduce
fault rates to an average one/subscriber/year; and (c) reduce average fault
clearance delays to one day. These targets are to be integrated into the
comprehensive indicators of sector performance under the proposed project
(para 5.17).
2.12     In order to redress the financial Eituation of the sector, the
stratejy of GOB has two main dimensions. Firstly an action plan to be
supported by the project is to be adopted for management and institutional
improvement (para 3.04). The plan would, inter alia, provide for major
improvements in financial management and particular for significant
increases in the rate of collection of bills. Secondly, a program of
financial restructuring is to be prepared under which a series of measures



- 6 -
will be taken to redress the current financial position of the sector and
to provide a sustainable basis for the anticipated future development of
the sector and for an eventual positive flow of funds from the sector
(para 6.07). The studies for financial restructuring program are to be
completed by October 1988. Tho respective obligations of GOB and OPTB
under the finally agreed program will be included in the program contract,
whose signature is a condition of credit effectiveness (para 3.04).
I.  THE ENTITY
Institutional Background
3.01     The monopoly for the development and exploitation of both domestic
and international public telecommunications is exercised by the Office des
Postes et Telecommunications du Benin (OPTB). OPTB also has responsibility
for the provision of postal and financial services, though these activities
are on a relatively modest scale and account for about 1OZ of turnover and
only 6Z of total assets. In 1986, mail volume was about 7.2 million items
or under two/capita/year. The number of postal checking accounts (CCP) was
about 50,000 and total deposits were net of OPTB's own accounts, about
CFAF 4.11 billion relative to total bank deposits of approximately CFAF 80
billion. The number of postal savings accounts was 145,000 with total
deposits of about CFAF 3.35 billion.
3.02     OPTB was established by decree in 1959, modified in 1971, as an
'6tablissement public I caractere industriel et commercial" (EPIC), and
enjoys a separate legal status and some financial autonomy, e.g., full
accounting separate from that of Government. The National Savings Bank
(CNE) which has responsibility for postal savings has a separate statute
but is managed by OPTB. OPTB has since 1984 been subject to the
supervision of the Ministry of Information and Communications tMIC). OPTB
is managed by a Board of Directors representing GOB, staff and union
interests but under the chairmanship of the Minister of Information and
Communications. Day zo day decisions are taken by a Management Committee
chaired by the Director General and on which staff interests are
represented. In practice though, no decisions of consequence have been
taken without the approval of the supervising ministry and there has been
thus far little effective delegation of authority. In the absence of clear
performance objectives for OPTB, interventions have been frequent and not
always coherent. Furthermore the power to nominate the Board, Director
General and all Directors of OPTB currently resides with the National
Executive Council (CEN).
3.03     GOB has recognized that the present framework is not particularly
suited to the telecommunications sector, and is taking action in two main
areas consistent with its general policy for public enterprise reform
(para 1.03). Firstly, a new General Law on the institutional framework for
relations between GOB and public enterprises has been introduced.
Following the new model statutes provided for by this law, a new draft
statute for OPTB has been prepared. The new statute provides, inter alia,
for the following improvements:



-7-
(a) OPTB management will henceforth enjoy enhanced autonomy in taking
personnel and organizational decisions, e.g., recruitment,
promotion, changes in organizational structure and job
definitions;
(b) OPTB Board of Directors will be streamlined and private sector
participation will be permitted; and
(c) *A posteriori' control by GOB of OPTB will be permitted by mean of
a program contract (3contrat de programme") (para 3.64).
Whilst these improvements are modest, they will contribute to increased
flexibility and autonomy in sector management. During negotiations,
agreement was reached that OPTB's new statute will be put into effect as a
condition of credit effectiveness (para 8.02).
3.04     Secondly, the instrument of the program contract is to be applied
to the telecommunications sector, as provided for in the new General Law.
A draft  contrat de programme" betwe.n GOB and OPTB has been prepared
(Annex 4). The program contract will contribute to the clarification of
the specific objectives of OPTB ix the period 19a9-91. GOB will make
concrete undertakings to control its telecommunications consumption and
clear arrears.  Jointly, GOB and OPTB are to agree on a rational approach
to pricing, future resource mobilization from the sector and on a financial
restructuring program for OPTB. OPTB will, as one of its obligations,
undartake an action plan for management improvement (Annex 5) (para 5.18).
During negotiations, agreement was reached that: (a) the program contract
satisfactory to IDA will be signed and finmalized as a condition of credit
effectiveness; (b) GOB and OPTB will perform their respective obligations
under the program contract; and (c) implementation of the cont.act will be
subject to a review in which IDA will participate no later than September
30 each year (paras 8.01 and 8.02).
Institutional Issues
Organization and Management
3.05     The organization of OPTB has ,1ot changed since 1971.  The
organization is not well adapted to the particular requirements for the
telecommunications and postal sectors. Furthermore internal procedures are
lengthy, control mechanisms poorly developed and management information
systems insufficient for a commercially oriented organization.  There is
excessive centralization at Director General level with the previously
observed limited managerial autonomy. The National Conference for the
Improvement of the Operating Structures of OPTB was called in November
1985 and identified a number of measures which will be put into effect as
follows:
(a)  increase flexibility by decentralization of financial authority in
the organization, a step already taken for the international
telecommunications operations;
(b)  addition of a central planning cell, together with planning
divisions in the departments for Telecommunications and for Postal
Services;



(c) .7sengthening of the Telecommunications Department through the
c.-eation of separate international and national network services
(including a separate local network division); and
(d) creation of regional services for Telecommunications and Postal
Services to take on most day-to-day functions.
The new organizational structure proposed and the present which is to be
replaced are at Annex 6. The new organizational structure is adequate and
is to be introduced at the same moment as the new OPTB statute. However,
the new organization still lacks firstly a fully fledged financial
management capability (para 3.10) and secondly internal audit and management
control functions. Under the action plan for management improvement to be
supported by the project, OPTB is to undertake a further study of its
organization with a view to: (a) responding to these omissions; and (b)
preparing for the progressive separation of the management of postal and of
telecommunications services.
3.06      OPTB has suffered from past lack of continuity in top management.
There have been four different Director Generals in the past five years.
The holders of the position have rarely been given a clear set of objectives
towards which to work; (para 3.04) and have generally lacked broad management
skills and training. A new management team was appointed in July 1987 which
is perceptibly stronger in these latter areas. The new Director General had
been successful in setting up the new international telecommunications
service for OPTB. The proposed program contract will contain clear
objectives for management and is thus expected to contribute to the
increased effectiveness of management.
Staff and Training
3.07      As of April 1988, total staff of OPTB was as follows:  1,369 in
telecommunications operations; 812 in postal and financial services; and 557
tn common services; for a total of 2,742 (Annex 7). Total staff involved
direcvly or indirectly in telecommunications was put at 1,703, the
equivaltnt of 135 per 1,000 DELs. There has been a 33Z increase in staff
for telecommunications over the past five years, with recruitment of lower
level staff in excess of requirements. Even allowing for the relatively
labor intensive technologies currently in use and the dispersion of
operating equipment, this ratio is very high by regional standards. The
average figure for francophone West Africa is about 91 and that for sub-
Sahara Africa on average about 85 (Annex 2). No full analysis exists for
future manpower requirements, particularly for the higher skill categories
required by the new digital technologies. At present only 39
telecommunications staff are at a level requiring first degree or higher
level training. A detailed human resource and training needs study, which
would determine, inter alia, where staff reductions could be effected, is to
be carried out under the project as part of the action plan for management
improvement (para 5.04).
3.08      A traieing center for postal and telecommunications staff has been
in existence in Benin since 1961. With only six full time instructors, the
center's capacity is rather limited and courses are restricted to middle and
lower level technical staff of whom about 200 receive training in any one



year. At the higher level, OPTS has access to multilateral schools for
posts at Abidjan and for telecommunications at Dakar, and to training grants
from a number of bilateral donors principally France, Canada, Belgium and
Switzerland. OPTB does not at present offer financial and management
training though it does intend to start basic accounting cour£es at its
training center. The training center is to be upgraded under the project
(para 5.03).  This upgrading will involve improvement in equipment and
materials and technical assistance for curriculum development.
Accounting System
3.09      OPTS prepares commercial accounts based on the Benin accounting
plan. The quality and timeliness of these accounts has improved
significantly since 1982, by which time a huge accounting backlog had been
built up. This backlog has been eliminated, and accounts are prepared in a
more timely fashion. The quality of accounts has been improved, and from
fiscal year 198; separation of telecommunications from postal and postal
financial services was made possible after a revision of the OPTS accounting
plan had been carried out. Annual recurrent and capital budgets are
prepared in a timely fashion, though budget management and estimation need
to improve.
3.10      Under its new statute and organization, OPTB will retain the
separation of responsibility for approval ("ordonnancement") vested in the
Director General from the responsibility for payment ("paiement") vested in
the Agent Comptable. This organization however leaves diffuse the
responsibility for financial management and planning, and does not give a
major role to the technical departments. The future organization of finance
is to be studied under the action plan (para 3.05). Technical assistance is
to be provided to facilitate improvement of budget and treasury management
under the action plan. The diagnostic analysis of OPTB's financial system
and the development of recommendations for improvements was already
undertaken in 1984 under financing from the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation
Economique (CCCE). During negotiations, it was agreed that OPTB would
prepare appropriate annual operating and capital budgets covering at least
the next three fiscal years and furnish these budgets to IDA for review and
comment no later than one month before the beginning of each fiscal year
(para 8.02).
Audit
3.11      OPTB does not have an internal audit function, though its
introductio-n is to be studied as part of the action plan. OPTB is subject
to periodic "a prIoril financial control from the Inspection Gendrale de
l'Etat. Two independent Commissaires aux Comptes are required by law to be
appointed by OPTd for a renewable period of three years.  Under the new
General Law (para 3.05), their report is to be submitted to the OPTB Board
within six months of the end of the fiscal year, prior to approval by the
CEN.  The reports are however not sufficiently exhaustive to give a full and
true evaluation of OPTB's financial situation. Accordingly, OPTB has agreed
from fiscal year 1986 to a full external audit with the assistance of an
external audit firm. Terms of reference for this audit have been agreed.
During negotiations, it was agreed that from fiscal year 1988 audited
accounts together with an appropriate management report would be prepared
within six months of the end of the fiscal year and sent to IDA (para 8.01).



- 10 -
Billing and Collection
3.12      The billing and collection system for telecommunications accounts
has been ineffective and has been the major contributory factor to OPTB's
poor financial position. The principal problems ha.- been the following:
(a) billing delays of 60 days or more are common because of lengthy manual
procedures; (b) a substantial portion of traffic estimated as 152 is not
being billed at all; (c) procedures for cutting off non paying subscribers
have not been fully respected--as of July 1987, some 152 of available DELs
were in suspense awaiting settlement of past dues; (d) insufficient
information exists to determine the amounts and ages of the arrears on
payment of individual accounts; and (e) GOB and most public enterprises have
not settled their bills on a regular basis. The aggregate collection rate
has remained at 55Z and total receivables are currently equivalent to 2.5
years billing, about double the regional average (Annex 2). Consultants
financed out of the first PPF (para 1.02) undertook a detailed analysis of
arrears at end 1984. Of total receivables of CFAF 8.9 billion, CFAF 3.8
billion had fallen due in 1980 or before. GOB and public enterprise
receivables accounted for about CFAP 6.2 billion, 70Z of total, with 150
subscribers accounting for 852 of this amount.
3.13      OPTB has taken action in three main areas thus far:  (a) through
the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA), technical asaistance
was obtained in 1984/85 to review billing and collection systems and
procedures; (b) again through CIDA, a minicomputer together with related
technical assistance and training has been obtained to permit, from the
beginning of 1989, the introduction of computerized billings and improved
subscriber accounting; and (c) a financial frame agreement ("accord cadre")
has been signed September 1987 with GOB, both for the provision of a timely
and regular settlement of dues and for transferring payment responsibility
for residential government telephones to the individuals concerned.
3.14      These actions alone however are insufficient to resolve the
problem. Under the program contract, concrete targets for 1989-91 are to be
agreed for increasing the collection rate, reducing arrears and controlling
government consumption. Further technical assistance is to be provided to
help OPTB implement new systems under the action plan tpara 3.13). During
negotiations, it was agreed that: (a) GOB wgould provide amounts acceptable
to IDA in its annual budget to cover its telecommunications costs, the
amounts concerned to be determined in collaboration with OPTB and to be
reviewed by IDA not later than September 30 each year (para 8.02); and (b)
OPTB would maintain billing and collection procedures adequate to reduce
receivables from state enterprise and private subscribers to 120 days
equivalent no later than December 31, 1990 (para 8.02).
Institutional Strategy and Goals
3.15      GOB has embarked on a program of policy and institutional changes
in the public enterprise sector to be supported by the SAP (see para 1.04).
The goals for OPTB are consistent with this program as well as the sector
goals (para 2.09). The necessary resources will be made available through
the proposed project. The goals are:



- 11 -
(a) reform and strengthening of the institutional framework in which
OPTB operates;
(b)  improvement  .x the financial relations between OPTB and GOB;
tc) improvement of OPTB's financial situation; and
(d) improvement of OPTB's technical and financial management.
3.16     The measures to be supported by the project vill contribute
significantly to the realization of these goals. The reform and
strengthening of the institutional framework, and the improvement in
financial relations between OPTB and GOB will be supported by putting into
effect OPTB's new statutes (para 3.03) and by the execution of the proposed
program contract (para 3.04). The improvement in OPTB's financial
situation will be supported by a series of measures, including tariff
review, billing and collection improvement, and performance targets agreed
in the context of the program contract and by the 1988-92 investment
program. A financial ivastructuring program (para 2.12) is also to be
undertaken in the interest of the improvement of the financial situation.
The improvement of OPTB's technical and financial management will be
supported by the action plan to be adopted as one of OPTB's obligations
under the program contract.
IV. THE ROLE OF THE BANK
4.01     The IDA strategy in Benin is to support GOB efforts aimed at
economic recovery and financial stabilization. This strategy stresses the
need to improve the performance of the public enterprise sector to increase
its contribution to goals for economic growth and an improved public
finance position. Telecommunications is a particularly important sector in
this regard, because through sector development and improved management the
potential exists for significant financial improvement that could lead to a
capability to transfer surplus to GOB.
4.02     IDA has had experience in the telecommunications sector in Benin
since 1982 (para 1.01). IDA's experience in sub-Sahara Africa dates from
1963 and there are ongoing projects or projects currently under preparation
in about 15 countries in the region. -This cross-country experience
together with the benefit of a multi-disciplinary approach to project
appraisal and institutional analysis will be brought to bear in Benin.
4.03     The role of IDA in the telecommunications sector of Benin derives
from the following areas in which GOB has requested IDA assistance.
Firstly, IDA preparation missions and PPF financed consultants have helped
complete the diagnosis of OPTB's organization and management problems.
Secondly, IDA has helped coordinate the advice of the different donors to
help prepare a detailed action plan and performance indicators for
monitoring improvement. IDA took the lead in introducing the concept of
the program contract and in helping to prepare a first draft. Thirdly, IDA
has played a significant role in revising investment priorities, by helping
GOB prepare for the sector donors meeting in November 1987, and has played



- 12 -
a key catalytic role in attracting cofinancing for the program. IDA played
a key role in conceiving and financing the design and costing of a major
project for local telephone network rehabilitation.
4.04     In the context of the proposed project, which has been designed to
tackle sector and institutional constraints and to respond to sector and
institutional goals, the principal contribution of IDA will be through:
(a) resource transfer to help meet a proportion of the foreign
exchange requirements of the envisaged local network
rehabilitation;
(b) financing a part of the technical assistance and training
requirements for institutional improvement; and
(c) providing continuous advice on technical, financial and
institutional matters through project appraisal and supervision.
V. THE PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT
The Telecommunications Investment Program
5.01     The telecommunications investment program is expected to be
executed over the period 1988-92. It is based on the original short term
plan for 1985-90 prepared at the same time as the Master Plan (para 2.10)
and has been subsequently updated in September 1987 to reflect a more
realistic estimate of cost and implementation. The total cost of the
program, inclusive of contingencies, has been estimated at $65.3 million or
CAPW 20.4 billion. The telecommunications investment program is
effectively Phase I of a medium term development strategy. Phase I, which
is supported by the proposed project and will be executed over the period
1988 to 1992, includes works of the highest priority which will lead to
improve quality of telephone services and to provide new telephone
facilities to meet high priority demand in the two main cities, rotonou and
Porto Novo. A full description is at Annex 8. Phase II, to be prepared
around 1990, will include rehabilitation and expansion of local cable
net,orks, and new switching facilities for nine other towns plus interurban
transmission facilities.
The Prolect
Obiectives
5.02     The project comprises:  (a) the telecommunications investment
program; and (b) the action plan for management and institutional
improvement in the sector. The principal objectives of the project are to
support:
(a) the execution of a program of institutional and management
improvement in the telecommunications sector;



_ 13 -
(b) the improvement of the quality of service to present subscribers
and the extension of the provision of services on a least cost
basist and
(c) the improvement of the financial position and performance of OPTB,
with a view to creating a positive flow of funds from the sector.
Description
5.03     The main project components are as follows:
(a) expansion and replacement of local networks of Cotonou and Porto
Novo to meet demand to year 2000, that is civil works for up to
56,000 DELs and subscriber cabling up to 34,200 DELs and
subscriber equipment for up to 19,300 DELs;
(c) expansion and replacement of switching capacity up to 20,300 DELs
with digital equipment in Cotonou and Porto Novo to meet demand to
year 1995;
(c) extension with optical fiber of the interexchange network to
accommodate the new digital switches in Cotonou and Porto Novo;
(d) implementation of digital links between Cotonou and Porto Novo to
improve interurban and international connections;
Ce) provision of spare parts, vehicles and buildings;
(f) provision of multi-access UHF/VHF systems in Atacora rural zone;
(g) provision of technical assistance and training for both project
implementation and institutional development; and
(h) provision of equipment and technical assistance to improve OPTB's
training center.
5.04     The project provides for up to 370 manmonths of technical
assistance, excluding consultancy for local network project preparation
finsuced out of advances from the PPF. The technical assistance concerns
principallys
(a) for project execution:
up to 92 manmonths for supervision of main works installation, and
up to 42 manmonths for supervision of subscribers installation.
Consultants will also provide training services for senior staff
in charge of local network, new structure, and professional staff
in charge of local network installation and maintenance. The
consultants for this work have already been selected under IDA
procurement guidelines;
(b) for the action plan for institutional development and management
improvement, up to 236 manmonths of technical assistance as
follows:



- 14 -
ti) up to 20 manmonthe for program coordination including
organization studies;
(ii) up to 42 manmonths for financial management, to cover
financial audit, financial projections, budget and treasury
management, management accounting and tariff study;
(iii) up to 60 manmonths for commercial management, including
billing and collection, stocks, planning and subscriber
management;
(iv) up to 32 manmonths for human resource management, including
organizational development, management training and needs
study;
(v) up to 30 manmonths for management of postal and financial
services;
(vi) up to 24 manmonths for computerization; and
(vii) up to 18 manmonths for the development of management
information systems.
5.05     Terms of reference for all required services have been elaborated
and a detailed implementation schedule has been prepared. The technical
assistance summary is at Annex 10.
Cost
5.06     The total cost of the project is CFAF 20.4 billion ($65.3 million
equivalent) of which the foreign exchange component is $50.2 million, or
76Z of project cost (see Annex 9). The local cost component is exclusive
of customs duties and taxes. Foreign cost estimates for the local network
subp.roject are based on "he detailed work of consultants financed under the
PPF. Foreign cost estimates for the rest of the project are based on the
work of the Master Plan team as updated in September 1987.



- 15 -
Table 5.1: Estimated Proiect Cost Summary
----CFAF Million----  -----$ Million-----
Local  Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total
1. Local Netvork                  2.0      5.5    7.5    6.8   18.2   25.0
2. Transmission                   0.5      3.3    3.8    1.7    9.9   11.6
3. Switching centers              0.6      2.1    2.7    1.9    7.1    9.0
4. Rural telephony                0.1      0.4    0.5    0.3    1.5    1.8
5. Institutional Development      0.2      1.1    1.3    0.5    3.7    4.2
6. Training Center                0.2      0.4    0.6    0.5    1.4    1.9
Total base cost               3.5    12.9   16.4   11.7   41.8   53.5
Physical contingencies              0.3     1.0    1.3    0.9    3.0    3.9
Price contingencies                0.8      1.6    2.4    2.5    5.4    7.9
Total telecommunications project  4.6    15.5   20.4   15.1   50.2   65.3
5.07     Physical contingencies are 5t on both local and foreign costs of
equipment, 102 on the local and foreign costs of services, and 102 on civil
works. Price contingencies are based on foreign cost increases of 32 in
1987-90, and of 42 thereafter. Price contingencies on local costs are
based on annual increases of 52.
Financing
5.08     The proposed sources of financing for the project are as follows:
Table 5.2: Prolect Financing Plan
-- $ Million Equivalent---
Local     Foreign    Total
IDA                                3.5        12.5      16.0
CCCE                               1.3         7.7        9.0
ADB                                  --       16.0       16.0
EIB                                3.1        10.9       14.0
CIDA                               0.7         2.8        3.5
FAC                                  --        0.3        0.3
OPTB                               6.5          --        6.5
Total                   15.1       50.2       65.3
The proposed IDA credit of equivalent $16 million would be made available
to GOB on standard IDA terms with 40 years repayment. Onlending terms to
OPTB were agreed at negotiations and include: (a) onlending at a rate of



- 16 -
interest of 7.5Z; (b) repayment over 20 years including a grace period of
five years with capitalization of interest; (c) OPTB to pay the equivalent
of credit commitmcnt and service charges during the grace period; and (d)
OPTB to bear the foreign exchange risk. The execution of a subsidiary loan
agreement between GOB and OPTB acceptable to IDA would be a condition of
credit effectiveness (para 8.04). The IDA credit will finance 472 of the
local network reeuirement for Cotonou, that is the two exchange areas of
Jericho and Cadjehoun, civil works up to 22,400 DELs cablbig up to 13,600
DELs, and subscriber equipment up to 7,100 DELs, 100t of the requirement
for project execution technical assistance and training, and the equivalent
of 30 manmonths of the requirement for technical assistance for
institutional development.
5.09     Other costs of the project will be financed as follows:
(a) African Development Bank (ADB) will finance the local network for
Porto Novo, equipment for the upgrading of the trunk transmission
network, and equipment and technical assistance for the training
center;
(b)  Caisse Centrale de Cooperatioz  Ecovomi-4que (CCCE) will finance
digital switching exchanges in Cotonou and Porto Novo and up to 44
manmonths of technical assistance;
(c) European Investment Bank (EIB) will finance 53? of the local
network requirement for Cotonou that is the two exchange areas of
Ganhi and Akpakpa and interexchange network in Cotonou and Porto
Novo;
(d) Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) will finance
technical assistance up to 90 manmonths and the rural network in
Atacora; and
(e) Fonds d'Aide et Cooperation (FAC) will finance up to 60 manmonths
of technical assistance.
The effectiveness of the IDA credit is conditional on the effectiveness of
the financing from ADB and EIB, given the interrelation between the
elements of the project concerning the Cotonou and Porto Novo local network
development (para 8.04). Forty three percent of the local costs of the
project will be financed out of the internal cash generation of the OPTB.
Procurement
5.10     The procurement arrangements for the project are summarized in
table below:



- 17 -
Table 5.3: Procu=rment Arranements
to il Iion)J
2cQ      Negotiated  LX5b/  Local   Other      Tota
Contracts         Bidding
1. Local network    29.3 (10.7)                  0.3 (0.3)          29.6 (11)
2. Transmission     10.9                   2.5                      13.4
S. Switching center.              10.4                              10.4
4. Rural telephony                 2.1                               2.1
6. Consultancy service                                     7.0 (6) /  7.0 (S)
6. Training center                         2.2                       2.2
TOTAL       40.2 (10.7)    12.5    4.7  0.8 (0.3)  7.0 (6)  66.3 (16)
Note: Figures In parentheses indicate aeunte to be financed through the IDA credit.
1/ Ictluding contingencies.
i/ Limited international bidding.
/ Bank guideline. for the use of consultant..
Equipment and works fcr $10.7 million financed by IDA, i.e., 73Z of the
csedit will be prQcu=ed unda  international competitive bidding (ICB) in
accordance with IDA guidelines. Local bidding would be used for $0.3
million of tools and vehicles for which it is acceptable to procure
locally. Consultants services of $5 million will be selected according to
IDA guidelines (this includes that already procured under advances unQar
the PPF). IDA financed contracts of over $100,000 each will be subject to
prior IDA review of procurement documentation and will cover about 95Z of
the total value of contracts.
5.11     Procurement under EIB and ADB will be ICB or limited international
bidding (LIB). Under CCCE and other bilateral funding, competition will be
restricted to suppliers in the financiers' country. Local procurement of
goods and services to be financed by OPTB would be in accordance with OPTB
procedures, which have been found acceptable.
5.12     To minimize possible implementation delays, advance procurement
activities have been started by OPTB. Details of the schedule for
invitation to bid, evaluation and award of contract were discussed and
agreed at appraisal. Award of contract for the local networks will be a
condition of credit effectiveness (para 8.02).
Disbursement
5.13     Disbursement of the IDA credit would be made against:
(a) Statement of Expenditures (SOE) for eligible expenditures under
contracts valued at $100,000 equivalent or less. Supporting
documentation for these would be retained by OPTB and made
available for review by IDA during supervision.  OPTB's annual
financial audits (para 3.11) would include a separate opinion on
the claims submitted to IDA on the basis of SOEs stating whether
such claims are in accordance with the credit agreement.
(b)  Full standard documentation for eligible expenditures under
contracts not governed by the preceding paragraph.



- 18 -
The estimated disbursement schedule at Annex 11 is based on expected
project disbursements and not on IDA's standard disbursement profile for
all projects in West Africa. Disbursement is expected to be completed by
December 31, 1993. Due to advance procurement, it is some three years
earlier than profile. To accelerate disbursement against foreign
expenditures, a special account will be established in the name of OPTB in
the Cotonou branch of the Central Bank for West African States (BCEAO) with
an authorized allocation of $1.5 million. This figuri. represents three
months estimated disbursements during the peak period of 1990-91.
Supporting documentation for replenishment requests, which would be for a
minimum of $500,000 equivalent, would be retained by OPTB for review by IDA
during supervision. In addition, monthly statements for the special
account would accompany replenishment requests.
5.14     Disbursement would be made on the basis of 1002 of the CIF cost of
imported goods and services, 802 of local cost for goods and services and
1002 of the total costs of consultants and training. The proposed IDA
credit of $16 million equivalent would be disbursed as follows:
Table 5.4: Proposed Disbursement of IDA Credit
Category              Amount $ Hilliorz       Percentage Financed
Equivalent
1.  Local network                   10.90      10OZ of foreign expenditures
(cables, civil works,                      30S  of local expenditures
tools and vehicles)
2.  Consultants and training         3.00      1002 of total expenditures
3.  PPF refinancing                  1.25
4.  Unallocated                      0.85
16.00
Proiect Implementation
Timetable and Organization
5.15     IDA has had experience with the implementation of
telecommunications projects in Benin only through the three PPF advances
for this project. The implementation performance, whilst initially poor,
bas improved. Action will be taken under the project however to ensure
that undue delays and cost overruns are not incurred. Major construction
and installation work will be contracted out. The physical works will be
supervised by the newly created local networks construction unit ("cellule
de construction des rdseaux") in the Telecommunications Department. The
unit will benefit from training and technical assistance provided under the
project (para 5.04). The unit will itself be responsible for subscriber
connections with the help of the technical assistance. Technical staff in
charge of connections will be trained beforehand. The cell is to become a



- 19 -
fully fledged local network division in the new organization (para 3.05).
Technical assistance will be provided under the project also to assist in:
(a) the creation of a coordinator's office which will have responsibility
for monitoring implementation of the action plan; and (b) the strengthening
of the planning division in the Telecommunications Department for the
coordination of the investment program. The project is expected to be
implemented on schedule, and project completion is expected by June 30,
1993. The proposed implementation schedule is at Annex 12.
Performance Indicators
5.16     Indicators to monitor OPTB's implementational, operational and
financial performance have been prepared (Annex 13). OPTB would be
required to report progress against physical indicators and billing and
collection targets in quarterly progress reports to be submitted within one
month of the end of the quarter (par& 8.01) and against financial
indicators in the annual financial statements. During negotiations,
agreement was reached that OPTB shall monitor its performance in accordance
with the agreed list of indicators throughout the life of the project and
five years thereafter. These indicators would be reviewed at least
annually with IDA within six months of the end of the fiscal year
(para 8.01). The quality and comprehensiveness of the reporting is
expected to improve over time due to the technical assistance input to
improve management information systems supported by the project.
Program Contract and Action Plan
5.17     The program contract will be signed as a condition of credit
effecttveness. Its execution will be reviewed on an annual basis with IDA
participation (para 3.04). OPTB's specific obligations under the action
plan for management and institutional improvement will be reviewed on a
quarterly basis (paras 3.04 and 5.15).
VI. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Past Performance
6.01     Financial statements of OPTB are at Annex 14.  The principal
indicators of performance are summarized in Table 6.1 below. The
information since 1982 is in aggregate considered reliable. Before 1986,
however, the accounting system was insufficiently developed to distinguish
posts and telecommunications.  From partial data, it is believed that
postal operations were in balance up to 1982, but then have moved into
deficit, and that telecommunications surpluses in nominal terms have grown
over the period, largely due to increased telephone revenue.



- 20 -
Table 6.1: Kjy Indicators of OPTh Past Flnancial Performance
(CFAF l; lIIon)
1982     1988       1984       1986       1984
Operating revenues             a,8s4     4,020      4,766      6,884      6,708
(of whieh: tel-phone)        (1,956)   (2,645)    (8,296)    (8,673)    (8,910)
flper.ting expenses            8,276     8,647      8,969      4,161      4,656
(of which: personnel)       (1,611)   (1,738)    (1,676)    (1,739)    (2,202)
Net operating result             556       178        796      1,173      1,060
Net Inco                         414       -49        425        738      1,181
Net fixed assts                4,889     4,890      6,012      6,166     14,1809
Telecom receivables            6,186     7,248      6,906     10,890     12,468
Equity                        10,266    10,671     11,060     11,829     19,686
Long term d.bt                 2,798     4,468      4,641      8,221  a ,0se
Net worktng capitil           -1,370    -1,231     -1,104     -4,481 325
Net porkal poaitaon             -870     1,572      1,109     -2,126     -6,088
Internal cash generation       1,076       690      1,890      2,096      2,474
Telecoms lnvystments           1,678     8,6s5      1,484        s6        .661
Debt service                     106        6o        492      1,240        869
Personnel/operating rev. (3)      42        48         85.        88        89
Rt of return (X)                  12         4         12         14         9
TIecoms recelvables (days)       742       860        628        872        983
Long term debt/equity          21/79     29/71      29/71      21/79      18/87
Debt service coverage (times)     10      10.6        2.6        1.7        2.9
Net Internal cash
geeration/investment (X)        52        14         46         97        184
memo
5!M  (no) mld-year             9,924     9,996     10,286     11,168     12,190
Personnel (no)                 2,423     2,6e6      2,776      2,968      8,058
Telephone rwv./DEL (CFAF '000)   197       2655        20        826        821
Colilection rate (X)              42        62         B6        s6         56
3/ Incorporates asset revaluation.
V/ Redefinition of liTabilitise to treasury reduced total current liabilities by
CFAF 8.6 billion approximately.
6.02      The main features of past performance are as follows:
(a)  moderate profitability and internal cash generation which
nonetheless overstates the true position due to the large volume
o!' doubtful debts. At best only 80Z of private sector bills are
being collected in any year--a bad debt provision to cover the
remaining 20Z in 1986 would, for example, eliminate two thirds of
book net income for that year;
(b) low telephone revenue per DEL, with no growth in real terms on
average over the period 1981-85, despite the significa-nt past
investment in the network. This relates both to relatively low
tariff levels in the past (see para 7.01) and to constraints to
traffic growth due to poor network quality (para 2.06);
(c)  relatively high operating costs, due mostly to heavy staffing
levels and low productivity. Personal cost at 391 of operating
revenue in 1986 is high by regional standards;
(d)  negative working capital and a net deficit on postal operations
overseas in most years as OPTB has increased its drawings on



- 21 -
sources of funds other than from its own operations. Yet at the
same time an increasing proportion of current assets is in the
form of telecommunications accounts receivable equivalent to two
and a half years billing at end 1986 and of which a substantial
portion may not be recoverable; and
(e)  declining debt service coverage with the start of principal
repayment of long term loans in 1984-85.
Present Position
6.03     The present position is illustrated by the summary audited balance
sheet at December 31, 1986 given below.
Table 6.2: OPTB Balance Sheet
(as of December 31, 1986)
CFAF Million
Assets
Net fixed assets                                 14,180
Other long term assets                            8,337
Telecommunications receivables                   12,456
other short term assets                           3,323
TOTAL          38,296
Liabilities
Equity                                           19,838
Long term debt                                    3,086
Postal checking system                            3,707
Treasury                                          3,690
Other short term liabilities                      7,975
TOTAL          38,296
6.04     The financial position is however more parlous than these book
figures would suggest. On the asset side, a conservative estimation, which
is supported in the notes to Annex 13, is that recoverable
telecommunications accounts receivables are CFAF 4 billion less than
indicated above. Thus OPTB equity is at least overvalued by that amount,
due effectively to a fictitious element in past net income attributed to
equity. The debt to equity ratio may be nearer 40160 than 13/87 which
*         gives OPTB a more limited capacity than apparent for raising additional
long term debt. On the liab4.ity side, the most significant portion of
current liabilities is for debts to overseas postal administrations. By
*         end of 1986, approximately CFAF 8 billion of this debt was owed to France.
Proiected Financial Performance
6.05     Statements of projected financial performance through 1993 are
given in Annex 13. The principal indicators are summarized below:



- 22 -
Table 6.8: Key Indicators of OPTS Projocted Flnantial Performance
(CFAF Million)
1988     1989     1990      1991      1 m       19 10
Operating revenues         6,666    7,001     7,491     8,266     9,601    10,S1l
(of which: telephone)    (4,660)  (4,801)   (5,109)   (6,761)   (7,000)   (7,650)
Operatinl expense         6C,80     6,190     6,0168    6,71      7,666     7,916
(of which: personnel)    (2,016)  (1,944)   (2,041)   (2,141)   (2,248)   (2,845)
Net operating profit          77      606       678     1,t84     1,945     2,693
Net Income                   147      444       440      861      1,055     1,009
Net fixed assets           14,627   14,677    16,359    20,062    26,6B6    27,600
Telecoms receivables (Not)    9,566    6,684  4,827     2,577     2,837     8,066
Equity                     16,907   16,686    17,624    16,666    19,941    20,060
Long and midium term debt    8,169    7,980    14,244    16,521    21,267    16,916
Internal cosh g neration   1,610    2,130     2,844     8,106     4,080     6,042
Telecom Investm nts          9906    5,0906    8,091    6,612     8,818     1,620
Debt service                 797      686       608      692      1,503     8,586
Personnel/operating rev. (X)  30       28        27        26       28        22
Rate of return (X)             8        6         6         6         9        10
Selecom. rsceivables (days)  a4"      428       287       1s8       12B       126
Long A medium term debt/equity   16    32        46        60       C2        47
Debt service coverage (time)   2.0    2.6       2.9       8.6       2.5       1.4
Net internal cash
generation/investment (U)   66       24        10        32        61        s0
memo
MEG mid-year (no)          13,282   13,610    14,416    16,106    17,971    19,624
Personnel (no)             2,600    2,700     2,700     2,700     2,690     2,660
Telephone ,ev./DEL (CFAF '000)  362   853       854       857       390      400
6.06      The projection of revenue allows for:  (a) an increase of about
6,000 DELs in th' size of the network through 1993; (b) no increase in
telephone revenue per DEL up to 1991 but a 12Z increase thereafter with the
completion of the rehaviiitated local networks; and (c) an increase in
domestic telecommunications tariffs of 20t from January 1988 (para 7.01).
Operating costs are expected to fall in real terms, largely due to the
significant reduction in numbers of staff per DEL through higher
productivity and improvement in the quality of the work force (para 3.07).
The rate of return of net fixed assets is sensitive to both the provision
for bad debt, which is expected to fall from 20Z in 1988 to 52 by 1993 on
the assumption of improved billing and collection performance and to the
provision for depreciation which is to be increased to reflect current
telecommunications sector practices. During negotiations, agreement was
reached that OPTB would ensure minimum rates of return as follows: at
least 4Z for fiscal years 1988-89; at least.6Z for fiscal years 1990-91;
and at least 10? for fiscal year 1992 and beyond (para 8.02). OPTB and IDA
will agree annually on the appropriate methods for the valuation of net
fixed assets.  A full asset revaluation has been carried out by OPTB in
1986, in conjunction with consultants financed out of the first PPF
advance.



- 23 -
Financial Restructuring
6.07     The projected improved future performance together with an
appropriate financing plan (para 6.08) will be necessary for the
stabilization and subsequent improvement of the financial positi-n of OPTB.
Consequently, it has been agreed that more detailed studies of projected
performance together with an analysis of options for OPTB financial
restructuring will be prepared by at latest October 1988. A meeting of
GOB, OPTB and the donors is expected to take place before end 1988 to
decide on an appropriate course of action.  The resultant obligations of
GOB and OPTB will be included in the program contract whose finalization
and signature is a condition of credit effectiveness. The analysis here is
based on what is considered the most likely scenario for financial
restructuring, which includes the assumption of the outstanding postal
payments to France as public debt and its compensation against government
arrears on payment for telecommunications services, as well as the writing
off of a significant portion of arrears on private accounts. The detailed
assumptions are at Annex 14. On this basis, the long term debt to equity
ratio is not expected to go above 60/40, which is acceptable and would
allow adequate capacity to cover the anticipated debt service. The current
ratio is expected to be in the range 1.0-1.4 which would be acceptable.
Telecommunications accounts receivable in total are expected to fall from
643 days equivalent in 1988 to 125 days equivalent by 1993 (para 3.14).
Proiected Financing Plan
6.08     The aggregate financing plan over the period 1988-93 is given
belows
Table 6.4: Proiected OPTB Financing Plan 1988-93
CFAF Million
Sources
Internal cash generation                        18,261
Less:  debt service                              8,509
Net internal cash generation                      9,752
Foreign borrowings                              21,915
Grants                                           1,568
IOTAL         33,235
Anplications
Investment program                              27,428
Increase in working capital                      5,807
TOTAL         33,235
6.09     Net internal cash generation is expected to cover about 352 of
requirements for new investment more than sufficient for the local cost
component which is about 252 of the total. Aggregate debt service coverage
of 2.15 times is acceptable.   During negotiations, it was agreed that OPTB
would ensure its net internal cash generation in any one year covers at



- 24 -
least 25Z of the average riquirement for investment over that year and the
succeeding two years (para 8.01). No later than September 30 each year,
IDA will review OPTB's investment program on a three-year rolling basis to
ensure its coherence with OPTB financial capacity (para 8.01). OPTB would
undertake no new investment in excess of $1 million equivalent in the
sector during the project period without prior review by IDA (para 8.01).
VII. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Tariffs
7.01     The present telecommunications ta.iff of OPTB is at Annex 15.  The
domestic tariff had been substantially unchanged since May 1981 until a
proposal to increase the *taxe de base3 from CFAP 50 to CFAF 60 was
approved in January 1988. International tariffs wrre last raised by 27Z
across the board in 1982. Comparative studies or regional tariffs indicate
that Benin's tarZffs for telephone are low relative to similar countries,
though somewhat higher for telex. Telecommunications consumption valued as
OPTB revenue is under 1U of GNP compared to a subregional average of 1.22
even though traffic levels are comparable. In common with many Sub-Saharan
countries, variable call revenues are high relative to fixed charges such
as those for connection and rental. The connection charge is not used at
present to ration excess demand for service. Furthermore, the tariff
structure is overly complex for a small country, e.g., seven different long
distance charge bands.
7.02     The present tariff level is sufficient to ensure minimi-a
acceptable financial performance (see para 6.06) and to ensure an adequate
return on investment to the project (see para 7.06). However, there is a
need to review both levels and structure. Studies would be undertaken as
part of the action plan to be supported by the project in two stages to:
(a) review in the context of the detailed studies of projected financial
performance and of financial restructuring options (para 6.07): (i) the
adequacy of tariff levels; and (ii) the introduction of higher access fees
to the network and higher connection charges to ration demand during the
project implementation period; and (b) review before December 31, 1991:
(i) demand in general to explore the possibility for raising tariffs for
resource mobilization for GOB; and (ii) the cost structure of the various
services, given the introduction of new technologies, to determine whether
at minimum charges cover costs.
Benefits
7.03     Telecommunications may be a highly cost effective and preferred
alternative to physical transportation, as it is more efficient in terms of
energy and capital consumption and of user time. The project would
encourage more efficient communications, in particular for transit trade
along the Benin corridor and in the major cities especially Cotonou and
Porto Novo. Good telecommunications are necessary for making markets work
better by improving in a cost effective fashion the flow of information and



- 25 -
for improving business efficiency in general. In Benin, therefore the
project may help export trade and agriculture, particularly in the cotton
subsector.
7.04     The project at this time confers two important additional
benefits. Firstly, a long run solution based on anticipated demand can be
implemented in major towns consistent with plans for urban development and
other major infrastructure. Secondly, by expanding the network in an
efficient fashion the project affords the opportunity to reverse the flow
of resources in the sector towards GOB and away from OPTB. Furthermore,
the project is expected to contribute to improved investment programming in
the sector and to improved management of public resources (para 1.04).
Least Cost Solution
7.05     Planning of the project has been based on least cost solution
methodologies. The timing and dimensioning of the various elements of the
project are based on generally accepted engineering practice after study of
the feasible alternatives. Canalization of local telephone cable has been
preferred over buried cable or overhead cable for high volume sections of
the network as the higher capital cost is more than offset by the
discounted lower operating and maintenance costs and-by fewer future
outages. The choice of digital switching technology over analog for new
systems is iustified by a lower discounted cost per new DEL. Multi-access
systems for rural subscribers offer considerable economies over alternative
solutions and make expansion of access to the system feasible in many
areas. For the interexchange network, optical fiber is cost effective over
conventional cable for the traffic volumes foreseen.
Return on Investment
7.06     The calculation of the rate of return on the project, that is all
new works under the investment program for 1988-92, is given at Annex 15.
The principal direct benefits arise from the incremental consumpt..on of
telephone subscribers in Cotonou and Porto Novo connected to the new higher
quality local network. It is estimated that without the project continuing
deterioration of existing local networks would lead to a progressive loss
of traffic which would be complete by 1995. With benefits valued at the
existing tariff, the financial rate of return on these benefits is 20Z.
7.07     The financial rate of return does not fully reflect the economic
benefit of the project. The value to the consumer of the telephone service
is in excess of the actual tariff. At constant real tariffs, part of
consumer surplus is captured and the economic rate of return is estimated
as 282. This is a minimum estimate however as in addition substantial
*           external benefits accrue to the economy (para 7.04).
7.08     The following sensitivity tests were carried out on the economic
*           rate of return:
(a)  with a 202 increase in capital costs, the rate of return is 23Z;
(b) with a 202 increase in operating costs, the rate of return is 26Z;



- 26 -
(c)  with a 20? reduction in operating revenue, the rate of return is
222;
(d) with a combination of these effects, the rate of return is 16?;
and
(e) with a two year delay in benefits, the rate of return falls to
172.
Risks
7.09     There are three principal risks of the project.  Firstly, poor
planning and coordination of the investment program could lead to delays
and cost overruns. This risk has been minimized through the 'mini round-
table' ensuring the maxiaum coherence of different subprojects and ensuring
sufficient finance will be available. Secondly, there is the risk that
inappropriate institutional structures and poor management, particular from
the commercial aspect, could lead to the dissipation of project benefits.
This risk is being minimized by the adoption of the revised statutes for
OPTB and by agreement in advance on a plan of action for OPTB management
Aapsovement. au the provision of the necessary resources to implement the
plan. GOB will demonstrate its commitment to the project by signing a
program contract with OPTB before credit effectiveness. IDA will
participate in an annual review of implementation of the program contract.
Thirdly, there is a risk that the poor financial position of OPTB might
compromise the achievement of project objectives. This is being minimized
by requiring that agreement be reached on financial restructuring and that
the respective obligations be included in the program contract.
Environmental and Health Aspects
7.10     The project is expected to have no adverse environmental and
health aspects. Indeed the project is expected to generate improvements
both by reducing the need for transportation, and improving the delivery of
health services particularly in the rural areas.
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS
Agreements Reached During Negotiations
8.01     During negotiations, the following assurances were obtained:
(a) GOB and OPTB will undertake to perform their respective
obligations under the program contract, the execution of which
will be reviewed with IDA participation no later than September 30
each year (para 3.04);
(b) OPTB will prepare annual operating and capital budgets covering at
least the next three fiscal years and furnish these budgets to IDA
for review and comment no later than one month before the
beginning of each fiscal year (para 3.10);



- 27 -
(c) from fiscal year 1988, audited accounts together with an
appropriate management report will be prepared within six months
of the end of the fiscal year and sent to IDA (para 3.11). Audit
of SOEs will be submitted with audited financial st'tements
(para 5.13);
;4)  GOB will provide amounts acceptable to IDA in its annual budget to
cover its telecommunications costs, the amounts concerned to be
determined in collaboration with OPTB and to be reviewed by IDA
not later than September 30 each year (para 3.14);
(e) OPTB will maintain billing and collection procedures adequate to
reduce telecommunications accounts receivable for state enterprise
and private subscribers to 120 days equivalent no later than
Decemler 31, 1990 (para 3.14);
(f) OPTB will be required to report progress against physical
indicators and billing and collection targets in quarterly
progress reports to be submitted within one month of the end of
the quarter (para 5.16);
(g) OPTB shall monitor its performanc,. in accordance with an agreed
list of indicators throughout the life of the project and five
years thereafter, these indicators to be reviewed at least
annually with IDA six r-"nths after the end of the fiscal year
(para 5.16);
(h) OPTB will ensure minimum rates of return on appropriately valued
net assets as follows: at least 4Z for fiscal years 1988-89, at
least 6Z for fiscal years 1990-91, and at least 102 for fiscal
year 1992 and beyond (para 6.06);
(j) OPTB will ensure its net internal cash generation in any one year
covers at least 25Z of the average requirement for investment over
that year and the succeeding two years (para 6.09);
(k) OPTS will review its three year rolling investment program for
telecomunications with IDA no later than Septembb: 30 each year
(para 6.09); and
(1) OPTB will undertake no new investment in excess of $1 million
equivalent in the telecommunications sector during the project
period without prior review by IDA (para 6.09).
Conditions for Credit Effectiveness
8.02     The following are conditions of effectiveness:
(a) finalizatlon and adoption of OPTB's new statutes
(para 3.03);
(b) finalization and signature of the program contract
(para 3.04);



- 28 -
(c) signature of the agreement for onlending the IDA credit
from GOB to OPTSB (para 5.08).
(d) effectiveness of cofinancing from EIB and ADB (para 5.09);
and
(e) award of contract for the Cotonou local network under IDA
financing (para 5.12);
Rccmuendation
8.03     Provided the above conditions are met, the proposed project is
suitable for an IDA credit of $16 million equivalent on standard terms with
40 years maturity.



- 29 -                        ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 2
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMHUNICATIONS DU BENIN (OPTS)
TELECOMUNICATIONS PROJECT
*                             Basic Data - Benin TelecoDmunications
(Situation at 31 December)
1984    1985    1986    1987
T$lephone
Number of automatic switching centers             20      28       32      34
Total installed capacity in
centers (lines)                             19,900  22,100  23,300  23,600
Average utilization of capacity (Z)             53.2      52    53.8    54.4
Number of DELs                                10,581  11,496  12,538  12,848
Average annual increase in DELss
1977-87 (X)                                                             7.3
Ditto for 1984-87 (2)                                                     6.7
Number of interurban lines                               459              470
Length of radio relays: 960 channels (km)              1,101   1,101   1,101
Dittos 300 channels                                     64.3    64.3    64.3
Dittos 120 channels                                       14       14      14
Total length of pairs in transmission
cables (km)                                          9,394
Ditto:  distribution cables (km)                      15,360
Dittos  jmnction cable (kcm)                           7,560
Telegraphs and Telex
Number of telegraph offices                        1       1        1       2
Number of telex offices                            1       1        1       2
Number of telex switching centers                  1       1        1       1
Total installed capacity (lines)                 528     528      528     528
Number of telex subscribers                      268     236      257     278
Average annual increase:  1977-87 (2)                                    13.6
Dittos  1984-87 (Z)                                                       1.2
International Circuits
Total:
by satellite                                            99              127
by submarine cable                                      37               31
by microwave                                            74               85
Telephone circuits                                       163              180
Telegraph circuits                                         4                4
Telex circuits                                            38               62
Leased circuits                                            2                3



30                             AI'9E  1
-~ 30Page  2 of 2
1984       1985        1986        1987
Traffic
Total number of pulses (in millions)
registered by subscribers' impulse
meter over the last 12 months
(local, interurban and international
automatic telephone traffic)                                                 7.42
International telephone calls,
originating (minutes charged)                              2,237.892   2,270,635
Interurban telexes (minutes charged)
International telexes, originating
(minutes charged)                                            255,382     270,311
Local and interurban telegrams
(words charged)
International telegrams, originating
(words charged)                                           1,022,461   1,412,695
Staff
Staff numberss
-  Telecommunications                                          1,439        1,303
-  Postal and financial services                               1,083          883
-  Common services                                               540          608
-  Total                             2,775       2,797         3,062        2,794
Staff numbers telecommunications
et 60Z of common services per
1,000 DELs                                                       141          130
Genenal
Telephone revenue
(in thousands of CPAF)               3,295       3,673         3,910
Telex/telegraph revenue
(in thousands of CFAP)                 798         764           882
Total revenuel/
(in thousands of CFAF)               4,237       4,528         4,810
Investment in telecommunications
(in thousands of CFAF)               1,434         568           561
GDP (in billions of CFAF)                 417        461           484
GDFCF (in billions of CFAF)                31         63            62
Exports f.o.b. (in billions of CFA?)    103          109            70
Imports c.i.f. (in billions of CFAF)    160          176           130
Investments/GDP 2                         0.3        0.2           0.1
Investments/GDFCF 2                       3.8        1.7           0.9
RevenueslGDP Z                            1.0        1.0           1.0
11  Includes other telecoms revenues.
Note:
Average price deflator                    147        155           160
(100 - 1980)
Exchange rate (CPAF = $1)                 437        449           346          3p0



-31 -                          ANNEX 2
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMWNICATIONS DU BENIN (OPTB)
FIRST TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Comparative Telecommunications Data1L
Benin      Francophone     Sub-Saharan
West Africa       Africa
Penetration2_                        0.27          0.31            0.35
Investment/GDP31         Z           0.8           0.7             0.4
Cansumption/GDP           z          1.2           1.2             1.1
Network growth3l          Z          4.5           5.5             6.8
Net fixed assets/DEL41   $       2,320         2,570           2,391
Revenue/DEL              $         840         1,540             886
Operating cost/DEL        $        670            NA             632
Staff/1,000 DELs        No.        144            91              85
Staff cost/DEL           $         288           357             319
Revenue/Staff cost     Times         2.9           4.3             2.8
Rate of return5/          2         12            NA              15
Receivables            days        650           360             322
M4emo
Population            million        3.7          39.7           146.4
GDP/capita (av)          $         290           483             416
Total DELs              No.      9,995       124,326        509,815
Countries               No.          1             9              13
Notes:
1/  1983 unless otherwise stated.
2/ Expressed as number of direct exchange lines (DELs) per 100 population.
'3   Over the period 1980-83.
4/ Figure for Benin is in teality about 502 higher as work-in-progress in
accounts contains value of a number of telecommunications assets
actually in operation.
5/ Average unrevalued over the period .1980-83.



PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
dFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS Di BENIN (OPTB)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Demand for Connection to the Planned Telephone System
DELs         Unmet       Total      Average       Average      Projected Demand (DELs( by the end
Installed     Demand      Demand      Annual        Annual                   of each year
as of        as of       as of   Population      Increase      ------------------------------_
Mid-1987     Mid-1987   Mid-1987   Increase         in Demand       1990     1995      2000     2005
Cotonou            7,620         3,775     11.395       7.71           6.8        13,438   18,673   25,946   36,052
Ouidah               292            75        367        4.02           5.5           420      548       717      937
Porto-Novo         2,086        2,038       4,124        4.02           6.2        4,794    6,476    8,750   11,820
Abomey               354           244        598        2.71           3.0           644      746       865    1.003
Bohicon              360           136        496        4.42           5.3          536       693       893    1,170
Dassa                101            57        158        4.73           5.3           179      233       301      390        e
Parakou              501           301        802        7.73           6.1          930    1,250    1,680    2,260
Kandi                 63            17         80        4.52           4.0            89      108       131      160
Natitingou           219            93        312        7.03           6.1           361      486       653      878
Djougou              107            19        126        5.82           5.5           144      188       245      321
Lokossa              186            41        227        5.22           5.5          262       343       448      586
Subtotal      11,889         6,796      18,685        6.67          6.4        21,797   29,744   40,629   55,477
Rest of the
country             959           708      1,667        1.10          2.7         1.781    2,035    2,325    2,656
Total        12,848         7,504      20,352        3.20          6.1        23,578   31,779   42,954   58,133
Note:
(A)  ITU hypothesis (mid-1985)                                                                                              x
11,496        3,721      15,217         2.7          8.3        23,893   35.596   53,033   79.010
This hypothesis assumed all demand is immediately met.
i      ,                                                                             .    



-33 -                         ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 6
DRAFT PROGRAM CONTRACT
Note: All figures and objectives referred to below are indicative, and do
not necessarily reflect specific decisions.
Between: The People's Republic of Benin, represented by the Minister of
Finance and Economy,
and:      OPTB, represented by its Director General.
General Provisions:
(a)  Purposes    -  To define technical and financial objectives for OPTB,
together with a program for improving management.
- To define the reciprocal obligations between the
People's Republic of Benin and OPTB.
(b)  Duration    -  Three years, beginning January 1, 1989 (subject to
.evision each year, the objectives being updated).
(c)  Background  -  OPTB's statutes dated                      , 198_.
- The financial frame agreement between the People's
Republic of Benin and OPTB, signed September 2, 1987.
- The law no. 881005 of April 26, 1988 governing the
relationship between the Government and government-
owned companies and government agencies.
Duties of the Government:
(a)  Tariffs     - OPTB is hereby authorized to make regular adjustments
to its international tariffs, in accordance with
international agreements.
- The following revisions may be made to domestic
charges:
(i) Any as may be necessary to implement the
recommendations of the study on the tariff
structure firstly in the context of the financial
restructuring studies and secondly after the
completion of the new networks.
(ii) OPTB is authorized to make such annual adjustments
to domestic charges a& are necessary in light of
the financing needs of its investment programs.
and in order to meet the following conditionss



ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 6
- financial rate of return: at least 122;
- debt servicings ratio of at least 1:1; and
- self-financing: at least 25? of the investment
program.
(Note: Calculated as specified in Annexes.)
(b) Government Agencies' Current Account Budget
- In cooperation with OPTB, the annual consumption of
Government agencies is to be determined and recorded in
the budgets (Reference:  Financial Frame Agreement).
The following objectives have been set:
1989     1990     1991      CFAF
Telecommunications
Post
-  The obligation to pay all bills is contained in the
Financial Frame Agreement.
- If billings exceed the budget, the difference shall be'
paid in the first period of the following financial
year.
(c)  Enforcement -  The People's Republic of Benin hereby undertakes to
permit OPTB to suspend or cease any provision of
services to public or semi-public companies and private
subscribers who fail to pay their bills within the
period specified in current regulations.
- OPTB's debts to public and semi-public companies and
private subscribers shall be given preferred status.
- Other safeguards or measures to ensure enforcement may
be authorized.
(d)  Settlement of Cross Debts and Financial Restructuring
-  The People's tepublic of Benin hereby undertakes to pay
arrears for telecommunications use incurred as of
December 31, 1987, which, according to an
interministerial committee, amount to CFAF
consisting of the following:
Before 1985        1985         1986        1987
Government
Public companies
- The above balance shall be settled in the following
manner (proposal):



_35-                        ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 6
ti)  In FY89, all. pre-1985 debts shall be settled by
compensation with Treasury advances to OPTB.
(ii) Arrears from 1985-87 shall be settled in
compensation with OPTB's postal debt to France.
(iii) Amounts billed in 1988 and remaining unpaid as of
December 31, 1988 are to be settled during FY89.
- The People's Republic of Benin hereoy undertakes to
apply those measures for which it is responsible, once
the financial restructuring plan has been defined, and
in cooperation with the donors.
Ie)  Investment and Subsidies
-  The Government hereby signifies its agreement with the
1988-93 investment program as presented in the annexes.
- Any change to this program called for by the Government
shall require an economic study and an examination of
the financial impact on OPTB. The Government shall
subsidize any unprofitable change.
-  In light of the social function of certain of OPTB's
services, it is hereby agreed for the initial phase
that revenue from the telecommunications sector shall
be used annually to cover the Postal and Financial
Services' deficit, in return for which OPTB shall be
exempt from all taxes applicable to enterprises.
(f) Other Actions
-  The Government hereby undertakes to cooperate with OPTB
in examining the conditions to be applied to an
agreement (to be reached by December 31, 1990 at the
latest) concerning the following items:
(i)  a review of the personnel statute;
(ii) an adaptation to current circumstances of the law
governing distribution of OPTB's profits; and
(iii)  a review of the relationship with regard to
accounting practices existing between the Treasury
and OPTB.



- q6 -                           ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 6
Duties of OPTB:
(a)  Billing and aollection
- OPTB hereby undertakes:
(i)  to furnish the Government with all data necessary
for the preparation of current account budgets
concerned;
(ii) to do all possible (in compliance with current
legislation) to recover debts from public and
semi-public companies and from private
subscribers;
(iii)  to comply with the following performance levels,
after the rehabilitation and computerization of
telephone accounts scheduled for the fourth
quarter of 1988.
1989               1991
Average billing period             21 days             15 days
Collection rates
-  General                           65?                 922
-  Private                           75?                 90?
-  Public companies                  65?                 90?
-  OPTB further agrees to adopt measures to improve
subscriber management as follows:
1989               1991
Billing/production                     852                 98Z
Service lines/total subscribers        20Z                  5?
Lines suspended/total lines             15?                5S
(b) Improvements in Manasement
-  OPTB hereby undertakes:
(i) from 1989, to review annually the status of
execution of the plan for management improvement,
and hold meetings in cooperation with the
Government and the main donors; and
(ii)  to prepare quarterly progress reports.
- OPTB hereby undertakes to comply with the objectives
set for improving its performance, in line with the key
indicators (indicated in the annexes).



37 -                       ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 6
1989        1990         1991
Technical Management
Subscribers - Total
- Cotonou
Quality of Service
Call completion rate
Number of faults per line
Promptness of attention to delays
Personnel Management
Staff - Total
- Telecommunications
- Post
- Common services
Telecommunications/l,000 lines
Financial Management
Revenue per telephone line
Revenue per telex line
Revenue per telex line
Operating cost per telephone line
International settlement rates
Rate of return
Debt servicing
Self-financing
(Notes Key indicators for postal and financial services are to be
added.)
- OPTB hereby undertakes to improve its financial
management by the folldwing means:
(i) presentation of a detailed budget (with a clear
* breakdown into telecommunications, postal services
and common services) in the quarter directly
preceding the financial year concerned;
(ii) presentation of provisional and audited accounts
within the legally stipulated periods, together
with preparation of an annual audit report
providing the necessary degree of detail for all
donors; provisional accounts, with a breakdown of
postal services and telecommunications, will be
produced in FY90 at the latest;
*                          (iii)  an undertaking not to take out any loan for
financing new investments if net revenue for the
preceding financial year is insufficient to
service existing debt.



-38-                          ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 6
- OPTB hereby undertakes to set in operation from
January 1, 1989 a management information system
including all key elements. A draft version of this
system is annexed.
- OPTB will ensure that after the acceptance of the
results of the 1986 financial audit and agreement on
the financial restructuring program the necessary
accounting adjustments will be effected no later than
the accounts for fiscal year 1988.
ANNEXES
I. Calculation of financial performance indicators.
II. Investment program.
II. Suzry of OCPT  pircfmarca objectives.
IV. Action plan for improving management.
V. Management information system.



- 39 -                     ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 5
THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS DU BENIN (OPTB)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
INSTITUTIONAL AND MANAGEMENT ACTION PLANS
1.       To enable OPTB to improve its services, an acticn plan has been
adopted, to be implemented in close cooperation with the Government.
2.       This plan consists of the following four components:
I. a review of OPTB's institutional framework;
II. a definition of the relationship between OPTB and the Government;
III. improvement of OPTB's financial position;
IV.  improvements in OPTB's management.
3.       Progress in the execution of the plan will be monitored by means
of quarterly reports to the Government and the main donors, beginning with
the first quarter of 1988. The reports will be drawn up by a coordinator
In OPTB's Directorate General. The plan may be revised as a result of the
discussions held at the end of each year between the Government and OPTB.
4.       The documentation relating to this plan is as follows:
(a) the detailed tables showing execution schedules for the four
components (draft tables are attached to this document);
(b) terms of reference for technical assistance;
(c)  detailed plans for OPTB staff training;
(d) management information system showing key indicators;
(e) the program contract between the Government and OPTB, together
with technical and financial objectives.



SECTION I
REVISION OF INSTIlUTIONAL FRAMEWORK
Item                             Objectives                          Execution Sch.dulg/Results                    Remarks
1) STATUTES       (a) Application of new sttutes:                 (1) Draft statutes available In      (i) Prelimlnary draft of general
- Provision for dslepgtion of power,            the first quarter of 1988            law on public enterpries
- Increase in Directorate General8s        (il) Adoption of statutes planned        prepared by the first quarter
powrr,                                       for tOh end of 1908 at the           of l088.
- Composition of Board and Management           latest.                        (ii) Comments of IDA mission,
Comitte.                                                                          September 1987 (as indicated
- Definition of OPT8*s functions.                                                    In draft statute.).
- ProfIt distribution.                                                         (ili) Condition for approval of IDA
- Retrospective monitoring by program                                               credit.
contract.
- Schedule for preparation of financial
accounts and audit.
- Salary structure.
- Power to appoint directors and
chtefs of services.
- Procurement procedures.
2) ORGANIZATION   (b) Implementation of new organization              Execution plan (in stages)       (t) Condition for ADF lending,
structuro:                                     for the third quarter of              implemented for Decomber 31.
- Establishmnt of national srvices and          1988, following work by             1988.
international service at DT.                 consultant.  First review       (tt) Establishment of local network
- Establtshmnt of local network unit and        In the 4th quarter of 1988          unit by March 1988.
(possibly) division (reorganization and      at the latest.                 (ttt) In light of availability of
coordinatton of IDA and NPIM projocts).                                           qualified supervisory staff,
- Strengthening of planning unit.                                                   the organization structure
- Strengthening of financial services,                                              could be further developed
- Establishment of directorOtes for                                                 once established.
National Savings Bank and Postal and
Financial Services.
- Telephone accounts center.
3) JOB PROFILE3   (c) Preparation of profiloe for key                 Fourth quarter of 1088.          (1) Financed by external
positions, ie., directors, department          Integral part of th  human           assistance (IDA Project
chiefs and division chief.s                     resource study.                     Proparatic   acility
advanes).
mt's
0
tU,
Ln



*                                                                                                   S
SECTION II
RELATIONP BETWE   WS AND
Item                              bloctives                          Execution SchdulIlR.sults                     Remark
1) PROGRAM        (a) Implemsntation of progrm contract for       (1) Projset: 2nd quarter of 1906.  (1) Condition for approval of IDA
monitoring OPTS's performnce (1989-91):  (1i) Def nitive In 4th quarter of          credit.
- Review of tariffs.                            1988.                           (II) Draft prepared by IDA mission,
- Rolling Investment program.             (Iii) May be revised oech year for         In September 1967.
- technical and finanteal objectives.          a period of three years        (iii) OPTS review of draft in March
- reciprocal obligations.                       (renewable)                          1980, with co mments by IDA.
- Government budget and consumption.
- Settlement of goverment debts.
- loprovements In OPTS managent.
- Government subsidy and profit
distribution.
2) FINANCIAL      (b) Review of financial fram  agreement         (t) First version:  September        (1) Comments by IDA mission,
between OPTB and Governeontt                    1987.                               September 1987.
- Procedurer for budget and consumption.  (ti) First annual review,
- Procedures for tearffs                       October 1986.
- Review of accounting relationship
betwoen OPTB and the Government.
- Tax system.
w
0O 1



SECTION III
IWPRWVEMENT IN OPTB'S FINANCIAL POSITION AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
Item                                                                 Execution Sch.dule/R.sults                    Remarks
1) ACCOUNTS       (a) Execution of detaIlod audit to ascertain   (t) At latest, 6 months after end   (1) Condition for IDA credit; IDA
AUDIT            accounting problems:                            of financial year, from 1988         advice on terms of reference
- Decision on schedul.                          (tn accordance with law).            and Implementation plan,
- Review of terms of referen.             (Il) FY86 audit (CCCE financing),        November 1987.
May/June 1988.                  (i) In accordance with the draft
logislative bill on public
enterpriens.
2) FINANCIAL      (b) Detinition of st of Indicators to be        () From 1988.                        (1) Contained In program contract.
OBJECTIVES       applied annually:                          (Il) Set of Indicators for IDA       ttt) Condition for IDA credit.
- Rate of return.                               project propared In April     (1ii) A provision for doubtful debts
- Level of self-financing.                      1988.                                is a condition of the ADF
- debt-servicing.                                                                    loan.
- annual investment.
- Collection rate.
I
3) INVESTMENT     (c) Preparation of a viable investment          (I) Implementation period will       (t) Annual review provided for In
PROGRAM          program for rehabilitating and                  be 1988-92, after the                the program contract.
extending the system.                           meting of the donors in
November 1987.
4) FINANCIAL      (d) Preparation of restructuring program        (1) Studies In May/September         (1) Coments by IDA, May and
RESTRIX-         for re-establishing OPTD's financial            1988.                                November 1987.
TURING           stability.                                 (II) Meeting of donors in            (li) Condition for negotiating IDA
October 1988.                       credit and CCCE and EIB
financing.
5) CLEARING UP    (e) By means of payments or schedules,          (1) Proparation of initial           (i) Contained In program contract.
FINANCIAL        balance out OPTB's assets and                   implementation plans, 3rd       (it) Settlement of bad debts within
ACCOUNTS         liabilities:                                    quarter of 1988.                     five years Is a condition for
- OPTS-Tresury cross debts.                (ti) Application of agrements,           ADF credit.
- Settlement of debts *rsing from               beginning with 1988 accounts. (ii) Adjustment of value of fixed
telephone operations.                                                             assets with IDA financing
-  Settlement of debts arising from                                                      (1986).
posta l operations.                                                                                                  o uE
- Valuation of fixed assets.                                                                                            ,b W
U'b



SECTION IV
IMPROVEMENT IN OPTE MANAGEMENT
ite                              Obiiwotiv                           Execution Schedu6l/Results                    Remars
1) PROGRAM        (a) Establisho.nt of coordination structures:  (1) Appointment of coordinator and  (i) Approval of terms of reference
COORDINATION      - Coordinator for Directorate Ceneral           oxpert:  lot quarter of 1988.        by IDA. IDA financing for
A MONITORING        and unit.                                (it) Selection of expert for              about 84 marnontha of
- Strengthening of study and planninp           monitoring program, 8rd             technical assstance.
services (DT: Directorate of                  quarter of 1980.
Telocoemunications).                    (11t) System of quarterly reports
- System for monitoring Investment              beginning with the 1st
program execution,                            quarter of 1980.
2) FINANCIAL      (b) - Increase and strengthening of             (I) External audit                   (1) CCCE financing for a maximum
MANAGEMENT          financial powers, and review of               (se Section It!).                    of 42  anmonths of planned
structure:                               (I1) Financial projections:              technical assistance.
- External auditing.                            3rd quarter of 1908, updated
- Financial studies.                            annually.
- Budgetary managoemnt.                   (liI) Budgetary procedures revised
- Cash flow management.                         and dmentralized from 1989.
- Management tnformtion4                   (iv) Financial management
- Cost accounting.                              information from 1989.
- Tariff studies.                           (v) Finantial powers of DT and
DPSF (Directorate of Postal and
Financial Services):  1989-92.
3) COMMERCIAL     (c) Improvements In comercial management,       (1) New review of telephone          (1) CIDA filnncing:  60 manmonths.
MANAGEMENT        and organizational strengthening:               accounting procedures,
OF TELECOM-       - Telephone accounting.                         4th quarter of 1989.
MUNICATIONS       - Inventorles.                             (il) Inventory management,
- Coessrcial manalement.                        4th quarter of 1989.
- Planning.
4) HUMAN RESOURCE (d) Improvements In personnel monagement,       (1) ExeclAtion of study,             (l) IDA financing (10 mnmonths)
MANAGEMENT        and assessment of training needs:               1st quarter of 1989.                 for study of human resources.
- Training programs.                       (ll) Description of training         (ti) CIDA financing (16 manonths)
- Studies of noeds.                             program  and role of CFP            for training.
- Review of personnel manaement systems.       Vocational Training Center),  (1ii) ADF loan for rehabilitation
2nd quarter of 1989 at the          and extension of CFP.
latest.
5) MANAGEMENT OF  (e) Improvement In management and definition   (t) Diagnostic study ef operations, (1) Financing from CCCE and FAC,
POSTAL AND        of objectives:                                  1st quarter of 1988.                 to a maximum of 38 manmonths.
FINANCIAL         - Vaster plan.                             (Ii) Master plan for 1989.
SERVICES          - Diagnostic study of operations.
- Computerization of CCP and CNE. .
6) ORANIZATIONAL (f) Program for implementation In stages of    (i) Work begins In 2nd quarter         (i) CIDA financing for about           *
DEVELOPMENT       OPTS management information system and          of 1989.                             80 manmonths.                         X
of development of organizational                                                                                        Lan
culture.
swn



PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
OFFICE DES POSTES CT TELECOHUJNICATIONS DU BENIN (OPTB)
TELECOIUJNICATIONS PROJECT
Actal Organisation Chart
MISSE ~ ~~~~~~~~~~                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ownSll iCC  tW
UTIOUIIA           f¢gb0XS          Iffs011          COIPT&Bv.t
_______________________  ____  2  T            I  L .~~~~~~~~___________________________________ _____
DIRECTEUR DES                                          131t*l0M           LLTS    |         DIRECTEUR DES SUVICES
TELECGO4UNIC.                                          PUBL|tpQES                           POSTAUX LT FINAKCIERS
DIVISION         DIVISION          DIVISION          DIVISION          CELLULE          DIVISION           D               DIVISION         DIVISION
COMMUTATION      TRANSMISSION      EXPLOITATION     TELECOMNUNIC.           DE           BATHRNTS ||  SERVICE                  POSTE         SERVICES
INTERNATIONALE   PLANIFICATION     TRANSPORT ET      AWIINISTRATIF                      FINANCIERS
MATERIEL



PEOPLEOS REPUBLIC OF SENIN
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOWENICATIONS DU BININ (OPTB)
TELECOtMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Proposed Organization Chart
A   DIRECTION
!GENERALE             A
_   .                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~DI,lECTEUR GFENEBAL
ADJOINT
SECRETARIA
S   CELLULE DE
S  PLANIFICATION
.         SER :ICES SERVICES    DLAN                              DIRECT ONEDE DES  A  IRECTION DE IA CAISSE
COMFTABN E  T            POSTES                    TELECotMUNICATIONS   NATIONAE E D'EPARGNE
r     rA          R       SERVICESIISERVACES|||        |SE-   FICAS  S ARVICES  CENTRE    T       ASERVICES
|SERVICES |SERVICES  SERVICES | DES  }| DES  |||SERVICES||  DE   l l           |E DE                 NCDES
SERVICES                      |DU    |DES             DES   |TELECOMS| ETUDES ||DES   |L'EXPLOI|  CENTRE ||IORMA- |SERVICES| BATI-
INSPEC-   SERVICES SERVICES  |PLAN  |AFFAIRES  TELECDMS     DU  10 ET  |lAFFAIRESg TATLON ||INFOR- 11TION  11ADHI-  M1!ENTS
TTONS      FINAN-  POSTAUX       ET    |GFNE-         DU    |RESEAU ||PLANI- | GENE- }|ET DES | HATIQUE ||PROFES-||NISTRA- |ET DE LA
CIERS             |DWU        RALES      RESEAU  |INTER- ||FICA-   | RALES  |AFFAIRES||| SION- 1  TIFS  IMAINTE-
l      l m BDGE            INATIONAI             TION               CE 11   <ER-          NELE                NANCE 
| BUDGET E? ||   DIVISION
| CONTROLS ||  RELATIONS
|DE GESTION|INTERNATIONALES                                                          II
SERVICE PROVINCIAL                             SERVICE PROVINCIAL                PAPROVISIONNEMENTS         KELATIONS
| DES POSTES  |  |  [ES TELECoMS   |   |  DES TELECOM S l  PUBLI4UES    |    oI



- 46 -                           ANNEX 7
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS DU BENIN (OPTB)
FIRST TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Staff Summary
A. Global (at December 31)
Staff by Category      1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
A-1                 16      16      30       28      28       25      30
A-2                 17      22       77      74      65       65      70
A-31A-4             59      63        9      19      25       66      74
B                 236      234     201      225     235     250      220
C                  467     485     501      574     565      778     644
D                  696     796     996   1,060      966   1,055      920
E                  804     806     772      795     909      823     836
Total             2,298   2,423   2,586   2,775   2,797   3,062   2,794
B. By Service (at April 1, 1988)
-----Directorate----
Common
Function                       Category   Services  DSPF    DT    Total
Posts and telecommunications
administrators                          A-1      5       3       1      9
Telecommunications engineers              A-1      3       -       9     12
Posts and telecommunications
administrators                          A-2    12       17       8     37
Telecommunications engineers              A-2      1       -      32     33
Operations inspectors                 A-3/A-4      9      23       6     38
Inspectors (electromechanical)        A-31A-4      1       -      43     44
Operations supervisors            B-1/B-21B-3    33       67      28    128
Supervisors (electromechanical)  B-11B-21B-3       1       -      73     74
Secretaries to administrative
services                        B-1/B-21B-3      9       -       1     10
Foremen                           B-1/B-2lB-3      2       -       -      2
Operations staff                  C-1IC-21C-3    41      203      61    305
Staff (electromechanical)         C-1/C-21C-3      2       -    203    205
Assistant secretaries to
administrative services         C-1/C-2/C-3    21       10       2     33
Craftsmen                         C-1/C-21C-3      9       -       1     10
Letter carriers                   D-1/D-2/D-3   113      301    206    620
Technical staff and drivars       D-1/D-2/D-3    42       19    385    446
Skilled workers                   D-1/D-2/D-3    40        1      10     51
Service and liaison staff                 E-1    32       99      62    193
Technical assistants                       E-1    47       6      81    134
Temporary workers                                134      63    157    354
Total                              557      812  1,369  2,742



-    -                      Ann"A o
Page 1 of 3
PEOPLES' REPUBLIC OF BENIN
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS DU BENIN (OPTB)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Proiect Description
General
1.       The project consists of the new works of OPTB's investment program
to be executed over the period 1988 to 1992. The project mainly aims at
the development of the two main cities telephone facilities and at
improving long distance services. Under the project, the digital
technology will be progressively introduced. The project as a whole aims
at the rehabilitation, improvement and modernization of the
telecoununications infrastructure in Benin. Simultaneously, major emphasis
is placed on improvements in OPTB's management of finance, planning and
operations, and maintenance. Details of the various project components are
summarized below.
Local Telephone Networks
2.       Local telephone switching:
(a) Cotonou: The oldest (1962) existing switching center in Ganhi has
reached its expansion capacity and its lifetime. It will be
replaced by a new 5,000 line digital exchange. A transit function
will also be introduced in Ganhi so that the traffic between the
new digital exchanges in Cotonou and Porto Novo will be
independent from the old existing crossbar transit exchange. In
the future, the new digsital transit exchange will progressively
replace the crossbar transit exchange in proportion as the Benin
network will be digitalized. The three other crossbar Cotonou
exchanges, Akpakpa, Jericho, Cadjehoun, which have reached their
expansion capacities, will be supplemented by the creation of
three digital exchanges installed in the same place as the old
ones. The Akpakpa, Jericho, Cadjehoun digital centers will
respectively have as the first step 1,500, 1,500 and 1,250
subscriber capacities.
(b) Porto Novo: The crossbar Porto Novo exchange, which has reached
its expansion capacity, will be supplemented by the creation of a
1,600 subscriber capacity digital exchange in Kandevie. A transit
function will also be introduced in digital exchange to be
directly connected with the new digital transit exchange in Ganhi.
Cable Network
3.       Due to the poor quality of the local cable network in Cotonou and
Porto Novo, this project component includes expansion and replacement of
local networks of Cotonou and Porto Novo to meet demand to 2000. This
project component comprises civil work construction of ducts and



- 48 -                      ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 3
installation of cable systems for the primary and secondary levels of the
local distribution network and also civil work for interexchange junctions
of the four centers in Cotonou and the two centers in Porto Novo. The
civil work is planned for up to 56,000 DELs dimensioned to requirements to
2010, the cabling for up to 34,200 DELs.
Interexchange Local Transmission
4.       The interexchange local transmission component under the project
is mainly for the creation of new digital junction links between the new
digital exchanges in Cotonou and Porto Novo. The drastic reduction of
optical fiber transmission cost makes possible to introduce this new
technology into the Cotonou and Porto Novo junctions.
Long Distance Transmission
5.       The transmission component under the project includes two main
items:
(a) creation of new digital junction links between the new digital
transit exchanges of Cotonou and Porto Novo. A 34 M.bits
microwave system will be installed between Cotonou and Porto Novo.
(b) extension and improvement of the analog transmission network to
cope with the national and international traffic increase expected
from the network improvement and expansion in the two main cities.
Under the transmission component, additional multiplex equipment
on the existing transmission routes will be implemented.
Rural Network
6.       This component is a pilot project in rural Atacora province and
includes the construction of VBF multi access systems in 11 small centres.
In the future, and depending on the results, this experiment will be
extended to other provinces.
Training Center
7.       Under the project, the existing training center will be improved.
New buildings and technical facilities will be implemented and training
experts provided to improve curricula to make training more job oriented.
Technical Assistance
8        The technical assistance provided under the projest concerns
principallys
(a)  for the Proiect Execution:  To help the newly created 'Division
des Reseaux' cope with the project, consultancy services will be
provided for supervision of civ_l work building and cable
installation. Consultants will also assist OPTB's 'Division des
R6seaux@ in implementation of subscribers installation. The
technical assistance includes the provision of training services



49 -                   Am. .% a.
Page 3 of 3
for service staff in charge of local network La th  'Division des
R4seauzu and professional staff In charpe of local network
installation and maintenance.
(b)  For Institutional Develoment and              Impovement: A
summary description of technical assistance for Institutional
development and management  mprowment La given In Annex 10.



Ra ncz aF mein
mwz - rn67 a Taoiwwm                 w mm
(I$ million equiwlat)
* 1988                    1989                     1990
Iccal   Foreigp  Total   local   Foreiga TotAl   lcarl   Foreign Total
A.      GI vE3 
i        Transmission                      0.30    0.83    1.13    0.35    1.33    1.68    0.25    0.67    0.92
ii      3Ninteinoe Plan                   0.06    0.67    0.73    0.31    2.34    2.65    0.43    4.02    4.45
iii      Technical Apistatue               0.15    0.60    0.75
Total                             0.51    2.10    2.61    0.66    3.67    4.33   068    4.69    5.37
B.      PR3JEC
i       local Neb*rkB
Civil Votk                                                1.64    2.34    3.98    1.81    2.62    4.43
Cmbles                                                   0.17    1.53    1.70    0.27    2.60    2.87
Installation                                             021    031    0.52    0.47    0.70    1.17
Technical Assistanem
and Trainig                     0.03    023    0.26    0.08    0.68    0.76    0.09    0.79    0.88
Bob Total                        0.03    023    0.26    2.10    4.86    6.96    2.64    6.71    9.35
ii       itchng                                                    0.19    0.72    0.91    0.67    2.50    3.17
iii      Tnuisaion                                                 0.14    0.95    1.09    0.47    2.84    3.31
iv      Rua Telepxmy                                               0.04    0.23    0.27    0.14    0.58    0.72
v        lIatitutiomal Dt.                 0.04    0.27    0.31    0.16    1419    1.35    0.13    1.02    1.15
vi       fmaizing Cuter                                            0.10    0.31    0.32    0.18    0.54    0.72
Total base cost                   0.07    0.50    0.57    2.73    8.26   10.90    423   14.19   18.42
Pysial coatimgs.                  0.01    0.05    0.06    0.24    0.64    0.87    0.32    0.96    1.28
Price caings.                     0.01    0.07    0.08    0.30    0.53    0.83    0.72    1.39    2.11
Total                             0.09    0.62    0.71    3.27    9.43   12.60    5.27   16.54   21.81
C ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0Q
TOtal Pwpane COst                 0.60    2.72    3.32    3.93   13.10   16.93    5.95   21.23   27.18                      O 0



1991                  1992                  1993               Total
1oCol  Ubr'm  Total  lho   Freip Tta   iuc   Ibre. Ttal  teal    brelp  Ttal
A.     amE WOR
i       1_inu iai                                                                                        0.90    2.83.  3.73
ii     ikiutuiE  Plan                 041   3.34   3.75   0.29    2.67   3.96                             1.50  13.04   14.54
iii     Tecbaial ausistai                                                                               0.15   060    0.75
Total                        04      334   3.75   0.29   2.67   3.96   0.00   0.00   0.00   2.55   16.47  19.02
B. JEIIXI
i       local Us~
CiVil VoAk                   04      0.67    1J4    0.4    0.67    1J4   0.29   OA       0.69    468    6.70   11.38
Cables                       0,25   2.30    2.55   0.08   0.77   0.85   0.05   OA6   0.51    0.83   7.66    8.9
Tnstatijm                    0.21   0.32   0.53    0J0    0.16   026    006    0.10   0.16    1.05   1.59   26
Te:dmal Assietace
and Aainizg                  0.03   0.2    0.23    0.03   0.23   0.26   0.01    0.14   0.15   0.27    2.27    2.54
9ab Total                     0.96   3.49   4.5   0O8    1.83   2.51   0.41   1.10   1.51   6.83   18.22   25.05
ii      switcblg                      0.66   2.51   3.17   0.19   o.7    O.90   o0.1    o.7    0.90    1.90    7.15   9.O5
iii     1hmiasiom                     0.67    3.87    4.54   0.28    1.50   1.78   0.14   0.75   0.89    1.67    9.93   11.60
iv       asl Telely                   0.08   OA6    0.54   0.04   0.23    0.27                           0.30    1.50   1.80
v       Tcetiutidl Dewt.               0.07   0.56   0.63    0.04   0.38    0.42  OD4   0.26    030    0.48   3.68    4.16
vi      Tr8i   Cte                     0.09   0.27    0.36    0.08   0.32   0.40                         05    1.35    1.80
Toa basn cost                  2.53   11.16   13.69   1.31   4.97    6.28   0.78   2.82   360   11.6i3   41.83   53A6
Rhysical cai.                  0.16  Ob4   0.80    0.10   033    0.43    0.06   0.18   0.24   0.88   2.95   3.83
Price mtlnp.                   0.58    1.60   2.18   039   0.96    1.45   0.29   0.68   0.97    2.54   5.48   8.02
Total                          3.27   13A0   16.67   1A0   6.26    8.16    143    3.68   481l  15.05   50.26   6531
C.           WORMU                     0.34   1.38   1.72   0.14   0.45   0.59   0.14   0.45   0.59   062    2.28   2.90
Tal        cost                4.02   18.12  22.14   2.23    9.38  12.71   1.27    4.13   5.40   18.22   69.01   87.23



ANNAX 10
- 52 -
SG413LE CF TmflCAL ASSISrANe  F0R D4ROVB    N  1S8 I
Took                  an    Finnccing   Counterprt                 Seleion of         Works      Works                Rowrs
l.                                 BiDiviion  idding  Consultants  Bogin    Performd
I.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
(A) Support for 00
(Directorate Oeneral)     10      ITt        00            Contract   May  s           July as    June01       Series of ad hoc misions.
(B) Coordination                                               Mg DT
investment proaras        10       *A            di        may OS       Auut aS        Stpt as   Sept. 9
f"Plannin;g
II  NFDWL  AN         _
(A) Financial audit (19661)    3      CCCE       AC            Dec.  7     April I88       may sO     June as      SeIf-financing:  1987 and
subsequent years.
(9) Financial studies          a        eE       ACD0/         Contract    April IS        may IO     Sept. IS    Including preliminary tariff
Study. Annual updates.
(C) Budget mnagnent            S      C0CE       DT/lPSF       Contract   March 87         June 67    Dec. 88
(D) Cash flo   meagment        a 8    c          ACO           Contract    April I8        may   s    April 69
(E) Cost accounting           12       CCE       ACD/OD/OPSF   Sept. 6      Jan. 89        April 89   Sept. 91
(F) Tariff study               8      CC         ACO/DT        Sept. 90    Jan. 91         April 91   Sept. 91
III. ffl -      
(A) Telephne accounting      e        CDA        Dr (Op..)     Contract    June Is         Sept. 89   Sept. 91    After work perforned by
Mr. Torrent-Vernier .
(B) Inventory mn snOt         12      CIDA       OT            be.. as      Apr;i 89       June 89    June 90      After work performd by
Mr. Laroque.
(C) Cmrcial manng_nt
for subscribers            12      Cm        OT            Doe. I8      April 89       Sept. 89  DOe. 91       AdJust timing to match
execution of the new systen.
(0) Plnning Support           12      CD         DT            Dec. IS      April 69       June 89    June 90
Iv.
(A) Studies of hu_mn resurce
and training need         10      IDA        DoA           Mfy si       August 8I      Sept. IS   Jan. 69
*tn  Sorv.)
(-) Management trinin          a      Cem        DQA(SA)       Dec. IS     April 80        June a9    June 91      Series of training course.
(C) Vocational training
csnter                     4       ADF       DOA(SA)       Dec. 88      April 89       may 6      Sept. s9
V. I_ T                OFPSA
(A) Diasticl Study of
operatios sectoir          2           OCSFjD              Contract    Doe. 67         Jan. IS    March 8i    Completed.
() Manament Support           24      FtC        CPSF          Contrect   Sept. Is         Jan. 89    Jan. 91
(C) water plan                 6      FAC        OPF/DO        Contra"t   Sept. Is         Jan. s     June 89
(D) Ceputer pppications
PAs     eking system
& nOtilenl SvInn " look    6       FAC       DOA()         Contraet   Jan. 89          April 69   Sept. 9
VI.
(A) Organizational
developmet                 12      CUA       DGA(SA)       Dec. IS      Aprii 69       June 69    June 91      Series of operations.
(  MIS                         6      CIDA       DClASA)       De. IS       April o9       June 69    Dec. 89
(C) Manesm eot ruporting
frDAVRmew                  12      CMU       DACSI)        Doec. Iso    April1 69      Sept. 69   Doec. 90     After work performed by
Mr. Lem;ire.



- 53 -                             ANNEX 11
PEOPLES' REPUBLIC OF BENIN
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS DU BENIN (OPTB)
FIRST TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Schedule of Disbursement
($ Million)
IDA Fiscal Year      -------Cumulative----------    Bank's Profile
On Semester Ending     In Semester   Through Semester      West Africa
(Cumulative)
FY89
June 1989                      1.5             1.5                2.6
EY90
December 1989                  3.7             5.2                4.2
June 1990                      3.0             8.2                5.7
FY91
December 1990                  1.5             9.7                6.9
June 1991                      1.4            11.1                8.4
FY92
December 1991.                 1.3            12.4               10.0
June 1992                      1.3            13.7               11.4
FY93
December 1992                  1.5            15.2               12.3
June 1993                      0.8            16.0               13.3
FY94
December 1993                                                    14.5
June 1994                                                        15.0
FY95
December 1994                                                    15.4
June 1995                                                        15.8
FY96
December 1995                                                    16.0
June 1996



PROJETS DE REAMENAGEMENT DES RESEAUX LOCAUX ET DE COMMUTATION A -COTONOU
PLANNING DOAPPEL D'OFFRES ET DE PASSATION   DE MARCHE
1988                                                          1989
RESEAUX LOCAUX                    J F  M  A  M  J  J A  S O   N D  J F M  A M  J  J  A S O    N  C
I Saqnoture contral du consultant of
debut de to formoPeon du personnel
d'incadroment
2 Envoi vol I pour approbation
I Envol des documents A O pout
opptobotion
& Lancement appel d'otfres
S D;pot des 'lites
6 Envoi rapport d'valuotion
pour approbation
7 N;'gocileon  du contrat
a Approbation  des outorites
DJninoises
9 Envoi projel do marchi 
pour approbation
tO  Notilitaliona
11 toncement A.C materiel bronchQment
of vehicult (BAD)
COMMUTATION
I ODenceroge *tude
2 Debut realisalion bleiments
3 Pr4senlation eu consltucteur
6Riepon%e du. construtteur
S t4eoclatsan
* Not.titolion0 



REAMENAGEMENT DES RESEAUX LOCAUX DE COTONOU ET DE PORTO-NOVO
PLANNING PREVISIONNEL D'EXECaJION DES TRAVAUX
1989                                1990                                          1991
J FMAMJ J ASN D JFMAMJ J ASNDJ F MA M J J A St
COT ONO U
GENIE CIVIL                                                                           _  _  _  _  _ -  -        *      _  _ -  -  -  -  -  -  I
ETUDE DU RACCOROEMENT                                       - -  -  -  -   -         -   - 1     -  II  -          II
CABLAGDE
LIVRAISON VENICULE APP                                                         oA
DE MESURE MAT ERIEL DE 
RA CCOADE 4E NT
(FORMATION PERSONNiEL)                                                                                       '! loo                        (£0 10 000
1000                EIO4   10
BRANCHEMEN7                                                        GAHHI-AKPAKPA                               I        I- --  ---4
(1CADJEHOUN  -JERICHO    -                          01000                  £0{2)00
PORTO - NOVO
GENIE CIVIL
ET CADtAGE
IRAN CHEMENT                                                                         - -----
220 310320 2320  l0202o 20 320 320 o3z0 3203120
ETUDE DU RACCOROEMEt4T
I.                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
* Apres  tes ttvowui  de  C,ANII  AAIPAICPA
touals  Its gqulpes  s* consacr*nt a CADJEIIOUN- JERICHO



arm  s   v    am_imm  an)
_a1           atalw  w     at Ibcai   31
1891                             19tw               1988                1989               1990               1991               1992               1993
A.  IEE
01.    rat.dl1. caacity at
D3er 31:
* Tta catin                            1000D               10DO                                  l oom 1( o         15250               1525D              1250
-                                     *200                 20000 4WD         4M                                    5000                5000               5000
- Akp                                 250D                21100               00                V00                3250                325D               325
- Jerid                               m00m                2000               2000               mm                 3500                350                350
- Cadjeba.                            2000        00                          200D              200                350                 350                350
* POxtO                                 350                 3500               350                35D                4800                4WD                40
*  0or   autmtic                       140                 10700              10700              I0on                18                 1o0o               1000
02. I'mucted =a &Wiz
* Total Catoom                           336                 496                180                210               1794                1050               1050                       eW
- Qui                                   56                  86                 30                 40                788                 15                359
- A4 pa                                120                 170                 50                 50                238                 300                300
- Jeuld                                 8D                 12D                5s                  60                279                 300                100
-Cadjebum                               80                 120                 50                 60                489                300                 300
* Porto,4buo                              78                  42                128                823                400                 300                700
* Otber autumtic                         310                 123                193                 76                  81                104                102
03. IMs mected at
lcarher  31:                             1286                13359              13860              14969              17244               I18698             20550
*Cota                                   7770                8116               896                                  10300              11350               12400
* Porto  ov                             2107               2149                2277               3100               3500               3800                4500
2971               3094               3287               3363               3444                3548               3650
04.  Subacribers in service                                                                                                                                                                01u,
at De ber 31:                                                                                                                                                                          x
* Total CoDt.                           6332               6655                6886               ?23D               9264              10415               11458
* Porto                                 1848                1891               2003               2759               3270               3546                4320                    0 W
* Other autastic                        2653                2809               3101               3220               3340               3452                3539
* Ibtal Bnin                           10833              11355               11990              u209               15874              17413               19317
* OPIB                                   878                 818                870                860                850                835                 822
* 9_Tended =a                            904                1116               100                900                520                450                 411
4 ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ . 



05.    anc~tkr   per yaw
ton ms
* OGi                                                                                 2916             1OK                150              350
* Akpp                                                                                 803              1267              300              300
*                                                                                      833              12i7             300               100
* Cudjeb                                                                                833             1267              300              300
* Porte4bw                                                                             1250             2250             300              700
06.   Taltled capidty at
Decer 31:                            528              5                5
07.    Uscribere in service
at         31:                       27B              296             328              354              374              394               404
C.    QI;c    (IF S =
08.   Faults per DL
*4 wwo   f Catomo                   3                3                3                2              1.7              14                 1
* Pzto,rwo                                             2                2              1.5               1.3             1.2                1
Otber                                                  2                2              1.5               1.3             1.2                1
09.   Fa1lt dear l  (Z)
(for csotr and Porto   M) 
*we je dy                          20               22               30               40               50               55               60E
*Vitbi 48 bxas                       60               62               63               65               75               85               90
*Vitbin Ie&                          70               70               70               75               90               95               98
10.   bay ba  call
cmv1tmio rate (1)
* Cd-Cb  djeh                                         65              .65               65               70               O0               9D
*Gbi-Porto INo                                        60               60               60               65               75               85
*Ga.i-ha*aui                                          50               50               50               55               65               70
11.   ?M-pik call
ampleticn rate (2)
* Gbr3em                                              80               80               8D               35              9s                9s
* Ghii-Fto Flo                                        OD               80               OD               85               90               95
*GCmi-Parakc                                          70               70               70               75               8D               65
o W
12.   Tateniatial call                                                                                                                                              01h
completin rawe (z)
*   by  mir
*Nb-eak



-58-                                    ANNEX 13
Page 3 of 4
In       0-a   St                                    it St vSt St St
R    St                                         St St sSt   a$g 8St S
8 ~~~                S a          sa^ le St                oae St St
-                                                                           0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
...              ~I %~                                                         -
il1f0  1X  001i   :}j   110  li]1]iX l89f
_  fl  *  ¢ ¢  e  {t  ¢ 4 | | AY v * * * 4 | * v *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nin       4    S
d~ 8   i    §S §ii 3F



(<                                                                                                                                 .
22.  1Troluft smblm
(~dudt uma)
23.   Viabw udw    -
orservice inyenr
(sw     dop)                                             40                40                30               25                22                20
r.    rnzuw*i.  
24.   Pfommuc  in atm
f<r    scme l"to
* Tee4m rem/1H.                       328               352               358               V4               389               399               397
* Tele: tv_e/linh                    2500              2625              2755              290D              290D             2800              2700
perdtige ast/U3.                      86                8T                89                98                83               78                75
* Nst find asiet/=                   1687              1731              1790              isO               1924             20S7              2218
25.   Ntfouun    icsnti c
Rate of (S )                          1                 3                 6                 6                 8                9                10
'Staff coat/rem  (Z)                   35                30                28                27               26                23                22
*Debt  evifc       ap                 1.5                 2               2.5               2.9              3.5                2.5               1.4
* Net iaroo1 Cosh
aa  i      _esa                      31                68                24                19               32                61                10
I|
o



- 60-                                 ANNEX 14
Page 1 of 11
Peoples' Republic of Benin
Office des Postes at Telecommunications
Tolecommunicatiohs Project
Assumptions underlying Financial Projections
1. Data for the years 1982-6 are actuals. Financial data have
been verified by the official government auditors for 1982-S.
Data for 1986 incorporate a number of accounting revisions
proposed by an external audit exercise. Data for 1987 are
estimated from provisional results. Data for 1988-93 are
projected, and are consistent with the physical investment
program to be supported by the project.
Zlebt Schadul1
2. The detailed justification of existing indebtedness is in the
project file. This comprises for the most part external loans for
the 34 rural exchanges, the 3 Cotonou exchanges, the earth
station, the Centre du Tri., PNAM and transmission projects.
3. The assumed terms and conditions of the onlending of the
projected new loans are as follows: IDA - $16 mn at 7.5% to be
repaid over 20 years inclusive of b years grace; FAD - UC1'.5 mn
at 7.55% to be repaid over 20 years inclusive of 4 vears grace;
CCCE - FF5lmn at 5% to be repaid over lr; years inclusive of 5
years grace; EIB - Ecut2 mn at 8% to be repaid over 20 years
including S years grace. It is assumed that interest during
constructi.on is capitalised for the IDA and FAD credits and that
interest is waived in the case of the EIB loan. Commitment
charges are payable on both IDA and ADB credits.
Income Statements
4. The projected increase in telephone revenue is a product of
the increased number of lines and higher re.enue per line due te.
a reduced portion of suspended lines and to higher ser',,ie
quality. Miscellanecus revenue, largely from leased circuits
should remain insignificant.
5. The initial increase in tele- revenue will be due large!, 1:
increased subscriber connection. This Will peas in 1991 -fter
which more substitution of tele' by telepho,ne tale- piece.
6. In line with observed regional trend-e, telegr.6ph revenue .5
expected to decline modeztli.



ANNEX 14
- 61 -ePage 2 of 11
7. International inpayments are expected to remain at 25% of
outpayments through 1993.
8. Pootal revenues are expected to grow at 5% per year from 1988,
to which both ongoing investments and improved management are
expected to contribute. A ZS% tariff increase in 1988 is factored
in
9. Revenue from financial services, whilst falling initially on
temporary suspension of services with France, will show a steady
improvement with strengthened management.
10. The projections of telecommunications revenue include
provision ?or a tariff increase of 10% for domestic services
effective from January 1, 1988
11. Wage and salary costs are projected on the basis of a
workforce of under 2700 by 1993, but with average wage costs
increasing on average 5% per year to reflect a higher average
skill level in the future.
12. Other operating costs will increase no faster than the
assumed average rate of inflation of S% per year, consistent with
a gradual decline in operating cost of telecommunications per DEL
due inter alia to scale economies and 'uture savings on fuel
costs through solarisation.
13. International outpayments are expected to remain at
equivalent to 8% of total telex and telephone revenue.
14. The average rate of depreciation Gn' fxed as5ets is p.jeS'e-d
at 6% per annum.
15. From 1987 an appropriate provision has been included age.in,t
the proportion of current billings not e-pe-ted tce be colle:-ed.
The provision 15 as follows: 1988-9 -- :0;  1190-1 - 1'5;: W99-  -
10%; 1993- - 5%.
16. Non operational C05ts and rewenues he.e teen iglnired ir. '>.
projections. In the past these moEtly reflected prior yC5
adjustment s.
17. Interest c.sts include those on all t5ng tetr. debt.



- 62 -                        ANNEX 14
Page 3 of 11
Balance Sheets
18. Work in progress is transferred to fi.ed xsie+s in ez,Jul
parts over three succeeding years. 6ross fiAed assets do not taJe
into account the retirement of operating assets though this is
likely to occur over the period. This does not of course affect
net fixed asset values. .
13. The loan to Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement continues to be
carried in the books at its gross value pending an agreement on
i0s disposition.
20. Stocks are forecast at 3% of gross fixed assets reflecting a
build up over the past due to increased emphasis on maintenance.
21. The assumptions regarding telecom receivables are as follows:
Of amounts due at December 31, 1987; CFAF4 bn of private arrears
are written off, representing 100% of dues at December 31, 1984
and 25% of those due thereafter. The balance of CFAF2.38 bn is
assumed collected in eqi.al parts over the three years 1988-90.
CFAF7 bn of public arrears, which includes CFAF2. bn owed by
state enterprises, are assumed fully 'collected' over the period
1989-91 by compensation with the postal debt owed to france
which will be assumed by government.
Of amounts due after December 31, 19e7; the assumed appro imate
average level of net receivables is as follows - 190 days for
1988-9, 150 days for 1990-1, and 120 da-s for 199: end beyond.
2. Amounts due to OPTB from overseas post8l administrations will
only be reduced gradually due to the financLal difficulties of
the principal debtor countries.
23. Included under the heading for 'fonds de reserve' i1 the
conversion in 1986 of CFAF4.45 bn of former book liabil0ites to
the Treasury.
24. Amcunts due to overseas postal administrations by OFT?
recognises that debt owed to France will be compensated against
government arrears.
25. The fcrecast fsr CCP as3umes that the npetriti%'n f puwbi
accounts ;s effecti-elr fro:er:. The use zf the s  tter b, private
account holders is e.pected ti: remain  .able.



-63 -                            Page 4 of 11
26. PAyables compromise 30% of each year's outstanding work in
progress as well as cash operating costs other than personnel.
Funds Flow Statements
27. The telecommunications investment reflests the agreed program
for ti88-93 as supported by the project. A nominal figure of
CFAFSeO mn has been chosen to cover all other investments to be
undertaken by OPTS.
28. Grants reflect the subvention from CIDA for the rural
telecommunications project, and from CIDA and FAC for technical
assistance.
Separate Income Statements
29. The following 'cle de repartition' is used to provide the
estimated projected income statements separated by posts and
telecommmunications: 20/80 for miscellaneous revenue; 40/60 for
p:rsonnel costs though on the basis of projected staff from 1988;
25/75 for other operating costs; 10/90 for depreciation; 2S/7t
for 'hors exploitation'; all interest to telecommunications
except for the Centre du Tri.
SJS/JulyI 988
.



sMRr  R   am O
MT m R Ir D
B~~~~m   z w  a_                                    i
unit                  1967     1963     1984    1985      1986     1967    l988      1989      1990     1991    1992      1993
m     (nd year)               lb                   10039     9950    10581    11785    12596    13106    13359   13860   14969    17244    18698   20550
Ns  (aid year)                lb                    9924     9995    10288    11183   1219O    12848   13232   13610    14415   16106    17971    19624
Ah iticol lEa                 lb                     630      -69      631      1M4       8ll      510      253      501     1109    2275      1454    185I?
bier lAm   (ld ga)            Nb                     246      256      268      236       257      280      311      344      364      384      404      404
.7delxUm   (mid yew)           lb                     231      252      262      252      247      269      296      328      354       374      394      404
Aditiml tam Iines             nb                      35       21       10      -10       -6        22       27       32       27       20       20       10
eleadmf ication              lb                                                         1439    1358      1360     1370     1380     1380     1370     1360
IbatsIFFinadal               lb                                                        1083      915      850       800     So       8D0      800     8O0
Ser{vicn              lb                                                         536      634      590       530      520      52D      52D      520
Ictal                       lb                     2423     2566    2775      2958    3D58    2907        2800    2700    2700    2700        2690     268D
Teleon + 6a C n  8                                                                     1761      1738     1714    1688    1692       1697     1682    1672
rea ,ed p3r 1000 Ma          Nb                                                         144       135      130      124      117      105       94       85
Aerae oostlstaff              CEFA OO                665      6n       604      588      720       720      720      720      756      793      834      875
lmiscacats (T1e)/wE.          CW    o                 69      104      107       95       89        86       87       89       88       83       78       75
Te1qpbme neI=*ML              Ca? OD                197      255      32D      328      321      328      352      353       354      357      390      400
Ca1l revue lE.D              CE.  000               17       227      294      300      294      300      320      320      320       320      355      365
Telznveynm/lihu               (IA? 000              2468    2246      2412    2675    2896        2500    2625    2755    29D0        2900    2800      2700
Toriff                        (II  000
i,utUatic)uz                                     35       35       35       35       35       35       42       42       42       42       42       42
3intal                                              25       25       25       25       25       25       30       30       30       30        30       30
elex
Matdlatiom cbue                                     60       60       60       60       60       60       72       72       72        72       72       72
oistal                                             666      666      666      666      666      666      800      800      8O         DO      80D      800
Mbriff lidex                  l932!O                 100      lQt      100      lOD      100      lOD      llD       110      110      110      110      110
!nflatg iodex                 1962-100               100      112      123      128      135      142      149      156      164      172       181      190
Etgn3erate                    (Ito$                  329      381      437      449      346      301      300      3D0      30D      30D       300      300
Cbilectim ute                 Z                       42       62       56       58       55       68       65       75       85        90       92       92
Telamr yeceivwblas            Dbys                   742      85D      828      872      983    1001       643      428      287       138      128      125
hrl F       iimetcm
Baseof   an                  S                       24        4       12       14        9        1        3        6        6        8         9       10
Opemtig utio                 S                       85       $        83       78       82       97       94       88       88       83        8D       75
fwlntmt ratio                lb                      92       82       8D       82      100      106       88       91      104      113      138       140
DabtIequity                  S                       21       29       29       21       13       14       16       32       45       50       52        47
Debt service Perpqp          Nb                    1015    1046       282      169      288      153      202      254      292      348      253       141
Casb/Tauea          2                                52       14       48       97      184       31       68       24       19       32       61        8D                       0 -
Net find assaK               cum0                            822     1049     1193     1430    1687    1731       179D     1860     1924    2087    2218
Staff atJe                   S                       42       43       35       33       39       35       30       28       27       26       23       22                        I



19m      1go      198 4     I9go     1986     19        1988     1989      1990     190l     1992      1993
Mutdq debt                     (F i
TtOl 1k  R                                 11656
Dioarsenta                                           587     1670       756       77        0         0      750      1565     1400     1000       80         0
Re-apient                                                               339      868       525      456      567       476      370      370       370      760
O*atsazih                                           2793     4463      488D     4089     3564      3543     3726     4815      5846     6476      6906     6147
Interest                                             106       66       153      372      334       239      230      299       364      434      481       473
Ne debt                        tF  s
t C  (SW
Total lmm                                   4800
Kabawnents ..                                                                                                          1560     1350      810       840      240
Rapayiinta                                                                                                                                                   375
Otttamliug                                                                                                            1560      2910     3720      4560     4425
Tztmemt                                                                                                                                                      359
=Mnitv& cdge9               *                                                                                           28        17        9         3        0
AM aeCit (IC)
TOWal l0m                                  4800
DiGbm ints                                                                                                              650     1668     1358       958      216
F4"mds                                                                                                                                              333   333
Onstandba                                                                                                              650      2318     3676      4251     4134
Tztwert                                                                                                                                             304      322
Cdbiait  dbu                                                                                               *             29       2D        9         0        0
MM caedit (tIC)
Toal lum                                   420D
DiG f_rsma                                                                                                            1176      1344      714       714      252
Reps                                                                                                                                                         28D
Outstuizt                                                                                                             1176      2520     3234     3948      390
lTtVegt                                                                                                                                                      315
ans (Pip) 
Total 1mm                                  2550
Disbminmza                                                                                                             255       765      765       510      255
hapq.mt.                                                                                                                                                     255
otCtamI                                                                                                                255      102D     1785     2295      2295
tentest                                                                                                                  6       32        70      102       115
Total - deb
Dsburs      s                                           0        0         0        0        0         0        0     3641      5127     3647     3022       963
ISmp    u                                               0        0        0         0        0         0        0        0         0        0      333      1243
Ottandfq                                                0        0        0         0        0        0         0     364       8768    12415    15D54    14774
IXtmest                                                 0        0        0         0        0        0         0       63       69        88      409      1110
Toal debt
D     raku                                            587     1670      756        77        0        0       750     5206     6527      4647     3822       963
-@                                                      0        0      339      8a8       525      456       567      476      370       370      703     2003
uatastmdis                                           279D     4463     4880D    4089      3564     3543      3726     8456    14614    18891    21960    20921
ibteott                                               106       66      1S3       372      334      239       L"f      362      433       522      890    *1583



Cy -                  1982    1985      1984    1915      1996    1987    1908    1989    1990        1991     1992    1993
X11 duap                                          1707    2269    3125    3355    359         384    4234    4355    4613         5154    63D0   7163
s1a                                                Z230     240      250      286     306      321      397      408      432      43       539      589
T11alatim  d.gwu                                    14      14       18       22       14       18       U        21       47       96       61       78
tbr                               1                  7      22         2       10       6       15       16       16       17       18       2D       21
azb  1                                            1958    2545    3295    3673    3910    4208    4658          41       5109     5751    7000    7850
-@                                                  1O0     127      169       39        3       59      109      114      123      137      162      179
570     566      632      674      714      671      776      902    1027    1085    1103    1091
T1daqia                                            232       69       66        90     168      170      165      160      160      160      160      160
Ela                                                 575     449      363      633      75D      75D      85       866      910      955     1003    1053
ium ad  envia                                       123      122      166      160     144      128      133      138      143      148      153      158
276      142       94      65        19      20       20       20       20       20       20       20
2*81                                                3834    40M    4785        5334    5708    6007    6685    7001        7491     855    9601   10511
btaf                                              1611    1738    1676       1739    2202    2093       2016     1944    2041    2141    2243        2345
r tb        ins                                     918    1386    1461      1416    1440    1465    1538    1615    1695    1779    1969    1962
tos                                        45       SD       40       20        7      357      435      456      491      547      648      715
1.D etim                                            556     673      812      986    1009       925      33       1324    1471      71      2085    2449
didet  1wia                                        146        0        0        0        0      976    1087       855      92D      684      810      447
1ad                                                3276    3847    3989    4.61        4658    5816    6308    6195    6618    6871    7656    7918
Net quudq prfEit                                     558     173      796    1173    1050        191      377      8m6      873     1384    I95    2593
*n        S °w°ntmsea                               38      156      218       63    -415        50        0        0        0        0        0        0
Tatinut                                            106       66      153      372      334      239      230      362      433      522      89      1583
Net Tm                                              414      -49      425      738    1131       -98      147      444      440      861    1055    1009
o 41
FJI-



m                    Ei                        sts at       f e31
u                    1981     1919     1984    1985    1986       1961     1988    1989    1990       1991    1992    1993
Pimd   -mt
Qco                                              M76       858    12764   13915   209M7   22410   23400   25334   28187   33701   41299   45751
1istim                                            3255    3940      4752     5757    6747      7900    913    17    1198   169    15l34   181
Nt                                                4339    490       8012     8168   1410    14510   14267   14877    16359   20052   25565   27568
1   - in I B.                                      528    1130       9553     919      6739    5100      4434    8680    12385    12800    849        5055
LWtoCi                                             1598    1598    1598    1598    1598    159           19       159      1598     15       1598    1598
Stocks                                              167      247      112      473      371      426      702      760      849    1011      1239    1373
Racebables
To]ls  X ulltba                                   5138    7246      8906   10390   12456    133M        9565    6684    4827    2577        287      3066
bsts                                              1825    3566      2307    3439    1294    3300    3000    3000    3000    2500    2500    2000
Otber dbt team                                     8324    3844    3508    6249    1658    3005    1636    2960    5652             9870    10314   10018
Totl da.t tenm                                   15287    14656   14721   20078   15408   19688   14201    12644   13479    14947    15651    15084
ftal                                               29119   3302      33996   39614   3896    41322   35202   38559   44670    50408   52546    50678
LTADIM1TJ
Capital                                           2085    2085    2085    2085    2*85         2085    2085    2D85    2085    2085    2085    2085
GsscS                                             39B0    4384    4339    4380    6809    68D9    6909    7163    7563    7863              8063     8063
Reefse                                            357      4251     4202    4626    98.3   1944    6846    6993          7437     7876     8738     9793
teas Mt in     e                                  414      -49      425      738    1131       -98      147      444      440      861    1055    1009
9sb Toal                                         1066   10671    11050   11829    1983    19740   1593V    1665    17524   18686    19941    20950
Iaqg tem debt                                      2793    4463    4541    3221        3086    3087    3159    7980    14244   18521    21257   18918
Postal debt                                        2695    1994    1198    5564    6382    8900    6600           4300     1900    2000    2000       1500
Owzuao tlio cf LT debt                                0        0      339      668      525      456      567      476      370      370      703    2003
Pestal cdeckivu                                    6451     5128    5698    9031    3707    3000    3000    2500    2500    2500    2000              2000
TrMSuWy                                            598    8818    9913    7410    3690    3513    3500    2500             2500    2500      2500    2500
atbe *hot ten                                      1536     1947     1857     1691     1068    2626    2389    4U18        5632     582      4145    2ED7
Ibtal bt tem                                      16660    17887    18405   24564   15372   18495   16056    1384   12902    13202    11348   10810
Total                                              29719   33021   33996   39614   38296   41322   35202   38559   44670    50408   52546    50678
_-        -_                         -                  -      -         -        -
o-.



m                                  arnew fs  stat te
ae  m                1981    191B    19        1985   166    1987    1968    1989    1990    1991    19912   1998
it  in*           ite                            52       17      578    110    1465        141     377      806      873     34      1945    2593
1ae   _edatia                                    556     673      812      986    1009      925    1233    1324    1471    1721    2085    2449
Qn.                                             1076     690    1390    2096    2474    1066    1610    2130    2344    3105    480    5042
klatIq                                           587    1670      756      77        0        0     750    1565    1400    1000        s00       0
mIDA0                                                      0        0       0        0       0        0    1560    1350       810      840     240
53                                                0        0        0       0        0        0       0      650    1668    1358       958     216
0=                                                0        0        0       0        0        0       0      255      765     765      510     255
I                                                 0        0        0       0        0        0       0    1176    1344       714      714     252
9ub b*Al                                        587    1670       756      77        0       0      750    52C6    6527    4647    3822        963
Caqual                                            0        0        0       0        0        0       0        0       0        0        0       0
qr8nt                                             0      454      -45      41        0       0        0      250     600      480      238       0
Sub Tbtal                                         0      454      -4       41        0       0        0      250     600      480      238       0
Total                                            1663    2814    2101    2214    2474    1066    2360    7586    9471    8232    8090    6005
Tel-xx .siLstiocs                  1873    3858    1434       568     561    1000      996    5096    8D91    6612    3813    1620
Ot1w                                              0      668-    423      318      317     200      20D      200     20       200      2C0     200
kb TItal                                       1873    4526    1857       836      878    120D    1196    5296    8291    6812    4013    1820
Debt semrice
Repsymnt                                          0        0      339     868      525     456      567      476     370      370      703    20C3
nterest                                         106       66      153     372      334     239      230      362     433      522     890    1583
ob Total                                        106       66      492    1240      859     695      797      838     803      892    1593    3586
TItal                                             1979    4592    2349    2126    1737    1895    1998    6134    9094    7704    56CM    5406
net cudb positIon                                -316   -1778    -248        88      737    -829      367    1452      377      527    2484      598
omlatiwe cais poitilm                            -316   -2D94   -2342   -2255   -1517   -2347   -198D    -528    -151           376    2861    3459
.   .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



CEIF                 19M 1962  ge      i98S     1985    1986      IW       1*  1988        190 990    lggl    1992    1993
Cbll cbgros                                      1707    2269    3WQ        3355    3594    38S4    4234    4355    4613    5154    638D    7163
Eenta19                                           230      240    -250       286      306      321     397      408      432      483      539      5B9
*ictfillatim charge                                14       14       is       22       14      is       11       21       47       S6       61       78
Ctlbw                                               7       22        2       10        6       is      16       16       17       is       20       21
Sub SttI                                         I9SB     2545    32SS    3673    3910    42D3    4658    49D1    5109    5751    70D0    7850
Ir@syseats                           ~~~~~~~~~100  12   169       39        3       S9     l09      114      123      137      162      179
Sbdic                                              5TD      SE6      632      674      714     671      776      902    1027    1085    1103    1091
lidlwpafb                                          232       69       66       90      168      170     165    1N0        160      160      160      160
Otib!                                              21       14        75       52       iS       16      16       16       16       16       16       16
ECsfE                                              9       1043    1006    1044    IM6        1252    W24    1215    1279    134           1403    1463
Ctbe cstsadSbs                                     689    104       1096    1062    IOE0    1099    llS         1211    1271    1334    1402    1472
OCPbs4NCU                                           45       S0       40       20        7     357      435      456      4@l      547      648      ?15
rn4ndrstion                                        SOO      606      Bl       887      9D8     033    1110    l92    1324    1549    1877    22D4
Eed debt pntorL=                                   146        0        0        0       O      §96    108J       855      920      684      210      447
2*bt                                               2347    2n8       2872    3S13    3263    4516    5019    49B0    52S5    545            614D    6301
net cqennthin pso£it                                734      683    1365    1515    1548        609      705    1063    1149    1693    23M2    2995
NMs oqE2ntb*3 Geos                                   29      117      164       47    -311       38        0        0        0        a        0       0
Ioterest                                            106       66      153     372      334      213      163      278      351      445      816    1513
|bt                                                 GMon  600 50     104B    1096    1525       358      542      7S       797    124       1485    14E1



U                          ~~~~Tmm Utatmt - ambIVImda1 sewim
m191     198      1984     19im      1986     191D     1"        I989     1990      99        9       1993
S75      449      363      633       750      750 X      5       866      910      955      low      1053
AM1        sum                                        123      122      166       160      144      128   1            138      143      148       153      158
55       28       19        13        4        4        4         4        4        4         4        4
-;  -_m  -;  -   -   -   -  -   -   -
1                                                      753      599      548         6      898      86         2      1008     1057     1107      1160     1215
mm
kaff                                                 645       695      670      696       94       841      70       729       762      799      8         8
0tI    qingt                                         230       347      365      354       360      366      385      404       424      445      467       491
nqdadm                                                 56       67       81       99       101       93      123       132      147      172      2D9       245
930                                                           1109      U7       148      1395     1300     120       165      13       1416     1516      1617
Not _wtIq pzdit                                      -176      -510     -59      -342    -497       -418      328    -257       -276     -309    -356       -402
NOD.tq costs                                            10       39       55        16     -104       13        0         0        0        0        0         0
Tluu.t                                                  0         0        0        0        0        26       67       84        82       77       74        70
Not i_                                               -16       -59     -64       -358     -393      -457     -395     -341      -358     -386     -430      -472
I-.
10
I-



-71 -                        ANNEX 15
Page 1 of 2
PEOPLES' REPUBLIC OF BENIN
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS DU BENIN (OPTB)
TELECONHUNICATIONS PROJECT
Telecomzmmications Tariff
(As of January 1, 1988)
A. TELEPHONE
Taxe de base (TB) - CFAF 60
1. Call Charges
Local (untimed)                     ITB
Intra-provincial (untimed)          2TB
Long Distance
Zone            Impulse length    For 3 min.         (CFAF)
1.      To 25 km           90 sec           120
2.      25-50 km           60 sec           180
3.-    SO-100 km           36 sec           300
4.    100-200 km           24 sec           450
5.    200-300 km           18 sec           600
6.    300-400 km           15 sec           720
7,  Above 400 km           12 sec           900
No variable pricing exists for peak traffic periods.
International (examples)
For 3 min.   Additional min.   (CFAF)
UAPT countries             1,200-2,400      400-  800
France, other Francophone         3,003         1,001
USA                               6,892         2,297
Principal Chargebands
(min)                     4,055         1,352
(max)                     6,892         2,297
2.  Subscriber Charges                                          (CFAF)
Connection Charge
Line                                                       36,000
Telephone (provided by OPTSB)                               6,000
(provided by subscriber)                          3,000



-72-                     ANNEX 15
Page 2 of 2
2.  Subscriber Charges (cont'd)                                 (CFAF)
Rental Charge (annual)
Cotonou (network of ' 2,000 lines)                          21,000
Other   (network of < 2,000 lines)                          15,000
Rural network                                               24,000
Deposits (reimbursable)
Residential                                                 24,000
Business                                                    60,000
B. TELEX
Taxe de base (TB) - CFAF S0
1. Call Charges
Impulse length      For 3 min.       (CFAF)
National                   20 sec             500
International
For 3 min.      Additional min.
UAPT countries                     1,091              364
France, other Francophone          2,184              729
USA                                5,348            1,783
Other (min)                        4,013            1,338
(mas)                       6,686            2,228
2.  Subscriber Charges                                          (CFAF)
Connection Charge                                           72,000
Rental (incl. terminal equipment)                          799,200
per year
C.  TELEGRAM
National per word subject to 10 words min.                      (CFAF)
30
International
UAPT comtries per word                                              30
Other Africa per word                                            50-80



-73-                         ANNEX 16
Page 1 of 6
Peoples' Republic of Benin
Office des Postes et Telecommunications
Telecommunications Project
Return on Investment
1. Investments on which the rate of return is calculated are
those under the project, that is all new works 1988-92.
2. The benefit period period extends from 1990 to 2010 at the end
of which period on average all equipment and works are expected
to have completed their useful life.
3. Capital ccsts are per the 1988-92 program exclusive of all
price contingencies and tranEfer payments such as customs duties.
Capital costs are valued at 1988 prices, with an assumed rate of
exchange of US$SICFAF300.
4. Benefits are those operating revenues valued at actual tariffs
which would not have been obtainable without the project. These
consist of the revenues from 12,820 subscribers in Cotonou and
4,500 subscribers in Porto Novo who will be connected to the
rehabilitated telephone network. It is assumed however that
benefits could have been derived from the old network, though to
a decreasing extent, up to 1995. Accordingly, the gross benefit
from the new network is reduced by a factor estimate of 60% in
1990 which steadily declines to zero by 1996.
S. Operating costs are the incremental operating costs of
providing rervice to the subscribers in Cotonou and Porto Novo.
6. A summary table of the cost and benefit streams calculated on
the basis of these assumptions is attached. The financial rate of
return on the stream of net benefits is 20%.
7. The financial rate of return however does not fully reflect
the net economic benefit from the project. In assuming given the
supply constraint that in future subscribers will be prepared to
pay in real terms the same tariff as in 1988 a portion of
consumer surplus can be estimated. In such a case the economic
rate of return would be -8%. This represents a minimum estimate
as no account is taken of substantial external benefits accruing
to the economy, such as increased business efficiency and
transport saving, from an improved telecommunications service.
8. Sensitivity tests carried cut on the economic rate of return
produced the following r-esults:
- With a 20%o increase in capital cost, the rate of return faliz
to 23%;



74                          ANNEX 16
Page 2 of 6
2-
- With a 20X increase in operating cost, the rate of return
falls to 26%1
- With a 20X decrease in operating revenue, the rate of return
falls to 22Xi
- With a combination of the above, the rate of return falls to
16%1
- With a 2 year delay in benefits, the rate of return fails to
17%.
SJS/Julyl 968



f
Rate of Rebu Analyuis
Vat_la - Bai,c rssi
Iaac                                Prt bg rawn
Offica Price    T ele               Total   Rpbc  Relae                 Total   Replace Replae              Total   Replace Net        Replace
Yewr         R Rate Defletw Deflato              1s        mL      lA                lEA       WA       m                 Me       MA       Factor   U.
1988               300      100      100              8215        0        0              2149        0        0             13359        0        0        0
1989               300      105      100             833         0        0              2425        0        0             13860        0        0        0
1990               300      110      100              9600     5000    5m00               3100      500      5D0             14969     5500    2300       5500
1991               300      116      100             10900    4000      90D0              3500     1500     20Q0             17244    55D0       5500   11000
1992               300      122      100             120       3200   120                 380      180      3800             18698     500D    9600    1600D
1993               3D0      128      100             120       620    122                4500      700    4500              20550     1320    12124    17320
1994               300      128      100                          0    12=                           0     4500                          0    13856   17320
1995               300      128      100                          0    120                           0     4500                          0    15588   17320
1996               300      128      100                          0    12820                          0     4500                          0    1732D   17320
1997               300      128      100                          0    128                            0     45C0                          0    17320    17320 D    n
1998               300      128      100                          0    122                            0     45D0                          0    17320    17320
1999               300      128      100                          0    122                            0     4500                          0    17320    17320
2000               300      128      100                          0    12t20                          0     4500                          0    17320    17320
2001               300      128      100                          0    122                            0     4500                          0    17320    17320
2002               300      128      100                          0    12P?0                          0     4500                          0    17320    17320
2003               300      128      100                          0    12=                            0     45D0                          0    17320    17320
2004               300      128      100                          0    122                            0     4500                          0    17320   17320
2005               300      128      100                          0    122                            0     4500                          0    17320    17320
2006               300      128      100                          0    12820                          0     4500                          0    17320    17320
2007               300      123      100                          0    12M                            0     4500                          0    17320    17320
2008               300      128      1o0                          0    12820                          0     450D                          0    17320    17320
2009               300      128      100                          0    12M                            0     4500                          0    17320    17320
2010               300      128      100                          0    12820                          0     4500                          0 1 .7320    17320D  I
elM



- 76 -
ANNEX 16
Page 4 of 6
Rate of Retum Analysis
Workheet - Busic Dta
Op Rev  Op Cost Staff Cost       local   Foreign Total
per DE  er M. per Ms             cap cost cap cost cap Cost
Yer                 CEWOOOO -mum   CEOA               CFAEm   CeALi   CFAFu
1988                      352      87       93               24     165      189
1989                      353      89       89              891    2607    3498
1990                      354      88       89             1371    4482    5853
1991                      357      83       83              807    3510    4317
1992                      390      78       78              423    1590    2013
1993                      400      75       75              252      900    1152
1994                      400      75       75                0       0        0
1995                      400      75       75                0       0        0
1996                      400      75       75                0       0        0
1997                      400      75       75                0       0        0
1996                      400      75       75                0       0        0
1999                      400      75       75                0       0        0
23OO                      400      75       75                0       0        0
2001                      400      75       75                0       0        0
2302                      400      75       75                0       0        0
2003                      400      75       75                0       0        0
1304                      400      75       75                0       0        0
1005                      400      75       75                0       0        0
2306                      400      75       75                0       0        0
2007                      400      75       75                0       0        0
2108                      400      75       75                0       0        0
2009                      400      75       75                0       0        0
2010                      400      75       75                0       0        0



- 77 -
AMNEX 16
Page 5 of 6
RAte of Re=mg Analysis
Discmmtsd F.b      s
A       A                 B        B
Total   TOWa    Bat                TOtAl   Net
Cost    Imufit Bmf it              Buaefit Bedfit
Yew                  ClAm   CElP.  ClAim                 CRIm   CEAh.
1988                       189        0    -189                 0    -189
1989                      3498        0   -3498                 0   -3498
1990                      6242      779   -5464                857   -5386
1991                      5130    1964   -3267               2278   -2952
1992                      3511    3744       233             4568    1057
1993                      2971    485D    1879               6207    3237
1994                      XC78    5542    3464               7094    5016
1995                      2338    6235    3897               7981     5643
1996                      2598    6928    4330               8868    6270
1997                      2598    6928    4330                8868    6270
1998                      2598    6928    4330                8868    6270
1999                      2598    6928    430                 8868    6270
2DOO                      2598    6928    4330                8868    6270
2001                      2598    6928    4330                886    6270
2002                      2598    6928    4330                8868    6270
2003                      2598    6928    4330                8868    6270
2004                      2598    6928    4330                8868    6270
2005                      2598    6928    4330                8868    6270
2006                      2596    6928    4330                8868    6270
2007                      2598    6928    4330                8868    6270
2008                      2598    6928    40                 8868    6270
2009                      2598    6928    4330               8868    6270
2010                      2598    6928    4330                8868    6270
A - Base Case R
B - Base Cane ldriuu ERR
J4



Ibte of    AmmlydJ
I       I        I                I        II      Im m                      i        I                IV      1T IV                     V        V       V
T1a    M1    N            s         IC1    1ta1    not              Thal   Muni                        Ibtal   Tial   NEt                TO       Ibal   net
Cost     Tmjfit  C1t              cst    DB fi   U.mfit        6bt            -wU     it D k             t      Iait aeefi               Coit      a  it   Ufit
TFaM (    cF u       Cm           WFD  au i (F CW =       .         CDm                   im awm  aIlhim           cur   (aDm             0Dm   (Fim  a(1Dm
1988                      227        0    -2V                189       0    -189               189       0      .189             227        0    -227               189       0    -13
1989                     4198        0   -4198              3498       0   -4                 3498        0  4498               4198        0  -age                3698       0  -3498
199D           7413                       -6556             632D             -55              6242      714   .4529             7461      714   -6M                6242       0   -62
1991                     60M     227     3816              5413    228   -3135               5230    1898       32             6276    189    -4378               50         0   -5
1992                     3913    4568      65               3810    4568      758             3511    3806      296             4213    3806    -406               3511     857   -2M55
1991                     3201    62D7    3006               3334     60      213              2971    5173   02                 3565    5173    1608               2       2278    -68
199                      2W8    7094    5016                249     709      4600             2078    5912    3833              2494    5912    3418               28      4568    248k
1995                     2338    7981    5643               2806    79m      5175             23;8    6651    4313              296    6651    3845                 O38    62D7    30
1996                     2598    8858    6270               3118    185e    SM                2598    739      4792             318    7390    4272                2598    7094    44
1w                       2598    8868    6270.              3118    888    550                2598    739D    4792              3118    7390    4272               2598    7981    535B
1998                     2598    88m8    6270               38    88         5750             2598    7390    4792              3118    7390    4272               2598    8858    62
1999                     2598    8S85    6270               3118    8858    5750              2598    7390    4792              3118    7390    4272               2598    886      621D 
2000                     2598   8O85    6270                3118    8868    5750              2598    7390    4792              31S      7390    4272              2598    8858    623 
2001                     2598    8358    67                 3118    8868    5750              258    7390    49                 3118    7390    4272               2598    8668    62)    X
2002                     2598    888    6270                3118    885      57               259      7390    478              3118    7390    4272               2598    888    6'
2003                     2598    8m8    6270                3118    8868    57                2598    7390    4792              3118    7390    4272               25      8868    62W
2O04                     2598    88568    6270              3118    8B85    575               258    7390    4792               3118    7390    4272               2598      858   621D
2005                     2598    8668    6270               3118    8858    5750              2598    7390    4792              3118    7390    4272               2598    8858    621)
2006                     2598    8a8      627               3118     8S88    TM50             2598    7390    4792              31S      7390    4272              2598    8858    622
007                     M2598   885    62                  3118    8858    5750              2598    7390    47!2              3118    7390    4272               2598   858    622
2008                     2598    88B8    62                 3118    8858    550               2598    7390    4792              3118    7390    4272               2598    8868    6213
2009                     2598    8A       62                3118     88      57s              258    7390    4792               3118    7390    4272               2598    8868    62m
2010                     2598        8    6270              3118    8868    5750              2598    7        4                3        7390    4272    2598    8868    62
I  - =   imzse in capitdal*    t
n -l msaelinosu tlag am
M -  dan in                                                                                                                                                           2
IV - Cobiim  of i,1, mm
V  - 2 ye delay  in befiz
a t



-79-                               ANNEX 17
Page 1 of 2
Peoples' Republic of Benin
Office deo Postes et Telecommunications
Telecommunications Project
(.
List of Documents in the Project File
1. Plan Directeur National des Telecommunications, PNUD/UIT 1986
2. Plan National pour l'Amelioration de la Maintenance des
Telecommunications, OPTB June 1986
Fonds Africain de Developpement: Proposition de pret pour le
finoncement de plan national d'amelioration de le maintenance du
reseau de telecommunications, August 1987
3. Legislation pertaining to OPTB ie:
-Lji 59-32 of December 19, 1959 creating OPT
-Arret Inter-Ministeriel 64/MTPT/21/MF concerning accounting
.nd financial regulations dated April 23, 1960
-Ordonnance 71/CP-MPT of January 7. 1971 and Decret
71-3/CP/MPT of even date reorganising of OPT
-Draft revised OPTB statutes
4. Documentation on the public enterprise sector reform ie:
-Declaration d'Intention pour un Programme de Redressement du
Secteur des Entreprises Publiques et Semi-Publiques
-Loi 005-88 of April 26, 1988 regarding the frameworI of
relations between state and public enterprises
5. OPTB - Tarif des Telecommunications, 1981
6. Project Preparation documents of Telesuisse/Betie:
-Design and engineering of local networks fori Cotonou,
Parakou, Porto Novo, Ouidah. Lokossa, Abomey-Bohicon, Natitingou,
Djougou, Kandi and Da0sa
-Draft bidding documents and tender specifications
-Financial management studies ie acccvinting separation of
posts and telecommunications, receivables analysis, and asset
revaluation
7. World Bank - Telecommunications Sector Memorandum, October
1983
- Public Enterprise Sector Rehabilitation Project,
Appraisal Peport, November 1986
8. Documents presented at the 'Seminaire National sur la
Revolutionnarisation des Structures et du Fonct.on;nement de
I'OPT8', November 7-10, 1985



-80 -                            ANEX 17
Page 2 of 2
9. Consultant reports ic
- Propositions pour la Gestion des Telecommunications
Internationales, February 1984 (ROC)
- Etude de Trafic et Previsions Fanancieres
Telecommunications Internationeles, February 1984 (ROC)
- Propositions pour l'Amelioration de la Gestion Financiere
do l'Office, April 1984 (ROC)
- Diagnostic de la-Situetion Financiere, Comptable et
*BudQetaire de l'OPT, February 1984 (ROC)
- Actualisation a fin 1986 du Diagnostic our les Problemes de
Gestion de l'Office, November 1986 (ROC)
- Rapport de mission sur i'identification des actions d'appui
a la gestion do l'OPI, January 1988 (Ferland)
- Diagnostic et recommendations concernant le secteur postal
et financier de l'OPTB, March 1988 (Sabin)
- Etude ingenierie financiere de l'OPTB et projections
financiers, September 1988 (ICEA)
10. OPTB - Financial accounts 1980-6
- Reports of the Commissaires aux Comptes 1985-6
- Accord Cadre between OPTB and government dated
September 1987
- Documentation for the donor sector round table,
Novemher 16-17, 1987
11. Miscellaneous reports ie:
- Rapport d'audit sur les etats financierb au Decembre 31,
19S6 et rapport sur le controle interne et la comptibilisation
des operations de l'OPT6, August 1988 (FFA/Helio5)
12. Miscellaneous working papers:
- Statement of existing long term debt
- Detuil of basic telecommunications facilities
- Detailed demand projection
- Detailed terms of reference for technical assistance
SBrushett
August 1988



4
MAP SECTION
I



ga ,, -x - "7   '                     "                   /N  I  G  E  R                           /
U-RKINA FA S             O -
A- ~T A             7 R A
i    G.)T 'w01 ANA                 -          L,D.t.\                                                        1
ITIF.6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  .t,o  C  ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ fCITR
I~ ~ ~~~~LOE *.Tf-j.5                                  th                                       Aol.)ua   s\  j
'N                 NIGERIA
r                                                                    {                                S ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TLCMMUICTION  PRJC
T BURKINA    FASO                                                                   G FAW I
(I , '. A T A C O RIA    !   /                                                                     \                           Mr
)          j                                          I    .                                                  K)
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MCAV :ETZA 94 /OE                                                              CHF LIE R GO U f
L%        j N2@NAN0 E                                                             C B     IOGK               a
.I                                                      6?\/
I                      ./PAITA~~~~~~~~~~IMF(NKOtUA)NA  ONDRF
, OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMUTNICATAONS
1                ">   /                                  TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
i                                    CAMSPROJET DE TELECOMMUNICATIONS
T OG O  |  1,N FCtTE
AgEOIJIPMNTSESSANE
CSTATON AEDZOENNU                       ESES
ARHSTATIONS                              mINUSH11,1E
-    960" CALONELNLO M ICITWAVE tRNLISAnNITPTVNITCPE
fAiSCEArJX IAUITELNjS 6  AVOES          CHEFS LEIEU ' AC.E
U AUTOTNI STELAEHON  EH       SNATIO NAI CAPLiTALS
CENt  OCOAE10 AUTOMEALIAETSAMS S ATION ACAXIfS       E
5wq      OU         1           P        __  /O CHANNAAO   iCEWAU ifDNS LIN   _____  PITOVIfNCIT BOUHOAfSI
SOME6L                     (MIT Ir                        35 EGO                       E fITS
FAC_ti E _____  tNIIOSOIUN D CAEPES OJC
ITCHENrS ENAINES
A;GIEIAL LSWAIONS
SSI f-t       ASlONS AISCEAUX ffEZTINtS SlATUIPI
|~ ~ ~~~~~~~i .               UTIIrXS D  COMAWEITOH AUTOM$ATIQIJ STrATIlOON EVAISEASTXERTZI (Sf5AOMFE
0    AUTOIIAtIC TELEPHONE EXCHANGIS WITHOUT WCROWAVI TEEINAL STATION
CENTrES OE CMUrAIOTIN AUrTO IUf SANS STATION EAISCIAU HfRTSfN
*     r        g                                    FACILITIES To rT ALSOTO UNOITI PObJECT
I <z  &tj                                                       60I° }Cl<rTZIENs NUMftURIIS
117                                                   - -TWAL T_-O  'ELTCOWAVUNICATIONS PItOICT EONE
Z     gb.                                          ZONE OU  Et OJfT IEIECOUMICATIONS tLfS
LOOSSK=              A           A
eATLANTIQUE KPN  PORTO NOVO
>                   _         a0COtONOUCsI 
LOME                                                                                                                                   A
GHANA-\' -e
j         r                                     f                                      r



