Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
CREDIT NUMBER 1960 BEN 
(Telecommunications Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated March 1, 1989
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 1, 1989, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN (the  
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has  requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Project will be carried out by Office des Postes et 
Telecommunications du Benin (OPTB) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such 
assistance, the Borrower will make available to OPTB the proceeds of the Credit as 
provided in this Agreement;
(C)
the Borrower intends to contract from Caisse Centrale de Cooperation 
Economique (CCCE) a loan (the CCCE Loan) in an amount equivalent to about nine million 
dollars ($9,000,000) to assist in financing part of the Project on  the  terms and 
conditions set forth in an agreement (the CCCE Loan Agreement) to be entered into 
between the Borrower and CCCE;
(D)
the Borrower intends to contract from European Development Bank  (EIB) a 
loan (the EIB Loan) in an amount equivalent to about fourteen million  dollars 
($14,000,000) to assist in financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions 
set forth in an agreement (the EIB Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the 
Borrower and EIB;
(E)
the Borrower has requested from the Republic of France, acting through 
Page  2
the Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC), technical assistance services and a grant 
(the FAC Grant) in an amount of about one million five hundred  thousand French francs 
(FF 1,500,000) to assist in financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions 
set forth in an agreement (the FAC Convention) to be entered into between the Borrower 
and the Republic of France;
(F)
the Borrower has requested from Canada, acting through the Canadian 
International Development Agency (CIDA) a grant (the CIDA Grant) in an amount  
equivalent to about three million five hundred thousand dollars ($3,500,000) to assist 
in financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement 
(the CIDA Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and CIDA;
(G)
the Borrower intends to contract from the African Development Bank Group 
(the ADB) a loan (the ADB Loan) in an amount equivalent to about sixteen million 
dollars ($16,000,000) to assist in financing part of the Project on  the terms and 
conditions set forth in an agreement (the ADB Loan Agreement) to be entered into 
between the Borrower and ADB;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions  set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association 
and OPTB;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence  of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms  defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have  the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"OPTB" means Office des Postes et Telecommunications du Benin, a  public 
enterprise established by the Borrower's Law No. 59.32 of December 19,  1959, and 
"OPTB Statutes" means the Statutes of OPTB approved by the Borrower in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 6.01 (e) of this Agreement, as such statutes may be amended 
from time to time;
(b)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association and OPTB 
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and  such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(c)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and OPTB pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(d)
"Contrat de Programme" means the contract to be concluded between the  
Borrower and OPTB in accordance with the provisions of Section 6.01 (d) of  this 
Agreement, setting forth the rights and obligations of the parties thereto for the 
three-year period 1989-1991, and such term includes all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the Contrat de Programme;
(e)
"Project Preparation Advances" means collectively the project preparation 
advances granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an  exchange of 
letters dated November 21, 1983 and April 10, 1984, May 22, 1987  and June 29, 1987, 
and December 19, 1987, and May 9, 1988, between the Borrower and the Association;
(f)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (c) of 
this Agreement; and
(g)
"CFAF Franc" or "CFAF" means the Franc de la Communaute Financiere 
Africaine, the common currency of the Borrower and the other members of the West 
African Monetary Union.
Page  3
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms  and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement,  an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twelve million five hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 12,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the  Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this  Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be  made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount  required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advances withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advances shall thereupon 
be cancelled.
(c)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
the name of OPTB and in CFAF a special account (the Special Account) in the Cotonou 
branch of the Central Bank for West African Countries  on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1993 or such later  date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from a date sixty days after the 
date of this Agreement (the Accrual Date) to the respective dates on which  amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or  cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the Accrual Date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied as of the next payment date in 
that year, specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, except that the rate set as of 
June 30, 1988, shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind  imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency  specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
February 15 and August 15 commencing February 15, 1999, and  ending August 15, 2028. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on August 15, 2008, shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the  Borrower creditworthy 
for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof 
Page  4
by the Executive Directors of the Association and  after due consideration by them of 
the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of 
installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the 
amount of each such installment not  yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise 
such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of 
such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the 
Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time 
to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such  revision shall not 
change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned  repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph  (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition  has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the Republic of France is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. OPTB is designated as representative of the Borrower for  the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end,  without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development 
Credit Agreement, shall cause OPTB to perform in accordance with the provisions of the 
Project Agreement all the obligations of OPTB therein set forth, shall take and cause 
to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and 
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable OPTB to perform such obligations, 
and shall not take or  permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere 
with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to OPTB under a 
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and OPTB under terms 
and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association  which shall include: 
(i) repayments terms over a period of twenty years, including a five-year grace period 
on the principal amount; (ii) interest at an annual rate of 7.5% and capitalization of 
interest; (iii) payment, by OPTB during said grace period, of amounts equal to the 
commitment charges and service charges to be paid by the Borrower to the Association 
pursuant to Sections 2.04 and 2.05 of this Agreement, such amounts to be paid at the 
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement; the total amount of such payments 
by OPTB will be deducted from the amount of capitalized interest to be paid by OPTB; 
and (iv) the foreign exchange risk being borne by OPTB.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan  
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the  
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit and, except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the  provisions of Schedule 1 
to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the  General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans  and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by OPTB 
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall:
Page  5
(i)
provide amounts acceptable to the Association, in its annual 
national budget, sufficient to cover the telecommunications costs 
of each of its ministries and agencies whose expenditures are 
directly covered by the national budget; and
(ii)
ensure that local collectivities and other autonomous agencies 
shall provide amounts, acceptable to the Association, in their 
respective annual budgets, sufficient to cover the 
telecommunications costs of each of said collectivities and 
agencies.
(b)
The amounts referred to in sub-paragraphs (i) and (ii) above shall be 
respectively determined by the Borrower, the local collectivities and other autonomous 
agencies in collaboration with OPTB and, thereafter, reviewed by  the Association not 
later than September 30 of each year.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall perform all its obligations under the Contrat 
de Programme with due diligence and efficiency and shall cause OPTB to  perform all 
its obligations therein set forth.
Section 4.03. By September 30 of each year the Project is carried out, the 
Borrower shall:
(a)
present to the Association for review a rolling investment program for 
the telecommunications subsector covering the next three calendar years; and
(b)
exchange views with the Association with regard to the performance of the 
Borrower and OPTB under the Contrat de Programme.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
OPTB shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that OPTB will be able to perform its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
(c)
OPTB Statutes shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed  or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of OPTB to  perform any of 
its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower, or any other authority having jurisdiction, shall have 
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of OPTB or for the suspension 
of its operations.
(e)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
 
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any 
grant or loan made to the Borrower or OPTB for the financing 
of the Project shall have been suspended, cancelled or 
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the 
agreement providing therefor; or
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that:
(A)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused by the failure of the Borrower or OPTB to perform 
any of its obligations under such agreement; and
(B)
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower 
Page  6
or OPTB from other sources on terms and conditions 
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this 
Agreement and of OPTB under the Project Agreement.
(f)
Any representation made by OPTB in, or pursuant to, the Project  
Agreement, or any statement furnished in connection therewith, and intended to  be 
relied upon by the Association in making the Credit, shall have been  incorrect in any 
material respect.
(g)
All conditions precedent to the first disbursement from the CCCE Loan 
shall not have been fulfilled by December 31, 1989, or such later date as the  
Association may agree; provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall 
not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that 
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
or OPTB from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of 
the Borrower under this Agreement and of OPTB under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after  notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Association to the Borrower;
(b)
the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur; and
(c)
the event specified in paragraph (e) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this  
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (e) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section  12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed by the Borrower and OPTB;
 
(b)
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the EIB Loan Agreement 
and the ADB Loan Agreement, other than any related to the effectiveness of this 
Agreement, have been fulfilled;
(c)
the contract for the local telephone network in the Jericho and Cadjehoun 
zones in Cotonou under Part A.1 of the Project has been awarded on terms and 
conditions acceptable to the Association;
(d)
the Borrower and OPTB have signed the Contrat de Programme, such  Contrat 
de Programme to be acceptable to the Association; and
(e)
the Borrower has approved by decree OPTB Statutes, acceptable to the 
Association.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in  the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by OPTB 
and is legally binding upon OPTB in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Borrower and OPTB and is legally binding upon the Borrower and OPTB in 
accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement and the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 5.02 of this 
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit 
Agreement shall terminate or on the date twenty years after the date of this 
Page  7
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of the Borrower responsible for finance is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 302
Cotonou
People's Republic of Benin
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINIFINANCES 
MIFIN 5009 or
Cotonou
5289
 
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 2O433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their  respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of  the day and year first 
above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
By /s/ Theophile Nata
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto E. Madavo
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated           % of
Page  8
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Cables, works,              8,540,000       100% of foreign
     tools and vehicles                          expenditures,
     for Part A.1 of                             and 80% of local
     the Project                                 expenditures
     (Jericho and
     Cadjehoun zones)
(2)  Consultants'                2,330,000       100%
     services and
     training
(3)  Refunding of                  970,000       Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                            suant to Section
     tion Advances                               2.02 (b) of this
                                                 Agreement
(4)  Unallocated                   660,000
          TOTAL                 12,500,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the  Borrower; 
provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another 
country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in 
such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures".
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall  be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to support a program of institutional and 
management improvement in the telecommunications sector; (b) to improve the quality of 
service to existing subscribers and to extend the  provision of services on a least 
cost basis; and (c) to improve OPTB's financial performance, with a view to creating a 
positive flow of funds to the Borrower.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Local Telephone Networks
 
1.
Replacement and expansion of local networks of Cotonou (Jericho, Cadjehoun, 
Ganhi and Akpakpa zones) and Porto Novo to meet demand to year  2000, consisting of 
civil works for about 56,000 direct exchange lines (DELs), subscriber cabling for 
about 34,200 DELs and subscriber equipment for about 19,300 DELs.
2.
Expansion and replacement of switching equipment with digital equipment, with an 
initial capacity of about 20,300 DELs in Cotonou and Porto Novo.
3.
Extension with optical fiber transmission of the inter-exchange local  
transmission to accommodate the new digital switches in Cotonou and Porto Novo.
4.
Creation of digital junction links between Cotonou and Porto Novo to improve 
interurban and international connections.
5.
Construction of a pilot multi-access UHF/VHF network in about eleven centers 
located in the Atacora Province.
All of the above including the acquisition of equipment, vehicles, tools and 
Page  9
spare parts, the construction of buildings and the provision of technical assistance.
Part B:
OPTB's Training Center
 
Improvement of OPTB's training center through the construction of, and equipment 
for, office and technical facilities and the provision of technical assistance.
Part C:
Institutional Development and Management Improvement
 
Strengthening of OPTB's capabilities in the following areas, with support of 
technical assistance:
1.
investment program coordination;
 
2.
financial management (audit, projections, budget and treasury, accounting and 
tariff);
3.
commercial management (billing and collection, stocks, planning and 
subscribers);
4.
human resource management (organizational development, management training and 
needs);
5.
management of postal and financial services;
 
6.
computerization; and
 
7.
development of management information systems.
 
*    *    *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1993.
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Parts A.1 (Jericho and Cadjehoun 
zones), B and C of the Project and to be financed out of the  proceeds of the Credit 
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 500 
million CFAF to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the  Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Special 
Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the 
provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a)
On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit  Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for replenishment 
of the Special Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. On the 
basis of such requests, the Association shall withdraw from  the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the 
Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such 
Page  10
deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit  Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective  equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for such deposit furnished 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account for which the 
Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this  Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to or at the  time of such request, 
such documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably request, showing 
that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no 
further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by the Association  when  
either of the following situations first arises:
(i)
the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii)
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the 
eligible Categories for Parts A.1 (Jericho and Cadjehoun zones), B 
and C of the Project, minus the amount of any outstanding special 
commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to said Parts of the 
Project, shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the amount of 
the Authorized Allocation.
(b)
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining  
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories for Parts A.1 
(Jericho and Cadjehoun zones), B and C of the Project shall follow such  procedures as 
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals 
shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized   in making 
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount  not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not  justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from 
the Association, deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so 
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or  justified. No further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Account  shall be made until the Borrower has made such 
deposit or refund.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further  payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the Credit Account.
