OFFICIAL
CREDIT NUMBER 1960 BEN
Project Agreement
(Telecommunications Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS DU BENIN
Dated                             , 1989


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1960 BEN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated           Vx. CX \            , 1983 between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and OFFICE
DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS DU BENIN (OPTB).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between People's Republic of Benin (the Borrower) and
the Association, the Association has agreed to make available
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
twelve million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 12,500,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that OPTB
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
set forth in this Agreement;
(B) by a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and OPTB, the proceeds of the Credit provided
for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made available
to OPTB on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary
Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS OPTB, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) OPTB declares its commitment to the objec-
tives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development
Credit Agreement and, to. this end, shall carry out the Project


﻿-2-
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and public
utility practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.
(b) Until the completion of the Project, and for five years
thereafter, OPTB shall monitor the technical, administrative and
financial results of its operations in accordance with the
monitoring indicators listed in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and,
within six months after the end of each of its fiscal years,
prepare and furnish to the Association an annual report thereof in
a format acceptable to the Association.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. OPTB shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services,
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. OPTB shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, OPTB shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Fubsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) OPTB shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to
the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement, under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and
under the Contrat de Programme and other matters relating to the
purposes of the Credit.
(b) OPTB shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by OPTB of its obligations under this
Agreement, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the Contrat de
Programme.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of OPTB
Section 3.01. OPTB shall: (a) carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial, commercial, engineering and public utility practices
under the supervision of qualified and experienced management
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers; and (b) perform
all its obligations under the Contrat de Programme with due
diligence and efficiency.
Section 3.02. OPTB shall assist the Borrower in the deter-
mination of the amounts to be provided in the annual national
budget and other relevant budgets to cover the telecommunications
costs of the Borrower's ministries, agencies, local collectives
and other autonomous agencies, pursuant to Section 4.01 of the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) OPTB shall at all times operate and
maintain its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and
from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and public utility practices.
(b) OPTB shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise
dispose of any of its property or assets which shall be required
for the efficient operations of its business and undertaking.
Section 3.04. OPTB shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.05. OPTB shall at all times take all steps which
are necessary to maintain its existence and its right to carry on
operations and to acquire and retain ownership of all land and to
maintain and renew all real property rights and all other rights,
powers, privileges and franchises which are necessary or useful in
the carrying out of the Project or in the conduct of its business.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) OPTB shall maintain reccrds and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
(b) OPTB shall:
(i) have its records, accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) and the Special Account for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appro-
priate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year: (A) certified copies of its
financial statements for such year as so audited,
and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors;
of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and financial
statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditures, OPTB shall:
(i)    maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)    ensure that all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents),
evidencing such expenditures are retained until at
least one year after the Association has received


﻿-5-
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the
last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made;
(iii)    enable the Association's representatives to examine
such records; and
(iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are included
in the annual audit referred to as paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such records and accounts, a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the state-
ments of expenditure submitted during such fiscal
year, together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. OPTB shall: (a) prepare annual operating and
capital expenditure budgets together with financial projections
(including income statemeuts, funds flow statements and balance
sheets) covering at least the following next three fiscal years;
and (b) furnish said-budgets and projections to the Association
for its review and comments not later than one month before the
beginning of each of its fiscal years.
Section 4.03. Until the completion of the Project, OPTB shall
not undertake any investment or group of investments (other than
for the Project) in the telecommunications sector in an aggregate
estimated amount exceeding the equivalent of 300 million CFAF
without first furnishing it to the Association for review.
Section 4.04. OPTB shall maintain billing and collection
procedures (including disconnection of bad debtors) which shall
permit OPTB to reduce, by December 31, 1990, or such other date as
the Association may agree, and thereafter to keep average
telecommunications receivables from all private and parastatal
consumers to a maximum of four months' billing.
Section 4.05. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, OPTB shall earn, for its fiscal years 1988 and 1989 an
annual rate of return of not less than 43, for its fiscal years
1990 and 1991 an annual rate of return of not less than 6%. and
for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year ending on
December 31, 1991 an annual return of not less than 10% of the
average current net value of OPTB fixed assets in operation.


﻿-6-
(b) Not later than one month before the end of each of its
fiscal years, OPTB shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by
OPTB and satisfactory to the Association, review whether it would
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of
such year and the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to
the Association the results of such review upon its completion.
(c) If any such review shows that OPTB would not meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for OPTB's fiscal years
covered by such review, OPTB shall promptly take all necessary
measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the
structure or levels of its prices) in order to meet such
requirements.
(d) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The annual return shall be calculated by dividing
OPTB's net operating income for the fiscal year in
question by one half of the sum of the current net
value of OPTB's fixed assets in operation at the
beginning and at the end of that fiscal year.
(ii) The term "net operating income" means total
operating revenues less total operating expenses.
(iii) The term "total operating revenues" means ' evenues
from all sources related to operations.
(iv) The term "total operating expenses" means all
expenses related to operations, including adminis-
tration, adequate maintenance, taxes and payments
in lieu of taxes, and provision for depreciation on
a straight-line basis at a rate of not less than 5%
per annum of the average current gross value of
OPTB's fixed assets in operation, or other basis
acceptable to the Association, but excluding
interest and other charges on debt.
(v) The average current gross value of OPTB's fixed
assets in operation shall be calculated as one-half
of the sum of the gross value of OPTB's fixed
assets in operation at the beginning and at the end
of the fiscal year, as valued from time to time in
accordance with sound and consistently maintained


﻿-7-
methods of valuation satisfactory to the
Association.
(vi) The term "current net value of OPTB's fixed assets
in operation" means the gross value of OPTB's fixed
assets in operation less the amount of accumulated
depreciation, as valued from time to time in
accordance with sound and consistently maintained
methods of valuation satisfactory to the
Association.
Section 4.06. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, OPTB shall produce, for each of its fiscal years after its
fiscal year ending on December 31, 1988, funds from internal
sources equivalent to not less than 25% of the annual average of
OPTB's capital expenditures incurred, or expected to be incurred,
for that year and the two next following fiscal years.
(b) Not later than one month before the end of each of its
fiscal years, OPTB shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by
OPTB and satisfactory to the Association, review whether it would
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of
such year and the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to
the Association a copy of such review upon its completion.
(c) If any such review shows that OPTB would not meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for OPTB's fiscal years
covered by such review, OPTB shall promptly take all necessary
measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the
structure or levels of its prices) in order to meet such
requirements.
(d) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The term "funds from internal sources" means the
difference between:
(A) the sum of revenues from all sources related
to operations, consumer deposits and consumer
contributions in aid of construction, net non-
operating income and any reduction in working
capital other than cash; and


﻿-8-
(B) the sum of all expenses related to operations,
including administration, adequate maintenance
and taxes and payments in lieu of taxes
(excluding provision for depreciation and
other non-cash operating charges), debt
service requirements, all cash dividends and
other cash distributions of surplus, increase
in working capital other than cash and other
cash outflows other than capital expenditures.
(ii) The term "net non-operating income" means the
difference between:
(A) revenues from all sources other than those
related to operations; and
(B) expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu
of taxes, incurred in the generation of reve-
nues in (A) above.
(iii) The term "working capital other than cash" means
the difference between current assets excluding
cash and current liabilities at the end of each
fiscal year.
(iv) The term "current assets excluding cash" means all
assets other than cash which could in the ordinary
course of business be converted into cash within
twelve months, including accounts receivable,
marketable securities, inventories and prepaid
expenses properly chargeable to operating expenses
within the next fiscal year.
(v) The term "current liabilities" means all liabili-
ties which will become due and payable or could
under circumstances then existing be called for
payment within twelve months, including accounts
payable, customer advances, debt service require-
ments, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and
dividends.
(vi) The term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate amount of repayments (including sinking
fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other
charges on, debt.


﻿-9-
(vii) The term "capital expenditures" means all expendi-
tures incurred on account of fixed assets, in-
cluding interest charged to construction, related
to operations.
(viii) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall
be necessary to value, in terms of the currency of
the Borrower, debt payable in another currency,
such valuation shall be made on the basis of the
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
other currency is, at the time of such valuation,
obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt
or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis of a
rate of exchange acceptable to the Association.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of OPTB thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
OPTB of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                   Telex:
INDEVAS                      440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.             248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
7or OPTB:
Office des Postes et T614communications
du Bdnin
Cotonou
People's Republic of Benin
Cable address:                   Telex:
OFIPOSTEL                     5206
Cotonou, Benin
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this


﻿- 11 -
Agreement on behalf of OPTB, or by OPTB on behalf of the Borrower
under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or executed
by OPTB's Director General or such other person or persons as
OPTB shall designate in writing, and OPTB shall furnish to the
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authen-
ticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this,Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
A          Regional Vice President
Africa
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS
DU BENIN
By                  ALd  i NRr      nt
Authorized Representative


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, equipment and works for
Part A.1 of the Project (Jericho and Cadjehoun zones) shall be
procured on a "turnkey contract" basis.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Benin may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
Tools and vehicles for Part A.1 of the Project (Jericho and
Cadjehoun zones) may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of
the Special Account in respect of such contract.


﻿- 13 -
(b) With respect to each contract not goveraed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the
Association has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on
the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) of this Agreement.
2.   The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II: Employment of Consultants
In order to assist OPTB in carrying out the Project, OPTB
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Monitoring Indicators
Reporting
A.   Project Implementation                           Frequency
1.   Current Project implementation schedule
2.   Current Project cost estimates                  Every three
)  months
3.   Report on Project implementation
covering each component
4.   Compliance with covenants under
Development Credit and Project
Agreements
B.   Operations
1.   Exchange capacity (Cotonou,                )
Porto Novo, elsewhere in the country)      )
2.   Telephone direct exchange lines            )
in service (DEL's) (Cotonou,               )
Porto Novo, elsewhere in the country)      )
3.   DEL's connected per annum (Cotonou,        )
Porto Novo, elsewhere in the country)      )    Annually
4.   Number of telex subscribers                )


﻿- 15 -
ReRorting
Frequency
5.   Maintenance targets                       )
(i)   Faults reported per annum         )
per DEL (Cotonou, Porto           )
Novo, elsewhere in the country)   )
(ii)   Percent of faults cleared         )
within                            )
- 24 hours                        )
- 48 hours                        )
- Percent of faults pending       )
more than 48 hours              )
6.   Average call completion rate              )
(during busy hours)                       )
- Local calls (Cotonou,              )
Porto Novo)                        )
- Long distance calls                )
(between Cotonou,                  )
Porto Novo, Parakou)               )
- International calls                )
7.   Number of Employees                       )       Annually
- Telecommunications                 )
- Postal services                    )
- Common services                    )
8.   Employees/1000 DELs                       )
9.   Vehicles in garage for service            )
or repair (average vehicle-               )
calendar days per year over               )
the total vehicle fleet)                  )


﻿- 16 -
Reporting
Frequency
C.   Billing and Collection
1.   Time required to prepare bills            )
(days counted from end of                 )
billing period)                           )
2.   Time required to distribute               )
bills to subscribers (days                )
counted from billing date)                )
3.   Billing/Telephone production (%)          )      Every
)       three
4.   Telephone billing (CFAF million)          )      months
(Government, public enterprise,           )
private)                                  )
5.   Telex billing (CFAF million)              )
(Government, public enterprise,           )
private)                                  )
6.   Private accounts receivable               )
in days billing equivalent                )
(Telephone and telex)                     )
7.   Government accounts receivable            )
in days billing equivalent                )
(Telephone and telex)                     )
8.   Public enterprise accounts                )
receivable in days billing                )
equivalent                                )
(Telephone and telex)                     )


﻿- 17 -
Reporting
Frequency
D.   Financial
1.   Telecommunications financial indicators   )
(i)   Operating revenues                )
per DEL                           )
(ii)   Telex revenues per                )
telex line                        )
(iii)   Operating cost/DEL                )
(iv)   Net asset/DEL                     )
2.   OPTB Financial Indicators                 )       Annually
(i)   Rate of Return                    )
(ii)   Debt service coverage             )
ratio (times)                     )
(iii)   Net internal cash                 )
generation as percentage          )
of construction                   )


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


