Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
RESTRUCTURING 
Report No.: 
35590
 
Project Name 
PA Land Administration  
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Natural Resources Management  
Project ID 
P050595 
Borrower(s) 
Government of Panama 
 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) 
Panama 
 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[
]
S
1
[X] S
2
[
]
S
3
[
]
S
F
[
]
TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
Updated March 15, 2006 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
November 21, 2000 
Date of Board Approval 
June 16, 2001 
–
Restructured in March 2006 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
Panama is a nation of stark contrasts. With a population of about 3 million and per capita GNI of 
$4,450, nearly 40 percent of its population lives in poverty. In contrast to Panama City’s modern 
skyline and comforts, slightly more than half of the country’s rural residents fall below the 
poverty line and urban poverty is on the rise with one fifth of city dwellers living as paupers. 
Panama enjoys sophisticated financial and service sectors, but its public administration systems 
remain underdeveloped, its civil service weak, and a portion of the economy remains sheltered, 
serving only the domestic market. 
 
The limited of land tenure security and equitable mechanisms for access to land and land 
administration services are one of the root causes of poverty. Land administration and titling 
efforts are key for access to assets, the development of the land market, and for planning 
purposes, all of which are essential to the country’s long-term sustainable development. Land 
administration services in both rural and urban areas are under-funded, bureaucratic and 
fragmented. Registration, titling, cadastre and information systems are poorly integrated and 
outdated. This general environment is further handicapped by complicated land adjudication and 
titling procedures. In order to address these issues, the Government is committed to key legal, 
institutional and operational reforms related to land administration as part of its national 
development agenda.  
 
Panama has a very rich biodiversity with twelve confirmed life zones out of thirty identified 
globally. A large portion of the Atlantic watershed forms a biological corridor from Colombia to 
Costa Rica making it a very important part of the Mesoamerican Biological Corridor. The 
existence of such rich biodiversity, however, contrasts sharply with current land use. Over half of 
the forests have disappeared and about 25 percent of all lands are considered either degraded or 
Page  2
in the process of rapid degradation. This destruction, in turn, is associated with the lack of clear 
land tenure security. The project supports the demarcation of protected areas and the 
regularization of their existing occupants.  
 
Indigenous communities are the poorest of the poor: more than eighty percent are extremely poor 
and one-half of indigenous children are malnourished. The rights of some of the Indigenous 
Comarcas
 are not well defined yet, although they constitute a type of autonomous administrative 
political structure covering approximately 21 percent of Panama. The project supports the 
consolidation of indigenous territories.  
 
2. Objective  
 
The restructured project development objective is to 
modernize the land administration system, 
including priority protected areas and indigenous territories. 
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The World Bank's support to the project adds value in the areas of policy reform, institutional 
improvements, and human resource strengthening. The Bank brings integrated global support to 
this Project, in particular, to legal and institutional reform in potentially sensitive political, 
economic, and social sectors. The Bank has financed over 100 projects with land-related 
components, of which about 40 percent have been in the Latin American and Caribbean Region. 
The Bank's broad international experience allow for objective recommendations on the various 
options for legal, institutional, and technical framework reform. The Bank is also a pioneer in 
supporting projects with area-based cadastre and registry components, as reflected in land-related 
projects in Bolivia, El Salvador, Honduras and Guatemala. The project builds upon the 
experiences learned 
from the bank’s global portfolio of land projects.  
 
4. Description 
 
The original project of US$72.4 million (with a World Bank loan of US$47.9 million) was 
approved by the Board of Executive Directors on January 16, 2001. During its first four years, 
the project suffered from significant implementation delays and bottlenecks. As a result, during 
the mid-term review carried out in May 2005, the need to restructure the project was recognized. 
In October 2005, the Bank received a request from the Government of Panama to restructure the 
project. The restructuring proposal is expected to be submitted for consideration by the Board of 
Directors of the Bank in April 2006. It includes a reduction in scope (by about 25–30 percent) and 
cost (by about 20 percent).  
 
The restructured Project has 4 components: 
 
1. Land Policy, Legal and Institutional Framework
.
This component aims at improving the 
existing policy, legal and institutional framework governing the provision of land administration 
services, including the institutional strengthening and service decentralization of land 
administration entities.   
Page  3
2. Land Regularization Services
.
This component supports the m
odernization of the Borrower’s 
geodetic network, the gathering and analysis of land tenure related data, including the 
development and implementation of an Integrated Cadastral and Registry Information System 
(SIICAR) and its network in selected provinces and districts, and the resolution of land-related 
conflicts. 
3. Consolidation of Protected Areas and Indigenous Territories
.
This component will consolidate 
the National Protected Areas System (SINAP), establish and consolidate proposed protected 
areas within SINAP, and establish and consolidate indigenous territories in the project area.  
4. Project Administration, Monitoring & Evaluation
.
This component will strengthen the 
technical and administrative capabilities of land administration entities at national and local 
level, and support the design and implementation of a monitoring and evaluation system.  
 
5. Financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER 10.67 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
47.9 
 Total 
58.57 
 
6. Implementation 
 
The project is being executed by the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF), through the 
Directorate of Cadastre and Patrimony (DGCBP) and the Directorate of Social Policy (DPS), in 
collaboration  and coordination with the Ministry of Agriculture through the National Directorate 
of Agrarian Reform (DINRA); the Ministry of Governance and Justice, through the National 
Directorate of Local Governments (DGL); the Department of Indigenous Affairs (DPI); the 
Ministry of Public Works, through National Geographic Institute (IGNTG); the National 
Authority for the Environment (ANAM); the Public Registry (RP); and the Project Coordination 
Unit (PCU). Following the project restructuring, the Ministry of Housing (MIVI) has been 
included as co-executing agency, given its role in approving the urban cadastral plans before they 
are registered. Interagency coordination is promoted at the national level by two structures 
created specifically for the project: the Superior Council (SC) for Land Administration and the 
Technical Operational Committee (TOC). They are responsible for the policy and technical 
regulatory frameworks, respectively, needed for project implementation. In each province, the 
decentralized representatives of these national agencies have field-level implementation 
responsibilities, mainly through UTOs (temporary decentralized units).  
 
The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) is responsible for the overall financial and administrative 
implementation of the project and plays a major coordinating role in the overall project 
execution.  
 
7. Sustainability 
 
Sustainability is promoted through: (i) the supportive and decentralized institutional framework; 
(ii) sector and inter-sectoral coordination; (iii) local organizations involvement; (iv) technology 
Page  4
transfer program; (v) comprehensive training programs; (vi) private sector involvement 
(especially in land administration services delivery); and (vii) participatory evaluation and 
monitoring system. To attain sustainability goals, the Project also encourages local capacity 
building and the financial and technical viability of the agencies involved. 
 
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
Develop a Comprehensive Framework
.
The most important lesson learned from international 
best practice in land administration is that it is necessary to use a comprehensive, holistic, and 
integrated framework rather than considering land only as a factor of production or in its 
agricultural potential. Such a framework must include consideration of equity, security, and 
efficiency, as well as the social, cultural, and environmental implications. The Project is based on 
this kind of vision involving titling, natural resource conservation and management, land 
administration services, and indigenous peoples land rights.  
 
Technical Coherence
.
It is essential to ensure that one standardized and coherent technical 
methodology is in place. Therefore, a unified methodology for land regularization, making use of 
the Integrated Cadastre and Registry Information System (SIICAR), is being developed and 
adopted by all relevant land service agencies. This methodology applies to funding to be 
provided by other agencies such as the parallel project financed by the Inter-American 
Development Bank (IDB). 
 
Promote Participation at the Local and Community Level
.
The project supports the carrying out 
of a program to increase the participation of local stakeholders and municipalities, including the 
organization of round tables. It further supports: (i) physical demarcation activities in selected 
protected areas, including the participatory decision-making process needed to define the 
boundaries and status of the demarcated area; (ii) the participatory development of management 
plans for proposed protected areas; and (iii) the physical demarcations of and the establishment 
of alternative conflict resolution mechanisms in selected 
comarcas
.
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)
.
Under the restructured project, the M&E has been 
strengthened to monitor both physical output indicators with financial management/resource use 
and procurement processes.  
 
9.  Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) (to be updated from final PAD) 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
 
Yes
 
No
 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
/
GP
4.01) [X] 
[ 
] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04)
 
[X ] 
[] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[] [X 
] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11)
 
[] [X] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12)
 
[X ] 
[] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
,
being revised as OP 4.10)
 
[X] [ 
] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36)
 
[
]
[X] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37)
 
[
]
[X] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.60)
 
[
]
[X] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.50)
 
[
]
[X] 
Page  5
The environmental category of the Project is unchanged (Category “B”). The restructured project 
area remains within the original project area (selected districts in the provinces of Chiriquí, 
Veraguas and Boca del Toro as well as protected areas in the provinces of Panamá, Colón, 
Coclé, Veraguas, Herrera and Los Santos). 
 
10. List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
(i)  Government’s restructuring proposal (dated October 20, 2005) 
(ii) Original PAD (dated December 14, 2000) 
 
11. Contact point 
 
Contact: Jorge A. Muñoz 
Title: Sr. Land Administration Specialist 
Tel: 1 (202) 473 0352 
Fax: 1 (202) 522-0262 
Email
:
jmunoz@worldbank.org
12. For more information contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
