                   Report No. 49004-PA  \




The InspectionPanel        439

  Report andRecommendation


Panama: LandAdministration
 Project (Loan No. 7045-PAN)



          June 19,2009


                                            TheInspectionPanel



                                        ReportandRecommendation

                                                        On

                                            Requestfor Inspection


                                         Re:Requestsfor Inspection
                     Panama: LandAdministrationProject(LoanNo.7045-PAN)


    A. Background

       The Inspection Panel received two Requests for Inspection related to the Panama: Land
       Administration Project (the "Project"-in           Spanish, Programa Nacional de Administracidn             .
       de Tierras-PRONAT),           on February 25, 2009 and March 17, 2009 respectively. The first
       Request (the "First Request") was submitted by representatives of the indigenous
       community of the Pueblo Naso, several individual members of the cominunity and
       representatives o f some community organizations (the "First Requesters"). The second
       Request (the "Second Request") was submittedby leaders of the "Congreso de Area Anexa
       de la Provincia de Bocas del Toro" on behalfofthe communities that live inthe so-called
       "beas anexas"' to the Comarca Ng6be-Bug16                   inthe Bocas del Tor0 Province, Panama
       (the "Second Requesters"). The First and Second Requesters generally claim that they and
       the community that they represent have been harmed and are likely to suffer further harm
       because the Bankhas violated its own operational policies and procedures inthe designand
       implementationo f the Project.

  2. The Panel registered the Requests for Inspection respectively on March 11 and March 20,
       2009, and thereby notified the Executive Directors and Bank Management of the recei t o f
       the Requests. Management submittedits Responseto bothRequestsonApril 20,2009.                        ?


 InEnglish"annex areas".
 Accordingto Section 1.02 (f) ofthe LoanAgreement       " `Comarca' means the indigenous territory establishedas
a specialpolitical and administrativesubdivision of the Borrower's territory,pursuant to theproceduresetforth in
the Borrower'spolitical constitution." LoanAgreement (Land Administration Project) betweenRepublicof
Panama andthe InternationalBank for ReconstructionandDevelopment, datedApril 2,2001 (the LoanAgreement).
The LoanAgreement was amended inJune 2006.
 Managementrequestedthe BoardofDirectorsapprovalto prepare a single ManagementResponseaddressingboth
Requests "[iln view ofthe fact that the two Requestsconcern the same project andaddress closely related issues, in
the interest ofefficiency." April 20,2009 was originally the deadline for the preparationof the Management
Responseto the SecondRequest. The BoardapprovedManagement's request on a nonobjectionbasis.

 3. The original deadline for the submission o f this Panel's Report and Recommendation was
     May 19, 2009. However, in light o f the general elections held inPanama on May 3, 2009,
     the Panel deemed that the interests of all parties concerned were better served by
     postponing the customary eligibility visit for a few weeks, and thus postponing the deadline
     for its Report. The postponement o f the deadline for the Report to June 19, 2009, was
     approved by the Board o f Directors on a non objectionbasis.

B.The Project

 4. The Project i s partially financed by a loan from the International Bank for Reconstruction
     and Development (the "Bank") in an amount equal to forty-seven million nine hundred
     thousand dollars (US$ 47,900,000). The Loan was approved on January 16, 2001. After
     experiencing some implementation difficulties, the Project was restructured on June 23,
     2006 to narrow the project scope and outputs, and improve "implementation andfinancing
     modalitie~.,'~  The Closing Date is December 31,2009.

 5. According to the original Loan Agreement, the objectives o f the Project were: "(a) to
     promote equitable access to land and improve land tenure security by providing Land
     Administration Services in the Project Area; and (b) to enhance natural resources
     conservation through the consolidation of the SINAP' and Indigenous Peoples Territories."
     The amended Loan Agreement provides that "the objective of the Project is to modernize
     the land administration system, including priority protected areas and Indigenous Peoples
     Territories.''

 6. After beingrestructured inMarch 2006, the Project has four components:' (1) Land Policv,
     Legal and Institutional Framework, which includes activities aimed at improving the
     existing policy and legal institutional framework and strengthening the institutions
     providing land administration services; (2) Land Regularization Services, supporting the
     modernization o f the Borrower's geodetic network, the gathering and analysis o f land
     tenure related data, including the development and implementation of an Integrated
     Cadastral and Registry Information System (SIICAR) and "the carrying out of legal
     cadastre surveys and area-based measurement and land demarcation activities;" (3)
     Consolidation o f Protected Areas and Indigenous Territories, which supports the
     consolidation o f the National Protected Areas System (SINAP), the establishment and
     consolidation of protected areas within SINAP, and the establishment and consolidation o f
     indigenous territories in the project area; and (4) Proiect Administration. Monitoring &
     Evaluation providing technical assistance services and support for land administration
     entities at national andlocal level.



 Memorandum and Recommendation ofthe President on a Proposal to Restructurethe LandAdministration Project
-LoanNo.7045-PANfortheRepublicofPanama., datedMarch27,2006. SEC.R2006-0047,datedMarch30,
2006.
 The LoanAgreement states that "SINAP" means "Sisternu Nucionul de TierrusProtegidus" the Borrower's system
ofprotected areas.
'Amendment   to the Loan Agreement, datedJune 23,2006.
 2006 Project Information Document (PID)

                                                                                                          2

  7. The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) states that^ Project-supported land administration
      activities cover a range o f land regularization actions, including legal rights recognition,
      titling, conflict resolution, legal cadastre, and registry, and that the consolidation of SNAP
      and indigenous territories includes mapping, field demarcation, buffer zone limits,
      determination of their legal status, and land management plans in selected areas through
      local andparticipatory consultation processes.'

  8. The Project component related to Consolidation o f Protected Areas and Indigenous
      Territories includes participatory decision-making processesto define boundaries and status
      of the demarcated areas. In this regard, the PAD states that "consolidation of indigenous
     peoples territories includes not only technical actions related to demarcation" but also a
      number of complementary activities, including conflict resolution and "support to design or
      complete the Cartas Orgdnicas [Organic Charters] and other regulations and norms
      dealing with the administration of indigenous territories.''9

  9. According to the PAD, Project targets are, among others, completing the establishment of
      the Comarca Ngobe-Bugle and creating an additional Comarca, "the proposed Comarca
      Teribe-Naso."" To achieve this, the Project is to provide direct support for drafting the
      Comarca law and charter o f the Naso Teribe territories and update the founding charters
      that contain respective norms and regulations for the Ngobe-Bugle Comarca.l1

  10.Implementation o f the Project is the responsibility of the Ministry o f Finance (MEF) in
      collaboration with the Ministry o f Agriculture, the Ministryo f Governance and Justice, the
      Ministry of Public Works, the Ministry of Housing - all of which act through various
      agencies under their competence - and the Project Coordination Unit (PCU). Two new
      entities were created specifically for this Project, the Superior Council for Land
      Administration and the Technical Operational Committee, which are responsible for the
      policy and technical regulatory frameworks necessary for Project implementation.
      Temporary decentralization units (UTOs) ineachprovince represent the national agencies.

C. The Requests

  11. The First and the Second Request are summarized below. Complete copies in original
      Spanish and Englishtranslations are attached to this Report as Annex I.

The FirstRequest

  12. The FirstRequestersclaim that, duringimplementation of the Project, the Bank did not take
      into account the rights and interests o f the Pueblo Naso communities, because Project
      officials tried to impose a "Carta Orgdnica" in their territory that i s detrimental to their



 ProjectAppraisal Document(PAD) on a ProposedLoaninthe Amount ofUS$47.9 millionto the Republic of
Panamafor a LandAdministrationProject, datedDecember 14,2000, p. 3.
 PAD pp. 6-7
loPAD, p. 29.
I'PAD, p. 50.

                                                                                                   3

    rights, has not been consulted with the indigenous people and lacks legal basis. What
    follows is a summary description of the situation as depicted inthe FirstRequest.

13. The First Requesters state that the PRONAT i s expected to demarcate the territory o f the
    "originalpeople" o f the Bocas del Tor0 Province and that, since its initial implementation,
    "the Project has been carrying out activities in their Naso rjer Di territory with the support
    of the Dobbo YalaFoundation and the then King [of the Naso people] Tito Santanaand his
    team." They claim, however, that the situation has now changed because the Naso people
    decided to destitute King Tito and designated a new King, Valentin. Therefore, the
    Requesters add, PRONAT officials who still consult with King Tito on matters related to
    the Project are in fact no longer consulting with the legitimate representatives of the Naso
    Peoples. This has also created tensions between the Naso and the Foundation carrying out
    the consultations.

14. The First Requesters state that, initially, Bank financing enabled agreement on a Bill o f
    Law that was supported by the Naso People and would create the Comarca ofNaso TjCr Di.
    This Bill`of Law was submitted to the National Assembly o f Panama, which however
    rejected it. The Requesters believe that this happened because the Bank-financed Project
    indeed supported a new Bill of Law establishing collective land property in indigenous
   territories, which was approved by the National Assembly on December 3, 2008 as Law
   No. 72. According to the Requesters, Law no. 72 created "an uncertain regime of regional
    rezoning" and "constitutes a flagrant and very serious violation of the sole and true
    aspiration of the Naso People-the creation of ajuridicalframework that would respect the
    cultural and allforms ofpolitico-traditional lije of our Nasopeople, as well as the natural,
    archeological and genetic resources in general that we now have and that we have
    inheritedfrom our ancestors and that we are entitled to: that is the region of Naso rjer Di."

15. The First Requesters state that they asked PRONAT officials to comply with the World
    Bank's Operational Policy on Indigenous Peoples and that, since no reply was received
    from them, the "Naso people,jointly with Ngobe leaders affected by the delimitation of the
    adjacent lands," sent a note to World Bank staff, inDecember 2007, "requesting an urgent
    visit to the area."

16.They add that World Bank staff carried out a field visit in January 2008 where they were
    informed about the concerns o f the Naso Peoples in relation to PRONAT.` The Request
   claims that on a follow-up visit to evaluate PRONAT in March 2008, Bank staff did not
   meet with the Naso people, who were left waiting for them at the community of Bonyik.
    The Naso people's concerns were again expressed, at a meeting held later on in Panama
    City, but so far, the First Requesters claim, World Bank staff have not addressed their
    concerns.

17. Inview o fthe foregoing, the Requestersstate that "we are also disappointed with the World
   Bank, who has not enforced its operational policies on indigenouspeoples," adding that for
   this reason they are "requesting the Inspection Panel to carry out an in-depth and detailed
    investigation of all that has happenedsince the arrival of PRONAT in our territory."



                                                                                                4

 The Second Request

  18. The Second Requesters are against the way the Project is beingimplemented,particularly in
      relation to the demarcation methodology in the Ngobe territories in the Bocas del Tor0
      province and in the Parque Internacional (World Heritage Site), inthe Forest Reserve Palo
      Seco (tropical upland forest), and in the Bastimentos National Marine Park. According to
      the Second Requesters, not only do the Project's actions violate their human and land
      occupations rights, but also contravene the conventions and international treaties to which
      Panama is a party as well as "the World Bank's strategies and operational policies on
      indigenouspeoples approved by the Bank's Board on February 22, 2006."

  19. According to the Request, in 2001 the Government o f Panama obtained Bank financing so
      that PRONAT could measure and demarcate the territories o f the indigenous peoples living
      in the province of Bocas del Toro. The main concern of the Second Requesters is that
      `tpractically since that moment, this Program has violated the indigenous land rights, since
      PRONAT's main objective is to title land and not to demarcate territories." They also claim
      that the Project i s restrictingthe areas recognized as indigenous peoples lands to those used
      for housing, excluding the areas that the communities use `tfor materials, medicines, craft
      items, workshops and other production activities" The Requesters argue that "the lack of
      territorial protection has allowed tourism, mining and hydroelectric enterprises to
      speculate with our land which is shamelesslygiven away by the national authorities by way
      of Law number 2 of 2006on concessionand titling of islands and coasts              ...
                                                                                           9912


 20. The Second Requesters further describe other events and circumstances supporting their
      allegations. These facts are summarized below.

 21* The Second Requesters state that the Government rejected a proposal on how to deal with
      the "hreas anexas" (defined as such in Law No. 10 o f 1997) and, as a result, it was not
      possible to demarcate these areas or territories that "were left out" o f the Comarca Ngoble-
      Bugle.

 22. The Second Requesters claim that, upon a request from the communities o f the "heas
      anexas" and o f the islands of the Boca del Tor0 province, local Bank staff agreed to meet
      with them in the PRONAT offices in the town of Changuinola. Inthis meeting, to which
      Government officials also participated, the Requesters expressed their concerns about the
      implementation o f the PRONAT and what they consider "negligence and irregularities"
      directly affecting the landrights o f the Ngobe communities o f the Bocas del Tor0 province
      in the "hreas anexas", which remain outside the limits of the Comarca Ngoble-BuglC.
      According to the Second Requesters, as a result o f this meeting, Bank staff agreed to make
      an evaluationo f the Project and address their concerns.            '




l2The Requestrefers specifically to "the concessionof6.215 hectaresinthe ruralarea ofValle Risco, aNg6be-
Bugle indigenousterritory, grantedby ANAM [AutoridadNacionaldelAmbiente] for the constructionofthe
hydroelectricprojectChan75", andpointsout that a complaintwas filedwiththe Supreme CourtofJustice,the
Inter American CommissiononHumanRights,andto the UnitedNations RapporteuronIndigenousPeoples.

                                                                                                          5

 23. According to the Second Requesters, during a follow-up visit that took place in January
     2008, local Bank staff were informed that the communities were about to complain against
     irregularities inthe implementationo f PRONAT to the Bank's "executive management" in
     Washington. Inresponse, the Requesters state, they were then told to wait until a March 2,
     2008 community meetingwhere local Bank staff would present an answer to their concerns.
     According to the Requesters nobody from the Bank attended the March meeting and until
     now they have yet to receive a response from the Bank.

 24. The Second Request also claims that the Bank-financed Project supported a new Bill of
     Law, approved by the National Assembly on December 3, 2008 as Law No. 72, which
     established collective landproperty inindigenous territories and specifically prohibitedthe
     creation of new "cireas anexas." In the Requesters' opinion, Law No. 72 "constitutes a
     flagrant and very serious violation of the sole and true aspiration of the communitiesof the
      `cireasanexas that is, the creation of ajuridicalpamework that wouldrespect the cultural
     and allforms ofpolitical life of the Ngabe-Buglepeople."

 25. The Second Requesters state that they hold the Government and Government institutions
     "directly responsible" for their problems but, at the same time, that they "are also
     disappointed with the World Bank, who has not enforced its operational policies on
     indigenous peoples,'' adding that for this reason they are "requesting the Inspection Panel
     to carry out an in-depth and detailed investigation of all that has happened since the
     arrival of PRONAT in our territory."

 26. The above claims included inthe First and Second Request may constitute non-compliance
     by the Bank with various provisions of, inter alia, the following operational Policies and
     Procedures:

    OD 4.20            Indigenous Peoples
    OPBP 13.05         Project Supervision

D.ManagementResponse

 27. What follows is a brief summary o f Management Response13, a complete copy of which i s
     attached to this Report as Annex 11.

 28. General Observations Management Response first offers "key observation^^^" about the
     context in which the Project came about. Management maintains that the political and
     institutional aspects o f landtenure issues, especially when Indigenous Peoples are involved,
     are complex. In Projects like the one under consideration, "technical inputs are necessary
     but not sufficient to meet the stated objectives, given the complex political and socio-
     economic conditions surrounding this issue in the country.15"External pressures but also
     internal conflicts among indigenous groups exacerbate the magnitude of issues related to


l3
 ManagementResponseto Requestfor InspectionPanelReview of the PanamaLandAdministrationProject (Loan
No. 7045-PAN), submittedon April 20,2009.
''ManagementResponse,116
I4                     7 vi.
 ManagementResponse,

                                                                                                  6

      land use, land tenure and decision-making processes. Within this context, the Response
     notes that between 2000 and 2004 economic growth and policy reform in Panama slowed
      with a change in Government and the "Government turned increasingly to capital markets
     for Jnancing, leaving much of the Country Assistance Strategy unimplementedoBank
     engagement in Panama dropped off dramatically and portfolio performance fell
     significantly,16'' The Bank's lending portfolio, policy dialogue and country partnership in
      Panama were subsequently "rejuvenated' after 2004, with a new Country Partnership
      Strategy and other activities, including this Project that had been originally launched in
      2001*

  29. The Response indicates that since the mid 1990s land tenure security and efficient land
      administration services were identified as important aspects o f the Government Poverty
     Reduction Strategy, with a holistic approach that would cover all types of lands and all
     tenure regimes, including Indigenous Peoples' land rights. On the other hand, the Response
      further notes, long standingconflicts andwars inLatinAmerica have beenrootedprimarily
      in land tenure issues, and poor peasants as well as Indigenous Peoples have increasingly
      lost land in this process. Management states that it has always been aware that this context
     would pose challenges for Project implementation but considered "that supporting
     Indigenous Peoples in the consolidation of their territories is a worthwhile development
     endeavor.""

  30. Management states that land issues in the Naso and Ngobe-Bug16 territories find their
     origins inthe considerable tourism, economic, scientific and hydroelectric potential of these
      lands, which have attracted national and international interests. In this context, the
     Government has recognized some indigenous peoples' claims to their territories, but has
     also transferredpart of these regions to the protected area system and gave out concessions
     for the use o f natural resources, including for mining and hydroelectric power generation
     purposes.     In the Ngobe-Bug16 territory, a Government concession allows for the
      construction o f the Chan 75 dam for which people are being relocated and there are
     allegations o f forced evictions and violence perpetrated against affected communities. As
      noted above, Management also argues that indigenous peoples' internal divisions
      exacerbate land conflicts, as the particular case o f the Naso community bears witness. A
      "schism" within the Naso community happened because in2004 thenKingTito "agreed to
     allow" the Government and a Colombian firmto buildthe Bonyik'Daminthe Bonyik River
      in the Naso territory. Some community members disagreed with this decision and, as a
     result, ousted Tito and installeda new King, Valentin.

  31. Response to the First Request. In response to the First Requesters, Management states
     that it supports the creation o f a Comarca for the Naso territory. One of the Project
     objectives provided precisely for the preparation, in consultations with the Naso, of a bill
      and charter establishing the Naso Tjer Comarca, the highest aspiration of the Naso people
      for their territory. The Project-supported bill for the Naso Comarca was, however,
      submitted twice to the National Assembly and twice rejected. As a result, Management
     considered a bill about to be discussedby Parliament, the bill o f Collective Lands, a "viable

16ManagementResponse,7 11.
" ManagementRepsonse,77.

                                                                                                  7

     if less ideal measure to continue the momentumfor improved security of tenure" for the
     Naso and the Indigenous Peoples o f Panama in general. It was also "Management's
     understanding that adoption of the Law of Collective Lands would notpreclude a renewed
     attempt in the future to create a Comarcafor the Naso People.""        The First Requesters
     have been objecting to this position and the bill o f Collective Lands since early 2008
     because they believe only a hll Comarca is an acceptable solution for the Naso people.
     Other members o f the community headed by King Tito believe instead that, though a
     Comarca would be the best solution, this bill is a step forward for indigenous peoples o f
     Panama.

  32. The Law o f Collective Lands was approved on December 3, 2008 as Law 72 o f 2008. It
     included Article 17, which created a special regime for the Naso that was not provided for
     inthe billoflaw submittedto the Assembly. Management claims that it "became aware" of
     this Article 17 only five days after the approval of the Law and that it did not have any
     information about it before it was included in the law. However, Management also states
     that as soon as it learned about Article 17 it promptly took up the issue with the
     Government to express concerns about the implications of the law for the Naso people, in
     particular about the Charter (Carta Orgcinica) to be issued and applied, under Law 72, in
     the Naso territory, The Response adds that "it is now the Government's intention toplace
     Naso territory under the political-administrative jurisdiction of the Province of Bocas del
     Toro.19"

  33. With respect to the internal conflict within the Naso people, the Response notes that both
     sides claim to be the legitimate representatives o f the Naso people, while the Government
     o f Panama recognizes only Tito as legitimate King. Management points out that "in spite
     07the Government's official recognition of Tito,      "Management's view is that informed
     participation, consistent with OD 4.20, means that the Project should consult with both
     groups rather than assigning unique legitimacy or representativeness to either one,2o"
     Management has therefore stressed to Project staff the importance of taking steps for a
     resolution o f the conflict and has encouraged mediation between the two factions, in
     recognition that the division within the community is detrimental to the Naso people's
     aspiration of consolidating their territory.

  34. Management states its belief that it has been responsive to the First Requesters' concerns.
     It has met with them, as well as with the other faction, encourageda solution of the conflict
     and conveyed the importance of this to the Government. In June 2008, the Bank mission
     agreed on an action plan with the Government to call for mediation betweenthe opposing
     groups o f Naso. The Project also offered to finance mediation. Tito's group accepted, while
     Valentin's group refused the proposed mediator and suggested a new one. These efforts
     faded for a time but Bank staff keep insisting with the Government about renewing
     mediation efforts.




  ManagementResponse,fi 54.
  ManagementResponse,T[ 57.
2oManagementResponse,T[ 59.

                                                                                                8

  35. Management concludes by stating that actions are being taken to address the First
      Requesters' concerns. The Bank requested clarifications to the Government on the
      consultation efforts during the preparation of the Charter opposed by the Requesters; "it
      asked Government not to use Loan proceeds tofnance any activities related to the Naso,
      except those related to the mediation process between the two competingfactions; and (iii)
      it recommended to Government not to approve the draft Charter until Management had an
      opportunity to review the requested documentation and exchange views with Government
      on the matter2'"

  36. Response to the Second Request Management states that it agrees with the Second
      Requesters that the Annex areas, which are territories o f the Comarca Ngobe-Bugle
      (created in 1997) outside the Comarca's core area, were not delimited and shares their
      concerns about this problem. Management also agrees that the Project "has not fully
      demonstrated the principle" o f informed participation and consultation with respect to the
      delimitation of these Annex areas. Management Response goes on to state that after the
      Second Requesters raised their concerns about consultation and land delimitation, in March
      2008 a Bank mission visited nine o f the 15 Annex areas to evaluate the work being carried
      out under the Project and was accompanied by the Ngobe-Bug16 General Chief (Cacique,
      inSpanish) andtwo Caciques for the Annex areas. The missionrecognized the weaknesses
      in the consultation process and lack of knowledge among the people of the Indigenous
      Peoples Strategy. The missionmade some recommendations to Project staff to correct these
      problems and, in this regard, asked them to prepare a Consultation Plan. Subsequent
      missions requestedan actionplanfor other activities, including landtenure studies.

  37. InJuly 2008, Project staff presented the requested action plans, with budgetand timetables.
      They also informed the Bank mission that 14 out of 15 annex areas had been delimited.
      Management states that "[blased on the information provided by Project staff at the time,
      there was no reason to believe that the delimitations of the Annex Areas did not meet
      beneficiaries ' expectations"22 and no further discussions followed on this. Management
     recognized in hindsight that this was a missed opportunity to inquire about consultations,
      and as a result requested the Government a report on consultations and delimitation work
      carried out inthe Annex areas.

  38. Management clarifies in its Response that the Project's objective is to delimit and
     demarcate territories of Indigenous Peoples, rather than lands, as the Project's land
     administration activities are based on the concept of `territory'. A total of 1000 linear km
     of territorial boundaries o f the main area of the Comarca Ngobe-Bugle have been already
     demarcated, as well as six Annex areas in the provinces of Chiriqui and Veraguas. For the
     Annex areas in Bocas del Toro, Management Response maintains that inFebruary 2007 an
     agreement was reached with Ngobe-Bugle leaders to start the delimitation o f 15 Annex
     areas and to include in this delimitation the so-called `trabajaderos', which are areas used
     for productive and working activities, in addition to housing areas. Management also
     indicates that Ngobe-Bugle communities can express a choice on whether they want to be
     delimitated as Annex areas. As a result, following consultations inthis regard conducted in

'' ManagementResponse,
22 ManagementResponse, 7 76.
                       7 70.

                                                                                                9

      2007/2008, Management understands that seven of the 15 Ngobe-Bug16 communities
      participating inthe process have chosento be Annex areas. Management has also requested
      the Government a report on consultations before the process o f legalization of Annex areas
      i s finalized.

  39. Management further states that it acknowledges the Second Requesters' concerns about the
      pressure on their territory by development activities such as tourism and hydroelectric
      projects, It adds that the Project was not involved in granting the concession for the Chan
      75 dam, nor in the process leading to approval o f the laws regulating tourism and other
      concessions. With respect to the above-mentioned Law 72, according to the Response,
      Management understandsthat the law does not supersede the 1997 law creating the Ngtibe-
      Bug16 Comarca and does not apply to Annex areas, but it will ask the Government
      clarifications on this issue, as well as on the potential impacts o f another law, Law 18 of
      2009, on the status o f certain Annex areas.

  40. Management states that it believes it has beenresponsive to the Second Requestersas well,
      andespecially argues that "none of thefour Bank staffresent at a meetingwith the Second
     Requesters on January 31, 2008 recall asking them to repainfrom sending a complaint to
      the Bank's Executive Board or anyone else in Washington." Management acknowledges
     that information about Project activities was conveyed to the Caciques with the expectation
      that they would inform their constituents but commits to "engage more regular1 with the
      SecondRequestersto inform them and consult with them aboutfollow-up actions.       y3"

  41. Special Issues and Action Plan Management states that a Social Assessment, which was
      consulted on and dealt with indigenous peoples' issues, was carried out during Project
      preparation but it was not disclosed. Excerpts o f the Assessment were summarized and
      annexed to the PAD as an Indigenous Peoples Strategy. This strategy, Management argues,
      contains "key elements" o f an Indigenous Peoples Development Plan (IPDP) but "no free-
      standing IPDP in accordance with OD 4.20 was prepared.24'' During the preparation for
      Additional Financing for the Project, a social assessment and an IPDP were prepared and
      disclosed in December 2008. However, this 2008 assessment and IPDP, in Management's
      view, "do not meet the full requirements of OD 4.20" because they do not "address all the
      Indigenous Peoples inthe Project, including the Requesters." A new IPDP that meets Bank
     policy requirementsis expected to be completed by August 2009. Management states that it
      also decided to "pause" the preparation o f the Additional Financing operation requestedby
     the Government to support a geographical extensionofProject activities.

  42. Management Response presents an action planwith related timeline to follow up on issues
     raised by the Requesters. The Action Plan includes the finalization o f the IPDP as noted
      above, and its dissemination through consultations; requesting clarifications to the
      Government about the implications for the Naso territory o f Law 72 o f 2008 and following
      up on the possibility of reintroducing the Naso Comarca bill to the National Assembly;
      verifying that the delimitation of the Ngobe-Bug16 Annex areas include the trabajaderos
      not only housing areas; verifying the consultation work carried out thus far and continuing


23ManagementResponse,189.
24ManagementResponse, p,vii.

                                                                                               10

     supporting mediationefforts to solve internal conflicts among the Naso people; andmeeting
     and discussing with the Requesters about the issues raised and actions proposed by
     Management.

E.Eligibility

43. The Panel must determinewhether both Requests satisfy the eligibility criteria set forth in
     the 1993 Resolution establishing the Panel and the 1999 Clarifications,2' and recommend            `
     whether the matters alleged inthe Requests should be investigated.

44. The Panel has reviewed the Requests and Management's Response. Panel Member,
     Roberto Lenton, together with Executive Secretary Peter Lallas and Panel expert consultant
     Eduardo Abbott, visited Panama from June 8 through June 12, 2009. During their visit, the
     Panel team met with Government officials and representatives o f the Project Coordinating
     Unit(PCU), representativesofthe newly elected Government set to take office shortly, and
     staff o f the World Bank country office inPanamaCity. The Panel also visitedthe Bocas del
     Tor0 province where both groups o f Requesters live, and met with the signatories o f the
     two Requests for Inspection and affected people and communities o f both the Naso and
    Ngobe-Bug16 communities. The Panel also met groups of indigenous peoples who are not
     signatories o f the Requests but belongto the same communities.

45, The Panel i s satisfied that the two Requests meet all o fthe eligibility criteria provided inthe
     1993 Resolutionand Paragraph9 o fthe 1999 Clarifications.

46. During the visit, the Panel confirmed that both the First and the Second Requesters are
    legitimate parties under the Resolutionto submit a Request for Inspectionto the Inspection
    Panel. The persons who signed the Requests live in Project-affected areas, have common
    interests and common concerns, and reside in the Borrower's territory, as requiredby item
    (a) o fthe said Paragraph 9.

47. The Panel confirms that the Request "assert[s] in substance that a serious violation by the
    Bank of its operational policies and procedures has or is likely to have material adverse
    effect upon the requesters," as per the requirement of Paragraph I)(b).

48. In particular, the First Requesters assert that they feel harmed by the Project as it was
    implemented because their aspirations o f creating a juridical framework in their territory -
    the Comarca - that would respect the life and culture of the Naso people were disavowed
    when the bill o f law for a Naso Comarca was rejected in Parliament. The Naso also claim
    that, under the Project, the Bank instead now supports a law that created a different
    framework detrimental to the rights o fthe Naso people.

49. The Second Requesters assert that they feel harmed by PRONAT's work to restrict
    significantly the areas recognized as indigenous peoples' lands, by limiting such areas to
    those the communities live inand excluding areas that the communities use to support their
    lives and livelihoods. This in turn has allowed land to be given away by the national
*'Conclusionsof the Board's SecondReviewofthe InspectionPanel(the "1999 Clarifications"), April 1999.

                                                                                                      11

      authorities to tourism, mining and hydroelectric investors via concessions and titling o f
      islandsandcoasts

  50. The Panel confirmed that the World Bank was aware o f concerns o f both the Naso and the
      NgCibe-Bug16 people since long before the submission o f the Requests for Inspection.26The
      Panel is therefore satisfied that the Request "does assert that the subject matter has been
      brought to Management's attention and that, in the Requesters' view, Management has
      failed to respond adequately demonstrating that it hasfollowed or is taking steps tofollow
      the Bank's policies and procedures." Hence, the Request meets the requirement of
      Paragraph 9(c).

  51. The Panel notes that the subject matter o f the Request is not related to procurement, as
      requiredby Paragraph9(d).

  52. The Project closing date i s December 31, 2009.27As o f the date the Requests were filed,
      about 77% of the Loan had been disbursed. The Requests therefore satisfy the requirement
      inParagraph9(e) that the related Loanhasnot beenclosed or substantially disbursed.28

  53. Furthermore, the Panel has not previously made a recommendation on the subject matter o f
      the Requests.Therefore, the Requestssatisfy Paragraph9(f).

F.Observations

  54. At the outset, the Panel would like to emphasize its support for the objectives of the
      Panama Land Administration Project as a whole and the component on consolidation o f
      Protected Areas and Indigenous Territories in particular. It is critically important for the
      World Bank to remain centrally engaged in these issues in Panama, which are essential.to
      the country's sustainable development. On the other hand, the Panel would like to
      underscore the seriousness o f the situation presented by this Request, and the imminent
      nature of the concerns.

  55. The affected indigenous communities are claiming that their land rights are not being
      properly recognized or protected by the Project, as intended and as required by Bank
      policies. Instead, they claim, the Project i s in some cases promoting land delimitation
      activities that restrict the landarea for which their rights should be properly recognized.

  56. Inthe case of the Naso indigenous peoples, the affected people acknowledge the Project's
      assistance in its initial stages in supporting the drafting of a law to create a Comarca that
      would properly recognize and protect their land rights. They claim, however, that
      PRONAT i s now supporting the implementation o f a national law (Law No. 72 on

26 The Panelnotes that although the Requesters didnot specifically voice with Management their opposition to
Art.17 of the Law o fCollective Lands and the Organic Charter the Article provides for, they hadbeenraising
serious concerns about the bill o f Collective Lands since early 2008, as specified in Management Response at
paragraph 55.
27 Management Response, 7 28.
28 According to the Resolution that established the Panel, "this will be deemed to be the case when at least ninety-
flve percent of the loanproceedr have been disbursed." Footnote to Paragraph 14 (c).

                                                                                                                    12

    Collective Property) which, intheir view, impedes the establishment ofthis Comarca. They
    further contend that in the absence of having their land rights properly recognized, the
    Project's support for private titling is enabling investment activities on land that they
    believe belongs to them, and is creating adverse consequences for their communities and
    the environment.

57. During its eligibility visit, a Naso community described to the Panelteam, ingraphic terms,
    events that, although not directly related to the Project, allowed the Panel team to
   understand better the fears and concerns o f the Requesters. The community showed the
   team evidence that, at the request o f a landowner claiming title over the lands, security
    forces recently entered their village with tear gas and bulldozers, destroying several houses,
    a cultural center, a school, a church, other structures, and an area o f surrounding trees used
    andvalued by the community. The community contends that the landbelongs to them, and
    should beprotected throughproper land delimitation and demarcation underthe Project.

58. In the case o f the Ngobe indigenous peoples, affected communities claim that the
   boundaries proposed for ``dreas anexas" by representatives responsible for Project
   implementatian are much smaller than the lands that by right belong to them. Specifically,
   they claim that the PRONAT representatives have mainly sought to delimit the homestead
   areas but have taken a narrow view of "productive" or "worked" areas, generally excluding
   much of the land cultivated by the communities and the forest and other lands that support
   their lives and livelihoods on the grounds that these lands are "terrenos baldios" (vacant
    lands). During its eligibility visit, the Panel heardtestimony that these representatives did
   not engage in proper consultation with the communities to determine the appropriate
   boundaries, but instead "imposed" a set o f narrowly defined physical boundaries that do not
   correspond to the land rights and uses o f the Ngobe communities. The Panel also heard
    claims that the affected people in some cases felt intimidated or threatened into accepting
   these boundaries, and that granting o f title to outsiders over what the communities consider
   to be Ngobe lands i s occurring at an alarming pace.

59. Many of the affected Ngobep.eople with whom the Panel met strongly reject the notionthat
    some communities have explicitly rejected their designations as "areas anexas". They state
   that these Ngobe communities want appropriately designated "areas anexas" but cannot
    andwill not accept the areas proposed by Project representatives becausethey are too small
    anddo not recognize the legitimatelandandterritorial rights ofthe communities.

60. During its eligibility visit, the Panel received information from Ngobe communities which,
    it is claimed, demonstrate illegal occupations into their lands by outside investors (hydro-
    electric plants, tourism, ranching, mining, agriculture). The Panel also heardtestimony that
   these activities generally have not brought benefits to the indigenous Ngobe peoples, but
    instead are leadingto social and economic loss andenvironmental harm.

61. The Panel is not inan investigationstage andaccording to its procedures "will not report on
    the Bank's failure to comply with its policies and procedures or its resulting material




                                                                                                13

      adverse effect" during its eligibility phase.29 Accordingly, the Panel at this time cannot
      draw conclusions about the claims and events described above or their possible connection
      to the Project.

  62. The situations described above illustrate the serious nature o f the claims and concerns o fthe
      affected people, and the level o f conflict that is present and may yet occur. Project
      activities can have very significant implications for this unfolding process interms o f the
                                                                                                -
      extent to which indigenous land rights are recognized and protected, and the extent to
      which landtitling activities to non-indigenous peoples andinvestors may affect these rights.

  63 Bank Management has further indicated that in the case o f the Naso, the bill o f law of
      Collective Lands was altered virtually at the last minute, during legislative session, without
      the knowledge o f the Bank at the time. Management also reports that on March 18, 2009,
      after the submission o f the Request for Inspection, they asked the government not to use
      loan proceeds to finance any activities related to the Naso, except those relating to
     mediation betweenthe "two competing factions.''

  64. Bank Management has proposed certain actions in its Management Response to address
      issues raised inthe Request, including completion o f an IPDP, actions to address apparent
      shortcomings inconsultations, and support for mediationto addressthe apparent division in
      leadership among the Naso people.                  In informal meetings with the Panel, Bank
      Management has expressed its commitment to these actions and others as might be
      appropriate to address the concerns o f the affected people. Management has also been
     particularly forthcoming inproviding the Panel with informationthat might be helpfulto its
     process. The Panel notes and very much appreciates these statementsand efforts.

  65. The Panel further observes that a new Government i s just now about to take office in
      Panama. This indicates the need for some time duringthis transition to further develop and
      carry forward potentially importantresponsive actions.

  66. Inlight o f the above, the Panel consulted with Requesterswho indicated their willingness to
      allow additional time before the start o f a possible investigationto see ifproposed steps by
      BankManagement could address andresolve their concerns.

  67. The Panel considers that the Requests meet the eligibility requirement for an investigation.
     The Panel also notes that there are important questions o f compliance and harm raised by
      the Request,which could only be evaluated as part ofaninvestigation.

G.Conclusion

  68. The Requesters andthe Requests meet the eligibility criteria set forth inthe Resolutionthat
      established the InspectionPanel andthe 1999 Clarifications.



291999Clarifications to PanelResolution, Paragraph7. This paragraphfiuther provides that "any dejhitive
assessment of a seriousfailure of the Bank that has caused material adverse effect will be done after the Panel has
completed its investigation.'.'

                                                                                                                  14

69. In order to ascertain Management's compliance or lack thereof with Bank policies and
   procedures in the context o f this Project, the Panel would need to conduct an appropriate
   review o f all relevantfacts and applicable policies andprocedures. This can only be done in
   the context ofaninvestigationofthe issuesraisedintheRequestsandrelated alleged harm.

70. In light o f the observations noted above, the Panel recommends that an investigation be
    carried out on the issues raised in the Request, but that the start o f this investigation be
    delayed for approximately four months in deference to the fact that a new Government is
   taking office in the Republic of Panama and to allow time for progress on the actions
   referred to in Management Response. The Panel takes this approach in the spirit of
   promoting additional opportunities for the issues to be addressed, inlight of the interest of
   the Requestersinpursuingthis approach andthe indications by Management that they will
   act on these opportunities. The Panel wishes to highlightthat its investigationreport would
   focus mainly on any unresolved concerns raised by the Requests. The Panel's investigation
   will also report on steps and actions taken by Management before and during the course of
   the investigation to address the issues of compliance and the concerns raised by the
   Requesters.




                                                                                               15


Annex I


                          UNOFFICIALTRANSLATION


                               SieyIIik Community
                                  NasoTerritory
                           Provinceof Bocas del Tor0
                               Republicof Panama



                         Wednesday, February 25, 2009.



GentlemenILadiesof the World Bank's IndependentInspection Panel

Greetings from the Naso Peoples, especially from the King of the Naso Peoples
and his work team, the Naso Leadership.

Dear Sirs, after a careful analysis, the General Council of Leaders of the Naso
Peoples representing various communities that met at the community of San
San Naso Territory decided to request the intervention of the World Bank's
Independent Inspection Panel in the case of the loan related to the National
Program of Land Management of the Republic of Panama (PRONAT). We
came to this decision given the flagrant violation of the Panamanian
Constitution, as well as of the agreements and bilateral treaties on Human
Rights and of the original peoples and our Ancestral Territories, of which
Panama is signatory.

Since 2001, the Government of Panama has benefited from World Bank
financing for PRONAT, a project that was supposed to demarcate the territory
of the original peoples of the Bocas del Tor0 Province. Since then, at least in
the beginning, this Project has been carrying out activities in our Naso Tjer Di
territory with the support of the Dobbo Yala Foundation and the then King Tito
Santana and his team. This financing made possible to agree on a Naso
Peoples-supportedBill (proposed law) that was presentedto National Assembly
(of Representatives, of Members of the Parliament).

Unfortunately, the Dobbo Yala Foundation was contracted by the Public
Enterprise of Medellin (EPM) to carry out a supposedly communitary
consultation for the Bonyik Hydroelectric Project to be built within the Naso
Territory. En May 2004, the Naso Peoples General Assembly decided to
dismiss the then King Tito, and appoints His Majesty Valentin Santana present
King of the Naso Peoples. Several weeks after the NationalAssembly rejected
the Bill that would create the province of Naso Tjgr Di. In September 2004, with
the arrival of the new administration of President Martin Torrijos, several
individuals of Dobbo Yala became Government employees working on the
PRONAT project.

                                          2

That is why high-ranking PRONAT officials were informed that King Valentin
Santana should be respected as legitimate representative of the Naso Peoples.
PRONAT officials were also reminded that they had to comply with the World
Bank's operational policies on indigenous peoples. No reply was received, and
in December 2007, jointly with Ngobe leaders affected by the delimitation of the
annexed lands, a note was sent to World Bank staff requesting an urgent visit to
the area.

During the first visit carried out in January 2008, WB staff were made aware of
the concerns of the Naso Peoples in relation to PRONAT. In March, during a
visit by WB staff to evaluate PRONAT, the Nasos waited at the community of
Bonyik but no WB staff ever arrived. These same concerns was expressed by
the Naso at a meeting held later in Panama City. So far, no WB staff has
responded.

Instead, PRONAT supported a Bill of law on collective land ownership which
was approved by the National Assemble on December 3, 2008. We are
referring specifically to Bill No. 72 creating the collective lands property "in
indigenous territory" and providing for other regulations. Towards the end of
December, and taking advantage of the fact that the Naso peoples were going
through serious uncertainty due to adverse weather conditions (floods, loss of
housing, loss of crops, 10s of belongings among other), the President of
Panama, Martin Torrijos, approved this Bill imposing on the Naso Peoples an
uncertain regime of regional rezoningthus constituting a Law of the Republic.

We need to be extremely objective and inform you that this new law constitutes
a flagrant and very serious violation of the sole and true aspiration of the Naso
People-the creation of a juridical framework that would respect the cultural and
all forms of politico-traditional life of our Naso people, as well as the natural,
archeological and genetic resources in general that we now have and that we
have inherited from our ancestors and that we are entitled to: the region of Naso
Tjer Di.

To add insult to injury, now PRONAT officials along with deposed king Tito
Santana are trying to impose in the region an organic charter that has no legal
backing and that was never consultedwith the Naso People.

Even if we have to make clear that we are directly holding responsible the
following Panamanian government institutions, such as the National Assembly;
the President of the Republic, Martin Torrijos; the Ministry of Government and
Justice (MINGOBJ); the National Directorate of Indigenous Policy (DNPI); the
National Commission on Limits (CNL); and the National Program of Land
Administration (PRONAT), we are also disappointed with the World Bank, who
has not enforced its operational policies on indigenous peoples. This is the
reason why we are hereby requesting the Inspection Panel to carry out an in-
depth and detailed investigation of all that has happened since the arrival of
PRONAT in our territory.

In view of the above, we would be very grateful for your prompt response to our
request.

                                3



Sincerely,

S. M.Valentin Santana                   Adolfo R. Villagra S.
King of the Naso Peoples                    President
                                        Naso Leadership


LuchoGamarra                          Felix Sanchez
Prosecutor                           Naso Foundation
Naso Leadership



Jorge Gamarra                         Quito Torres Berchi
Vice President                        Leader
Naso Leadership                       Solong Community



The Request for Inspection includes an attachment with twenty-five
(25) additionalsignatures.


                           Comunidad de Sieyllik
                               Territorio Naso
                         Provinciade Bocas del Tor0
                            Republica de Panama
                        Miercoles25 de febrero de 2009.

Senoresdel Panel de lnspeccidn lndependientedel Banco Mundial
E.     S.     D.

Reciban un cordial saludo de parte del Pueblo Naso en especial del Rey
Valentin Santana y su equipo de trabajo corno lo es la Dirigencia Naso.

Respetados Sefiores, despuCs de analizarlo muy detalladamente, en una
reuni6n del Concejo General de dirigentes del Pueblo Naso, celebrado en la
comunidad de San San Territorio Naso, con representach de las diferentes
comunidades,      hemos tomado la decisi6n final de forma consultada,
solicitarles la activaci6n del Panel de Inspecci6n Independiente del Banco
Mundial con relaci6n a1 prCstamo del               Programa Nacional de
Administraci6n de Tierras (PRONAT) de la Republica de Panama. Esto lo
hacemos ante la inminente violaci6n a 10s Derechos Humanos y
Territoriales de nuestro pueblo originario como tambiCn a nuestro territorio
ancestral por parte de este programa del Banco. Esto con relaci6n a la
flagrante violacidn primer0 a la Constituci6n de la Republica de Panama
como tambiCn a 10s convenios y tratados bilaterales del cual Panama es
signatario sobre 10s Derechos Humanos y sobre todo de 10s pueblos
originarios y nuestros Territorios Ancestrales.

Desde 2001, el Gobierno de Panama tiene financiamiento del Banco
Mundial para el PRONAT que debia delimitar 10s territorios de 10s pueblos
originarios en la Provincia de Bocas del Toro. Casi desde este momento
este Programa ha estado ejecutando acciones en nuestro territorio Naso
Tjer Di en un principio con el apoyo de la Fundaci6n Dobbo Yala y la
dirigencia del entonces rey Tito Santana. Con este financiamiento se logro
consensuar una propuesta de ley con amplio apoyo del Pueblo Naso que
h e presentada a la Asamblea Nacional de Diputados.

Lamentablemente, la Fundaci6n Dobbo Yala tambiCn fue contratada por la
Empresa Publicas de Medellin (EPM) para realizar una supuesta consulta
comunitaria para el Proyecto HidroelCctrico Bonyik a construirse dentro del
Territorio Naso. En mayo de 2004, en Asamblea General del Pueblo Naso
se decidi6 la destitucih del entonces Rey Tito y le designa la
responsabilidad a S. M. Valentin Santana, actual Rey del Pueblo Naso.
Semanas despuks la Asamblea Nacional de Diputados rechazo el proyecto
de ley que creaba la Comarca Naso Tjer Di. Con la llegada de la nueva
administracibn del Presidente Martin Torrijos en septiembre de 2004,

varias personas de Dobbo Yala pasaron a ser empleados del Gobierno, en el
proyecto PRONAT.

Por este motivo, se les comunico a funcionarios de alto nivel de PRONAT
que el Rey Valentin Santana debia ser respetado como el legitim0
representante del Pueblo Naso y se les advirti6 que obedecieran las
directrices operacionales del Banco Mundial sobre pueblos indigenas.
Ante la falta de repuesta, en diciembre de 2007, y en conjunto con
dirigentes Ngobe afectadospor la delimitach de las hreas anexas, se envi6
una nota solicitando una visita urgente de funcionarios del Banco Mundial.

En la primera visita que se realizo en enero de 2008 se les planteo a 10s
funcionarios del Banco Mundial las preocupaciones del Pueblo Naso sobre
PRONAT. Durante una nueva visita en marzo de funcionarios del Banco
para evaluar PRONAT, 10s Nasos se reunieron para esperar a 10s
funcionarios    del Banco en la comunidad de Bonyik per0 estos nunca
llegaron. Luego se tuvo una reuni6n en Ciudad de Panama en la que se
volvieron a expresar las mismas preocupaciones. Hasta hoy no ha habido
respuesta efectiva de ninguno de 10s funcionarios del Banco Mundial.

En cambio, PRONAT promovi6 la creaci6n del proyecto de ley de tierras
colectivas que fue aprobado por la Asamblea Nacional de Diputados el 3 de
diciembre de 2008. Nos referimos especificamente a la ley No. 72 que crea
el regimen de propiedad colectiva de tierras "en territorios indigenas" y
dicta otras disposiciones. Para fin de diciembre y aprovechandose de que
nuestro pueblo Naso vivia momentos de mucha incertidumbre por las
inclemencia del tiempo (inundaciones, perdida de casas, perdida de
cultivos, perdida de enseres entre otros), el Presidente de Panama, Martin
Torrijos, sanciono esta ley en la que se impuso un rkgimen incierto de
corregimiento comarcal sobre el Pueblo Naso constituykndose de esta
manera en Ley de la Republica.

Tenemos que ser muy objetivo y manifestarle a ustedes que esta nueva ley
viola de manera flagrante y muy seriamente la Gnicay verdadera solicitud y
aspiraci6n del pueblo Naso como lo es la creaci6n de un marc0juridic0 en
donde se respete la cultura y todas las formas de vida politico-tradicional
de nuestro pueblo originario Naso asi como tambikn 10s recursos naturales,
arqueol6gico y genetic0 en general con 10s que contamos y que hemos
heredado de nuestros antepasados y que por derecho nos corresponde, es
este la Comarca Naso Tjer Di.

Para completar el agravio en contra de nuestro pueblo, en estos momentos,
funcionarios de PRONAT en compaiiia del depuesto rey Tito Santana esthn

tratando de imponer una carta orghnica que no tiene el respaldo legal de
una Comarca y que no ha sido nunca consultada con el Pueblo Naso.

Si bien tenemos que dejar muy claro que responsabilizamos directamente a
las siguientes instancias del gobierno panameiio como lo son la Asamblea
Nacional de Diputados, el Presidente de la Republica Martin Torrijos, el
Ministerio de Gobierno y Justicia (MINGOBJ), la Direcci6n Nacional de
Politica Indigenista (DNPI), la Comisi6n Nacional de Limites (CNL) y el
Programa Nacional de Administracih de Tierras (PRONAT), tambiCn
estamos decepcionados del que el Banco Mundial no haya hecho valer sus
directrices operacionales sobre pueblos indigenas. Este es el motivo por el
que solicitamos una investigacih profunda y detallada del Panel de
Inspeccibn sobre todo lo que ha sucedido en nuestro territorio desde la
llegada del PRONAT.

Por lo anterior manifestado, le agradecemos su pronta respuesta a nuestra
solicitud planteada

Sin otro particular y muy atentamente,



S. M.Valentin Santana                       Adolfo R. Villagra S.
Rey del Pueblo Naso                         Presidente
                                            DirigenciaNaso

Lucho Gamarra                               Felix Sanchez
Fiscal                                      Fundaci6nNaso
DirigenciaNaso



Jorge Gamarra                               Quito Torres Berchi
Vice Presidente                             Dirigente
DirigenciaNaso                              Comunidad de Solong

uesta a nuestra



                    UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION


CONGRESS OF THE ANNEXED AREA OF THE BOCAS DEL TOR0
PROWNCE

HONORABLE EXECUTIVESECRETARYOFTHE INSPECTION PANELOF
THE WORLD BANK:

After meticulous analysis during the meeting of the communities of
the annexed areas of the Comarca (indigenous territory) of Ngabe-
Bugle held in the community of Valle Junquito-land and territory of
Ngabe-Bulge-with representation of the various communities, we the
undersigned communities of the annexed area of the Bocas del Tor0
province have decided to DENOUNCE the government of the
Republic of Panama and the staff of the World Bank office in Panama
in relation to the loan of the Panamanian National Land
Administration Program (PRONAT in Spanish), as well as the
consulting and information methods, and the system to measure the
territory Ngabe of the Bocas del Tor0 province, the International Park
(World Heritage Site), the Palo Seco Forest (tropical upland forest),
and the Bastimentos National Marine Park. Such PRONAT actions
violate our land occupation rights, our human rights and agreements
and international treaties of which Panama is part of, as well as the
World Bank's strategic and operational policies on indigenous peoples
approved by the Bank's Board on February 22, 2006. These policies
contain    concrete   definitions,   objectives,    policy   directives,
implementation, indicators, monitoring and reports on the loans or
funds assigned by the World Bank in indigenous territories.

BASE OF THE FACTS:

FIRST: That a proposal for the annexed areas submitted in 1999 was
rejected by the Panamanian government and it was not possible to
map out the territories that remained outside the area of Ngabe-
Bugle (mostly known as the area annexed by legislation number 10 of
1997).

SECOND: That at the request of the communities of the annexed
area and isles of the Bocas del Tor0 province, a first meeting with WB
staff resident in Panama was held in the PRONAT offices in the town
of Changuinola. In this meeting, we expressed our concern to the
WB staff and to the Panamanian government about PRONAT's
negligence and irregularities which directly affect the land rights of
the Ngabe communities of the Bocas del Tor0 and annexed area that
remained outside the limits of the region of Ngabe-Bugle,             A

                                     2


commitment to evaluate the program on the bases of our request
was obtained during the meeting.

THIRD: That during a second meeting held on the island of Bocas
del Tor0 in January 2008, a request from the inhabitants of the Palo
Seco Park and Archipelago, WB staff resident in Panama was
informed that the communities would report PRONAT's irregularities
to the Executive Board in Washington. WB staff resident in Panama
asked us not to do it and promised to attend the second congress of
the annexed area to be held on March 2, 2008 in order to provide an
answer to our request. No WB staff resident in Panama attended the
congress and so far we have received no response.

FOURTH: In 2001 the Government of Panama obtained WB financing
so that PRONAT could delimit the territory of the native peoples of the
Bocas del Tor0 Province. Practically since that moment, this Program
has violated the indigenous land rights, since PRONAT's objective is
to title land, not territory.     Also, only housing areas are being
recognized as annexed areas, and not the whole area used by our
communities for materials, medicines, craft items, workshops and
other production activities.      The lack of territorial protection has
allowed tourism, mining and hydroelectric enterprises to speculate
with our land which is shamelessly given away by the national
authorities by way of Law number 2 of 2006 on concession and titling
of islands and coasts, and the concession of 6.215 hectares of rural
area of Valle Risco, a Ngobe territory given by ANAM for the
construction of the hydroelectric project Chan 75.        This case was
denounced to the Supreme Court of Justice, the Inter American
Commission on Human Rights, and to the United Nations Rapporteur
on Indigenous Peoples without any statement from PRONAT on the
legal situation of this territory. Instead, ANAM has said that this is a
protected area and Ambassador Aristides Roy0 of the OAS, in his
statement to the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights,
stated that we have no rights over this land.

FIFTH: That the government of Panama and PRONAT promoted the
creation of the collective lands' bill which was approved by the
National Assembly of Deputies on December 3, 2008.               We are
referring specifically to Law number 72 creating the regime of
collective lands in "indigenous territories'' and other arrangements.
Towards the end of December, Martin Torrijos, President of Panama
approved this law which institutes a regime of collective community
land rights and specifically forbids the creation of annexed areas.
Deputy Benicio Robinson submitted to the national assembly a bill in
which the communities designated as annexed areas by Law number
10 of March 7, 1997, become national areas.

                                   3


propiedad colectiva de tierras "en territorios indigenas" y dicta otras
disposiciones. Para fin de diciembre, el Presidente de Panama, Martin
Torrijos, sanciono esta ley en la que se impuso un regimen sobre la
tierra de derecho colectivo comunitario que impide total mente la
creacion de las areas anexas, y actualmente el diputado Benicio
Robinson present0 a la asamblea nacional una iniciativa que las
comunidades designadas como areas anexas por la ley I O del 7
marzo de 1997 Sean corregimiento nacionales.

PLEA:

We have to be very objective and declare that this new Law flagrantly
and seriously violates the sole and true aspiration of the communities
of the annexed areas-the creation of a juridical framework where the
culture and all forms of political life of the Ngabe-Bugle people are
respected.

Even if we want to make clear that we hold responsible the following
Panamanian     government    agencies,    the  National Assembly      of
Deputies, the President of the Republic Martin Torrijos, the Ministry of
Government and Justice (MINGOBJ), the National Directorate of
Indigenous Policy (DNPI), the National Commission on Limits (CNL),
and the National Land Administration (PRONAT),            we are also
disappointed that the World Bank did not enforce its operational
policies on indigenous peoples.


SPECIAL REQUEST:

We request that the Inspection Panel carries out a detailed in in-
depth investigation of everything that has happened in our territories
since the arrival of PRONAT.

Given the above, we would appreciate your prompt response to our
request

SincereIy

Pedro Abrego                               Dionisio Elington
President of the annexed area             President of the insular area

Feliciano santo
MODETEAP

CONGRESO DE AREA ANEXA DE LA PROVlNClA DE BOCAS DELTORO

HONORABLE:SECERTARIO EJECUTIVODE PANEL DE INSPECCION DEL
BANCO MUNDIAL:

E. S. D.

Quienes suscribe, son las comunidades de la area anexa de la
provincia de Bocas         del   Tor0 y despues de haber hecho
minuciosamente un analisis, en el encuentro de comunidades de
areas anexas de la comarca Ngabe-Bugle celebrado en la comunidad
de Valle Junquito tierra y Territorio Ngabe-Bugle, con representacion
de las diferentes comunidades, hemos tomado la decisi6n de
DENUNCIAR al gobierno de la republica Panama y al personal del
Banco Mundial residente en panama;       con relaci6n al prestamo del
Programa Nacional de Administracihn de Tierras (PRONAT) de la
Republica de Panama, y el metodo utilizado para la consulta e
informaci6n y mediciones de 10s territorios Ngabe de la provincia de
Bocas del Toro, Parque Internacional (Patrimonio Mundial de la
Humanidad ), Bosque Protector Palo Seco y el Parque Nacional Marino
de Bastimentos. Tales acciones de PRONAT violan nuestros derechos
de ocupaci6n territorial, derechos humanos, y convenios y tratados
internacionales     de 10s  cuales   Panama  es signatario,    y   las
estrategias y politicas operativas sobre pueblos indigenas del
Banco, que fueron aprobadas por el directorio el 22 de febrero de
2006. Que en su contenido tiene definiciones concretas, objetivos y
metas,     directrices de la politica,  implementacibn,   indicadores,
monitoreo e informes de 10s prestamos o fondos asignado por el
Banco Mundial, en territorio indigena.

FUNDAMENT0 DE LOS HECHOS:

 PRIMERO: Que en 1999 se present0 la propuesta de las areas
anexas, la cual fue rechazada por el gobierno panameAo y no se pudo
delimitar 10s territorios que quedaron fuera de la comarca Ngabe-
Bugle (conocido sustancialmente como area anexa por la ley 10 de
1997).

SEGUNDO: Que por solicitudes de las comunidades del area anexa y
insulares de la provincia de Bocas del toro, se sostuvo una primera
reuni6n en la oficina regional del PRONAT con el personal del Banco
residente en Panama, en la ciudad de Changuinola, en            donde
manifestamos        nuestra preocupaciones al personal del BANCO
residente en Panama y al gobierno de Panama de las negligencia y
irregularidades del PRONAT, que afecta directamente derecho
territoriales de la comunidades Ngabe de la provincia Bocas del toro,
y area anexa que quedaron fuera de 10s limite de la comarca Ngabe-

Bugle. De esa reuni6 se comprometieron a evaluar el programa en
base a nuestro solicitud.

TERCERO: Que una segunda reuni6n realizada en la isla de Bocas del
Tor0 en el mes de enero de 2008 a solicitud de las moradores del
parque palo seco y archipielago de Bacas del toro, en donde el
personal del Banco residente en Panama, se le fue informado que las
comunidades y va proceder a denunciar a la direcci6n ejecutivas del
en Washington de las irregularidades del PRONAT; el propio personal
residente en Panama,           nos pidi6 que no lo hicieramos y se
comprometi6 a asistir al segundo congreso de area anexa para dar
respuesta a nuestra peticibn, a realizar en el dia 02 de marzo 2008,
y no asistio a dicho congreso y hasta hoy no tenemos respuesta.


CUARTO: Desde 2001, el Gobierno de Panama tiene financiamiento
del Banco Mundial para el PRONAT que debia delimitar 10s territorios
de 10s pueblos originarios en la Provincia de Bocas del Toro.      Casi
desde este momento, este Programa ha estado violando derecho
sobre tierra y territorio indigena, ya que el objetivo del PRONAT es
titular tierra, no territorio.    Asimismo, se ha querido reconocer
solamente las areas de viviendas como areas anexas y no toda la
superficie que es utilizada por nuestras comunidades para materiales,
medicinas,     artesanias,   trabajaderos  y    otras  actividades   de
producci6n.      La falta de proteccidn de nuestros territorios ha
permitido    que   empresas turisticas,    mineras   e  hidroelectricas
especulen con nuestras tierras que son entregadas sin verguenza por
las autoridades nacionales como con la Ley 2 de 2006 sobre
concesi6n y titulacion de islas y costas, y la concesi6n de 6,215 Ha
del Corregimiento de Valle Risco todo territorio indigena Ngobe
entregada     por   la ANAM      para  la  construccibn  del   proyecto
hidroelectrico Chan 75.     Este cas0 ya ha sido denunciado ante la
Corte Suprema de Justicia, la Cornision Interamericana de Derechos
Humanos y el Relator de Pueblos Indigenas de las Naciones Unidas
sin que haya habido ning6n pronunciamiento del PRONAT sobre la
situaci6n legal de este territorio, mas bien la ANAM ha dicho que esta
es una area protegida y el Embajador Aristides Roy0 del la 0.E.A en
su alegato en la audiencia de la COMISION INTERAMERICANA DE
DERCHO HUMAN0 manifesto que nosotros no tenemos derechos
sobre estas tierras.


 QUINTO: Que el gobierno de Panama y PRONAT promovi6 la
creaci6n del proyecto de ley de tierras colectivas que fue aprobado
por la Asamblea Nacional de Diputados el 3 de diciembre de 2008.
Nos referimos especificamente a la ley No. 72 que crea el regimen de
propiedad colectiva de tierras "en territorios indigenas" y dicta otras
disposiciones. Para fin de diciembre, el Presidente de Panama, Martin

Torrijos, sanciono esta ley en la que se impuso un regimen sobre la
tierra de derecho colectivo comunitario que impide total mente la
creaci6n de las areas anexas, y actualmente el diputado Benicio
Robinson present0 a la asamblea nacional una iniciativa que las
comunidades designadas como areas anexas por la ley 10 del 7
marzo de 1997 Sean corregimiento nacionales.

ALEGATO:

Tenemos que ser muy objetivos y manifestarle a ustedes que esta
nueva ley viola de manera flagrante y muy seriamente la ljnica y
verdadera aspiraci6n de las comunidades de las areas anexas que es
la creaci6n de un marco juridico en donde se respete la cultura y
todas las formas de vida politica del pueblo Ngabe-Bugle.

Si bien tenemos que dejar muy claro que responsabilizamos
directamente a las siguientes instancias del gobierno panamefio como
lo son la Asamblea Nacional de Diputados, el Presidente de la
Republica Martin Torrijos, el Ministerio de Gobierno y Justicia
(MINGOBJ), la Direcci6n Nacional de Politica Indigenista (DNPI), la
Comisi6n Nacional de Limites (CNL) y el Programa Nacional de
Administracibn de Tierras (PRONAT), tambien estamos decepcionados
de que el Banco Mundial no haya hecho valer sus directrices
operacionales sobre pueblos indigenas.

SOLICITUD ESPECIAL:


Que se inspeccione e investigue con detalle y profunda por el panel
de inspeccibn, sobre todo lo que ha sucedido en nuestros territorios
desde la llegada del PRONAT.

Por lo anterior manifestado, le agradecemos su pronta respuesta a
nuestra solicitud planteada

Sin otro particular y muy atentamente,

Atentamente :

Pedro Abrego                              Dionisio Elington
Presidente de area anexa               Presidente de area insular

Feliciano santo
MODETEAP

Annex I1


                         MANAGEMENTRESPONSETO
           REQUESTSFORINSPECTIONPANELREVIEW OFTHE
     PANAMALANDADMINISTRATIONPROJECT(Loan No. 7045-PAN)

Managementhas reviewedthe two Requests for Inspectionof the PanamaLand
Administration Project (Loan No. 7045-PAN), the first received by the InspectionPanel
on February 25,2009 and registeredon March 11,2009 (RQ 09/01), andthe second
received on March 17,2009 andregisteredon March20,2009 (RQ 09/04). Management
has preparedthe following response.


Panama




                                                       CONTENTS

Abbreviations. Acronyms. and Terms                   ...............................................................................         iv
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY                     ..............................................................................................          v
I INTRODUCTION                  ....................................................................................................          1
I1
 .. THE REQUESTS               .....................................................................................................          2
       The FirstRequest         ....................................................................................................          2
       The SecondRequest            ................................................................................................          2
I11 CONTEXT AND BACKGROUND
   .                                                          ........................................................................        3
       Management's Broader Engagementwith Panama                                       ................................................      3
       Panama's Efforts inLandAdministration                             ..............................................................       4
       Origins of Conflict        ..................................................................................................          5
I V THE PROJECT
  .                          .......................................................................................................          6
       The PanamaLandAdministration Project -Objectives                                         .........................................     6
       Project Components           ................................................................................................          7
       ImplementationArrangements                    ................................................................................         8
       Project Milestones        ...................................................................................................          9
       Project Status     ........................................................................................................           10
       Indigenous PeoplesInPanama                     .............................................................................          11
V . DETAILED MANAGEMENT RESPONSE FIRST REQUEST (NASO)                         -                                                         .....13
       The Project's Approaches to Improve LandTenure Security of Indigenous
       Peoples  ..................................................................................................................           13
       Difficulties of Engaging ina Dialogue with Both Sides ofthe Conflict                                                   ..............15
       Management Engagementand Supervision                                ..........................................................        16
VI DETAILED MANAGEMENT RESPONSE SECONDREQUEST
  .                              .................................................................................................
                                                                              -
    @GOBE-BUGLE)                                                                                                                            18
       Process of Delimitation of Annex Areas of the Ng6be-Bugle Comarca
                                     . .                                                                                      ..............18
       66Lands7' versus "Territories"             .................................................................................          19
       Encroachmenton Indigenous Lands                         .....................................................................        20
     Implications of SelectedLaws Mentioned inthe Request                                          ....................................     21
     Engagementand Supervision            . .      ................................................................................         22
VI1 SPECIAL ISSUES AND ACTION PLAN
   .                                                                     ...........................................................        22
     The Project's IndigenousPeoplesDevelopment Plan (IPDP)                                               ..............................    22


                                                               ii

                                                                                            LandAdministration Project


       Scope of ManagementResponse              ..........................................................................    23
       Interactionwiththe First Requesters' Legal Counsel..                         ......................................... 23
       Other Projects inPanama      ......................................................................................    23
       Additional Financing Operation          ...........................................................................    25
       Project Appraisal Document (PAD) Review                     ........................................................   25
       Management's Action Plan       ...................................................................................     26
       Action Plan Implementation Risks            .......................................................................    27


Annexes
Annex 1.      Claims and Responses(First Request-Naso)
Annex 2.      Claims and Responses(Second Request-Ngobe-Bugle)
Annex 3.      Chronology o f Key Project Preparation and Implementation Events
Annex 4.      Chronology o f Bank and Project Engagement with the Naso People
Annex 5.      Chronology o f Bank and Project Engagement with the Ngobe-Bugle People
Annex 6.      L i s t o f Laws and Executive Decrees mentioned in the Management Response
Annex7. 1     Unofficial Translation o f Law 10 o f 1997
Annex 7.2     Unofficial Translation o f Law 72 o f 2008
Annex 7.3     Unofficial Translation o f Law18 o f 2009


Maps

Map. 1.       IBRDNo. 36866 PanamaLandAdministration Project-NasorelatedRequest
              for Inspection: Management Response (existing and proposedterritorial limits o f
              Naso communities and nearby protected areas)

Map. 2.       IBRDNo.36871Panama LandAdministration Project-Ngobe-Bug16 related
              Request for Inspection: Management Response (existing and proposedterritorial
              limits ofNgobe-Bugle Comarca and Annex Areas)




                                                     iii

Panama



                Abbreviations, Acronyms, and Terms

ACD                Alianza parala Conservacih y Desarrollo (Alliance for
                   ConservationandDevelopment), a Panamanian
                   environmental organization
ANAM               Autoridad Nacional del Ambiente (National Environmental
                   Agency)
Annex Areas        Those areas belongingto a Comarca,which are not
                   geographically adjacent to the Comarca, but rather
                   dispersedthroughout different provinces
BP                 BankProcedures
CartaOrghnica      Charter
Comarca            Administrative division for an indigenous population
                   createdby a specific law
DANIDA             DanishInternationalDevelopmentAgency
Delimitation       Mapping of an area
Demarcation        Physical placementof markers on the ground along an
                   area's boundary
EPM                EmpresasPublicasde Medellin (Utilities service provider
                   with headquartersinMedellin, Colombia)
GEF                Global Environment Facility
IBRD               International Bank for ReconstructionandDevelopment
IDB                Inter-American Development Bank
IGN                Instituto Nacional de Geografia(National Geographic
                   Institute)
IPDP               Indigenous PeoplesDevelopment Plan
IPN                InspectionPanel
M&E                Monitoring andEvaluation
NGO               Nongovernmental Organization
OAS                Organization off American States
OD                 Operational Directive
OP                 Operational Policy
PAD               Project Appraisal Document
PCU               Project Coordination Unit
PDO               Project Development Objectives
PRONAT            ProgramaNacional de Administracibn de Tierras (Panama

sc                LandAdministration Program)
                   Superior Council for LandAdministration
SIICAR             SistemaIntegrado de Catastro y Registro (Integrated
                  CadastreandRegistry System)
SNAP              SistemaNacional de Areas Protegidas (National Systemof
                  ProtectedAreas)
UNESCO            UnitedNations Education, Scientific and Cultural
                  Organization
US$               UnitedStates Dollar




                                 iv


                                                                          LandAdministration Project



                                     EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

BACKGROUND

1.        On March 11,2009, the InspectionPanelregistered a Requestfor Inspection
concerning the Panama Land AdministrationProject (the Project), financed by the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank). A second Request
for Inspection, related to the same project, was registered on March 20, 2009. As
agreed with the Bank Board o f Executive Directors on March 24, 2009, Bank
Management has prepared this Response addressing both Requests for Inspection.

2.       The Project aims to modernize Panama's land administration system. It
addresses policy, legal, and institutional reforms; modernizes the country's geodetic
network and mapping capabilities; and builds institutional capacity o f various entities.
Both Requests for Inspection refer to the implementation of Subcomponent 3.2 of
the Project, related to the consolidation of Indigenous Peoples' territories, which
absorbs approximately 6 percent o f Project resources.

3.       The First Request for Inspection was submitted by members of the Naso
People. Bank Management understandsthat the First Requesters' main claims are that:
(i) ProjectisnolongersuportingthefullaspirationoftheNasoPeople,whichisthe
   the
creation o f a Naso Comarca; (ii)  P     the Project promoted a Law on Collective Lands (Law
72 o f 2008) which - through its Article 17 - imposes a land tenure and administrative
regime, with a corresponding Charter, not acceptable to the First Requesters; (iii)             the
Project does not recognize Valentin Santana, considered by the First Requesters as the
legitimate King of the Naso; and (iv) Bank staff have not been responsive to the First
Requesters' concerns.

4.       The Second Request for Inspectionwas submitted by members of the Annex
Areas (Areas Anexas) of the Ngobe-Bug16Cornarca2in the Bocas del Tor0 Province.
BankManagement understands that the Second Requesters' main claims are that: (i)                the
Project has not adequately carried out consultations related to the delimitation of these
Annex Areas; (ii)the Project is trying to title "lands'' and not "territories;"                (iii)
insufficient territorial protection has allowed certain enterprises to encroach on their
lands; (iv) the Law on Collective Lands (Law 72 o f 2008) promoted by the Project
prohibits the creation o f Annex Areas; and (v) Bank staff have not been responsive to the
Second Requesters' concerns.

5.       Both requests contain claims that the Panel has indicated may constitute
violations of certain of the Bank's policies and procedures, specifically: OD 4.20
"Indigenous Peoples" and OPBP 13.05 "Project Supervision."


 InPanamatheterm Comarcarefers to anadministrative divisionfor an indigenouspopulationcreatedby
a specific law. There are five suchregimes inthe country:KunaYala (1938), Ember&-Wounan(1983),
*Madungandi(1996),Comarca
                     Nglibe-Bug16(1997) andWargandi (2000).
 The Nglibe-Bug16              was createdby Law 10of 1997andis composedofa core area andseveral
adjacent or "annexed" areas.



                                                   V

Panama


KEYOBSERVATIONS

6.      Addressing the political and institutional aspects of land tenure issues,
particularly as they relate to IndigenousPeoples, is complex. Controversies over land
have been at the core o f conflict in Latin America for centuries. Over the past two
decades, the Bank has been supporting the efforts of governments and civil society in
several countries in the region to resolve differences and provide greater security o f land
tenure.

7.      The Project, like similar projects in other countries in the region, is one where
technical inputs are necessary but not sufficient to meet the stated objectives, given the
complex political and socio-economic conditions surrounding this issue in the country.
From the Project's inception, Management has been aware that this poses challenges for
Project implementation, particularly as it relates to law-making and interactions with
critical stakeholders. Despitethese challenges,Managementconsidersthat supporting
Indigenous Peoples in the consolidation of their territories is a worthwhile
developmentendeavor.

8.      Beyond external pressures and conflicts, issues related to land use, tenure
and decisionmakingprocesses are frequently exacerbatedby internaldivisions. For
example, within the Naso community, a disagreement about land use contributed to a
schism that left the community deeply divided - with two groups each claiming
legitimate representation and insistingthat it be the only one with whom the Project and
BankManagement ought to engage.

SUMMARY RESPONSETO THE FIRST           REQUEST PASO)

9.      Management's Responseto the First Request makes five main points:

  (0    Management concurs with the First Requesters that a Comarca is the
        preferredsolutionto the Naso territorial and administrativeaspirations. This
        i s why the Project from its inception supported the submission o f a bill to create a
        Comarca for the Naso People. Management shares the Naso's disappointment
        that the bill failed twice, in2004 and 2005, to win approval by Panama's National
        Assembly. Given that the Naso People are now divided, Management has been
        recommendingthat they reach internal agreement, as this i s a major limitation in
        the consolidationoftheir territory.

 (ii)During Project preparation, a Social Assessment was undertaken, addressing
        issues o f social diversity, resources, and conflict. This included attention to
        Indigenous Peoples' issues, and was consulted on among different groups.
        Relevant excerpts from the Social Assessment were summarized in Annex 12 of
        the Project Appraisal Document as an Indigenous Peoples' Strategy. Although
        this strategy contains the key elements of an Indigenous Peoples'
        Development Plan (IPDP) and the Project included a subcomponent

3For example,the Bankhas financedLandAdministrationProjectsinHonduras(2004), Nicaragua(2002),
Guatemala(2000) andBolivia(1994).


                                             vi

                                                                 LandAdministration Project


       specifically targeted to Indigenous Peoples, Management acknowledges that
       no separate or free-standingIPDP in accordancewith OD 4.20 was prepared.
       Neither Annex 12 nor the Social Assessment was disclosed in Panama or at the
       Infoshop, except whenthe PAD itself becamepublic.

       Management did not have prior knowledge of, nor was it in a position to
       influence, the inclusionof Article 17 in the Law on Collective Lands (Law 72
       of 2008) approved by the National Assembly on December 3, 2008, which
       instructs the Ministry o f Government and Justice to issue a Carta Orgdnica
       (Charter) for the Naso territorial claims.

       Management notes that there are differing views among the Naso as to what
       constitutes legitimate leadership. There are            two    factions   claiming
       representation, but the Bank has not favored one over the other and has constantly
       encouraged mediation among them.

       Management believes that it has been responsive to the First Requesters'
       concerns. Bank staff have met with their leaders and with the First Requesters'
       legal representatives on several occasions, and has encouraged them to resolve
       their differences.

       Management reaffirms its commitment to informed participation and open
dialogue that allows all interested parties to express their views about the Project
and to ensurethat Bank policy requirements are met.

SUMMARY RESPONSETO THE SECOND REQUEST(NGOBE-BUGLE)

11.    Management's responseto the Second Requestmakes five main points:

 (0    Management acknowledges that the Project staff have not adequately
       consulted with the Second Requesters in relation to the delimitation of the
      Annex Areas of the Ngobe-Bugle Comarca inthe Bocas del Tor0 Province. The
       Bank has been aware of this Project shortcoming since January 2008, has made
       several specific recommendations to Government to bring the Project into
       compliance with OD 4.20, and i s monitoringtheir implementationprogress.

 (ii)ManagementwouldliketoclarifythatfortheNgobe-BugleAnnexAreas,the
      Project is engaged in delimitation of "territories" which include housing and
      productiveareas. This was agreed with Ngobe-Bugle leaders inFebruary2007.

 (iii)Management acknowledges the Second Requesters' concerns about the
      pressureson their territories caused by growth and development activities in
      the Bocas del Tor0 Province. Limited progress in the consolidation o f
      Indigenous Peoples territories inthe early years o f the Project was due to a hiatus
      o f relations between the Bank and the Government of Panama. The arrival o f a
      new Panamanian Administration in 2004 opened up opportunities for re-
      engagement with Management. Project restructuring to speed up implementation
      was agreed to with the Government in 2006. Management would like to clarify,


                                              vii

Panama


       however, that the Project was not involved inthe drafting or approval o f the Law
       to Regulate Concessions for Tourism Investments and the Expropriation of Island
       Territories for their Tourism Development (Law 2 o f 2006), or the granting o f
       related concessions.

  (iv) I t is Management's understandingthat the Law on CollectiveLands (Law 72
       of 2008) does not apply to Annex Areas of the Ngobe-Bug16 Comarca, nor
       does it supersede the Law creating the Ngobe-Bug16 Comarca (Law 10 of
       1997) which created said Annex Areas. Nevertheless, given the Second
       Requesters' concern about Law 72 o f 2008, and consistent with OD 4.20 and
       OP/BP 13.05, Management has sought clarifications from Government as to
       how it intends to apply Law 72 of 2008 to the Ngobe-Bug16 Annex Areas in
       the context of the Project's implementationand in relationwith the recently
       approved Law 18 of 2009. Management will report back to the Second
       Requesters once it has received Government's clarifications and has assessedtheir
       likely impact on achievement of the Project's objectives and compliance with
       relevantBankpolicies.

  (v)  Management believes that it has been responsive to the Second Requesters'
       concerns, first expressed in December 2007. It has done so through several
       supervision missions, including field visits, and via repeated recommendations
       made to Project staff to improve the consultations inNgCibe-Bug16Annex Areas.

12.    Finally, to systematically follow up on both Requesters' concerns, Management is
following a detailed Action Plan and i s enhancing its supervision efforts for the
remainder o f the Project.




                                           viii

                                                                                  LandAdministration Project




                                        I. INTRODUCTION

 1.       OnMarch 11,2009, the InspectionPanel registered a Requestfor Inspection, IPN
 Request RQ09/01 (hereafter referred to as the "First Request"), submitted by
 representatives o f the Naso People concerning the Panama Land Administration Project
 (Loan No. 7045-PAN), known in Spanish as Programa Nacionul de Administracidn de
 Tierras (PRONAT);             financed by the International Bank for Reconstruction and
 Development (the Bank). A second Request for Inspection, IPN Request RQ 09/04,
 submittedbyrepresentatives ofAnnex Areas oftheNgobe-BuglC' Comarca (the"Second
Request") related to the same project was registered on March 20, 2009. As agreed with
the Bank Board of Executive Directors (the Board) on March 24, 2009, Bank
Management has prepared this Responseaddressing bothRequests for Inspection.

2.        The Project aims to modernize Panama's Land Administration System. It was
originally approved by the Boardon January 16,2001,with restructuring approved by the
Board on April 11, 2006, and with a Closing Date o f December 31, 2009. The Project
addresses policy, legal, and institutional reforms; modernizes the country's geodetic
network and mapping capabilities; and builds institutional capacity of various entities.
Although primary responsibility for the Project's implementation falls under the Ministry
o f Finance, the Project has several national co-executing agencies. The two Requests for
Inspection refer to the implementationof Subcomponent 3.2 of the Project, related to the
consolidation o f Indigenous Peoples' territoriesY6which absorbs approximately 6 percent
o f Project resources.

3.        Structure of the Text. The document contains the following sections: Section I1
presents a summary of Management's understanding on the subject o f the two Requests
for Inspection. Section I11 provides some context and background information on the
Project and Indigenous Peoples. Section IV describes in detail the history and content o f
the Project, and the status of Project implementation. Sections V and VI present the
detailed Management Responseto each o f the Requests for Inspection, respectively. And
finally, Section VI1 addresses some special issues related to the Project and presents a
detailed Action Plan o f recent and intended measures by the Bankto addressthe concerns
raised by both groups o f Requesters. Annexes 1 and 2 present the First Requesters' and
Second Requesters' claims, respectively, together with Management's detailed responses
to each Request for Inspection, intable format.



  PRONAT is a national "program" comprising three parallel projects, one fmanced by the World Bank
(Loan 7045-PAN) and two others by the Inter-American Development Bank. Inthis Management
Response, unless otherwise noted, the "Project" refers only to those activities financed by the World Bank
'Loan and the Panamanian authorities with responsibility for it.
  There are different spellings commonly usedto refer to the NgObe-Bug16 People. Inthis Response,
Management uses the spelling used inLaw 10 o f 1997 that created the Ng6be-Bug16 Comarca.
6 The defmitions o f critical technical and legal terms related to landtenure inPanamaare presented the first
time the term is used inthe text and, for convenience, are also included inthe Abbreviations, Acronyms
and Terms.


                                                        1

 Panama


                                        11.      THE REQUESTS

 THEFIRSTREQUEST

 4.       The First Request for Inspection was submitted by members of the
 indigenouscommunity of Pueblo Naso (hereafter referred to as the "First Requesters").
Attached to the Request is a list o f signatures. N o further materials were received by
 Management insupport of the Request.

 5.       Management understands that the First Requesters' main claims are that: (i)the
Project at this stage i s not supporting the only and true aspiration o f the Naso People,
which i s the creation of a Naso Comarca; (ii)           the Project promoted a Law on Collective
Property (Law 72 o f 2008) which imposes an uncertain regime o f "regional zoning"
(corregimiento comarcal); (iii)the Project is trying to impose a Charter (Carta
 Orgdni~a)~     that does not have the legal status of a Comarca; (iv) the Project does not
recognize the legitimate representative o f the Naso People; and (v) Management did not
attend a meeting with the First Requesters in March 2008 and has not responded to their
concerns.

6.        The First Request contains claims that the Panel has indicated may constitute
violations o f certain o f the Bank's policies andprocedures, specifically:

          OD 4.20, Indigenous Peoples; and

          OPBP 13-05,Project Supervision.

THESECONDREQUEST

7.        The Second Requestfor Inspectionwas submittedby representativesof some
Ngobe-Bugle communities living in the Areas Anexas' or "Annex Areas" to the
Comarca Ngobe-Bug16 in the Bocas del Tor0 Province (hereafter referred to as the
"Second Requesters"),

8.        Management understandsthat the Second Requesters' main claims are that: (i)                   the
Project has not adequately carried out consultations related to the delimitation' o f Annex
Areas of the Ngobe-Bug16 Comarca; (ii)               the Project i s trying to title "lands" and not
"territories;"   (iii)encroachment ofNgobe Annex Areas bydevelopment is occurring
because territorial protection i s not yet inplace; (iv) Law 72 o f 2008 ("Law on Collective
Lands") supported by the Project prohibits the titling of Annex Areas; and (v) Bank staff
discouraged the Second Requesters from submitting a complaint to the Board, did not
attend a meetingwiththe Second Requesters', and has not respondedto their concerns.
'In Panama, a Carta Orgdnica, or Charter, refers to the detailed description o fthe by-laws and regulations
related to an administrative division, either a Comarca, or a Corregimiento Comarcal.
a The Areas Anexas, or Annex Areas, refer to those areas belongingto the Ngiibe-Bug16 Comarca, created
by Law 10 o f 1997, which are not geographically adjacent to the main area o fthe Comarca,but rather
dispersed throughout different Panamanian provinces.
 Underthe Project, the term "delimitation" refers to the mapping o fan area, whereas "demarcation" refers
to the physical placement o f markers on the ground along an area's boundary.


                                                      2

                                                                     Land Administration Project


 9.      The Second Request contains claims that the Panel has indicated may constitute
 violations o f certain ofthe Bank's policies andprocedures, specifically:

         OD 4.20, Indigenous Peoples; and

         OPBP 13-05,Project Supervision.


                         111.   CONTEXT AND BACKGROUND

MANAGEMENT'S ENGAGEMENT PANAMA
                    BROADER                   WITH

 10.     With a per capita GDP that ranks it as an upper middle income country,
Panama's wealth is very unequallydividedamongthree groups: those with access to
the dynamic service sector (urban residents); those who depend on less competitive,
lower growth sectors like agriculture (rural and mainly non-indigenous residents);
and those who are geographically isolated from economic activity (primarily
IndigenousPeoples livingin the northernAtlantic region and in the Mesoamerican
Biological Corridor). The result has been that over one-third of Panama's population
was poor in2003 and 16 percent were living inextreme poverty. Of rural residents, more
than half of the non-indigenous were poor in 20031 and 90 percent of Panamanians
living inindigenous Cornarcas were living in extreme poverty, an increasing share. Half
o f Indigenous Peoples' children were malnourished. Poverty-related pressures for land
conversion to agriculture and unsustainable use o f natural resources in Panama's
Mesoamerican Biological Corridor region, including through unregulated tourism, are
threatening not only the biodiversity and long-term tourism potential, but also the longer-
term sustainability o f livelihoods for many o f the country's indigenous communities, who
comprise about 10 percent o f all Panamanians. Panama i s one o f the most biologically
diverse countries inthe world. More than 17percent o f the country's territory falls within
the National Protected Area System and about 20 percent falls under the Comarca
regime.

11.      The World Bankwas one of Panama's major development partners over much of
the 199Os, a period in which the country made steady progress to open its economy,
improve the investment environment and modernize the state. Between2000 and 2004,
with a change in Government, economic growth and policy reform slowed and the
Government turned increasinglyto capital markets for financing, leaving much of
the Country Assistance Strategy unimplemented. Bank engagement in Panama
dropped off dramatically and portfolio performancefell significantly. This was also
evident in the case o f this Project, whose implementation was very slow during these
initial years. The country partnership,policy dialogue, and portfolio implementation
were rejuvenated after 2004, through activities reflected in the Interim Strategy Note
(dated August 30, 2005) and later through a new Country Partnership Strategy (dated
September 7, 2007) in support of the Government's poverty and inequality reduction
goals.



loSource: 2003 Living StandardMeasurementSurvey, Ministryo f Economyand Finances,Panama.


                                              3

Panama



12.     As backdrop for the financial and technical support of Bank-financed projects,
Management has contributed to Panama's development policy dialogue through
broad analytical work (e.g., Governance, Public Expenditure Review, Country
Environmental Assessment, Indigenous Peoples' Profile, Urban Transport). Key
contributions, such as a Poverty Assessment and a Country Economic Memorandum,
were well reflected in the design of Government programs and Bank-supported
operations and took special account of the substantial and distinct development
challenges faced by, inter alia, Panama's Indigenous Peoples. As reflected in the
Bank's current lending portfolio, Panama has a strong focus on investments in
human capital to help rural and indigenous poor break out of their poverty cycle,
and in the creation of both more and sustainable economic opportunities.For amore
detailed discussionof the Bank's current investment program inPanama, see SectionVI1
(Special Issues).

13.     T o promote dialogue on territorial rights of Indigenous Peoples in Panama,
the Bank co-chairedthe Inter-American Congress on IndigenousPeopleson October
10-12, 2007. The Congress, organized by the National Directorate of Indigenous Policy
of the Ministry of Government and Justice, and with support from the International
Labour Organization (ILO), was attendedby representativesof the majority of Panama's
Indigenous Peoples groups, and several international speakers.

PANAMA'S EFFORTSLAND  IN       ADMINISTRATION

14.     The Panama Land Administration Program (PRONAT) was officially
launched in 2001 as a result of the Government's recognition of the necessity to
address land administration issues in a systematicway. Initialdiscussions betweenthe
Government of Panama (the Government) and Bank Management regarding land
administration issues began during the preparation of the Rural Poverty and Natural
Resources Project in 1996. Security of land tenure and efficient land administration
services were identified as important aspects of poverty alleviation and sustainable use of
natural resources and were placed by the Government among the central elements of its
Poverty Reduction Strategy (Nuevo Enfoque Estratkgico Frente a la Pobreza, 1998). The
country further recognized the need for a holistic approach to land administration, one
that would cover all types of lands and tenure regimes, including protected areas and
Indigenous Peoplesterritories.

15.     In 1999 the Government decidedto embark on a long-term and far-reaching
legal, institutional,and technologicalreform to regularizeland tenure country-wide,
resolve land conflicts, facilitate access to land by the poor, reduce land transaction
costs, and increase the transparency of land administration services. In 2001, the
National Land Administration Program was launched by Executive Decree No. 124 to
address, inter alia, one of the most important and sensitive development issues in
Panama: Indigenous Peoples' access to and rights over land, its cultural values and
natural resources.

16.     Land tenure issues have been at the root of conflict and war in Latin
America for centuries. Loss of land by peasants and Indigenous Peoples was the main



                                            4

                                                                   LandAdministration Project


reason for the Mexican Revolution in 1910. More recently, bloody civil wars have been
fought in Central America, largely related to land tenure issues. The ongoing conflict in
neighboring Colombia i s also fundamentally rooted in unequal access to land and
productive resources. Latin America has the highest level of economic inequality as
measured by the Gini Coefficient o f any region in the developing world, and Panama is
no exception. Rapid economic growth in Panama has exacerbatedthe existing inequality,
leaving poor and vulnerable groups behind. Management has been aware o f the social
unrest and continued marginalization o f poor groups in Panama, with particular attention
to Indigenous Peoples. Thus, the Project, like similar projects in other countries in
the region, is one where technical inputs are necessary but not always sufficient to
meet the stated objectives,giventhe complex politicaland socio-economicconditions
surroundingthis issue in the country. From the Project's inception, Management has
been aware that this poses challenges for Project implementation, particularly as it relates
to law-making and interactions with critical stakeholders. Despite these challenges,
Management considers that supporting Indigenous Peoples in the consolidation o f their
territories i s a worthwhile development endeavor.

ORIGINSOF CONFLICT

17.      The considerable scientific, hydroelectric, economic, and tourism potential
of the Naso, NgiSbe-Bug16 and other Indigenous Peoples' ancestral territories has
attracted much international and national interest. Accordingly, beginning in the
1 9 8 0 ~the Government transferred large portions o f these regions to its own system of
          ~
protected areas (Palo Seco Protected Forest and La Amistad International Park). It has
also given concessions for commercial development o f natural resources, including for
mining and hydroelectric power. And it has recognized some Indigenous Peoples'
territorial claims (e.g., Ngobe-Bug16 Cumarca in 1997).

18.      The tensions among these sometimes conflictinguses of land are exacerbated
by unclear land tenure rights and lack of physicaldemarcation of boundaries. The
territorial claims by Indigenous Peoples inthe area are thus part o f a broader climate o f
conflict created by the inherent trade-offs among the alternative uses o f land.

19.      Inthe case of the Naso People, in January 1997, the Naso General Council in
an extraordinary meeting established a committee to negotiate the construction of
the BonyikDam (see Map 1). Conflicts and disagreements within the Naso community
led to the establishment, in January 1998, of the Naso People's first set o f rules to
regulate internal elections. In June 1998, the first elections took place and Tito Santana
was elected King o f the Naso. In 2004, Tito Santana agreed to allow the Government
of Panama and the Colombian firm EmpresasPublicas de Medellin(EPM) to build
a US$ 50 millionplant to harness the hydropowerof the Bonyik River, which flows
through Naso territory. This decision contributed to a schism within the Naso
community. While some members supported Tito's decisions, others in the tribe's
General Assembly accused Tito o f puttinghis own interests first. Tito was ousted and his
opponents installed hisuncle, Valentin Santana, as the new king.




                                             5

Panama



20.     Local elections, organized with the support o f the Government, were held in
2005, and again Tito Santana was elected. The Government thus recognizes Tito Santana
as rightfulmonarch and King o f the Naso People and refers to him as "Rey Tito" (King
Tito) in official documents. Since then, the Naso community has been divided in its
allegiancebetweenTito SantanaandValentin Santana as its legitimateking.

21.     The Ngobe-Bug16 People are the largest and most dispersed indigenous
group in Panama.Conflictsamongits leadershipare also perceptible,but to a lesser
extent. Their aspiration to have their own Comarcawas achieved in 1997. However,
some complain that the allocation o f their lands included too little o f their ancestral
grounds, and that the Government has withheld rights to much o f their land because of
interests innatural resource exploitation.

22.     The lives of the NgSbe-Bug16 IndigenousPeoplelivinginthe area of the Palo
Seco Protected Forest have drastically changed recently as some communities are
being relocated to give way to the Chan 75 dam being built by an affiliate of the
Virginia-based AES Corporation, which received a concession from the Government o f
Panama to build two hydroelectric dams along the Changuinola River in the Bocas del
Tor0 Province. There have been allegations of forced evictions and violence, most
recently on March 30, 2009, leadingto international attention and criticism." The river is
in the buffer zone for the International La Amistad Biosphere Reserve, a UNESCO
protected world heritage site that Panama shares with Costa Rica. It is also at the heart o f
the Palo Seco Protected Forest (see Map 2). Management notes that neither the
Project, nor any other Bank-financedproject, is involved in the concessions for, or
the constructionof the hydroelectricdams inthis area.


                                   IV.       THE PROJECT

THEPANAMALAND          ADMINISTRATION PROJECT OBJECTIVES-
23.    The World Bank-financed Land Administration Project (Loan No. 7045-PAN)
was declared effective on July 19, 2001. It i s one o f three projects that constitute the
Panama Land Administration Program, the other two being financed by the Inter-
American Development Bank (IDB).

24.    The original Project Development Objectives (PDO) as stated in the Project
Appraisal Document (PAD, dated December 14,2000) were twofold:

 o     to ensure equitable access to land and improve land security, by providing land
       administrationservices inselected rural, peri-urbanand urbanareas; and
 o     to enhance natural resources conservation through the consolidation o f the
       national System o f Protected Areas (SINAP) and Indigenous Peoples' territories.




l1
 For example: Cultural Survival (www.culturalsurviva1.org): "Crisis inPanama."


                                                  6

                                                                    LandAdministration Project


 25.     Following Project restructuring, effective on June 23, 2006, the PDOs were
 simplified into a single PDO: to modernize the land administration system, including
 priority protected areas and Indigenous Peoples' territories. The Project seeks to:

   o     establish simpler procedures for landregularizationand titling and strengthenland
         administrationinstitutions;
   o     map half o f the country, survey 110,000 parcels and issue 27,000 urban and rural
         titles;
   o     establish an integrated registry and cadastre system (SIICAR); and
   o     consolidate selected protected areas and three Indigenous Peoples' territories
         (Ngobe-Bugle, Kuna andNaso).

The main beneficiaries are urban and rural poor who lack tenure security,
includingIndigenousPeople.

PROJECTCOMPONENTS

26.      The following description of Project components and US Dollar amounts are
effective since June 23, 2006, date of the Project's restructuring. Total project cost is
US$58.57 million,with anIBRD loanamount of US$47.9 million.

27.      Component 1: Land Policy, Legal and Institutional Framework (US$13.56
million; 23.2percent of total Project cost). This component aims at providing the policy,
legal and institutional fiamework, as well as the capacity needed by the Project to deliver
land administration services. The Project envisages actions on three specific sets of
activities: (i)introducing a series of land policy, legalhegulatory, and institutional
reforms to simplify landtitling, enable land sales and rentals, consolidate protected areas
and indigenous territories, and serve as a basis for land valuation and taxation; (ii)
establishing inter-institutional co-management mechanisms at the national and local
level; and (iii)buildingcapacity inlocal levelNGOsandmunicipalities.

28.      Component 2: Land Regularization (US$28.99 million; 49.5 percent of total
cost). This component aims at activities required for the massive land regularization
process inProject areas. The Project envisages three sets o f activities: (i)
                                                                            modernizing the
geodetic network and generating maps and satellite images to identify parcels inrural and
urban areas for regularization, and for demarcation o f protected areas and indigenous
territories; (ii)
                carrying out cadastral surveys to ground truththe satellite imagery, resolve
issues relating to property rights, and issue titles; and developing an integrated
information system (SIICAR) and updating it with cadastral survey data; and (iii)
establishing alternative disputeresolutionmechanisms.

29.      Component 3: Consolidation of Protected Areas and Indigenous Territories
(US$ 7.97 million; 13.6 percent of total cost). This component aims at: (i)the
consolidation o f SINAP; (ii)the establishment and consolidation o f protected areas
within SINAP; and (iii)the establishment and consolidation of indigenous territories,
including support for the preparation o f the draft law and charter requiredto establish and



                                               7

Panama


legally recognize the Naso Teribe Region, the updating o f the charters o f selected
Comarcas and the demarcation o f selected Indigenous Peoples'                            territories.
Subcomponent 3.2 also provides for technical and baseline studies, technical assistance
for conflict resolution in indigenous territories, public information and promotion
campaigns and strengthening o f indigenous organization and indigenous authorities.

30.      Component 4: Project Management and Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)
(US$8.05 million; 13.7 percent of total cost). This component aims at: (i)                 capacity
building of land administration entities, including strengthening them to provide land
administration services on a decentralized basis; (ii)development o f a monitoring and
evaluation system; and (iii)    strengthening the capacity o fthe Project CoordinationUnit.

IMPLEMENTATION       ARRANGEMENTS

31.      Project Executing Agencies. Although primary responsibility for Project
implementation falls under the Ministry o f Finance, as a national program, the Project i s
implemented by multiple agencies: the National Directorate of Agrarian Reform, the
Public Registry, the Directorate o f Cadastre and Patrimony, the National Environmental
Agency (ANAM), the Directorate o f Indigenous Affairs; the National Geographic
Institute(IGN), andthe National Directorateof Local Government. Following the Project
restructuring, the Ministryo f Housing was included as co-executing agency. Interagency
coordinationis promoted at the national levelby two structures created specifically
for the Project: the Superior Council for Land Administration and the Technical
Operational Committee. They are respectively responsible for the policy and
technical regulatory frameworks needed for Project implementation, and are
supportedby a Project CoordinationUnit (PCU), under the Ministry of Finance, as
defined insection 3.05 (b) o f the Loan Agreement. This unit i s responsible for the day-to-
day management o f Project activities, coordination, financial transactions, procurement,
and operational reportingto Management.

32.      Extent of Management's             influence over        implementation arrangements:
Management notes that the Project's institutional arrangements, although unique given
Panama's specificities, are rather common in Latin America for this kind o f land
administration project. Several features o f these implementation arrangements merit
further clarification. First, PRONAT is an official "program" of the Government of
Panama. Second, the Project's implementation arrangements are defined by Loan 7045-
PAN and by Executive Decree No. 124. Third, there are several types of staff
associated with the Project: (i)career civil servants working in the various co-
executing agencies listed in the above paragraph, who, in addition to their regular
duties, may perform certain specific tasks related to Project activities (e.g., a
surveyor from IGN who goes on a field assignment); (ii)long-term and full-time
individual consultants who work at the PCU, including the Project Coordinator,'2 or are
stationed at one o f the co-executing agencies; (iii)short-term consultants (individuals or
firms) hired for specific assignments (e.g., carrying out a specific study), and other


I'Financingofthe post of Project Coordinator has alternated betweenthe Bank Loanand one ofthe IDB
projects.


                                                   8

                                                                     LandAdministration Project


consultants hiredwith proceeds from the parallel IDB loans. Fourth, although technically
"consultants" with project-specific defined terms o f reference, Project senior staff,
particularly the Project Coordinator, are identified as high-level Government officials.
Line Ministries and agencies in Panama often rely on Project staff for support in
carrying out broader policy objectives. As such, it is Management's experience that
in this kind of project, it is a challenge to rigorously maintain the line separating
Project-specific activities and broader policy initiatives undertaken by Project staff.
This limits Management's ability to monitor all the activities or actions which may
be associated with the Project or indirectly with the Bank.

PROJECTMILESTONES

           Project Concept DocumentDecisionMeeting       May 13, 1999

           PAD DecisionMeeting                           November21,2000

           BoardApproval                                 January 16,200 1

           Project Effectiveness                         July 19, 2001

           Project Restructuring-Effective date          June 23,2006

           ClosingDate                                   December 31,2009



33.     The 2006 restructuring addressed several implementation bottlenecks that
occurred due to:

    o fiscal space constraints andlimitedavailabilityof counterpart funds;
    o weak operational leadership, largely due to the failure to appoint a permanent
        Project Coordinator; and
    o ineffective inter-institutional coordination.

34.     The restructuring narrowed the Project's scope, while simplifying the two
PDOs into a single objective and providingmoreeffective financing and operational
modalities. Other modifications includedthe revisiono ftargets to better reflectthe PDO,
the creation ofa newcomponent to separate quality control andmonitoring activities, and
the application of new financing parameters for Panama, which were approved by the
Board on December 20, 2004. Specifically, landregularization targets inrural areas were
reduced by 30 percent, while in urban areas they were reduced by 25 percent. Project
Administration and M&E (which was previously included under Component 1) became a
separate component. No significant changes to Part C o f the Loan Agreement, i.e., the
consolidation o f protectedareas and indigenous territories, were introduced as part o f the
restructuring. As a result o f the narrowed scope of the Project, the total costs were
reduced by about 20 percent (for a total project cost o f US$58.57 million). The total loan
amount remained unchanged, as it was accompanied by a reduction in the required
government counterpart funding. Finally, several changes to expenditure categories were


                                                9

Panama



introduced to reflect the lessons learned over the first four years o f Project
implementation.

PROJECT     STATUS

35.     Followingthe restructuring,the Project made substantial progress towards
achievement of expected outcomes and development impact, and Project ratings
have consistently improved. Since the Project received a letter with concerns in
December 2007, Bank staff have conducted five supervision missions. In addition, the
Bank's Country Representative for Panama i s also a Land Administration Specialist and
the Project's TTL, and thus maintains a frequent dialogue with high level Government
officials. The Project's last Implementation Status Report rates progress as moderately
satisfactory, although it cites delays in the consolidation o f protected areas and
indigenous territories as well as the needto continue increasing the pace for titling urban
and rural lands to make up for lost time from slow execution through the period 2001-
2006.

36.     To date, the Project has disbursedUS$36.95 million, 77 percent o f the total loan
amount, including a significant increase o f US$ 20.0 million in 2007/2008 (Le., 42
percent o f the total loan amount). Among the most notable achievements are the:

  0     approval o f a Law on Mass LandTitling (Law 24 o f 2006, a key legal reform);

  0     establishment o f Alternative Dispute ResolutionMechanisms inall the provinces
        covered by the Project;

  0     modernization o f the geodetic network;

  0     mapping o f halfo fthe country;

  0     completion o fthe final pilot version o f SIICAR and its ongoing deployment (to be
        completed this year);

  0     surveying o f 80 percent o f parcels inrural areas and 20 percent inurbanareas;

  0     titling o fmorethan 80 percent inrural areas, and20 percent inurbanareas;

  0     demarcation o f about 30 percent o fprotected areas boundaries;

 0      demarcation o f about 75 percent o f the Ngobe-Bug16 Comarca (1,021 linear km
        have beendemarcated out o fthe 1,36 1linear kmtargeted);

 0      elaboration o f the draft law for the establishment o f the Naso Comarca and its
        presentation to the Assembly;

 0      delimitation o f 70 percent o f the Naso territory (including the natural boundaries
        that do not require demarcation); and

 0      establishment o f sixteen roundtables in indigenous territories, designed to allow
        for extensive consultations with communities.




                                              10

                                                                     Land Administration Project


INDIGENOUSPEOPLESI NPANAMA

37.     According to the Census 2000, Indigenous Peoples account for about ten
percent of the country's population, totaling about 300,000 people, belonging to
seven well recognized linguistic Indigenous Peoples groups. Some 50 percent of the
Indigenous People in the country live in five Cornarcas.These Indigenous Peoples are
the Kuna Yala, Embera-Wounan, Madugandi, Ngobe-Bug16 and the Wargandi. They are
located in five Provinces, mostly inthe west (Chiriqui, Bocas del Toro, Veraguas) and in
the east ofthe country (Darien and Col6n).

TheNaso People

38.     The Naso, also known as the Teribe, have inhabited the mountainous jungle
region o f the northwestern corner o f Panama since long before the Spanish colonizers
reached the shores o f Central America. The arrival of the Spanish in the 17th century
led to decimationof the Naso populationthroughwar, relocation,and disease.Their
populationwas devastatedby tuberculosis between 1910 and 1930.

39.     The Naso currently have a population of approximately 3,500, settled in 11
communities according to the 2000 Census. Most are located in Bocas del Tor0 in
small villages on the banks o f the Teribe River in the forest o f L a Amistad International
Park andthe Palo Seco Protected Forest inthe Province of Bocas del Tor0 (See Map 1).

40.     Until as recently as three or four generations ago the Naso People led an
essentially autonomous existence. Dispersed among their clans and homesteads, and
geographically isolated from most o f the world, the Naso developed cultural self-
sufficiency through their language and the institution o f the family. Today, many
traditions in the villages have largely been maintained in spite o f pressure from
modernization and economic development inthe area. Most Naso are bilingual (Naso and
Spanish) and wear Western clothing. In recent years, many among the Naso have
converted to evangelical Protestant denominations.

41.     The Naso are proudto be among the last peoples in the Americas still led by
a king. It appears that the title was first applied to the highest chief o f the Naso warriors.
The Naso monarchy is believedto have derived from the period between 1780 and 1850
duringwhich the Miskito people -who were themselves ruledby a king-exacted tribute
from the Naso andtheir hostile BriBrineighbors.

42.     Over the years the Naso king has become an elected figure with the
stipulation that he or she be descended from the Santana family. The Naso political
regime o f today is a hybrid system that combines traditional elements o f a hereditary
monarchy (Le., a king and his appointed councilors), and locally-elected community
representatives responsible for the administration o fjustice and the maintenance o f public
order.

43.     The succession, according to tradition, follows from the kingto his brother, to the
older son o f the previous king. When there i s a sense within the communitythat there



                                              11

 Panama


 i s dissatisfaction with the current king, another member of the royal family may
 chooseto standfor a publicvote to see ifheor she canreplacethe current king.

 TheNgobe-Bugle`People

44.       The Guaymi, also known by the name Ngobe, are closely affiliated with a small
 group known as the BuglC. The Ngijbe are the largest indigenous group inthe Bocas del
Tor0 Archipelago. The 2000 Panamanian census estimated 110,080 members of the
Ngobe-Bugle community in Panama, forming 63.6 percent of the national
indigenouspopulation.TheNgobe-BuglC traditionally live inthe provinces ofBocas del
Toro, Veraguas and Chiriqui. However, many o f the Ngijbe have migratedto other parts
o f Panama in search o f employment. Currently, they live in several communities in the
islandsof Colon, Bastimentos, Solarte, Cristobal, Popa and Water Cay (Map 2).

45.       The Ngobe-Bugle Comarca is roughly equivalent to a province with semi-
autonomous political organization. It was created by Law 10 o f 1997 with lands from
the provinces of Bocas del Toro, Chiriqui, andVeraguas. This Comarcais divided into 7
districts - Besiko (Soloy), Kankintu (Bisira), Kusapin (Kusapin), Mirono (Hato P i h ) ,
Muna (Chichica), Nole Duima (Cerro Iglesias), and&irihn (Buenos Aires).

46.       The Ngobe-BuglC organized in the latter twentieth century to protect their land
and culture. Their society was disrupted by the spread o f banana plantations, the
construction of the Inter-AmericanHighway through their territory, and the appropriation
o f their communal landsby mestizo peasant^'^ and cattle ranchers.

The Cornarcas

47.       In Panama, a Comarcais an indigenousarea with semi-autonomouspolitical
organization, under the jurisdiction of the national g0~ernment.l~                         Each individual
Comarca is established by an independent legislative decree and its regulations
("Charter", or Carta Orghnica) adopted by executive decree that lays down the laws and
forms of organization agreed with the Government o f Panama. These include justice
administrationand conflict resolution agreed inline with their culture, the methods of use
and enjoyment of the land, and bilingual education. In general, Indigenous Peoples
acknowledge a certain level o f state interest with respect to sovereignty, security, and
resource exploitation, but retain authority over their internal cultural, economic, and
political affairs.


l3 The term mestizo is generally used to describe people o f mixed indigenous and Spanish heritage. The
distinction between mestizo and indigenous groups is generally based on social, cultural and economic
traits and aspects rather than biological differences, since intermarriage among indigenous and Spanish
ancestors is the norm rather than the exception in large parts o f LatinAmerica. Rather, "indigenous" tends
to refer to those communities that maintain collective identity, language, culture and customs, to
differentiate them fiom others who to a larger degree have assimilated into a more Western type society
and generally speak Spanish.
l4 The concept o fthis administrative unit, inuse since colonial times, has emerged inPanama largely since
the 1960s. Comarcus offer an alternative for the administration ofnative lands, with a number o fpotential
benefits for both indigenous groups andthe state. They constitute a geopolitical division and administrative
system that accommodates both state and indigenous interests.


                                                       12

                                                                    Land Administration Project



48.     Cornarcas represent approximately 20 percent of Panama's territory (about
 15,100 square kilometers) and their recognition has been an important achievement for
indigenous mobilization in the region. Marginalization and poverty o f Indigenous
Peoples remain an important development challenge. Poverty causes some of the
inhabitants o f the Comarcas to migrate to urban areas where, according to the 2000
Census, over 50,000 Indigenous Peoples now live. The remaining indigenous population
lives in communities whose lands are not titled. In2008, it was estimated that about 40-
50 percent o f Indigenous People live outside the Comarcas, either collectively, in rural
areas (especially protected natural areas), or individually, inperi-urban or urbanareas.

49.     There are currently five indigenous Comarcas,as shown inTable 1below.

                              Table 1.Indigenous Cornarcas

                                                                 Size @m2)
                                                                 3,206
                                                                 4,383
                                                                 2,s 19
                                                                 6,968
                                                                   775

50.     The Naso, who do not have a legally recognized territory or Comarca, have been
trying to obtainlegal rightsto their lands since 1973.


  V.      DETAILEDMANAGEMENTRESPONSE-FIRST REQUEST (NASO)

51.     Management's understanding o f the First Requesters' claims have been
summarized in paragraphs 5 and 6 above. The First Requesters' claims accompanied by
Management's detailed responses are presented inAnnex 1.

THEPROJECT'S APPROACHES IMPROVELAND
                                TO                    TENURE   SECURITY OF INDIGENOUS
PEOPLES

52.     Management notes that the Project was designed with the objective of
improving land tenure security of Indigenous Peoples and other poor groups in
Panama. Discussions about the need to pass legislation related to the recognition of
Indigenous Peoples' land claims in Panama date back to the 1970s. According to
paragraph 15(c) o f OD 4.20, when local legislation needs strengthening, Management
should offer to advise and assist client countries in establishing legal recognition of the
customary or traditional land tenure systems of Indigenous Peoples. The Project was
designedand implemented accordingly.

53.     Management has supported the creation of a Cornarca as the solution to the
Naso territorial and administrative aspirations. Consistent with OD 4.20, one of the
Project's objectives under Subcomponent 3.2 (Indigenous Peoples territories) called for
the preparation o f a bill and charter for the establishment and legal recognition of the
Naso Tjer Di Comarca. Since 1973, the Naso People have been trying, albeit


                                              13

Panama



unsuccessfully to date, to create a Comarca for their territory. The Project has tried to
assist in these efforts since 2001. It has done so by financing consultations, awareness-
raising campaigns, and activities related to the drafting o f the Naso Comarca bill. With
Project support, a proposed bill to create the Naso Comarca was submitted twice to the
National Assembly (October 2002 and September 2004). The bill was not adopted by the
National Assembly on either occasion (the first time, in 2004, it was rejected by three
votes in the plenary vote; the second time it did not pass the review before the plenary
vote, and its discussion was suspendedin2005).

54.     Management considered the drafting of a bill of Collective Lands a viable, if
less ideal, measure to continue the momentum for improved security of tenure of
Indigenous Peoples in Panama generally. Management viewed this process (led since
the late 1990s by the Embera-Wounan People) as a good faith effort to address the
situation o f Indigenous Peoples' inequality, where five groups have the full benefits o f a
Comarca, while others do not have a specific legal framework recognizing their
territorial claims. That i s the principle reason why Management concurred with the
Project's support to the consultation process related to the bill o f Collective Lands, which
enjoyed broad support from other indigenous groups. Throughout this process, until the
bill's approval by the National Assembly on December 3, 2008, it was Management's
understanding that adoption o f the Law o f Collective Lands would not preclude a
renewed attempt inthe future to create a Comarca for the Naso People.

55.     Management has been aware of the First Requesters' opposition to the
Collective Lands bill initiative since early 2008. After receiving a letter with concerns
inDecember 2007, Management fielded a missioninJanuary andFebruary2008 to meet
with the First Requesters as well as other groups among the Naso and Ngobe
communities. At that time, Valentin Santana and others indicated that the Collective
Lands bill was unacceptable to the Naso, and that only the full Comarca would suffice.
Tito Santana said that although he wished for a Comarca, he was supporting the bill of
Collective Lands as a step forward for Panama's Indigenous People.

56.     The bill was submitted to the National Assembly inApril 2008, and approved on
December 3rd, 2008. The Law of Collective Lands (Law 72 of 2008), as approved,
contained a provision establishinga special regime for the Naso People that was not
included in the bill submitted to the Assembly. Management understands that the new
provision, Article 17 o f Law 72 o f 2008, instructs the Ministry o f Government and
Justice, through Executive Decree, to issue a Charter (Carta Orgdnica) for the
Corregimiento Indigena Comarcal Teribe. The precise nature o f this regime is not yet
defined. It is likely to include territorial and administrative aspects. The First Requesters
argue that this regime is different from what was proposed inthe unsuccessful Comarca
bill andit does not fulfill all the aspirations ofthe Naso People.

57.     Management notes that it became aware of Article 17 of Law 72 of 2008 on
December 8, 2008, five days after the law had been approved by the National
Assembly. Although the Project has supported the consultation process for the bill o f
Collective Lands, Management has not had any indication that the Project was involved
inthe drafting of the Law, andhadno informationabout the inclusionof Article 17 init.



                                                14

                                                                   LandAdministration Project


 Once this article came to Management's attention, the Bank expressed its concern about
its inclusion in the Law 72 o f 2008 and its implications for the constitution o f a Naso
territory. On December 10, 2008 the Project informed Management that with the
approval o f Law 72 o f 2008, it is now the Government's intention to place Naso territory
underthe political-administrativejurisdiction ofthe Provinceof Bocas del Toro.

58.     Management notes that the outcome of a legislative process is beyond its
control and responsibility.Although paragraph 14(b) o f OD 4.20 calls for studies that
anticipate adverse trends likely to be induced by the project and development o f the
meansto avoid or mitigateharm, the introduction o f Article 17 o f Law 72 of 2008 during
the legislative debate would have been extremely difficult, if not impossible, to
anticipate. Respecting the independence of the legislative branches o f its members, the
Bank, on advice from its Legal Department, refrains from obligating its borrowers,
through covenants in loan agreements with the Bank, to obtain or prevent passage of
specific legislation. Proper legislation may constitute a condition underpinning
implementation o f a project, but its attainment by a borrower should not constitute a
legally binding obligation. A project description may, as i s the case with the Project
under consideration herein, call for the preparation o f a draft law for submission to the
legislature, but there should be no binding obligation that such a draft law actually be
approved.

DIFFICULTIES OFENGAGING DIALOGUE
                              INA             WITH BOTHSIDES OF THE CONFLICT

59.     Managementnotes that there are different views among the Naso as to their
legitimate leadership, but Management has not favored one over the other. A split
occurred among the Naso People in2004, three years after the Project became effective,
with the result that Tito Santana and Valentin Santana now each claim to be the only
legitimate King and representative o f the Naso People, consequently dividing the
allegiance o f the community. The Government of Panama continuesto recognizeTito
Santana as the legitimate King (per resolution issued by the Indigenous Peoples
Directorate on April 17, 2005), and does not accept the claims of Valentin Santana.
In spite of this official recognition, Management's view is that informed participation,
consistent with O D 4.20, means that the Project should consult with both groups rather
than assigning unique legitimacy or representativeness to either one. Therefore, upon
learning o f the concerns expressed by the First Requesters through their letter o f
December 2007, Management has tried to impress upon Government authorities and
Project staff the needto consider the views and concerns o f both groups.

60.     Representativeness as a matter of degree. Management does not attempt to
assign representativeness to any stakeholder group. Each category and sub-category of
stakeholders may have legitimate perceptions, needs, claims, and concerns, and
from a sociologicalperspectiveit is problematic to assign more or less legitimacyto
the views of a particular group. Locally recognized groups and organizations often
claim to represent particular stakeholder interests, but other, non-organized groups or
informal institutions and networks may also have legitimate claims. Representation i s




                                            15

Panama


therefore a matter o f degree, not o f absol~tes.'~Reaching agreement on issues among
indigenous groups can be a lengthy process as their preference is generally for a
consensus that the community agrees to collectively, rather than decision makingthrough
voting andmajority rule.

61.     Management notes that engaging in dialogue with the two sides of the
controversy and encouraging the Project to do likewise has been delicate. By
adopting this stance, Management i s effectively demonstrating reservations about the
Government's official position o f recognizing Tito Santana as the only Naso King.
Management notes that even though its position has created occasional friction with
Government authorities and Project staff, it continues to successfully manage its
relationship with the Government and tries to impress upon Project staff the need to take
concrete steps towards conflict resolution by promoting mediation between the two
factions. Management would also like to note that the Bank's interaction with the First
Requesters has been a matter o f concern and explicit complaints by the Naso faction led
by Tito Santana.

62.     Management notes that the First Requesters did not try first to contact
Managementon the issueofArticle 17           -nor  did Government. Thus, and with a view
to the InspectionPanel Resolution (IBRD 93-10/IDA 93-6, paragraph 13), Management
wishes it had been given the opportunity to intervene and address this issue on a
timely basis,prior to the Registrationofthe Request with the InspectionPanel.

MANAGEMENT      ENGAGEMENT SUPERVISION
                                 AND

63.     Management believes that it has been responsive to the First Requesters'
concerns.After the FirstRequesters raised their concerns to Management through a letter
inDecember 2007, a Bank field visit to the province of Bocas del Tor0 was organized in
January 2008 (see Map 1). On January 31, 2008, Bank staff met separately with the two
Naso leaders and took note o f their concerns. Tito Santana said that although he aspired
to have a Comarca, he was also supporting the Collective Lands bill. Valentin Santana's
group reiterated its opposition to the Collective Lands bill and its wish for a Naso
Comarca law only. Given the different positions of both factions on the Collective
Lands bill, the Bank encouraged mediation among them, seeing that this division
would be a major limitation for any future consolidation o f their territory. Bank staff also
committed to send a follow-up field mission.

64.     InMarch2008, Bank staffmet first withTito Santanainhiscommunity (see Map
1). The same day, a second meeting with Valentin Santana was arranged by the Project.
To attend this second meeting, Bank staff hadto travel 30 minuteson foot and another 30
minutes by boat. The Bank mission arrived in Bonyik, the agreed meeting place,
about 20 minutes late. While the Bank mission was reaching the shore, Valentin
Santana's groupwas leaving,makingit impossiblefor the two partiesto meet.


''"RightsandParticipation," GoodPractices inLatinAmerica andthe Caribbean,Volume 2, Number 1,
August 2008.


                                                16

                                                                    Land AdministrationProject


 65.     A few days later, Bank staff invited Valentin Santana's representatives to a
meeting in the Bank's office in Panama City, where the First Requesters reiterated their
concerns. In response to the First Requesters' call at the meetings for Government to
approve a Comarca Bill, Bank staff noted that the approval of such a Bill was the
prerogative of the National Assembly of Panama.

66.      Also as a follow-up to the First Requesters' concerns, Management conveyed to
Government authorities and Project staff the importance of helping Tito Santana
and Valentin Santana to reach a consensus, as a basis for moving forward with the
consolidation of their territory with a unified voice. Through this dialogue,
Management promoted a mediation process that Management considers still worthwhile
to pursue.

67.     During the June 2008 supervision mission Bank Staff agreed with
Government authorities and Project staff on an action plan, which called for a
mediation betweenthe two groups and the involvement o f all the Naso People, without
regardto their representativeness.

68.     As agreed with Bank staff in June 2008, the Project has made efforts to promote
mediation betweenthe two groups, with the aim of achieving a unifiedpositionregarding
the consolidation of Naso territory. This mediation is an important element of Project
activities in the Naso territory. On July 14, 2008, the Project offered to finance a
mediation process, facilitated by Caritas Pastoral Social. Tito Santana's group
accepted the offer. Valentin Santana's group acknowledged the offer, but
communicatedto Project staff (directly and through its legal counsel) that it did not
accept the proposed mediator and proposed, instead, another mediator.
Subsequently, the Project's effort faded. After approval o f Law 72 o f 2008, Bank staff
reiterated once again to Government authorities that the Project should continue its
mediation efforts.

69.     As soon as Management became aware of the inclusion of Art. 17 into Law
72 of 2008 in December 2008, it took action and engaged with the Government on
this issue promptly. The Bank first met internally to consider the implications of this
Article for all Naso stakeholders, as well as the position o f the Government with respect
to the appropriate consultation framework as applicable to the Project. On December 18,
2008, Bank staff members met with Government authorities and the Project Coordinator
and raised the issue o f the unresolved dispute between the Naso factions and urged them
to continue with the mediation process with both factions with a view to achieving an
amicable solution to the Naso conflict before moving forward with the consolidation o f
their territory. Accordingly, for the third time, the Project offered, inter alia, to facilitate
up to three workshops attended by both groups (Tito Santana and Valentin Santana)
towards resolving their differences. Unfortunately, this offer didnot result ina meeting o f
thetwo factions.

70.     When Management learned about the First Requesters' objection to the drafting
o f the Charter mandated by Article 17 o f Law 72 o f 2008, on March 13, 2009, it               .
requested and received a copy of the draft Charter from the Project. On March 18, 2009,



                                              17

Panama


Management took the following steps: (i) requested clarifications from Government on
                                                 it
the consultation process that led to the preparation of the draft Charter; (ii)it asked
Government not to use Loanproceeds to finance any activities related to the Naso, except
those related to the mediation process between the two competing factions; and (iii)        it
recommendedto Government not to approve the draft Charter until Management
hadan opportunity to review the requesteddocumentationand exchangeviews with
Government on the matter. In its reply of April 2, 2009, Government signaled its
willingness to discuss the issues raised with Bank staff.


      VI.      DETAILED MANAGEMENT RESPONSE SECOND REQUEST        -
                                       (NGOBE-BUGLE)

71.      Management's understanding o f the Second Requester's claims have been
summarized in paragraphs 8 and 9 above. The Second Requesters' claims accompanied
by Management's detailed responses are presentedinAnnex 2.

PROCESSOFDELIMITATION ANNEXAREASOFTHENGOBE-BUGLE
                                 OF                                              COMARCA

72.      Management agrees that the Annex Areas o f the Ngobe-BuglC Comarca indeed
were not delimited ("mapped out") in 1999. Managementnotes that (i)the creationof
the Ngobe-BuglCComarca, and related Annex Areas, in 1997, and (ii)the proposal
in 1999 which failed to addressAnnex Areas, bothprecedethe Project.

73.      Management shares the Second Requesters' concern related to the lack of
mapping and delimitation of these areas. That is why from its inception, one of the
Project's objectives under Subcomponent 3.2 has been to complete the demarcation o f
the boundaries of the `already created Ngobe-Bug16 Comarca, as well as some of the
territories outside the core area, known as Annex Areas, as definedby Law 10o f 1997.

74.      Management agrees with the Second Requesters that the Project has not
fully demonstrated the principle of informed participation in relation to the
delimitation of the Annex Areas of the Ngobe-BuglCComarca in the Bocas del Tor0
Province. Management acknowledges that Alliance for Conservation and
Development (ACD) communicated its concerns regarding consultations.l6The first
time that the Second Requesters directly brought their concerns about the Project's
activities in their territories to the attention o f Management was in a letter in December
2007. Inresponse, on January 31, 2008, Management met with the Second Requesters in
Bocas del Tor0 and took note of their concerns regarding Project activities in the Annex
Areas o f the Ngobe-Bugle Comarca. At that meeting, the Second Requesters raised
several issues, some unrelated to the Project or activities supported by the Bank. Their
main concerns were related to the consultation process and the landdelimitation activities
inthe Annex Areas. Accordingly, consistent with OPBP 13.05, from March 3 to March
14, 2008 a Bank mission-accompanied              by the Ngobe-BuglC General Chief (Cacique),
and the two caciques for the Annex Areas-visited            9 out of the 15 Annex Areas in the
Bocas del Tor0 Province to assess the work being undertaken by the Project in these

16Alianza para la Conservaci6n y Desarrollo, a Panamanianenvironmental organization.


                                                  18

                                                                   Land Administration Project


areas. The mission confirmed that the Project had carried out consultations inthe areas,
but also identified several weaknesses in the consultation processes. The mission also
noted the lack o f awareness by Project staff o f the Project's Social Assessment and
Indigenous Peoples Strategy. The mission made specific recommendations to improve
consultations including, inter alia: (i) use o f native language rather than Spanish; (ii)
targeting messages at the education level o f the audience; (iii)ensuring consistency
among messages; (iv) ensuring adequate gender representation; and (v) informing the
audience o f its legal rights inregardto the subject matter. The mission also asked Project
staff to preparea Consultations Planto address and resolve the weaknesses identified.

75.      A subsequent supervision mission in June carried out a comprehensive
review of the entire subcomponent related to Indigenous Peoples territories. The
Bank mission agreed with Project staff on the preparation of an action plan and a
consultation plan. The action plan included, inter alia, land tenure studies, conflict
resolution activities, as well as other activities foreseen in this subcomponent. The
consultation planwas to improve the quality o fthe consultations.

76.      At the July 2008 supervision mission, the Project presented to Bank staff an
action plan for the aforementioned activities, a timetable and a budget for completing
implementation o f this subcomponent. The plan also contained provisions related to
consultations. The supervision mission was informed that the delimitation o f 14 out o f 15
Annex Areas in the Ngtibe-Bug16 Comarca had been completed. Based on the
information provided by Project staff at the time, there was no reason to believe
that the delimitationsof the Annex Areas did not meet beneficiaries' expectations.
Duringa subsequent mission in October 2008, whose main focus was the preparation of
an Additional Financing operation, Project staff informed the mission that they were
following up with the plans (related to Subcomponent 3.2 for Indigenous Peoples'
territories) agreed to during the July 2008 mission. Considering the full range o f issues
discussed with Government for the Additional Financing, the October 2008 mission had
no further discussion on the delimitations o f the Annex Areas. Inretrospect, Management
acknowledges that this was a missed opportunity and therefore has taken the additional
step o f requesting that Government authorities submit a report on the consultations and
work done inthe Annex Areas o f the Ngobe-BuglC Comarca.

 "LANDS"    VERSUS "TERRITORIES"

77.      Managementwould like to clarify that the Project,from its inceptionin2001,
has had as one of its specific objectives the delimitation of the "territories" of
Indigenous Peoples, includingthe Ngobe-Bug16 Comarca.Management notes that the
Project operates with the concept o f territory as it relates to Indigenous Peoples'
territorial claims. The Project objective i s "to modernize the land administration system,
including priority protected areas and Indigenous Peoples territories."                Under
Subcomponent 3.2, the Project's specific goal i s the establishment and consolidation o f
indigenous "territories."    To date the Project has achieved the demarcation o f
approximately 1,000 linear kilometers (out o f an approximate total o f 1,300 km) o f
territorial boundaries o f the main area o f the Ngobe-Bug16 Comarca in three provinces
(Veraguas, Chiriqui and Bocas del Toro). Inaddition, the Project has already demarcated



                                               19

 Panama


 the territorial boundaries oftwo Annex Areas inthe Provinceof Chiriqui and four Annex
 Areas inthe Province o f Veraguas.

 78.     For the Annex Areas inBocas del Toro, inFebruary2007 the Project agreed with
Ngobe-Bugle leaders: (i) initiate the delimitation o f the 15 Annex Areas included in
                            to
Article 2 o f Law 10 o f 1997; and (ii) include trabajaderos (Le., those complementary
                                      to
 areas used for productive and working activities) inaddition to housing areas.

 79.     Management notes that under the Project, Ngobe-BuglC beneficiary
 communities can choose whether they want to be delimited and demarcated as
Annex Areas of the Ngobe-Bug16 Comarcn. Throughout 2007 and 2008, the Project
sponsored, along with members o f the National Boundaries Commission, consultation
events with each of the 15 Annex Areas which resulted in: (i)the preparation of
preliminary maps by the Project o f each Annex Area; and (ii) issuance o f resolutions
                                                                the
whereby each community decided whether or not to be part o f the Ngobe-Bugle
Comarca. It is Management's understanding that 7 out of the 15 have chosen to be
delimitedas Annex Areas (see Map 2).

ENCROACHMENT        ONINDIGENOUSLANDS

80.     Management acknowledges the Second Requesters' concerns about the pressures
on their territories caused by growth and development activities in the Bocas del Tor0
Province. Managementnotes that one of the Project's key objectives-to support the
"establishment and consolidation of indigenous territories" and improve overall
land tenure security in the region-is    intended to address the concern about these
pressures.

81.     Management would like to clarify that the Project was not involved in the
drafting or approval of the Law that Regulates Concessions for Tourism
Investments and the Expropriation of Island Territories for their Tourism
Development (Law 2 of 2006), or the granting of related concessions in the area,
includingfor the construction of the hydroelectricprojectChan 75.

82.     While some progress was made in Subcomponent 3.2 before 2005, such as the
demarcation o f the core area o f the Ngobe-Bug16 Comarca (see Map 2), slow initial
implementationof the Projectwas due to a hiatus of relations betweenthe Bank and
the Government of Panama. Also, a combination of weak operational leadership, slow
disbursements and counterpart       contributions,   and ineffective inter-institutional
coordinationcontributed to weaknesses inthe Project's ability to achieve its development
objectives and output targets. The arrival o f a new Panamanian administration in 2004
opened up opportunities for re-engagement with Management. With considerable
involvement by Management, a Project restructuring was agreed to with Government in
June 2006. This extended the Project Closing Date by three years to December 2009, and
allowed the Project to beginto recover the lost ground.

83.     The Project informed Management that the two Annex Areas (Valle de Risco and
Nance de Risco) located inthe region o f Valle de Risco had chosen not to be annexed to



                                            20

                                                                   LandAdministration Project


the Ngobe-Bugle Comarca (see Map 2) but had indicatedtheir willingness to form part o f
a Corregimiento. During the March 2008 mission, the community of Valle de Risco had
expressed inwriting the desire not to be annexedto the Ngobe-Bugle Comarca, while the
community o f Nance de Risco was undecided. On April 19, 2008, leaders from the
community o f Nance de Risco sent a letter to the Project categorically rejecting being an
annexed area to the Ngobe-Bugle Comarca. These communities also questioned the
consultation process, and noted their preference for being part o f a Corregimiento,rather
thanaNgobe-Bugle annexedarea. Giventhe doubts expressed by the Second Requesters
about the adequacy o f the consultations with regard to the decision to be annexed areas,
on April 7,2009 Managementhas requested Government to submit a detailed report
on the consultationsprocessbeforelegalizationof the Annex Areas is finalized.

IMPLICATIONS OF SELECTEDLAWS         MENTIONED REQUEST
                                                  INTHE

84.     It is Management's understandingthat the Law of CollectiveLands(Law 72
of 2008) does not apply to Annex Areas of the Ngobe-BuglC Comarca, nor does it
supersede the Law that created the Ngobe-Bug16 Comarca (Law 10 of 1997) which
established said Annex Areas. Therefore, based on the information available,
Management's understanding is that Law 72 o f 2008 would not preclude the aspirations
o f Annex Areas communities to have a legal framework in which their culture and all
forms ofpolitical life are respected.

85.     Nevertheless, considering the importance o f the Second Requesters' claim related
to Law 72 o f 2008, and consistent with OD 4.20 and OP/BP 13.05, on April 7, 2009
Management requested additional clarifications from Government as to how it
intends to apply Law 72 of 2008 to the Ngobe-BuglCAnnex Areas in the context of
the Project's implementation and in relationwith the recently approved Law 18 of
2009. Management will report back to the Second Requesters once it has received
Government's clarifications and has assessed their likely impact on achievement o f the
Project's objectives and compliance with relevant Bankpolicies.

86.     Regarding the bill submitted to the National Assembly mentioned in the Second
Request, Management understands that the Second Requesters are referring to the Law
that creates Corregimientos in the Chiriqui Grande and Changuinola Districts in the
Province o f Bocas del Tor0 (Law 18 o f 2009). Although the Second Request refers to a
submission to the National Assembly, Management learned on March 30, 2009 that that
law had already been promulgated on February 26, 2009 and published on March 4,
2009. Management understands that this Law was not supported by the Project.
Considering the importance o f the Second Requesters' claim related to Law 18 o f 2009,
and consistent with OD 4.20 and OP/BP 13.05, Management has requested
clarifications from Government on this Law's                implications for Project
implementation in these areas. Management will also report back to the Second
Requesterson this issue.




                                            21

Panama


ENGAGEMENT SUPERVISION
                 AND

87.      Management believes that it has been responsiveto the Second Requesters'
concerns,first expressedinDecember 2007. As notedinparagraphs 74-76, 83 and 86-89
above, it has done so through several supervision missions, including field visits, and via
repeated recommendations made to Project staff to improve the consultations inNgobe-
BugleAnnex Areas.

88.     Managementnotesthat none of the four Bankstaff presentat a meetingwith
the Second Requesters on January 31, 2008 recall asking them to refrain from
sending a complaint to the Bank's ExecutiveBoard, or anyone else in Washington.
While Bank staff expressed willingness and interest in continued meetings and
interaction, to Management's recollection, Management did not receive further
information related to details o f the congress referenced in the Second Request. The
Bank staff present at the meeting do not recall having committed to attend such a
congress.

89.      Since three Ngobe-Bugle Caciques (Chiefs) accompanied Bank staff during the
field visits ofthe March 2008 supervision mission, Bank staff expected that the Caciques
would inform their constituents about the substance o f the Bank mission. In retrospect,
Management acknowledges that it also could have informed the Second Requesters
directly. Moving forward, Management will engage more regularly with the Second
Requestersto informthem and consultwith them about follow-up actions.


                    VII.   SPECIAL ISSUESAND ACTIONPLAN

THEPROJECT'S      INDIGENOUS PLAN(IPDP)
                               PEOPLES  DEVELOPMENT

90.     During Project preparation, a comprehensive social assessment was
undertaken. This included consultations with different groups, including
representativesof IndigenousPeoples.A summary version o f the Social Assessment as
it relates to Indigenous Peoples was incorporated inAnnex 12 of the PAD, which refers
to this as an Indigenous Peoples Strategy. Although this strategy contains the key
elements o f an IPDP, and included a subcomponent specifically targeted to Indigenous
Peoples it did not include, for example, a detailed analysis o f local indigenous forms of
organizations or implementation arrangements. Management acknowledges that no
separate or free-standing IPDP in accordance with OD 4.20 was prepared. While a draft
Spanishversion of the strategy was prepared, neither a final version of this document nor
the Social Assessment was disclosed in Spanish inPanama or inEnglish at the Infoshop,
except when the PAD became public. Management acknowledges the importance o f this,
since the lack o f a stand-alone document makes it harder for key stakeholder groups,
including the indigenous communities in Panama, to know what rights they have under
the Project.

91.     In the context of preparingthe proposedAdditionalFinancingoperationfor
the Project in 2008, a social assessment and corresponding IPDP were completed
and disclosed on the Project'swebsite in December2008. Management considers that


                                           22

                                                                LandAdministration Project


for the ongoing Project this does not meet the full requirementso f OD 4.20, because the
2008 Social Assessment and IPDP do not address all the Indigenous Peoples in the
Project, including the Requesters. Consequently, Management will support additional
work for the Project to finalize this, and to disclose an IPDP meeting Bank policy
requirements. This is expected to be completed by August 2009.

SCOPE OF MANAGEMENT       RESPONSE

92.     Regardingthe claim by both Requestersthat the Project is inviolation of the
country's Constitution, Management chooses not to comment on such claim as
Panamahas its ownjudicial mechanismto addressthis issue.

93.    Management understands the seriousness of both Requesters' claims and will
engage as fully as possible to address their concerns. Management notes that to the
extent that certain human rights related claims have been subject to consideration
in various fora, it is the policy of the Bank not to comment on these processes
involvingthe Requestersand the Government.

INTERACTIONWITH THE FIRST       REQUESTERS' LEGAL      COUNSEL

94.    Managementnotesthat since mid-2008, Bank staff have interactedon several
occasions with Akin Gump, a law firm retained by the First Requesters, and has
informed it of Management's actions to address the First Requesters' concerns.
Management understands that the Akin Gump firm has been retained by the First
Requesters. Inretrospect, Management acknowledges that it could also have informed the
First Requesters directly. Management intends to engage with the First Requesters
directly to inform them about Management's follow-up actions relatedto their concerns.

95.    On December 11, 2008, Management met with Akin Gump. Its representative
expressed his client's concerns about the proposed Additional Financing for the Project
and voiced concerns, which are essentially the same ones presented in the Request for
Inspection. Management communicatedto Akin Gump that it had already decidedto
pause internal processing of the Additional Financing operation (see paragraph 103
below).

OTHERPROJECTSINPANAMA

Projects ComplementarytoLandAdministration Project

96.    The Project is complementedby financingfrom the IDB as part of a broader
Program. IDB engaged through two loans totaling almost US$60 million supporting: (i)
the LandAdministration and Regularization Project (signed inMarch 2003); and (ii)      the
Metropolitan Region Cadastre and Land Administration Modernization Program (signed
inOctober 2007).




                                           23

Panama



97.     While not formally supporting PRONAT, the Danish Development Cooperation
(DANIDA) has in the past provided analytical and technical support to land
regularization efforts for Indigenous Peoples by supportingthe Dobbo Yala Foundation.

The GEF-financed Rural Productivityand Consolidationof theAtlantic
Mesoamerican Biological Corridor Project (GEF Grant TF066628)

98.     With GlobalEnvironment Facility (GEF) funding, the Bank is also supporting
the "Rural Productivity and Consolidation of the Atlantic MesoamericanBiological
Corridor Project" (GEF Grant TF066628, effective since January 2007), which includes
activities in the Palo Seco Protected Forest. Its objective i s to conserve biodiversity o f
global importance and protect important forest, mountain and marine-coastal ecosystems
in Panama, in part by helping communities develop sustainable livelihoods that are
consistent with conservation goals. Among other activities, this GEF project strengthens
ANAM's capacity to manage the National System of Protected Areas. Inthe course of
Management's supervision o f that GEF project, inMay 2008 Management became aware
that local area residents could be adversely affected by the ongoing and planned
construction o f hydroelectric dams within the Palo Seco Protected Forest. Although the
GEF project has no relationship with the plannedhydroelectric power investments inthe
area, as part of a broader sectoral dialogue in an advisory capacity, Management
recommended to ANAM specific actions which could minimize the adverse
environmentaland social impactsof these hydroelectricpowerprojects.

99.     Managementrecommendedthat ANAM: (i)                  develop an action planto improve
and intensify the environmental monitoring and supervision o f the construction of the
hydroelectric projects; (ii)  promote improved compliance with the Palo Alto Protected
Forest's Management Plan that ANAM had developed and officially approved in 2006
(before this GEF project became effective); and (iii)         prepare a broader environmental
zoning plan (Plan de Ordenamiento Ambiental) for the entire watershed o f the
Changuinola River, which includes not only the Palo Seco Protected Forest, but also La
Amistad International Park (Parque Internacional la Amistad, shared with Costa Rica).
This environmental zoning plan will eventually provide a more thorough evaluation of
the cumulative and other large-scale impacts of all the planned hydropower projects in
the Changuinola River basin. Since these activities are part of the overall mandate of
ANAM, and are not part of the GEF project, they will not be financed with GEF project
funds.

Other WorldBank Financed Projects

100.    To support long-term investments in human capital, the World Bank i s also
financing projects in education, health and nutrition, water supply and sanitation,
ruralproductivityandsocial protection.

101.    The Social Protection Support to the "Red de Oportunidades" Project" is
financing measures to improve the targeting and management o f the a flagship


l7The Dobbo Yala Foundation is a nongovernmental indigenous organization.


                                               24

                                                                             LandAdministrationProject


conditional cash transfer program that provides cash to Panama's poorest people,
many indigenous, in exchange for their children going to school and getting regular
check-ups and vaccinations. The project's success i s being measured in part against
specific improvements in school attendance and maternal and infant health indicators in
the Cornarcus,among other areas.

102.    To address the health and economic issues o f low access to improved water
supply among rural and indi enous communities, the Water and Sanitation Projectfor
Low-Income Communities79 is investing in water supply hardware at the community
level to improve impact and sustainability. The project targets poor communities in a
phased approach and includes community participationinindigenous areas.

103.    Finally, the Bank i s financing a Rural Productivity Project?' This project
contributes to increased productivity among organized rural small-scale producers
through their participation in productive alliances with large-scale producers. By
supporting productive investments in land and providing links to markets, the project
aims to relieve pressures on migration into forested lands and traditional indigenous
living areas.

ADDITIONAL FINANCING          OPERATION

104.    In late 2008 the Government of Panama requested from the Bank an
Additional Financing loan in the amount of US$23 million to support the
geographicalextension of the Project's activities. The proposed operation was to help
finance the costs associated with the scale up o f Project activities covering: (i)the
Provinces o f Panama and Col6n for rural and urban lands; (ii)              additional urban lands in
the Province o f Chiriqui; (iii)   additional protected areas inthe Provinces o f Panama and
Col6n; and (iv) three Indigenous Peoples groups lands (Embera, Wounan and Kunas).
Considering that: (i)the satisfactory completion of certain Project activities i s pending;
(ii)changes in Government are imminent (May 2009 elections); and (iii) will be a        there
subsequent need to agree with the new administration on priorities in the land
administration and related sectors, Management decided to pause the preparation o f the
Additional Financing operation.

PROJECT   APPRAISALDOCUMENT(PAD)REVIEW

105.    As part of a Bank-wide initiative in late 2008, Management initiated a
portfolio review of all documentation of the entire Regionalportfolio. In the case of
this specific project, the review identified some discrepancies when comparing the
PAD and provisionsof the LoanAgreement with past, ongoing and plannedProject
activities.Specifically: (i)   management plans for four existing protected areas included in

'*L-7479-PA; U S 2 4 million; approved by the Board o f Directors inJuly 26,2007; effective February 26,
2008.
l9L-7477-PA; US$32 million; approved by the Board o fDirectors inJuly 17,2007; effective March 04,
2008.
2oL-7439-PAN; US$39.4million; approved by the Board o f Directors March 21,2007; effective
November 1,2007.


                                                  25

 Panama


 the PAD will not be implementedbut instead the Project will implement management
 plans and ecotourism plans (considered as a specialized type of management plan) in
 another five existing protected areas; (ii) land tenure regularization in five existing
 protected areas included inthe PAD will not be implementedby the Project but instead
 the Project will implement land tenure regularizationwithin two other protected areas;
 (iii)co-managementpilotsinfourexistingprotectedareasincludedinthePADwillnot
 be implemented; (iv) technical studies and follow-up activities in five proposed new
protectedareas includedinthe PAD will be implemented only in four of these areas and
 inanother new proposedprotectedarea; and(v) the development of a generalsystem for
 land valuation, mentioned in the PAD and the Loan Agreement, will not be financed
under the Project as it is being financed by an ongoing IDB project. Management will
addressthese issues inthe context of a further Projectrestructuring.

MANAGEMENT'S PLAN     ACTION

 106.     Managementplans to follow up on the issues raised by the Requesterswith
intensified supervision for the remainder of the Project. The specific steps are
outlinedinthe table below.

                                         Table 2. Action Plan
ISSUESAND CONCERNS, WITH CURRENT AND PROPOSED
ACTIONS                                                                        TIMELINE


Lackof stand-alone IndigenousPeoples'DevelopmentPlan(IPDP)


1. FinalizeIPDP, includingconsultationswith key stakeholdergroups.    Underway;startedmid2008
                                                                      CompletionAugust 2009
2. DisseminateIPDPthrough consultations, in-countryweb sites, and
WorldBank Info-Shop.                                                  September-October 2009




                                                                      Underway;dialoguewith
3. Clarify implications o f Article 17ofLaw72.of2008, andsupport      GovernmentstartedDecember
further mediationand consultations amongthe Naso.                     2008. Completionby December
                                                                      2009 unless resolvedearlier
4. Followup with Governmentregardingpotentialfor reintroductiono f    Mayto December,2009
newdraft ComarcaBill, with offer to support consultationsand other    (with new Government
work withinthe scope ofthe Project.                                   following May2009 elections)



5. Clarify andreportto Requesterson the implicationso f Law72 of 2008
andLaw 18 of2009 regardingAnnex Areas.                                April -May 2o09

6. Verifythat delimitationincludesthe broaderterritoryincluding
trabajaderos.                                                         April-May2009




7. Verify improvedconsultationsregardingdelimitationofAnnex Areas     Underway.Completionby
amongNgtibe-Bug16as perprevious supervisionrecommendations;           December2009



                                                   26

                                                                           Land Administration Project



ISSUESAND CONCERNS,WITH CURRENT AND PROPOSED
ACTIONS                                                                            TIMELINE

support further strengtheningas required.


                                                                          Underway. Completion by
8. Continueto support effortsto mediatebetweenthe two Naso factions.      December2009 unlessresolved
                                                                          earlier



9. Organize trainingevent(s) for Project staff andnationalresource       August I September 2009, in
personson social assessment processes includingconsultations.             connectionwith completedIPDP

Concern amongRequestersthat the Bank has not been sufficiently responsive

10. SummarizekeypointsinManagementResponse andAction Plan
relatedto the Requestsfor Inspection, andoffer to meetanddiscuss          April -May 2009, with
follow-up actions.                                                        additionalmeetingsas required

11. Providedirect feedbackabout previousand future missions and
interactions.                                                             April -December2009

12. Continueto interact withbothTito Santana andValentin Santanaand       Underway, will continue with
their constituencies, as well as differentgroups amongthe Ngbbe-Bugld.    meetingsas requireduntil
                                                                         December2009
Overallconcerns about povertyand marginalizationof IndigenousPeoples, and pressureson their
resources

13. Continuedcountry level dialogue to strengthen attentionto Indigenous  Ongoing. Will be addressed in
Peoples' rights inthe Bank's portfolio.                                   dialogue with newGovernment
                                                                          followingMay elections
                                                                        I This has beenproposedto the
14.Nationalcapacity building on internationalgoodpractice standards       Government.Wilibe addressed
relatedto safeguards, inparticularenvironmentalmanagementand             with new Government.
IndigenousPeoples' rights.                                                Workshop for implementing
                                                                         agenciesproposedfor August I
                                                                          September
                                                                          Current Governmenthas
                                                                          expressedinterest insuch
15. Offerto assist Government to developmore sustainable andequitable    support. Willbe discussedwith
solutions for IndigenousPeoples.                                         new Government.Relevant
                                                                         options may be discussedwithin
                                                                         the fiamework ofthe CPS


ACTION PLANIMPLEMENTATION                 RISKS

107.     Management considers the two principal implementationrisks to this Action Plan
to be:

 (i)   The politicaltransition with a new Government coming in, where a dialogue on
      these issues will have to be established. Political support for the proposed agenda
      cannot be ascertained at this moment, but the Bank will engage immediately with
      the new Government and offer support for this.




                                                    27

Panama


(ii)SecurityrisksrelatedtofieldworkintheareaofBocasdelToro.Thesituationis
    currently volatile, and an assessment will have to be made about safety o f staff and
    local communities, including the Requesters, prior to continued engagement.




                                          28

                                                                                     LandAdministration Project


                                                     ANNEX1
                                            CLAIMSAND RESPONSES




Bill to Create a Naso Comarca                    Since 1973the Naso People have been trying, albeit
Since 2001, the Government of                  unsuccessfullyto date, to create a Comarca for their territory (see
Panama has benefitedfrom World Bank            Map 1).
financing for PRONAT... that was
supposed to demarcate the territory of         Project2 has assisted in the effort of creating a Cornarca since
                                                 Mana9ement concurs with the First Requestersthat the
the original peoples of the Bocas del          2001, One of the Project's subcomponents relates to Indigenous
Tor0 Province.                                 Peoples, and calls for the preparationof a Naso Comarca bill and
This financing made [it] possible to           charter for the establishment and legal recognition of the Naso Tjer
agree on a Naso People-supported Bill          Di Comarca."
(proposed law) that was presentedto              The Project financed consultations, awareness-raising
[the] National Assembly...The National         campaigns, and activities related to the drafting of the Naso
Assembly rejected the Bill that would          Comarca bill. Also, with Project support, a draft Naso Comarca bill
create the province of Naso Tjer Di.           was submitted twice to the NationalAssembly (October 2002 and
                                               September 2004). The bill was not adopted by the National
                                               Assembly on either occasion (the first time, in 2004, it was rejected
                                               by three votes in the plenary vote; the second time it did not pass
                                               the review before the plenaryvote and its discussion was
                                               suspended in 2005).
                                                 Despite this outcome, the Bank, consistent with OD 4.20,
                                               continued to recommend to the Government of Panama that the
                                               Project finance activities to help resolve the Naso People's land
                                               claims. In particular, Bank staff agreed with the Project on an
                                               action plan to mediate the internal conflict among the Naso
                                               leadership (see Item 3) as this conflict creates significant obstacles
                                               to the consolidation of their territory.

The Dobbo Yala Foundation                        Management confirms that the Project hired the Dobbo Yala
... this Project has been carrying out         Foundation in 2002 in connection with the consultations and
activities in our Naso Tjer Di territory       drafting of the draft bill to create the NasoTjer Di Comarca.
with the support of the Dobbo Yala             Judging by the result of this work, namely, agreement on a draft
Foundation and the then King Tito              bill to create the Comarca, which was supported by the First
Santana and his team.                          Requesters, Management's view is that the Foundation's work was
                                               satisfactory.
Unfortunately, the Dobbo Yala
Foundation was contracted by the                 Management acknowledges the First Requesters' claim that
Public Enterprise of Medellin (EPM) to         EPM also contracted the Dobbo Yala Foundation for consultations
carry out a supposedly community               relatedto the Bonyik hydroelectric project. During these
consultation for the Bonyik                    consultations on behalf of EPM, the Secretary of the Board of
Hydroelectric Project to be built within       DobboYala was working as part of the Project team. Management
the Naso Territory.                            would like to confirm that this consultant is not involved with the



      PRONAT is the Panama National Land Administration Program established in 2001. The World Bank
   financed Land Administration project (the Project) is one of the three projects that constitutethe National
   '*LandPanama,
         Administration Program.The two other projects are financed by the IDB.
      In          a Comarca refers to an administrative region with a substantial indigenous population, created
    by specific laws. The Cornarcas have a semi-autonomous political organization; under the jurisdiction of the
   national government. There are five such regimes in the country: Kuna Yala (1938), Embera-Wounan
    (1983), Madungandi (1996), Ngobe-Bugle (1997) and Wargandi (2000).


                                                         29

    Panama



                           ue                                               Response
... with the arrival of the new               Project any longer.
administration... several individuals of
Dobbo Yala became Government                    Managementnotesthat the Bank does not finance the Bonyik
employees working on the Project.             hydroelectric project.
                                                Managementalso confirms that three individualsformerly
                                             associatedwith the Dobbo Yala Foundation have been hired as
                                             consultants by the Project.

The Leadershipof the Naso People                Managementnotes that there are differing views among the
In May 2004, the Naso People General          Naso as to what constitutes legitimate leadership.A split occurred
Assembly decided to dismiss the then         among the Naso in 2004, with the result that Tito Santana and
King Tito, and appoint His Majesty           Valentin Santana each claim to be the only legitimate King and
Valentin Santana, present King of the         representativeof the Naso People. The Government of Panama
Naso People. Several weeks after, the        continues to recognizeTito Santana and not Valentin Santana as
National Assembly rejected the Bill that     the legitimate King (per resolution issued by the Indigenous
would create the province of Naso Tjer        Peoples Directorateon April 17,2005), and the community is
Di.                                          divided in its allegiance.

That is why high ranking PRONAT                 In spite of official Government recognition of Tito Santana,
officials were informed that King             Management is of the view that informed participation, consistent
Valentin Santana should be respected         with OD 4.20, means that the Project consults with different groups
as legitimate representativeof the Naso      and factions rather than assigning unique legitimacy or
People. PRONAT officials were also            representativenessto any one of them. Therefore, upon learning
notified that they had to obey the World     of the concerns expressed by the First Requestersthrough their
Bank's operational directives on             letter of December 2007, Management, in its interactionswith the
Indigenous Peoples.                          Governmentauthorities and Project staff members, regularly
                                             stressed the need to consider the views and concerns of both
                                             groups.
                                                Since 2008, Bank staff have interacted directly, as well as
                                             indirectly through intermediarie~,'~with both Tito Santana and
                                             Valentin Santana and their supporters, in an effort to understand
                                             both of their perspectivesand to bring about a resolution to their
                                             differences.

The Law of Collective Lands (Law 72             Management concurs with the First Requesters that a Comarca
of 2008)                                     is the preferred solution to the Naso territorial and administrative
... PRONAT supported a bill of law of        aspirations. Management notes that a situation of structural
collective land ownership which was          inequality among indigenous groups in Panama exists, where five
approved by the NationalAssembly on          indigenous groups have the full benefits of a Comarca,and others
December 3rd,2008,... creating a             do not have a specific legal framework recognizing their territorial
collective lands property regime "in         claims. This is why the Project from its inception supported the
indigenous territories" and providing for    submission of a draft law to create a Comarcafor the Naso
other measures.                              People. Management is disappointed that the draft law was not
                                             adopted by the NationalAssembly on two occasions.
...the Presidentof Panama... approved
this bill imposing on the Naso People           Management`sview is that the Law of Collective Lands reflects a
an uncertain regime of "corregimiento        genuine effort to continue improvements in the situation of
comarcal".                                   Panamanian Indigenous Peoples. Management notes that this
                                             Law has the support of other Indigenous Peoples groups.
...this new law flagrantly and seriously     Management considered the Project's support to the consultations
violates the sole and true aspiration of     for the preparation of the bill of Collective Lands a viable option to


    23For example,the Bank has frequently interactedwith a law firm, Akin Gump, legal representative of
    Valentin Santana's group.


                                                      30

                                                                                      LandAdministration Project



                 Claimllssue
the Naso people-the creation of a                   keep the momentum going, and to improve security of tenure of
juridical framework that would respect              IndigenousPeoples generally and thus reduce the structural
the cultural and all forms of political-            inequality among indigenous groups.
traditional life of our Naso people, as
well as the natural, archeological and                Throughout this process, until the bill's approval by the National
genetic resources in general that we               Assembly on December 3,2008, it was Management`s
now have and that we have inherited                 understanding that adoption of the Law of Collective Lands would
from our ancestors and that we are                  not preclude a renewed attempt in the future to create a Comarca
entitled to: The Comarca Naso Tjer Di.             for the Naso. With the last minute introduction in the National
                                                   Assembly of a new Article (Article 17),24it now appears unlikely
                                                   that a Naso Comarca will be under consideration in the near
                                                   future.
                                                    Management has expressed concern and reservationsabout the
                                                   introductionof Article 17 in the Law, and its implication in the
                                                   constitutionof a Naso territory. Management has been seeking
                                                   clarificationsfrom the Project Coordinator about how the new
                                                   regime created by Law 72 of 2008 is going to be implementedand
                                                   the implicationsof Article 17 (see also Item 5).
                                                   The Project Coordinator indicated in a communication sent to the
                                                   Bank on December 10,2008, after the law was approved, that it is
                                                   the Government's intent to now place the Nasoterritory under the
                                                   administrativeand political jurisdiction of the Province of Bocas del
                                                   Toro. Management is seeking clarifications on how or if this       .
                                                   reflects the Naso's aspirations for autonomous managementof
                                                   their territory.

The Charter (Carta Organica)                          As stated in Item 4 above, a new Article 17, which requiresthe
Regulatingthe Naso Territory                       developmentof a Charter by the Executive Branchto establish
PRONAT officials, accompanied by the               Corregimiento Comarcal Teribe,was included in the Law only in
dethroned King Tito Santana, are                   the later stages of the legislative process.Article 17 was not
attempting to impose a Charter which               included in the versions of the bill that were discussed at
does not have the legal status of a                consultationevents attended by Bank staff.
Comarca and has never been consulted                  As such, Management did not have prior knowledge of, nor was
upon with the Naso People.                         in a position to influence, the inclusion and approval of Article 17.
                                                   Management became aware of the final text of the Law and the
                                                   introductionof Article 17, on December 8, 2008 after it had been
                                                   approved by the National Assembly. Immediately afterwards, the
                                                   Bank requesteda clarification from the Project Coordinator
                                                   (December 9, 2008).
                                                     Article 17 of Law 72 provides for the preparation of a Charter for
                                                   the Corregimienfo Comarcal Teribe.Management acknowledges
                                                   that the Project`s staff was involved from end of December2008 to
                                                   mid-February2009 in the preparation of this Charter, but neither
                                                   the Government nor the Project informed the Bank until after the
                                                   Law was approved about this involvement, in response to a
                                                   specific request for clarification from the Bank.
                                                      Given the above, Management agrees with the First Requesters'


   24Article 17 of Law 72 of 2008 instructs the Ministry of Government and Justice, through Executive Decree,
   to issue a Charter (Carfa Organica) for the Corregimienfolndigena Comarcal Teribe.The term
   Corregimientolndigena Comarcal Teriberefers to a land tenure regime whose precise nature is not yet
   defined. It is likely to include administrative and territorial aspects.



                                                             31

   Panama



                       sue
                                      concern regarding the regime of Corregimiento Comarcal created
                                      by Law 72 of 2008 and the Charter for the Corregimiento lndigena
                                      Comarcal Teribe in the District of Changuinola in the Bocas del
                                      Tor0 Province.
                                         Management notes that once the Bank was informed by the
                                      Project about the Approval of the Law, includingArticle 17, it acted
                                      promptly. After receiving the December IOth response to its
                                      request for clarifications from the Project Director, concerns
                                      remained about how genuine the process of informed consultation
                                      had been. Cognisant of the divergences of views among the Naso
                                      factions, Management continued to emphasize the need to pursue
                                      mediation efforts between Tito Santana and Valentin Santana
                                      before proceeding with the consolidation of the Naso Territory.
                                      This was conveyed during a meeting between Bank staff and
                                      senior Government officials on December 18, 2008. Accordingly,
                                      for a second time, the Project offered to facilitate up to three
                                      workshops to be attended by both groups (Tito Santana and
                                      Valentin Santana) with a view to resolving their differences.
                                      Unfortunately,this offer did not result in the meeting of the two
                                      factions. In February 2009, the Bank requested another written
                                      update about the Naso situation which went unanswered.
                                         As soon as Management learned about the First Requesters'
                                      objection to the drafting of the Charter mandated by Article 17 of
                                      Law 72 of 2008, on March 13,2009,it requested and received a
                                      copy of the draft Charter from the Project officials. Immediately
                                      after, on March 18, 2009, Management took the following steps: (i)
                                      it requested clarifications from Governmenton the consultation
                                      process that led to the preparationof the draft Charter; (ii) it asked
                                      Government not to use Loan proceeds to finance any activities
                                      related to the Naso, except those related to the mediation process
                                      that had been agreed on earlier; and (iii) it recommended
                                      Government not to approve the draft Charter until the Bank had an
                                      opportunity to review the requested documentation and exchange
                                      views with Government on the matter. In its reply of April 2, 2009
                                      Government signaled its willingness to discuss the issues raised
                                      with Bank staff.

Compliance with OD 4.20                 During Project preparation, a comprehensive social assessment
...we are also disappointed with the  was undertaken. This included consultations with different groups,
World Bank, who has not enforced its  including representatives of Indigenous Peoples.A summary
operational directives on Indigenous  version of the Social Assessment as it relates to Indigenous
Peoples.                              Peoples was incorporated in Annex 12 of the PAD, which refers to
                                      this as an Indigenous Peoples Strategy. Although this strategy
                                      contains the key elements of an IPDP, and included a
                                      subcomponent specifically targeted to Indigenous Peoples it did
                                      not include, for example, a detailed analysis of local indigenous
                                      forms of organizations or implementation arrangements.
                                      Management acknowledges that no separate or free-standing
                                      IPDP in accordance with OD 4.20 was prepared. While a draft
                                      Spanish version of the strategy was prepared, neither a final
                                      version of this document nor the Social Assessment was disclosed
                                      in Spanish in Panama or in English at the Infoshop, except when
                                      the PAD became public. Management acknowledges the



                                              32

                                                                          LandAdministration Project



                Cfaidlssue
                                        importance of this, since the lack of a stand-alone document
                                        makes it harder for key stakeholder groups, including the
                                        indigenous communities in Panama, to know what rights they have
                                        under the Project.

                                           In the context of preparingthe proposed Additional Financing
                                        operation for the Project in 2008, a social assessment and
                                        corresponding IPDP were completed and disclosed on the
                                        Project`swebsite in December2008. Management considersthat
                                        for the ongoing Projectthis does not meet the full requirementsof
                                        OD 4.20, becausethe 2008 Social Assessment and IPDP do not
                                        address all the Indigenous Peoples in the Project, includingthe
                                        Requesters.Consequently,Management will support additional
                                        work for the Projectto finalize this, and to disclose an IPDP
                                        meeting Bank policy requirements. This is expected to be
                                        completed by August 2009.
                                           Management is of the view that with the exception of the
                                        requirement to prepare and disclose a stand-alone IPDP as part of
                                        the Project preparation;the Project was prepared and supervised
                                        in a manner consistent with the objectives of OD 4.20. Actions
                                        under the Projectthat demonstrate this include: (i) requiringthat all
                                        Project activities be designed and implemented based on informed
                                        consultation with all affected indigenous groups, (ii) conveying to
                                        Government and the Projectthe need to continue to promote
                                        security of tenure of indigenousterritories after the Comarca Law
                                        was rejected; (iii) conveying its concern about the implicationsof
                                        Article 17 in Law 72 of 2008; (iv) requesting that no additional
                                        Project resources be used for the consolidation of the Naso
                                        territories, with the exception of mediation efforts betweenTito
                                        Santana and Valentin Santana; (v) requesting that the
                                        Government not approve the Charter until Management had had a
                                        chance to review the Charter and assess its consistency with Bank
                                        standards; (vi) engaging directly with different groups and factions
                                        including the one represented by the First Requesters; and (vi)
                                        emphasizing to the Projectthe need to consult with Tito Santana
                                        and Valentin Santana and their supporters and take their concerns
                                        into account.

OP 13.05, Project Supervision
Bank Responseto Concerns                  Management notes that in response to the First Requesters'
... in December2007...a note was sent   concerns in December2007, a field visit to the province of Bocas
to World Bank staff requesting an       del Tor0 was organized in January 2008. On January 31,2008,
urgent visit to the area.               Bank staff met separatelywith the two Naso leaders and took note
During the first visit carried out in   of their concerns. Tito Santana said he wished for a Comarca but
January 2008, World Bank staff were     in the meantime supported the draft bill of Collective Lands.
made aware of the concerns of the       Valentin Santana's group reiterated its opposition to the draft bill of
Naso People in relation to PRONAT. In   Collective Lands and its wish for a Naso Comarca Law. Bank staff
March, during [another]visit by World   committed to send a follow-up field mission.
Bank staff to evaluate PRONAT, the        In March 2008, Bank staff met first with Tito Santana in his
Nasowaited at the community of          community. The same day, a second meeting with Valentin
Bonyik but no World Bank staff ever     Santana was arranged by the Project Staff. To attend this meeting,
arrived. These same concerns [were]     Bank staff traveled 30 minutes on foot and another 30 minutes by



                                                 33

       Panama



No.               Ciaimlfssue                                                              e
    expressed by the Naso at a meeting            boat. The Bank mission arrived in Bonyik, the agreed meeting
    held later in Panama City. So far, no         place, about 20 minutes late. While the Bank mission was
   World Bank staff has responded.                reaching the shore, Valentin Santana's group was leaving, making
                                                  it impossible for the two parties to meet. Valentin Santana's group
                                                  saw the Bank's arrival but left before meeting with Bank staff.
                                                     A few days later, Bank staff invited Valentin Santana's
                                                  representatives to a meeting in their office in Panama City, where
                                                  the representatives reiterated the same concerns opposing the
                                                  draft bill of Collective Lands and supporting the Comarca bill. In
                                                  response to a call by Valentin Santana's supporters at this meeting
                                                  to pursue the approval of a Comarca Law, Management noted that
                                                  actual approval of a Naso Comarca bill is the prerogative of the
                                                  National Assembly of Panama. Also as a follow-up, the Bank
                                                  conveyed to Government authorities and Project staff the
                                                  importance of Tito Santana and Valentin Santana reaching a
                                                  consensus between themselves, as a basis for moving forward
                                                  with the consolidation of their territory, with a unified voice.
                                                     Management notes that since mid-2008, Bank staff have
                                                  interacted on several occasions with Akin Gump, a law firm
                                                  retained by the First Requesters, and have informed it of Bank
                                                  actions to address the First Requesters' concerns. Management
                                                  was informed that Akin Gump acted as official representative of
                                                  Valentin Santana's group. In retrospect, Management could also
                                                  have taken measures to inform the First Requesters directly.
                                                  Management intends to engage more regularly with the First
                                                  Requesters to inform them and consult with them about follow-up
                                                  actions.

    [We] ...request the intervention of the          The objective of the Project is to modernize the land
    World Bank's Independent Inspection           administration system, including priority protected areas and
    Panel in the case of ... PRONAT. We           Indigenous Peoples Territories. Management is of the view that
    came to this decision given the flagrant      this objective is supportive of the importance of human rights as
   violation of the Panamanian                    reflected in OD 4.20.
    Constitution as well as of the
    agreement and bilateral treaties on              Regarding the claim that the Project is in violation of the
    Human Rights and of the Indigenous            country's Constitution, Management chooses not to comment on
    Peoples and our Ancestral Territories,        such claim as Panama has its own judicial mechanisms to address
    of which Panama is [a] ~ignatory.`~           this issue.
                                                     Management understands the seriousness of these claims and
                                                 will engage as fully as possible to address these concerns.
                                                  Management notes that to the extent that certain human rights
                                                  related claims have been subject to consideration in various fora, it
                                                  is the policy of the Bank not to comment on these processes
                                                  involving the First Requesters and the Government.




       25Becausethis claim is in the natureof a conclusionto the other complaintsand issues raised,it has been
       movedto the end of the matrix.


                                                           34

                                                                                    LandAdministration Project


                                                     ANNEX2
                                              CLAIMSAND RESPONSES
                              SECONDREQU



Consultations, Disclosure of
Information, and Measurement                    People brought their concerns about the Project'sLbactivities in
Methods                                         their territories to the attention of Managementwas in December
... [The Second Requesters] denounce            2007.*'
the Government of the Republicof                  Management acknowledges that some aspects of consultations,
Panama and the staff of the World Bank disclosure of information, and measurement methods relatedto
office in Panama in relation to the loan        the S$zond Requesters' territories (Annex Areas     !ithe  Ngobe-
of the Panamanian National Land                 Bugle Cornarca in the Bocas del Tor0 Province, as shown in
Administration Program (PRONAT in               Map 2) were not implemented by the Projectstaff in accordance
Spanish), as well as the consulting and         with principles of informed participation.
information methods, and the system to
measure the territory Ngbbe of the                A field visit in March 2008 by the Bank verified that consultations
Bocas del Tor0 province, the                    had been carried out but identified weaknesses and subsequently
International Park (World Heritage Site),       recommended improving the consultations, inter alia, in the
the Palo Seco Protected Forest, and the         following areas: (i) use of native language rather than Spanish; (ii)
Bastimentos National Marine Park.               targeting messages at the education level of audience; (iii)
                                                ensuring consistency among messages; (iv) ensuring adequate
                                                gender representation; and (e) informing the audience of its legal
                                                rights in regard to the subject matter.
                                                  As noted in Item 7 below, subsequent supervision missions in
                                                June, July, and October3' 2008 continued to monitor
                                                implementation of the agreed actions.
Unmapped Annex Areas of Ngobe-                    The Ngbbe-Bugle Annex Areas indeed were not delimited
Bugle Cornarca                                  ("mapped out") in 1999. Management notes that the creation of the
...A proposal for the [delimitation of the      Ngobe-Bugle Cornarca,and related Annex Areas, in 1997, and the
Ngbbe-Bugle] annexed areas submitted            proposal in I999 which failed to address Annex Areas, both
in 1999 was rejected by the                     precede the Project.
Panamanian government and it was not              Management shares the Second Requesters' concern relatedto
possible to map out the territories that        the lack of mapping and demarcation of these areas. That is why
remained outside the area of Ngbbe-             from its inception, one of the Project's objectives under
Bugle (mostly known as the area                 Subcomponent 3.2 has been to complete the demarcation of the
annexed by legislation number 10 of             boundaries of the already created Ngbbe-Bugle Cornarca, as well
1997).                                          as some of the territories outside of the main area, known as
                                                Annex Areas, as defined in Law 10 of 1997. Item 3 below
                                                describes what the Project has already achieved in terms of the
                                                demarcation of the Ngbbe-Bugle Cornarcaand its Annex Areas.


    26PRONATis the Panama NationalLandAdministrationProgramestablishedin 2001. The World Bank
    financed LandAdministrationproject(the Project) is one of the three projectsthat constitutethe National
    Land AdministrationProgram.The two other projectsare financed by the IDB.
    "AnearliercomplaintbytheNgobe-BuglePeoplewasbroughttoManagement'sattentioninOctober2007,
    but this referredto another Bank-financedproject,the GEF, "Rural Productivityand Consolidation of the
    @antic MesoamericanBiologicalCorridor Project"(GEF Grant No. TF056628),signedon June 23, 2006.
      There are differentspellingscommonly usedto refer to the Ngobe-BuglePeople. In this Response,

    29
    Managementusesthe spelling used in Law 10of 1997that createdthe Ngobe-Bugle Cornarca.
      Managementnotesthat one of the IDB projects also finances some activitiesin the Province of Bocasdel
    Toro, includingthe islands.Unlessotherwise noted,the referencesto PRONAT in this Management
    Response refer only to those activitiesfinanced by the World Bank Loan.
    30The objectiveof the October 2008 missionwas primarilyto preparethe Additional Financing.


                                                         35

   Panama




Land vs. Territory
Practically since that moment [2001],        inception in 2001, has had as one of its specific objectives the
this Program has violated the                consolidation of the territories of Indigenous Peoples, including the
indigenous land rights, since PRONAT's       Ngobe-Bugle Comarca.
objective is to title land, not territory.       Management notes that the Project operates with the concept of
                                             territory as it relates to Indigenous Peoples' territorial claims. The
                                             Project`s objective is "to modernize the land administration system,
                                             including priority protected areas and Indigenous Peoples
                                             territories". Under Subcomponent 3.2, the Project's specific goal is
                                             the "establishment and consolidation of indigenous territories ..."
                                                To date the Project has already achieved the demarcation of
                                            approximately 1,000 linear kilometers (of a total of approximately
                                             1,300 linear kilometers) of territorial boundaries for the main area
                                            of the Ngobe-Bugle Cornarca.The Project has also demarcated
                                             the territorial boundaries of two Annex Areas in the Province of
                                             Chiriqui and four Annex Areas in Veraguas.
Also, only housing areas are being              For the Annex Areas in Bocas del Toro, the Project agreed in
recognized as annexed areas, and not         February 2007 with Ngobe-Bugle leaders: (i) to initiate the
the whole area used by our                   delimitation of the 15 Annex Areas included in Article 2 of Law 10
communities for materials, medicines,        of 1997; and (ii) to include the trabajaderos (Le., those
craft items, workshops and other            complementary areas used for productive and working activities) in
production activities.                      addition to housing areas.
Encroachment on Indigenous Lands                Management acknowledges the Second Requesters' concerns
The lack of territorial protection has      about the pressures caused by growth and development activities
allowed tourism, mining and                 on their territories. Management would like to clarify that the
hydroelectric enterprises to speculate      Project was not involved in the drafting or approval of Law 2 of
with our land which is shamelessly          2006, or the granting of related concessions in the area.
given away by the national authorities          Management notes that one of the Project`s key objectives-to
by way of Law number 2 of 2006 on           support the "establishment and consolidation of indigenous
concession and titling of islands and       territories" and improve overall land tenure security in the region-
coasts and the concession of 6.215           IS intended to address the concern about these pressures.
hectares of rural area of Vale Risco, a
Ngobe territory given by ANAM for the           While some progress was made in Subcomponent 3.2 before
construction of the hydroelectric project    2005, such as the demarcation of the core area of the Ngobe-
Chan 75.                                     Bugle Comarca, slow initial implementation of the Project due to a
                                             iiatus of relations between the Bank and the Government from
                                             2001 to 2004 eventually required: (i) the reestablishment of a more
                                             woductive dialogue on Project issues with the newly elected
                                             Sovernment in 2004; and (ii) the restructuring of the Project in
                                             2006 with the aim of accelerating implementation.
                                                The Project has informed the Bank that the two Annex Areas
                                             :Valle de Risco and Nance de Risco) located in the region of Valle
                                             Je Risco had chosen not to be annexed to the Ngbbe-Bugle
                                             Somarca (see Map 2) and indicated their willingness to form part
                                             i f a Corregimiento. During the March 2008 mission, the
                                             :ommunity of Valle de Risco had expressed in writing the desire
                                             lot to be annexed to the Comarca,while the community of Nance
                                             Je Risco was undecided. On April 19, 2008, leaders from the
                                             :ommunity of Nance de Risco sent a letter to the Project
                                             :ategorically rejecting being an Annex Area. These communities
                                             also questioned the consultation process, and noted their
                                             )reference for being part of a Corregirniento rather than a Ngobe-



                                                      36

                                                                            LandAdministration Project


                   Claim                                                Response
                                          Bugle annexed area. Given the doubts expressed by the Second
                                          Requesters about the adequacy of the consultations with regard to
                                          the decision to be annexed to the Comarca, on April 7, 2009,
                                          Management requested the Government to submit a detailed
                                          report on the consultations process before legalization of the
                                          Annex Areas is completed.
Law 72 of 2008                               Management's view is that the Law of Collective Lands reflects
...the Government of Panama and           an effort to improve the situation of Panamanian Indigenous
PRONAT promoted the creation of the       Peoples. Management notes that this Law had the support of other
collective lands bill which was approved  indigenous groups. Management concurred with the Project's
by the National Assembly of Deputies      support for the consultation process related to the Law of
on December 3, 2008... Toward the end     Collective Lands.
of December... President of Panama          As Law 72 of 2008 does not mention the Annex Areas of the
approved this law [law 721which           Ngbbe-Bugle Comarca, nor does it supersede Law 10 of 1997, it is
institutes a regime of collective         Management`s understanding that Law 72 of 2008 is not
community land rights and specifically    applicable to the Annex Areas of the Ngbbe-Bugle Comarca.
forbids the creation of the annexed       Therefore, based on the information available, Management
areas.                                    understanding is that this Law would not preclude the aspirations
... this new law [law 721flagrantly and   of Annex Area communities to have a legal framework in which
very seriously violates the sole and true their culture and all forms of political life are respected.
aspiration of the communities of the        Nevertheless, considering the importance of the Second
annexed areas- the creation of a          Requesters' claim related to Law 72 of 2008, on April 7, 2009
juridical framework where the culture     Management requested additional clarifications from the
and all forms of political life of the    Government as to how it intends to apply this Law to the Ngobe-
Ngbbe-Bugle people are respected          Bugle Annex Areas in the context of the Project's implementation,
                                          and in relation with the recently approved Law 18 of 2009.
                                          Management awaits a response to this request and will follow up if
                                          a response is not promptly forthcoming.
[A] Deputy ...submitted to the national     Management understands that the Second Requesters are
assembly a bill in which the              referring to Law 18 of 2009. Although the Second Requesters refer
communities designated as annexed         to a bill submitted to the National Assembly, Management learned
areas by Law number 10 of March 7,        on March 30, 2009 that that Law was actually promulgated on
1997, become national areas.              February 26,2009 and published on March 4,2009. Management
                                          is not aware of any information indicating that the Project promoted
                                          the Law. Management has just recently learned that this Law
                                          creates Corregimientos in the Chiriqui Grande and Changuinola
                                          districts of the Bocas del Tor0 Province, which may have an
                                          impact on the status of certain Ngobe-Bugle Annex Areas.
                                          Accordingly, on April 7, 2009, Management requested clarifications
                                          from the Government of Panama on the Law's implications for the
                                          implementation of the Project in these areas.
Summary of Compliance with OD              During Project preparation, a comprehensive social assessment
4.20                                      was undertaken. This included consultations with different groups,
.,. the World Bank did not enforce its    including representatives of Indigenous Peoples. A summary
operational policies on Indigenous        version of the Social Assessment as it relates to Indigenous
Peoples.                                  Peoples was incorporated in Annex 12 of the PAD, which refers to
                                          this as an Indigenous Peoples Strategy. Although this strategy
                                          contains the key elements of an IPDP, and included a
                                          subcomponent specifically targeted to Indigenous Peoples it did
                                          not include, for example, a detailed analysis of local indigenous
                                          forms of organizations or implementation arrangements.
                                          Managementacknowledges that no separate or free-standing



                                                    37

    Panama



                   Claim
                                                                              was prepare
                                         Spanish version of the strategy was prepared, neither a final
                                         version of this document nor the Social Assessment was disclosed
                                         in Spanish in Panama or in English at the Infoshop, except when
                                         the PAD became public. Management acknowledgesthe
                                         importance of this, since the lack of a stand-alone document
                                         makes it harder for key stakeholder groups, including the
                                         indigenous communities in Panama, to know what rights they have
                                         under the Project.

                                          In the context of preparing the proposedAdditional Financing
                                         operation for the Project in 2008, a social assessment and
                                         corresponding IPDP were completed and disclosed on the
                                         Project's website in December2008. Managementconsiders that
                                         for the ongoing Project this does not meet the full requirements of
                                         OD 4.20, because the 2008 Social Assessment and IPDP do not
                                         address all the Indigenous Peoples in the Project, including the
                                         Requesters. Consequently, Managementwill support additional
                                         work for the Project to finalize this, and to disclose an IPDP
                                         meeting Bank policy requirements. This is expected to be
                                         completed by August 2009.

                                           Management agrees with the Second Requestersthat the
                                         Project has not fully demonstrated the principle of informed
                                         participation of the NgObe-Bug16in some of the Project-related
                                         activities. The areas where the Project's approach was found
                                         lacking relate to the consultations, disclosure of information, and
                                         measurement methods related to the Annex Areas. Management
                                         submits, however, that when it discovered these gaps during the
                                         January and March 2008 missions, it recommended a number of
                                         measures to the Project to address them and, as described in item
                                         7, followed up with three supervision missions to ensure
                                         consistency with the Bank's policy. Management is taking the
                                         additional step of requesting that the Project submit the final report
                                         on the consultations and work done in the Annex Areas of the

OD 13.05, Project Supervision
Bank Response to Concerns                  Management agrees with the Second Requestersthat on
... at the request of the communities of January 31, 2008 Bank staff met with the Second Requesters in
the annexed area and isles of the Bocas  Bocas del Tor0 and took note of their concerns regarding the
del Tor0 province, a first meeting with  Project. At the meeting, the Second Requesters raised several
World Bank resident staff in Panama      concerns, including some unrelated to the Project or activities
was held in the PRONAT offices in the    supported by the Bank. Regardingthe Project, their main concerns
town of Changuinola. In this meeting,    were related to the consultation process and the land delimitation
we expressed our concern to the WB       process in the Annex Areas.
staff and to the Panamanian
government about PRONAT's
negligence and irregularities which
directly affect the land rights of the
NgObe communities of the Bocas del
Tor0 and annexed areas that remained
outside the limits of the region of
Ngbbe-Buglk. A commitment to
evaluate the program on the bases of



                                                  38

                                                                           LandAdministration Project



                 Claim                                                 Response
our request was obtained during the
meeting.
... during a second meeting held on the    Management notes that none of the four Bank staff members
island of Bocas del Tor0 in January     present at this second meeting that same day recall asking the
2008, a request from the inhabitants of Second Requestersto refrain from sending a complaint to the
the Palo Seco Park and Archipelago,     Bank's Executive Board or anyone else in Washington. While Bank
World Bank staff resident in Panama     staff expressed willingness and interest in continued meetings and
was informed that the communities       interaction, to Management`s recollection, Management did not
would report PRONAT's irregularities to receive further information related to the details of the event. Bank
the Executive Board in Washington.      staff present at the meeting do not recall having committed to
World Bank staff resident in Panama     attend the referenced congress, nor does Management recall
asked us not to do it and promised to   receiving further information related to details of the congress.
attend the second Congress of the
annexed area to be held on March 2,        Nevertheless, Management notes that it followed up on the
2008 in order to provide an answer to   Second Requesters' concerns. From March 3 to 14, 2008 a Bank
our request. No World Bank staff        mission-accompanied by the Ngbbe-Bugle General Chief
attended the congress and so far we     (Cacique)and the two Caciquesfor the Annex areas-visited 9 out
have received no response.              of the 15 Annex Areas in the Bocas del Tor0 Province to assess
                                        the work being undertaken by the Project in these areas. The
                                        mission confirmed that the Project had carried out consultations in
                                        the areas, but also identified several weaknesses in the
                                        consultation processes. The mission also noted the lack of
                                        awareness by the Project staff of the Project's Social Assessment
                                        and Indigenous Peoples' strategy. The mission made nine specific
                                        recommendations and asked the Project staff to prepare a
                                        Consultation Plan.
                                          A subsequent supervision mission in June carried out a
                                        comprehensive review of the entire subcomponent related to
                                        Indigenous Peoplesterritories. The Bank mission agreed with
                                        Project staff on the preparationof an action plan and a
                                        consultation plan. The action plan included, inter alia, land tenure
                                        studies, conflict resolution activities, as well as other activities
                                        foreseen in this subcomponent. The consultation plan was to
                                        improve the quality of the consultations.

                                          At the July 2008 supervision mission, the Project presented to
                                        Bank staff an action plan for the aforementioned activities, a
                                        timetable and a budget for completing implementation of this
                                        subcomponent. The plan also contained provisions related to
                                        consultations. The supervision mission was informed that the
                                        delimitation of 14 out of 15Annex Areas in the Ngbbe-Bugle
                                        Comarca had been completed. Based on the information provided
                                        by Project staff at the time, there was no reason to believe that the
                                        delimitations of the Annex Areas did not meet beneficiaries'
                                        expectations.

                                          During a subsequent mission in October 2008, whose main focus
                                        was the preparation of an Additional Financing operation, Project
                                        staff informed the mission that they were following up with the
                                        plans (related to Subcomponent 3.2 for Indigenous Peoples'
                                        territories) agreed to during the July 2008 mission. Considering the
                                        full range of issues discussed with Government for the Additional
                                        Financing, the October 2008 mission had no further discussion on
                                        the delimitations of the Annex Areas. In retrospect, Management



                                                 39

   Panama



                  Claim                                                Response
                                         acknowledgesthat this was a missed opportunity and therefore
                                         has taken the additional step of requesting that Government
                                         authorities submit a report on the consultations and work done in
                                         the Annex Areas of the Ngbbe-Bugle Comarca.

                                           Management notes that since three Caciques accompanied the
                                         field visits in March 2008, Bank staff assumed that the Caciques
                                         would iuform their constituents about the substance of the Bank
                                         mission. In retrospect, Management acknowledges that it could
                                         also have informed the Second Requesters directly. Management
                                         will engage more regularly with the Second Requesters to inform
                                         them and consult with them about follow-up actions.
Such PRONAT actions violate our land       As noted previously, the objective of the Project is to modernize
occupation rights, our human rights and  the land administration system, including priority protected areas
agreements and international treaties of and Indigenous Peoples Territories. Management is of the view
which Panama is a part, as well as the   that this is supportive of the importance of human rights as
World bank's strategic and operational   reflected in OD 4.20.
policies on Indigenous Peoples.            Management understands the seriousness of these claims and
This case was denounced to the           will engage as fully as possible to address these concerns.
Supreme Court of Justice, the Inter      Management notes that to the extent that certain human rights
American Commission on Human             related claims have been subject to consideration in various fora, it
Rights, and to the United Nations        is the policy of the Bank not to comment on these processes
Rapporteur on Indigenous Peoples         involving the Second Requesters and the Government.
without any statement from PRONAT on
the legal situation of this territory.
Instead, ANAM has said that this is a
protected area and Ambassador
Aristides Roy0 of the OAS, in his
statement to the Inter-American
Commission on Human Rights, stated
that we have no rights over this land.




                                                  40

                                                              LandAdministration Project


                                   ANNEX3
                                CHRONOLOGY OF
               KEYPROJECT PREPARATION AND IMPLEMENTATION EVENTS

May 13, 1999            Project ConceptNote Review

December 10, 1999       PreparationMeeting

January 16-27,2000      Pre-Evaluation Mission

March 21-23,2000        PreparationMission

April 10-18,2000        PreparationMission

September 10-15,2000    Joint Evaluation and PreparationMission (IBRDand IDB)
November 21,2000        Decision Meeting
November 21,2000        Appraisal Mission

December 14,2000        Negotiations

January 16,200 1        Board Approval. (Original Closing Date: September 30,2006)

April 2,2001            Signature ofthe Loan

July 19, 2001           Effectiveness

August 12-16,2002       Supervision Mission
April 27 -May 2,2003    Joint SupervisionMission (IBRDand IDB)

October 6-10,2003       Supervision Mission

October 14-18,2004      Mid-TermEvaluation Mission

September2004           NewAdministration ofPresidentMartin Torrijos

November 15,2004        Supervision Mission

May 23-27,2005          Supervision mission

June 20-24,2005         Supervision Mission

October 20,2005         Formal Requestfrom Government to Restructurethe Project

November 14-18,2005     Supervision Mission
April 11,2006           Restructuring Approval by the Board (first order)

May 23-25,2006          Supervision Mission

June 23,2006            Effectiveness ofthe Restructuring (New closing date of December 31,
                        2009)

December 18-22,2006     Supervision Mission

March 59,2007           Supervision Mission

July 13-18,2007         Supervision mission
December 7-21,2007      Supervision Mission




                                        41

Panama



January 30-February 2,2008 SupervisionMission, including Visit to Bocas delTor0 Province and
                           Meeting with the First and Second Requesters
March 3-14,2008            Supervision Mission, including Visit to Bocas delTor0 Province and
                           Meeting with the First and Second Requesters

June 8-13,2008             Supervision Mission

July 14-18,2008            SupervisionMission

September9,2008            Formal Requestfrom Government for an Additional Financing
October 5-10,2008          PreparationMission for the Additional Financing.

December 18,2008           Management informs Government of its Decision to put Preparationof
                           Additional Financing on hold
February 16-20,2009        SupervisionMission o f Component 2, including FieldVisit
March 11,2009              Inspection PanelRegistersthe FirstRequest
March 20,2009              InspectionPanelRegistersthe SecondRequest




                                          42

                                                                    LandAdministration Project


                                         ANNEX4
       CHRONOLOGY OF BANKAND PROJECT ENGAGEMENT             WITH THE NASOPEOPLE

March 2001 to June  Project supportsworkshops, consultations and studies for preparation o f
2004                Naso Comarca Bill.
October 2002        Naso Comarca Bill is presentedto Commission for Indigenous Affairs o fthe
                    National Assembly.
June 4,2004         Note o fNational Directorate for Indigenous Policy recognizing Tito Santana
                    as the maximum authority o fthe Naso Teribe People.
June 24,2004        NationalAssembly votes on Naso ComarcaBill, which fails to be approved.
September 6,2004    A new Billfor creation oftheNaso Comarcais presentedto the National
                     Assembly (Bill 19).
September2004 to    Project supports delimitation and conflict resolution activities with Tito
end 2006            Santanaand Valentin Santana, insupport o fthe Naso Comarca Bill.
                    Delimitation process is then interruptedbecause of internal conflicts.
April 17,2005       Note ofNational Directorate for Indigenous Policy recognizing Tito Santana
                    as the maximum authority ofthe Naso Teribe People.
Endof 2005          Discussion o fthe Naso ComarcaBill 19 is suspendedby the National
                    Assembly.
April 2007          Presidentcreates a HighLevel Commission to start dialogue with indigenous
                    leaderson land and social issues.
November 2,2007     ACD writes to the Bank to express its concerns about: (i)  non-approval of
                    theNaso Comarca Billand(ii)     Government refusal to recognize Valentin
                     Santana .
December 6,2007     FirstRequesterswrite to the Bank inter aliaabout Project activities with the
                    Naso and request an urgentWorld Bank visit to the area.

January 15,2008     Bank informs Government that it will visit the area inJanuary.
January 30,2008     Tito Santanaasks the Bank to communicate only with him.
January 30 -Feb. 2, Bank Supervision Missionto Bocas del Tor0 meets with First Requesters
2008                andTito Santana's group.
March 7,2008        Bank Supervision to Bocas del Tor0 meets with Tito Santana's group but
                    cannot meet with FirstRequesters.
March, 13,2008      Bank staff meets some o fthe FirstRequestersinBank Office inPanama
                    City.
April to July 2008  Bank staff and Akin Gump meet twice and exchange communications about
                    the Project.
May 2,2008          Tito Santanacomplains to the Bank that it is not interacting only with himas
                    the sole official authority oftheNaso People.
May 27,2008         Letter from representativeo fthe BriBripeople to the Project pressing for
                    establishment o ftheir Collective Territory.
June 8-13,2008      Bank Supervision Mission agrees with the Project on an Action Planto
                    facilitate mediation betweenthe two Naso factions.
July 11,2008        Bank staff meetswith Akin Gump in Washington DC and agrees on
                    importance for the Bank and Akin Gump to promote such a mediation


                                             43

Panama



                    process.
July 14,2008        Project offers mediation facilitated by Caritas Pastoral Social to Tito Santana
                    andValentin Santana.
August 21,2008      Project proposesto Tito Santana andValentin Santanato meet in
                    Changuinola to pursue dialogue for creation of the Comarca.
September 9,2008    After various interactions with Project and Bank, Akin Gump proposesto
                    Project (copying Bank) mediation facilitated by an OAS expert.
October 5,2008      FirstRequestersinformthe Bank andthe Project that they opposethe
                    Collective Lands Law and propose mediation facilitated by an OAS expert.
October 16,2008     Tito Santanacomplains to the Bank that it is not interacting only with himas
                    the sole official authority oftheNaso People.
November 6,2008     Akin Gumprequestssupport from the Government (copying the Bank) for
                    mediation facilitated by an OAS expert.
November 17,2008    Akin Gump meetsthe Bank inPanamaCity andreiteratesValentin's wish
                    for a Comarca.
November 25,2008    Akin Gump asks Managementfor anurgent meetingto discuss its concerns
                    with the Project.
December 3,2008     National Assembly approves Collective Lands Law.
December 5,2008     Project sendsthe Bank a copy of Collective Lands Law approved on Dec. 3,
                    2008.
December 9,2008     Bank asks for clarifications about Article 17.
December IO, 2008   Project Director sendsthe Bank clarifications about Law 72 and its Art.17.
December 11,2008    Bank staff meets with Akin Gump to discuss its concerns.
December 18,2008    Bank staff meets Project Authorities to: (i)inform about suspensionof
                    Additional Financing; and (ii)  request continuation o fthe mediation
December 22,2008    Project offers to finance workshops for Tito Santanaand Valentin Santanato
                    facilitate conciliation.
December 30,2008    Collective Lands Law is publishedinthe Official Gazette.
December 25,2008 to Project facilitates consultation workshops for preparationo f Charter.
mid-February 2009
March 11,2009       Inspection Panelregisters First Request, sent on February25,2009.
March 18,2009       Management asks Government not to approve Charter before it has
                   possibilityto exchangeviews about its preparation process.
April 2,2009        Government answers positively to Bank request.




                                            44

                                                                     Land Administration Project


                                          ANNEX5
  CHRONOLOGY OF BANKAND PROJECT ENGAGEMENT WITH THE NGOBE-BUGLE PEOPLE

2004-2005       Firstphase ofthe demarcationofthe Ngobe-Bugle Comarca:demarcationof
                limits within the Province of Chiriqui (509 km).
2006-2007       Secondphase o fthe demarcation o fthe Ngobe-Bugle Comarca: demarcation
                o f limits within the Province o fVeraguas (5 12km).
2007 to present Third phase o fthe demarcation o fthe Ngobe-Bugle Comarca: demarcation
                o f 160kmto date within the Province of Bocas del Tor0 (67 kmto be
                demarcated).
October 2006    Agreement among Project staff, co-implementing agencies, and
                representativesofthe Ngobe-Bugle People to address situation of Annex
                Areas inBocas del Toro.
February 8,     Agreement among Project staff, co-implementing agencies, and
2007            representativeso fthe Ngobe-Bugle People to initiate work inAnnex Areas
                and to include trabajaderos.
Mid-2007 to end Project carried out consultations inthe 15 Annex Areas, that ledto their
2008            delimitation andpresentationo f resolutions o fwhether they desire or not to
                be part ofthe Ngobe-Bugle Comarca by eachAnnex Area.
November 2,     ACD informs Bank about its concerns regarding negative impact o f private
2007            development projects on the Ngobe-Bugle territories.
December 6,     SecondRequesterswrite to the Bank inter alia about Project activities within
2007            the Annex Areas andask for an urgentBankvisit to the area.
January 15-16,  Bank informs Government and the SecondRequesters that it will visit the
2008            area inJanuary.
January 30 -    Bank Supervision Missionto Bocas delTor0 meets with SecondRequesters
February 2,     accompaniedbyNgobe-Bug16General Cacique.
2008
February 14,    General Cacique asks Bank to communicate directly with him.
2008
March 3, 2008   Bank informs Ngobe-Bugle General Cacique that it recognizesthe
                traditional authorities but must hear all groups.
March 3-14,     Bank staff participates as observer inProject visits andconsultations in 9
2008            Annex Areas (5 onthe islandsand4 onthe continent).
April and May   ACD and Project exchange several letters (copied to Bank) inwhich they
2008            disagree on delimitation processo fValle de Risco andNance de Risco.
June 8-13,2008  Bank Supervision Mission carries out detailed implementation review of
                Component 3.2 andasks for an action plan for Annex Areas.
July 14-18,2008 Project presents action plan to complete work inAnnex Areas.
October 5-10,   Preparation Mission for Additional Financing. Project informs Bank that
2008            July action plan is being implemented.




                                             45

Panama



March20,2009  InspectionPanelRegisters SecondRequestreceivedonFebruary 25,2009.
April 7,2009  Managementasks Government notto legalizeAnnex Areas before
              Managementhaspossibilityto exchangeviews about delimitationprocess.




                                       46

                                                                            LandAdministration Project


                                                ANNEX6
   LISTOF LAWSAND EXECUTIVE DECREES                 MENTIONED IN THE MANAGEMENT       RESPONSE

Constitution o fthe PanamanianRepublic.
Law No.10 o f 1997 "By which the Ngdbe-Bugle Comarca is created and other measures
are taken."
Executive DecreeNo. 194o f 1999, "By which the Administrative Organic Charter ofthe Ngobe-
Bugle Comarca is adopted."
Executive DecreeNo. 124o f 2001,"By which the structure ofthe National Land Administration
Program (PRONAT) is establishedand various functions are designated."
Law No. 2 of 2006, "Which regulatesconcessionsfor tourism investmentandthe alienation of
insular territory for purposes o f its use for tourism, and issues other provisions."
Law No. 24 o f2006,-"Which declaresthat the land regulation and masstitling activities executed
bythe State are mattersofpublic order and social interest, and adopts other provisions."
Executive DecreeNo. 228 o f 2006, "Which regulatesLaw 24 of July 5,2006 which declares that
the landregulation and mass titlingactivities executedbythe State are matters ofpublic order
and social interest, and adopts other provisions."
Law No. 72 of 2008, "Which establishesthe specialprocedure for the allocation of collective
ownership of lands o f indigenous peoples who are not within the Comarcas."
Law No. 18 o f2009, "Which createscorregimientos inthe Districts o f Chiriqui Grande and
Changuinola inthe Province o f Bocas del Toro."




                                                    47


Panama




                        ANNEX7.1

          UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION LAW10 OF 1997
                              OF




                           48


                                                                         LandAdministration Project


                                   G.O. [Official Gazette] 23242

                                            LAW No. 10
                                         of March 7,1997

        WHEREBY THE NGOBE-BUGLE COMARCA I S CREATED AND OTHER
                                   MEASURESARE TAKEN

                               THE LEGISLATIVEASSEMBLY

                                            DECREES:

                                             Chapter I

                                    Creationand Delimitation


Article 1. The Ngobe-Bugle Comarcai s created, inaccordancewith the Political Constitution and
national laws, as a specialpolitical division inthe territory of the Republic of Panama, formed by
three large regions extending over part of the continental and insular portion of the provinces of
Bocas del Toro, Chiriqui and Veraguas, and its organization and operation are subject to the
Political Constitution, the Law and the Organic Charter.

These regions are divided into districts and corregimientos comarcales, whose organization,
administration and operation are subject to the special regime established inthis Law, to the
Organic Charter and to the PoliticalConstitution.

Article 2. The Ngobe-Bugle Comarca is constituted bythe land area containedwithinthe
following limits:

[Section not translated, per instructions.]

ANNEXEDAREAS INTHE PROVINCEOF BOCAS DELTOR0

The annexedareas inthe province of Bocas del Tor0 are constituted by the communities
inhabited by over 300 indigenous persons, and include the populations of L a Gloria, Milla Siete y
Medio, Junquito (corregimiento of Changuinola); Nuevo Paraiso, Valle Riscb, Nance de Riscb,
Rio Oeste, Miraflores, QuebradaPastor (corregimiento of Almirante); Yorkin (corregimiento of
Guabito); Salt Creek (corregimiento of Bastimentos); Isla Tigre, Chacol, Cay0 de Agua
(corregimiento of PuntaLaurel); and SanCristbbal (corregimiento of Bocas del Toro).

These communities or populations defined as annexedareas shall be delimited by the Agrarian
Reform, the National Commission on Boundaries, the Electoral Court, the municipality to which
they currently belong, andbytwo representativesofthe Regional Congress.

Paragraph.The institutions shall be granted a period ofno more than twenty months to conduct
the corresponding delimitations, whichmust be submittedbythe Executive Agency to the
Legislative Assembly for its approval.

[Section not translated,per instructions.]




                                                 49

Panama


Article 3. The boundariesof the regions o fthe Ngobe-Bugle Comarca shall be definedby taking
into consideration their location inboth the continental and insular areas inthe provinces of
Bocas del Toro, ChiriquiandVeraguas.

The boundariesofthis Comarcaandthose ofeachregion shall be definedon site by the Agrarian
Reform Bureau o fthe Ministryo fAgricultural and Livestock Development and the National
Commission on Boundaries, with the collaboration o fthe NationalBureau of Indigenous Policy
o f the Ministry o f Governanceand Justice, a representativeofthe respective Regional Congress, a
representative ofthe Inter-provincial Committee for the Defense ofthe Lands o f Peasants and
Farmers-Chiriqui andVeraguas (CIPTCP), the Electoral Court, the NationalBureau of Cadastre
and the Department of Censusand Statistics of the Office o fthe Comptroller General o fthe
Republic, inaccordancewith the areas and conditions indicated inthis Law, for each o fthe three
regional polygons. The physical definition o fthe boundaries o fthe Comarca and o f the territories
and communities shall be conducted in a period of no more than thirty months from this Law's
date o f effectiveness, and inaccordancewith landtenure censuses conductedbythe Agrarian
Reform Bureau ofthe Ministryo f Agricultural and Livestock Development for the preparation of
this Law.

Article 4. The communities located incontinental and insular lands o fthe provinces o f Bocas del
Toro, Chiriqui andVeraguas, which are described inthe boundariesestablishedfor the Comarca,
shall form part o fthe special political division of the Ngobe-Bugle Comarca as annexedareas.

Article 5. The current districts of Bocas delTor0 and Chiriqui Grande, inthe province of Bocas
del Toro; Remedios, San Felix, San Lorenzo andTolB, inthe province of Chiriqui; and Caiiazas
and Las Palmas, inthe province o fVeraguas shall continue as such and shall encompass land
areas and corregimientos not included within the Comarca.

The corregimientos that form the current districts ofBocas del Toro, Chiriqui Grande, Tole,
Remedios, San Fdlix, San Lorenzo, Las Palmas and Caiiazas, which by reasonof the new
delimitation remain within the Ngobe-Bugle Comarca, shall be incorporated inthe new
jurisdictions ofthe administrative districts that are constituted.

Paragraph. The land surfacethat is separated from the current corregimientos, by reasonofthe
new delimitation, may be constituted as a new corregimiento or mayjoin thejurisdiction ofany
o fthe closest corregimientos located on both sides o fthe boundary o fthe Ngobe-Bugle Comarca.

Article 7.Fromthe date o fthis Law's effectiveness, the relevant agencies are authorized to
conduct the administrative and electoral reorganization o fthejurisdictions, the comarca regions
and communities or annexedareas o fthe Comarca, ina period of no more than twenty four
months. The positions subject to popular election shall be filled inaccordancewith provisions in
the Political Constitution andthe Electoral Code.

Inno case shallthis reorganization decreasethe number ofcurrent legislators ofthe provinces of
Bocas del Toro, Chiriqui and Veraguas. The regrouping o f corregimientos and populations for the
Comarca's establishmentinthe respective provinces must guaranteethe election of the number o f
legislators who correspondto the Comarca.

Article 8. Inorder to comply with the comarca organization and delimitation, the State shall
include inthe General Budget o fthe State the necessary'budget items.

                                              Chapter I11


                                                  50

                                                                              LandAdministration Project


                                       Land Ownership Regime

The lands delimited under this Law constitute the collective property o f the Ngobe-Bugle
Comarca, with the objective o f achieving the cultural, economic and social well-being o f its
population; thus, private appropriation and transfer o f such lands under any title i s prohibited. The
means o f transmission, acquisition and modalities o f use and enjoyment o f ownership shall be
conducted in accordance with the collective rules and practices o f the Ngobe-Bugle people.

Existingproperty titles and rightso fpossession, certified bythe NationalAgrarian Reform
Bureau, are recognized. Persons who hold such rights o f possession may acquire ownership titles
on these lands.

Paragraph 1. Only those properties that are registered in the respective inventory conducted by
the NationalAgrarian Reform Bureau shall have the status o f possessions inthese lands.

Paragraph 2. Non-inventoried properties inthe corregimiento o f Santa Catalina, district o f Bocas
del Toro, province o f Bocas del Toro, for the preparation o fthis Law, may be registered by the
Agrarian Reform ina period o fno more than six months, iftheir possessors request the
recognition o fthe right o f possession.

Article 10. The sale o f private properties, as well as o f the improvements existing within the
Comarca, may be conducted provided that first choice is offered to the Ngobe-Bugle Comarca.
For such purposes, the offer must be sent inwriting to the corresponding comarca mayor, who
will have up to ninety days to accept or reject it, and an additional ninety days to formalize the
transaction. Ifthis right o f choice and perfecting the transaction i s not used, the person offering
the property shall be authorized to sell to third parties but at a price not lower than that offered to
the Comarca.

Ifthe privateproperty is acquiredbyathirdparty, thisnewowner shall agreeto fulfilltherules
established inthis Law. Any title or right o f possession obtained that is contrary to the provisions
inthis Law shall bevoid.

Article 11. Rights o f possession shall be transferrable due to death, and the heirs should continue
working on or inhabiting the land so that their rights can be recognized, through a procedure
submitted to the Agrarian Reform, and sent to the comarca mayor and the area's traditional
comarca authorities.

The transfer o fthe heirs' rightso f possession due to acts among the living shall be subject to the
right of first choice infavor o fthe Comarca, established inthis Law.

Paragraph. The voluntary abandonment, without pressure orjustified cause, o f the use o f lands
with rightsofpossession for a period o f more than two years shall allow these lands to be claimed
so that they can be incorporatedfor the collective use ofthe Ngobe-Bugle Comarca. The
traditional authority shall make this request to the corresponding comarca mayor, who will submit
itto the Agrarian Reformwhich will resolve it subject to investigation, with transfer to those
affected. Once this claim i s settled favorably, those lands will form part o f the collective property
o f the Ngobe-Bugle Comarca, subject to compliance with legal formalities. The Organic Charter
shall establish said procedures.

Article 12. The State and the indigenous authorities shall guarantee and respect the right o f use
and enjoyment o f private lands, indigenous and non-indigenous rights o f possession, as well as


                                                   51

Panama


collective ownership, within the Ngobe-Bugle Comarca, and shall promote peaceful coexistence
within and outside thisjurisdiction.

Article 13. Any real estate property, acquired through purchase, barter, donation or incorporation
by the Comarca municipalities, withinthe Ngobe-Bugle Comarca, shall form part o fthe
collective property o f this Comarca, following the procedures established inthe Law.

Article 14. The regime for the use or enjoyment o f lands slated for collective use by the
inhabitants o fthe Ngobe-Bugle Comarca shall be regulated inthe Organic Charter, with equal
rights, following the rules the established inthe PoliticalConstitution and inaccordance with the
traditions o f the Ngobe-Bugle people.

Article 15. The traditional indigenous authorities shall duly administer the beneficial use o f
collective lands, in accordance with the procedures established inthe Organic Charter, for the
benefit o f all residents o f the Ngobe- BugleComarca, with equal opportunities for all.

Article 16. The State shall recognizethe property titles and rightso f possession o f all indigenous
persons o f the Ngobe-Bugle ethnic group, residing inthe area, who are outside the Comarca's
boundaries established inaccordance with current legal provisions and in accordance with the
land tenure inventory conductedby the Agrarian Reform for the preparation o f this Law.

                                              Chapter I11
                                    Governance and Administration

Article 17. The State recognizes the existence o fthe General Congress o f the Comarca as the
chief agency for the ethnic and cultural expression and decision making o f the Ngobe-Bugle
people. It also recognizes the Local Comarca Congresses for conserving and strengthening the
traditions, languages, cultures, unity and integrity o f their inhabitants, for economic and social
development. Their organization and operation shall be governed by the rules stemming from the
Political Constitution, the Law and the Organic Charter.

Article 18. The decisions and resolutions stemming from the Congresses must be subject to the
constitutional principles and current laws o f the Republic, compliance with which i s common for
all Panamanian citizens. Inthe case o f violations o fthe rightso f third parties, such decisions may
be appealed by those affected, inaccordance with the legal rules established inthe law and whose
procedure must be established inthe Organic Charter.

Paragraph. The Organic Charter shall establishthe manner inwhich the General, Regional and
Local Congresses will operate and be organized, as well as the manner inwhich their leaders are
elected. Likewise, the Organic Charter shall establish, adjusted to the Constitution and the laws o f
the Republic, the duties, functions andrightsofcomarca and elected traditional authorities.

Article 19. The General Congress may appoint permanent or special commissions and these shall
safeguard the development o f the Ngobe-Bugle community. The Organic Charter shall regulate
their operation.

Article 20. Inaddition to the General Congress and the Regional Congresses, the Comarca
Communication Council shall operate inthe Comarca; it shall promote, coordinate and reconcile
the activities that are aimed at the integrateddevelopment o f the Comarca and shall serve as a
consultation agency, inaccordance with articles 252 and 253 o f the PoliticalConstitution.




                                                  52

                                                                           LandAdministration Project


Article 21. Uponthe effectiveness o fthis Law, the General Congress and the Regional and Local
Congresses shall reorganizetheir traditional administrative authorities, as stipulated inthe present
Law.

The General Congress shall have a period o f no more than two years to determine the term o f
their respective authorities.

Article 22. The Comarca Coordination Council shall be composed o fthe corregimiento
representatives, the comarca governor, the general chief, the three regional chiefs, the president o f
the General Congress and the presidents o f the Regional Congresses, with voting rights.The
following will participate only with the right to speak but not to vote:
     1. The representatives o fministries and o f autonomous and semi-autonomous State
        institutions.
    2. The legislators o felectoraljurisdictions who, as mandated by the Law, were elected in
        thejurisdictions o f the Ngobe-Bugle Comarca.

Article 23. The Organic Charter shall create Regional Coordination Councils, with the function o f
participating inthe preparation o f the region's integrated development plans and inthe
promotion, evaluation, formulation and implementation o f programs.

Article 24. The State recognizes the following traditional authorities o f the Ngobe-Bugle
Comarca:

     1. The general chief [cacique]
    2. The regional chief [cacique]
    3. The local chief [cacique]
    4. The immediate chief uefe]
    5. The community spokesperson

Their functions shall be those stipulated inthe PoliticalConstitution, the Law and the Organic
Charter.

Article 25. The Comarca's maximum traditional authority i s the general chief, who will have two
alternates, elected by the General Congress, through a democratic popular vote, for a period o f six
years. This election shall be conducted by the General Congress, according to the democratic
procedures established inthe Organic Charter, based on procedural rules and in accordance with
principles established inthe Political Constitution.

Likewise, regional and local chiefs shall be elected by their respective Regional and Local
Congresses. The Electoral Court shall supervise the elections.

Article 26. Both the general chief and the regional and localchief may be reelected, and may be
removed from their positions when they commit duly proven violations to the Organic Charter
and the laws o f the Republic, or when they commit crimes or misdemeanors clearly defined inthe
Law.

Paragraph. Inthe case o f temporary or definitive suspension o f a traditional authority, the first
alternate shall assume the position, as established inthe Organic Charter.

Article 27. The general chiefs functions and duties are:




                                                  53

Panama


    1. To coordinate and collaborate with national government and traditional authorities to
        harmoniously carry out his functions within the Comarca.
    2. To represent the Ngobe-Bugle people and the Comarca.
    3. To present a report on his administrationto the General Congress.
    4. To coordinate, jointly with regional agencies and state and traditional authorities,
        activities and programs to benefit the communities.
    5.  To attend the General Congress.
    6. To seek peaceful coexistence and understandingbetween citizens and communities.
    7. Any other duty assigned to himby the Organic Charter, in line with the traditions and
        customs o fthe population, and that benefits the sustainable economic, cultural, social and
        moral development o f the Ngobe-Bugle people.

Article 28. Ineach region there will be a regional chief and two alternates, who will be elected
democratically by the corresponding Regional Congress. The regional chiefwill be the maximum
traditional authority o f his respective region. The Organic Charter shall establish his functions, as
well as coordination and collaboration with the other authorities.

Article 29. The traditional authority o f the comarca district is called the local chief, who will be
elected democratically, along with two alternates, bythe Local Congress.

Article 30. The general chief, the regional and local chiefs o f the Ngobe-Bugle Comarca are the
traditional authorities withintheir respective jurisdictions, and their decisions may be appealed to
the higher ranking authority and to the General Congress, in accordance with stipulations inthe
Organic Charter.

Article 31.The traditional authority o f the corregimiento i s called the immediate chief who shall
be appointed by the local chief from a short-list presented by the spokespersons o f the
corregimiento's communities. H i s functions shall be established inthe Organic Charter.

The immediate chiefs may be removed by the localchief, subject to consultation with the
respective spokespersons.

Article 32. Spokespersons shall be elected by the communities and may be appointed by the
corregidor to carry out the functions o f regidores. Their functions shall be those indicated inthe
Organic Charter.

Article 33. Inthe Ngobe-Bugle Comarca, there will be a comarca governor, freely appointed and
removed by the Executive Agency, who shall represent the President o f the Republic andthe
Executive Agency, with the same functions that, currently and inthe future, provincial governors
have, providedthat they are compatible with the present Law.

Article 34. The functions o f the comarca governor are:
    1. To represent the Executive Agency at comarca level.
    2. To present to the central government the Comarca's needs, andthus coordinate with
        traditional and elected authorities as well as with corresponding State institutions.
    3. To inform the General Congress and the Regional Congress, as well as the Executive
        Agency, about his activities.
    4. To coordinate withthe general chief, regional chiefs and presidents o f congresses.
    5. To contribute to the preparation o f the budget and to Coordinate, guide, reconcile, aid and
        ensure that works and programs that promote integrateddevelopment are conducted, as




                                                   54

                                                                            Land Administration Project


         well as the healthy coexistence o f the population among themselves and betweennational
         government staff and traditional and elected authorities.
     6. Other functions that the Law specifies for provincial governors.

Article 35. The budget o fthe Ministryo f Governance and Justice shall consider a budget item for
the payment o fthe salaries o f the comarca governor, the general chief, the regional chiefs andthe
local chiefs o f the Comarca, according to their ranking, understanding that alternates will only
receive such salary inthe periods when they legally occupy the official positions of their
superiors.

Paragraph. The State shall provide the resources for the functioning o f the comarca government
as well as the staff required, and the resources for the payment o f salaries considered inthis Law
or that inthe future may be considered necessary, for the proper functioning o fthe Comarca.

Article 36. In each comarca district there will be comarca mayor, head o f the Comarca's
municipal administration, who shall be elected by direct popular vote for a period o f five years.
The State shall provide himwith technical assistancethrough the NationalBureau o f Local
Governments o f the Ministry o f Governance and Justice, for the proper municipal administration
o f the Comarca.

Article 37. The comarca districts shall observe the municipal fiscal regime o f the Republic and
carry out the municipal administration system inthe Organic Charter, inaccordance with the
Political Constitution and other laws o f the Republic.

Article 38. The Comarca Municipal Council is the autonomous political organization o fthe
Ngijbe-Bugle community and will have the functions established by the Constitution and the laws
o f the Republic for municipal councils. It shall be composed o f the district's corregimiento
representatives, who will have voting rights; butthe comarca mayor, the localchief, the comarca
treasurer, the president o fthe Regional Congress, the regional chief and the president Local
Congress may speak but will not have voting rights.

Article 39. Inthe Comarca, where there are populations o f indigenous and non-indigenous ethnic
groups, a Peace and Reconciliation Committee i s created at regional and local level, composed o f
a representative chosen by each ethnic group or population group: one by each ethnic group, and
one by the non-indigenous population.

The Peace and Reconciliation Committee shall have the mission o f promoting recognition o f and
respect for the rights o f each population group withinthe Comarca. The Organic Charter shall
regulate the procedure to be followed.

                                             Chapter IV
                                      Administration o f Justice

Article 40. The Judicial Agency and the Office o f the Attorney General [Ministerio P~iblico]shall
create inthe Comarca the courts, government attorney's offices [fiscalias] and positions
[personerias] needed for the administration o fjustice. Their organization, operation and
appointment o f personnel shall be subject the current legal provisions.

The administration ofjustice inthe Comarca shall be conducted in accordance with the Political
Constitution and the Law, taking into account the cultural situation o fthe area and inaccordance
with the principleo fhealthy criticism.


                                                  55

Panama




Article 41. The Comarca authorities shall cooperate withjudicial and police authorities inthe
investigation of crimes, misdemeanors and other violations o f the Law.

                                              Chapter V
                                              Economy

Article 42. The national government shall annually guarantee, under the General State Budget,
the necessary budget items for the proper administration, investment and integrated development
o f the Ngobe-Bugle Comarca, which shall be channeled through State institutions with the
collaboration o f the General, Regional and Local Congresses, and these budget items shall be
used according to the plans and programs prepared by the corresponding government authorities,
incoordination with indigenousauthorities.

The Ministry o f Planning and Economic Policy shall design and develop economic self-
management policies, and seek financial resources for community development.

Itwill also preparethe methodology for the preparation of documents that generate projects and
are channeled through the General State Budget.The Office o f the Comptroller General o f the
Republic shall oversee the correct use o f State resources inthe Comarca.

Article 43. The Ngobe-Bugle Comarca, through the relevant agencies, shall plan and promote
sustainable integrated development projects inthe communities, with the proper inter-institutional
coordination. For these purposes, the State shall provide technical and financial assistance, and
the means for marketing and commercializing agricultural, industrial, handicraft production,
tourism, etc. will be created.

Article 44. The inhabitants o f the Comarca shall receive special consideration from credit
agencies inorder to carry out credit operations or receive subsidies. The State shall create
mechanismsto facilitate the most effective way for the Comarca's producersto obtain credit from
public financial entities, through the establishment o f forms that are effective for both parties.
Likewise, the Comarca may channel resources through credit entities that offer favorable
conditions for their self-management projects. The Comarca's districts may also receive grants
for any public or private entity, whether an individual or corporation, national or foreign, for the
operation of integrated or community development projects. These grants are deductible from the
income tax. The Organic Charter shall develop the corresponding procedures.

Article 45. Each ministryor autonomous or semi-autonomous entity may create bureaus or
agencies for providing services and for executing budgets or projects, with the aim o f promoting
sustainable development through activities or programs that are carried out inthe Ngobe-Bugle
Comarca, taking into account the multicultural situation o f the Comarca.

Article 46. A Commission is created at the highest level for the planning and promotion o f the
integrated development o f the Comarca, with the representation o f ministries and state entities, as
well as the presidents o f Regional Congresses, regional comarca chiefs and the comarca
governor, who will seek the most favorable means o f achieving the population's participation in
the integrated development plans o f the Panamanian nation, taking into account their cultural
diversity, inaccordance with stipulations inthe Political Constitution and the Law.

                                             Chapter VI
                                         Natural Resources


                                                  56

                                                                           LandAdministrationProject




Article 47. The State is obliged to guarantee adequate compensation, seeking the improvement o f
the quality o f life o f those affected, ifpopulations or persons must be moved or relocated due to
development plans or projects. In such cases, the necessary consultation, communication and
participation mechanisms will be promoted among the Comarca's authorities and the population.

Article 48. The exploration and use o f natural resources, salt works, mines, waters, quarries, and
mineral deposits o f all sorts that are found inthe Ngobe-Bugle Comarca may be carried out under
the execution o f industrial, agricultural, tourism, miningand energy, and roads development plans
and projects, and communications or other projects that benefit the country, inaccordance with
provisions inthe national legislation.

Inthese cases, the State andthe concessionaire shall develop a disseminationprogram, so that
indigenous authorities and communities are informed and may voluntarily present their
viewpoints on such projects, which must ensure the population's rights inbenefit o f and in
compliance with the principles o f sustainable development and ecological protection, seeking
their participation.

Incaseswhere extraction or use is feasible, aprior environmental impact study shall berequired,
and must include the social impact, taking into considerationthe cultural features o f the affected
population. The result o f the study must be presentedto the relevant authority, who will give a
copy to the indigenous authorities, throughthe Comarca Coordination Council, so that they can
present their observations in a periodo f no more than thirty days.

Labor relations between the concessionaires for the extraction or use o f natural resources and the
workers shall be governed by provisions inthe Political Constitution and incurrent labor laws.

Article 49. A tourism development commission i s created in each o f the Comarca's regions for
the preparation o f the sustainable tourism development plan and the supervision o f project
execution, in order to develop areas with tourism development potential. This Commission shall
be composed o f the Panamanian Institute o f Tourism, which will coordinate it, three
representatives o f the national government, the presidento f the Regional Congress, the mayor o f
the comarca district, the corregimiento representative, the regionalchief ofthe respectivearea,
the president o f the General Congress and the governor of the Comarca.

Without prejudice to the rights o f the Comarca and its inhabitants, according to the present Law
and with the objective of promoting investment, a sustainable tourism development zone is
created, extending 2000 meters from the coast to the mainland along the entire coast.

The tourism development commission, through the Panamanian Institute o f Tourism, i s
authorized to approve concessions to private companies for tourism investment within the
sustainable tourism development zone, for the term established by Law 8 o f 1994. Before the
concession is approved, the rights o f the indigenous communities must be assured and
guaranteed.

The resources that are generated under the granted concession will go directly to the respective
municipalities and will be invested inworks o f general interest. The conditions and benefits of the
concession will be developed inthe Organic Charter.




                                                    57

Panama


Paragraph. For purposes o ftourism or ecotourism development, the tourism development
commission, incoordination with the respective Comarca Municipal Council, may create
municipal tourism development zones, in accordance with provisions inthe present Law.

Article 50. Inaddition to legal and constitutional powers, the National Institute o f Renewable
Natural Resources is also responsible, with the effective participation o f the Comarca's
authorities, for overseeingthe conservationand rational use o f renewable natural resources such
as the flora or forest cover, soils, fauna and ground and surface waters within the Comarca.

Paragraph. There shall be no industrial development o f the resources to which this article refers
without the prior authorization o f the NationalInstitute o f Renewable Natural Resources which
shall coordinate, together with the Comarca's authorities, the conservation o f the corresponding
resources and shall elicit their cooperation to avoid plundering.

Article 5 1.The Bureau o f Marine Resources o f the Ministry o f Commerce and Industry,together
with the Comarca's authorities, is responsible for overseeingthe conservation and rational use of
marine and lake resources that lie within the Comarca's jurisdiction, in accordance with existing
regulations.

                                              Chapter VI1
                                    Archeological Sites and Objects

Article 52. The cultural heritage o f the Ngobe-Bugle people includes the archeological sites and
objects, historical documents and other movable or immovable property that are testimonies to
their past and their ancestors and that are found inthe area o f the Comarca, which shall be subject
to the custody o f the Comarca's authorities, in coordination with the NationalInstitute of Culture.
For this purpose, research shall be promoted and museums or agencies shall be created within the
Comarca to allow the preservation, protection, exhibition and recovery o f the historical values o f
the Ngobe-Bugle people or o f any other culture.

                                              Chapter VI11
                                     Culture, Education and Health

Article 53. The languages, cultures, traditions and customs o f the Ngobe-Bugle people are
recognized; these shall be conserved and disseminated by relevant special agencies that will be
created for this purpose and inwhich the Ngobe-Bugle population shall participate.

Article 54. Bilingual-intercultural education shall be carried out inthe Comarca, in accordance
with provisions inLaw 34 on Education, planned, organized and conductedbythe Ministryof
Education incoordination with relevant agencies, specialized educational entities and the
Comarca's authorities.

Article 55. The State, through the Ministry o f Health, shall conduct special programs inthe
Comarca inorder to ensure the health o f the Ngobe-Bugle population, social assistance,
comprehensive community, children's and family health plans, as well as activities for nutritional
development that respondto the needs and unique features o f local communities. For this
purpose, it will provide economic resources, includinga special budget, and will create the
necessary agencies, without underminingthe unique culture, customs and traditions.

The knowledge, innovations and practices o ftraditional medicine shall be respected, recognized,
preservedand maintained.


                                                  58

                                                                          Land Administration Project




Incases o f epidemics or the emergence o f any threatto publichealth, the Ministryo fHealthmust
take the necessary measures aimed at recovering or protecting health, for which it will have the
cooperation o f the Comarca' s authorities.

For the proper execution o f these programs, the Ministry o f Health shall have the cooperation o f
other State institutions.

                                              Chapter IX
                                         Electoral Jurisdictions

Article 56. For purposes o f representationinthe Legislative Assembly, electoraljurisdictions
shall be created. For the representation o f Comarca districts and the Comarca Municipal
Councils, the correspondingreorganization shall be conducted inthe Ngobe-Bugle Comarca,
subject to provisions in articles 141,222 and 238 o f the PoliticalConstitution and the procedures
established inthe Electoral Code.

The Electoral Court shall conduct the corresponding study and propose the corresponding
legislation, incoordination with the Executive Agency.

                                               Chapter X
                                         Temporary Provisions

Article 57. Mayors and corregimiento representatives o f the administrative districts created by
this Law, and legislators shallbe electedby direct vote inthe next popular elections, and shall
begin to carry out their duties from the date o f the corresponding new constitutional period;
meanwhile, the authorities, representatives and legislators currently elected in saidjurisdictions
shall continue to act and carry out their duties.

                                              Chapter XI
                                            Final Provisions

Article 58. Escudo de Veraguas Island, which is part o f the historic heritage o f the Republic o f
Panama, may not be the subject of private appropriation.

Article 59. Without prejudice to stipulations inthe current legislation, a 50-meter land strip will
be assigned, within the Comarca's boundaries, on both sides of the oil pipeline, and a 100-meter
strip on both sides o fthe Chiriqui Grande-Gualuca highway that will be allocated for its
maintenance; and a 250-meter land strip for the construction o fthe road that will link Chiriqui
Grande and Almirante, which will be determined on the basis o f a study by the Ministryo f Public
Works and the Comarca's authorities. Likewise, the use o f sources o f rock material, hardpan,
clay, sand or any other material needed for the construction and maintenance o f public use works
shall be guaranteed, subject to authorization by the Ministry o f Public Works, at the site where
they exist, even outside the reserved strip to which this article refers,

Prior to the construction o f this road, an environmental impact study must be conducted,
approved by the NationalInstitute o f Renewable NaturalResources and by the Comarca's
authorities. The Executive Agency, through a decree, shall regulatethe non-allocation o f lands
that are needed for the protection o f the indigenous communities residinginthe area.




                                                   59

Panama


The same criteria shall be used for the construction o f any other means o f communication inthe
Comarca.

Article 60. The present Law shall be developed and regulatedthrough the Organic Charter, which
shall be prepared by the Ministryo f Governance and Justice, together with the Ngobe-Bugle
General Congress, and the different cultural groups residinginthe Comarca shall be represented,
for approval through a decree by the Executive Agency.

Article 61, This Law repeals Law 18 o f 1934, Law 27 o f 1958, as well as ResolutionNo. 120 of
August 9, 1984 bythe Ministryo fAgricultural and Livestock Development and other laws and
provisions not applicable to it; it i s a public order and o f social interest and it shall become
effective upon the date o f its enactment.

TO BECOMMUNICATED AND ENFORCED

Approved inthe third debate at Justo Arosemena Palace, Panama City, on the 28'hday o f the
month o f January of one thousand nine hundredninety seven.


The President
C6sar A. Pardo R.


                                                                        The General Secretary
                                                                        Victor M.de Gracia M.




                    NATIONALASSEMBLY, REPUBLIC OFPANAMA




                                                    60

                                  LandAdministration Project




              ANNEX7.2

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION LAW72 OF 2008
                    OF




                61


Panama


                                 Digitalizedby the NationalAssembly
No. 26193

                        Official Digital Gazette, Tuesday, December 30,2008


                                                LAW 72
                                         o f December 23,2008

 Whichestablishesthe specialprocedurefor the grantingof collective ownership of landsof
                       the indigenouspeopleswho are notwithincornarcas

                                   THENATIONALASSEMBLY
                                              DECREE$:

                                               ChapterI
                                           General Provisions

Article 1.The objective o fthis Law is to establish the special procedure for the free granting of
collective ownership o f lands traditionally occupied by indigenous peoples and communities, in
compliance with article 127 o f the Political Constitution o f the Republic o f Panama.

Article2. For the purposes o fthis Law, the following terms shall be understood inthis manner:
    1. Indigenouspeoples. Human groups that descend from populations inthe country or ina
         geographic region to which the country belonged from the era o f conquest or o f
         colonization or o f the establishment of the current state borders and that, whatever their
         legal status may be, conserve their own social, economic, cultural, linguistic and political
         institutions.
    2. Traditional occupation. Tenure, use, conservation, management, possession and usufruct
         of the lands o fthe indigenous peoples defined inthis article, transmitted from one
         generationto another.

Article 3. The title o f collective ownership of lands guarantees the economic, social and cultural
well-being of the persons who inhabit the indigenous community. To achieve these ends, the
traditional authorities will maintain close collaboration with municipal, provincialand national
authorities.

                                              Chapter 11
                    Procedure for Recognition and Granting o f Collective Lands

Article 4. The State, through the NationalBureau ofAgrarian Reform o fthe Ministryo f
Agricultural and Livestock Development, shall recognize the lands traditionally occupied by the
indigenous peoples and shall grant to them the title of collective ownership, according to the
procedure established inthe present Law.

Article 5. For the purposes o f the granting of collectively owned lands, the authorities ofthe
indigenous peoples and communities shall present the respective request, either individually or
jointly. The National Bureau o f Agrarian Reform shall address promptly and give priority to
granting the respective collective title to the community, represented by its traditional authorities.

Article 6. The request for the collective title must be accompanied bythe following documents:


                                                   62

                                                                          Land Administration Project


     1. The planor sketcho fthe areathat is the subject o fthe request.
     2. The certification by the Office o fthe Comptroller General o fthe Republic o fthe
         community's population census.
     3. The certification by the National Bureau o f Indigenous Policy o f the Ministryo f
         Governance and Justice, o fthe existence o f the requesting community or communities,
         based upon prior reports and studies.

     The respective State institutions shall issue the indicated documents ina period ofno more
than thirty days and for free.

Article 7. The NationalBureauo fAgrarian Reform shall immediately admit the request that
complies with the statements inthe above article, order the in situ inspection subject to
notificationo f the requestors, and facilitate the paperwork necessary for the recognition o f
collective ownership envisaged inthe present Law.

Article 8. The National Bureauof Agrarian Reform shall resolve cases o f oppositionto the
request for granting the title o f collective land ownership. Inthese cases, the NationalBureau o f
Agrarian Reform shall first hold a conciliatory hearing in order to reach a friendly agreement.
Should the opposition to the request for a collective landownership title subsist, it shall resolve
the matter inaccordance with the laws. The resolution issuedallows the recourse of
reconsideration and appeal to the Ministry o f Agricultural and Livestock Development, which
utilizes the governmental route.

Article9. Once the correspondingpaperwork has beencompleted, the NationalBureauof
Agrarian Reform shall issue the title o f collective land ownership to the indigenous group, which
i s indefeasible, non-transferrable, non-attachable and inalienable.

Article 10. The allocations that are made inaccordance with this Law shall notjeopardize
existingproperty titles andthe rightsof ownership certified by the NationalBureauofAgrarian
Reform.

                                               ChapterIII
                                            FinalProvisions

Article 11. The mechanism ofcommunity conciliation and mediation is institutedto resolvethe
conflicts that may arise over titles granted in accordance with the present Law and current laws
relatedto the matter.

        The Central or Municipal Government is responsible for the creation o f community
conciliation and mediation centers that may be necessary to promote the peaceful solution o f
conflicts inthe collective lands that are granted.

Article 12. Inthe case o fusurpation or invasion of lands recognizedthrough the title of
collective ownership, the relevant authorities must enforce the ownership rights o f such areas.

Article 13. The National Environmental Authority shall coordinate with the traditional
indigenous authorities o f each community on the actions and strategies to execute a plan for the
sustainable use o f natural resources and community development, inthe case that the lands are
recognized as part o f the National System o f ProtectedAreas.




                                                   63

Panama   .

Article 14. Governmental and private authorities shall coordinate with traditional authorities on
the plans, programs and projects that are carried out intheir areas, in order to ensure the free,
prior and informed consent o f the indigenous peoples and communities.

Article 15. The ExecutiveAgency, under the Ministry o f Governance and Justice, through an
executive decree, shall recognizethe traditional form o f organization, the culture andthe
authorities o f the indigenouspeoples who holdtitles o f collective land ownership, and it shall
establish procedures for coordination between these and elected or appointed national
authorities.

Article 16. The State shall allocatethe necessary funds for the delimitation o fthe collective
lands that are granted incompliance with the present Law.

Article 17. The Ministry of Governance and Justice, through an executive decree, shall adopt the
Organic Charter o f the Teribe Comarca Indigenous Corregimiento o f the Changuinola District in
the province o f Bocas del Toro.

Article 18. The Executive Agency shall regulatethe procedure for the application o fthe present
Law.

Article 19. This Law shallbecome effective on the date o f its enactment.

TO BECOMMUNICATED AND ENFORCED
Bill411of 2008 approved inthe thirddebate at Justo Arosemena Palace, Panama City, onthe
3'd day o f the month o f December o f the year two thousand eight.

                                                         The President,
                                                         (signed)
                                                         Raid Rodriguez-Ara~z

The General Secretary
(signed)
Carlos Smith S.




                                                 64


                                                       LandAdministration Project


 NATIONAL EXECUTIVEAGENCY, OFFICEOF THEPRESIDENTOF THEREPUBLIC,
                PANAMA, REPUBLICOF PANAMA,DECEMBER23,2008

                                         (signed)
                                         MartinTorrijos Espino
                                         Presidentof the Republic


(signed)
Dilio Arcia Torres
MinisterofGovernanceandJustice




                                ANNEX7.3

                   UNOFFICIALTRANSLATION LAW18 OF 2009
                                      OF




                                   65


Panama



                No. 26233       Digital Official Gazette, Wednesday, March4,2009


                                                LAW 18
                                        of February 26,2008

               Which createscorregimientosin the districtsde Chiriqui Grande
                       and Changuinolainthe Provinceof BocasdelTor0

                                 THE NATIONALASSEMBLY

                                             DECREES:

Article 1.The following are created inthe province ofBocas del Toro: inthe district de Chiriqui
Grande, the corregimiento of Bajo Cedro, separatedfrom the corregimiento of PuntaRbbalo, and
inthe district de Changuinola,the corregimiento ofNance de Riscb, separatedfrom the
corregimiento of Valle de Riscci, the corregimiento ofValle de Agua Arriba, separatedfrom the
corregimiento de Almirante, the corregimiento of Las Delicias, separatedfrom the corregimiento
o f Las Tablas, the corregimiento o f Cochigrci and the corregimiento o fLa Gloria, separatedfrom
the corregimiento ofElEmpalme, whose boundariesare determinedinthis Law.

Article2. The heading is modifiedand number 6 is addedto article 18 of Law 5 of 1998, as
follows:
        Article 18. The district of Chiriqui Grande is divided into six corregimientos, Le.:
        Chiriqui Grande (capital), Miramar, Punta Peiia, PuntaRbbalo, Rambala and Bajo Cedro.

                  The capital ofthe district o f Chiriqui Grande is the town o f Chiriqui Grande.
        The boundariesofthe corregimiento de Chiriqui Grande arethe following:
        6.        Corregimiento of Bajo Cedro
                  a.      With the corregimiento o fPunta Rbbalo:
                          Fromthe mouth o fVaca de Leche creek on the Laguna o f Chiriqui,
                 upstreamalong this creek to where it crosses the line that demarcatesthe Ngobe-
                  BugleComarcainthe Comarca District.

Article 3. The capital ofthe corregimiento ofBajo Cedro shall be Bajo Cedro andthe
communities that form it are: Bajo Cedro (capital), Valle Sarbn, Puentede Rio Auyama, Escobal,
La Garza, Loma Venado and La Conga.

Article 4. The corregimiento ofPuntaRbbalo shall be formed bythe communities and
populations that have not beenseparatedfrom its district inaccordancewith the present Law.

Article 5. The political-administrative boundaries ofthe corregimiento ofValle de Agua Arriba
are:
1.      With the corregimiento ofAlmirante:
        From a point with coordinatesUTM355650m and 1023900minthe archipelago o f Bocas
        delToro, ina straight line westward to the mouththe Oesteriver inthe Bahia de
        Ambrosia; this river continues to a point with coordinatesUTM346154mE and
         1023114mN on the bridge o f said river; from there, continung along Almirante Ridge
        untilmeetingthe sourceof Santos creek, downstreamalongthiscreekto where it empties
         into the Oeste river, continuing along this river to abranch ofthe Oeste river, heading




                                                   66

                                                                         Land Administration Project


        upstreamalong this branch of the river to its source, a point with coordinates
        UTM338200mEand 1027100mN.
2.      With the corregimiento o fCochigr6:
        Fromthe source ofthe Oesteriver on Risc6 Ridge, ina straight line northwardto the
        source o f a branch o fthe Oesteriver, at a point with coordinates UTM338200mEand
        10271OOmN.
3.      With the corregimiento ofValle de Risc6:
        Fromthe source o fthe Oesteriver on Risc6 Ridge, continuing along this entire ridge to
        the boundary with the district ofBocasdelToro, untilreachingapointwith coordinates
        UTM35565OmE and 1023900mN inthe archipelago o fBocas delToro.

Article 6. The capital ofthe corregimiento ofValle de Agua Arriba is Valle de Agua Arriba and
the communities that form it are: Nueva Estrella, QuebradaPastor, QuebradaPitti, LomaAzul,
Valle de Agua Arriba (capital), Valle de Agua Abajo, QuebradaCacao, Resource, Rio Oeste
Abajo, Rio Oeste Arriba andValle de La Perla.

Article 7. The corregimiento o fAlmirante shall be formed by the communities andpopulations
that have not beenseparatedfrom its district in accordancewith the present Law.

Article 8. The political-administrative boundariesofthe corregimiento ofNance de Risc6 are:
1.      With the corregimiento o f Cochigr6:
        From elevation 1789m, continuing in a straight line southeastwardto elevation 1578m;
        from there continuing ina straight lineto the headwatersof Boca Chica creek; following
        this creek downstreamto where itempties its waters into the Changuinola river; from this
        point following this river upstreamto where the Risc6 river empties its waters into it.
2.      With the corregimiento ofValle de Risc6:
        Fromwhere the Risc6 river empties its waters into the Changuinola river, upstream along
        the Risc6 river to where itreceiveswaters from an unnamedcreek, headingupstream
        along this creek to where it is crossedby the road that leadsfrom the community of
        Manchuido or QuebradaPluma to Charco LaPava, then continuing along this roaduntil
        reaching the Changuinola river, heading upstreamalong this river to where the Culubre
        river receives its waters, moving upstreamalong the latter river to where it receives
        waters from an unnamed creek, following upstreamalong this creek to its source, from
        there ina straight line to elevation 1067m, from this elevation heading ina straight line
        southeastwardto the source o f an unnamedcreek, downstream along this creekto where
        it empties itswaters intothe Estrellita river, from thisjunction headingina straight line
        southeastwardto where an unnamedcreekjoins Montezuma creek, continuing along this
        unnamedcreek to its source, from there ina straight line southwestward to where an
        unnamedcreek empties its waters into the Playita river, upstream along this river to its
        source, from this point ina straight line eastwardto a point with coordinates
        TM329400mE and 983075mN inthe Central Cordillera, the boundary between the
        provinces o f Bocas del Tor0 and Chiriqui.
3.      With the corregimiento o f ElTeribe:
        From elevation 1789mwhere the waters divide, continuing along said divide, passing
        elevations 2000, 2069, 2197,2485, 2693, 2955 and 3200m, untilcrossing the
        international border with the Republic o f CostaRica.

Article 9. The capital ofthe corregimiento ofNance de Risc6 shall beNance de Risc6 andthe
communities that form it are: Nance del Risc6, Boca Chica, Bajo LaEsperanza, Changuinola
Arriba, Charco La Pava, Valle Rey, Culubre Arriba, Culubre Abajo, Guayacan, Ceiba, Valle
Libre, Bajo Gavilan, Guayabal and Alto Romero.


                                                  67

Panama




Article 10. The corregimientoofValle de Risc6is formedbythe communitiesandpopulations
that havenot beenseparated from its districtinaccordancewith the presentLaw.

Article 11.The political-administrativeboundariesofthe corregimientoof Las Delicias are:
1.      Withthe corregimientoofLas Tablas:
        Fromapointwith coordinatesUTM3023673mE and 1061040onthe banks ofthe
        Sixaolariver, ina straight lineto Lomade Tigre, from there ina straight line
        southwestwardto the roadthat leads fromthe communityofElValle de Sinostreto the
        communityofAgua de Salud; continuingalongthis roadto a pointwith coordinates
        UTM301350mEand 1055500mN, fromthere followingthe divide betweenthe Sibube
        and Incherivers, untilreachingthe source del San Sanriver.
2.      Withthe corregimientoofElTeribe:
        Fromthe source ofthe San Sanriver, continuingina straight line southeastwardto
        elevation698m; fromherecontinuingina straightline southwardto the source ofthe
        Boroniriver, continuingalongthe divideto where Yorkin creek empties itswaters into
        the Teribe river; followingthe Teriberiverupstreamto the intersectionwith the
        internationalborder with the RepublicofCostaRica.

Article 12. The capitalofthe corregimientoof Las Delicias is Las Deliciasandthe communities
that form it are: Las Delicias Arriba, Las DeliciasAbajo, Guabade Yorkin, Agua de Salud,
Palmita, Dakles,Namuwuoki,ElValle de Sinostre, SantaClara, Sibube, SibubeAdentro,
Sinostre, Soroy, Yorkin andAlto Yorkin.

Article 13. The corregimientoof Las Tablas is formedbythe communitiesand populationsthat
have notbeenseparatedfrom its district inaccordancewith the presentLaw.

Article 14. The political-administrativeboundariesof the corregimientode Cochigr6are:
 1.     With the corregimientoofLa Gloria:
        Fromwhere the Teribe river empties itswaters intothe Changuinolariver, ina straight
        line southeastwardto an unnamedcreek that crosses Selviracreek, upstream alongthis
        unnamedcreekto itssource. Fromthere headingina straightline southwestwardto
        elevation 196mon SursubaRidge, continuingalongthis ridgeto a pointwith coordinates
        UTM338375mE and 10278mN, fromthere headingina straight linenortheastwardto
        the source ofa branchofBananocreek, downstreamalongthis creek to where it meets
        Bananocreek, andheadingupstreamalongthis creek to its source.
2.      With the corregimientoof Teribe:
        Fromwhere the TeribeRiverempties itswaters intothe ChanguinolaRiver, continuing
        upstreamalongthis riverto where Soricreek flows into it, followingupstreamalongthis
        creek to its source and from there followingalongthe divideofthe Bonyicriver
        watersheds andCochigr6,ElGuabo andBocaChicacreeks, passingbythe Kankintu,
        from there continuingalongthis boundary lineto the mouth.
3.      With the corregimientoofPuntaR6balo:
        a. With the corregimientoof Miramar:
        Fromthe mouthofPavbncreek onthe Lagunade Chiriqui, followingupstreamalongthis
        creek untilmeetingthe Comarca's boundaries.
        b.CorregimientoofBajoCedro:
        Fromthe mouthofVaca de Lechecreek onthe Lagunade Chiriqui, movingupstream
        alongthis creek to where it crossesthe line ofdemarcation ofthe Ngobe-BugleComarca
        inthe Kankinthcomarcadistrict, fromthere continuingalongthis line ofdemarcationto
        the mouthofthe Auyama river onthe Lagunade Chiriqui, headingfrom there ina


                                                 68

                                                                         LandAdministration Project


        straight line eastwardto a point with coordinates UTM355650mE and 1023900mN and
        elevations 1221mand 1485 to elevation 1789mon the boundaries o fthe corregimiento of
        Nance de Risc6.
        With the corregimiento ofNance de Risc6:
        From elevation 1789m, heading ina straight line southeastwardto elevation 1578m, from
        there continuing ina straight line to the headwaterso fBocaChica creek, following this
        creek downstream to where it empties its waters into the Changuinola river, from this
        point following along this river upstreamto where the Risc6 river empties its waters into
        it.
        With the corregimiento o fValle de Risc6:
        Fromwhere the Risc6 river empties its waters into the Changuinola river, continuing ina
        straight line northeastwardto the source o fthe Oeste river on Risc6 Ridge.
        With the corregimiento ofValle de Agua Arriba:
        From the source ofthe Oesteriver on Risc6 Ridge, heading in a straight line northward to
        the sourceof abranch ofthe Oesteriver, a point with coordinatesUTM338200mEand
        10271OOmN.
        With the corregimiento ofAlmirante:
        From the point with coordinates UTM338200mE and 10271OOmN, continuing in a
        straight line northwardto apoint with coordinates UTM338375mEand 1027850mN.

Article 15. The capital ofthe corregimiento of Cochigr6 is Cochigr6 andthe communities that
form it are: Cochigr6, Buena Selva, Sori Arriba, Sori Abajo, El Guaba, Quebrada Puerco, L a
Mina, Sursuba, Corriente Grande, Boca Chica, Venado and Cableria.

Article 16. The political-administrative boundaries ofthe corregimiento of LaGloria are:
1.      With the corregimiento ofChanguinola:
        From the mouthof the Changuinola river on the Caribbean Sea, heading upstreamalong
        this riverto where itjoins thewaters ofBanano creek.
2.      With the corregimiento ofElEmpalme:
        Fromwhere Banano creekjoins the Changuinola river, continuing upstream along this
        creek to its source, from there heading in a straight line northwestwardto a point with
        coordinatesUTM335312mE and 1038815mNat the entranceto the community o fLoma
        Bonita, from this point continuing in a straight line southwestwardto the source o fan
        unnamedcreek, heading downstream along this creek to where it empties its waters into
        the Changuinola river, continuing along this river to where the Teribe river emptiesits
        waters into it.
3.      With the corregimiento of Cochigr6:
        Fromwhere the Teribe river empties its waters into the Changuinola river, ina straight
         line southeastwardto an unnamedcreek that crosses Selvita creek, continuing upstream
         along this unnamedcreek to its source. Fromthere, continuing ina straight line
         southwestwardto elevation 196mon the SursubaRidge, continuing along this ridgeto a
         point with coordinatesUTM338375mE and 1027850mN, from there continuing ina
         straight line northwestwardto the source o f a branch of Banano creek, heading
         downstream along this creek to where itjoins Bananocreek, continuing upstream along
         this creekto its source.
4.       Corregimiento of Almirante:
         Fromthe source of Banano creek, in a straight line northeastwardto the source ofthe
         Banano river, continuing downstream along this river to its mouth at the Bahia de
                                                                      ~

         Almirante.




                                                  69

Panama


Article 17. The capital ofthe corregimiento ofLaGloria is LaGloria andthe communities that
form it are: La Gloria (capital), Milla 7 1/2, Milla 10, QuebradaBanano, La Esperanza, Loma
Brava, Loma Bonita, Loma Muleto, Junquito, Valle Junquito, BellaVista, Alta Vista, Boca de
Junco and San Juan.

Article 18. Article 6 ofLaw 1of 1982thus reads:
        Article 6. The district ofChanguinola is divided into twelve corregimientos, Le.:
        Changuinola (capital), Almirante, Guabito, ElTeribe, Valle de Riscb, ElEmpalme, Las
        Tablas, Valle de Agua Arriba, Nance de Riscb, Las Delicias, Cochigr6 and La Gloria.
        The district's capital is the community ofChanguinola.

Article 19. The corregimiento ofElEmpalme is formed bythe communities and populations that
have not been separatedfrom its district inaccordancewith the present Law.

Article 20. The Ministry ofGovernance andJustice, the Ministry ofEconomy and Finance, as
well as the NationalInstitute o f Statistics and Censusofthe Office o fthe Comptroller General of
the Republic should provide advice to the municipalities ofChiriqui Grande and Changuinola in
the province ofBocasdelToro, onall matters concerningthe organization, operation and
administration o fthese new corregimientos.

Article 21. The election ofrepresentativesofthe new corregimientos that are createdbyvirtue of
this Law shall take place inthe 2014 election period, inaccordancewith the provisions of
electoral legislation. However, the corregimiento representatives and the police authorities ofthe
corregimientos subject to separation shall continue exercising their duties until such election takes
place.

Article 22. This Law modifies article 6 ofLaw 1datedOctober 27, 1982andthe heading of
article 18 o fLaw 5 dated January 19, 1998, and adds number 6 to article 18o f Law 5 of January
19, 1998.

Article 23. This law shall become effective upon its enactment.

TO BECOMMUNICATED AND ENFORCED

Bill464 of2008 approved inthe thirddebate at Justo Arosema Palace, PanamaCity, onthe 3lSt
day ofthe month o f December o fthe year two thousandeight.


                                                   The President
                                                   (signed)
                                                   Racl E.Rodriguez Arauz


The General Secretary
(signed)
Carlos JosB Smith S.


  NATIONAL EXECUTIVE AGENCY, OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC,
                    PANAMA, REPUBLIC OF PANAMA, February 26,2009




                                                  70

                                                        Land Administration Project




                                    (signed)
                                    MARTINTORRIJOS ESPINO
                                    Presidentof the Republic



(signed)
DILIOARCIA TORRES
Minister of GovernanceandJustice




                                    71

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IBRD 36866

                                                                                                                               8245'W                                                                                                                                                                       8230'W

                                                                    Las       Loma
                                                                    Delicias Bonita
                                                                    Abajo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PANAMA / PANAM
                                                                                     Sibube

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LAND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
                                                              Endi    Las      Sibube                  Sinostre                                                                                                                                                                           C a r i b b e a n
                                                                      Delicias Adentro                                                                          R           I
                                               Sixaola                Arriba               El Valle de                                                                             C
                                                                                                                      Puerto
                                    A                                                      Sinostre        Tiger      Elena      Empacadora
                                            Ro                                                              Hill                Finca 47
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PROYECTO DE ADMINISTRACIN DE TIERRAS
                                                  Boca de Yorkin
                             T                                                                                                                                                                           A
                                                                                                                   Empacadora
                                                                                                                      Finca 46           Dos Caos
                                                                 Tebata                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S e a
                                                                                                                                            El Muro
                   S                                                                                          Alto de                                                                                                                                 La Palma
                                                                                                           dos Caos   Dos Caos       Las       Finca 45 Adentro
                                                                                                                          Adentro                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Naso-Related Request for Inspection: Management Response
                                                                                                                                    Tablas        Empacadora                                                                                      California
                 O                                                                                                                                Finca 45
                                                                                                                                Barranco Adentro
                                                           El                                                                                              Barranco
                                                           Guabo    Sinadila                                                               Boimbota         Afuera
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Ganadera                                                                                                           Solicitud de Inspeccin relacionada al pueblo Naso: Respuesta Administrativa
                C                                                      Albata                                                              Barranco Medio                                                                                                                           SAN SAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Deborah       Caribe
                                                                              Dakles                                                                                           Ro Sixaola                                                                Junta
                                                                                                                                                   Alto Nance                                             Isla                                            Agraria                 POND SAK
930'N                                                                                                                                                              Washout        La                                        Finca 41
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Arenal                                                       Fincanombre                       Ro San Juan
                                                                                        Agua de Salud                Santa Clara                                                                                                 Civil
                                                                                                                                      Quebrada Canela            Isla Grande      Mesa                                                                                 de Dios
                                                                La Golondrina                                                                                                                                                            Guabito

                                                                               Ro                                                                                    Vicira                                                                Puente del Medio
                                                                                   Yorkn                Sanury                                                                                                                Guameru                             Rio Negro                                                                                                                           Approximate Naso Tjr Di Territory Boundary / Lmites aproximados del Territorio Naso Tjr Di
                                                                                                                                                                                   El Arenal             Matina   Victoria
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Puente
                    Namuwuoki                                             Soroy                                                                                                                                                             Blanco
                    (Cabeza de Tigre)                                                                                                                          Ro      Quebrada
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         o Milla 23                        Puente de
                                                                                   Yorkin            Kapequicha                     Las Palmas                      SanConejo                                                                               Urbanizacion    San San        El Puente                                                                                                   Proposed Hydroelectric Dams / Presas Hidroelctricas en construccin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   La Barra
                                                                                                                                                                         San                                   Ganadera Bocas                        Bosques de San San
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          La Ponderosa
                                                                                                                                                                                    San San                      Ro  San   San                                                        San San                                                                                                         Protected Areas / reas Protegidas:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Changuinola
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Bda. 21
                       Katsti                                                                                                                                                                                     San San Tigra
                                                                                                                                                                                   San San Druy                                                                                                                        de Abril             Changuinola                                                    La Amistad International Park, San San Pond Sak / Parque Internacional La Amistad, San San Pond Sak
                    Ro                                                                                                          Boroni                                                                               Diriri                                                                                                           Ro
                                                                                                                                                                               Soron                                                                            Lago 4                                                        La Isla

                                                                                                                                                                             Quebrada Nance                              La Mona   Romulo                                                                                                                                                                  Palo Seco Protected Forest / Bosque Protector Palo Seco
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Santa Marta
                                                         Escui                                                                                                                                       Loma Bandera                             de Yorkin
                                                      Ro                                                                                        PALO SECO                                                     Loma Viento                                                                     Buena       Torres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Vista                                                                                                  Areas Regularized and to be Regularized Under Project Component 2 /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Pea Blanca                                                        Abajo o
                                                                                           Yorkn                                  PROTECTED FOREST                                                                                                                                         Bambito                                                                                                    reas regularizadas o a regularizar por el proyecto Componente 2
                                                                                        Ro                                                                            Polvogloro o                           SIEYLLIK                                                                                     Buena
                                                                                                                                                                   Arbolde Guabitas      Sieykin                               Cui Cuin                        Charagre
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Vista Arriba
                                                                                                                                          Ro Teribe Garraplata                    Duerpsco                        Brucso o        Quebrada         Quebrada                                                                                                                                           Portion of Approximate Naso Tjr Di Territory Outside of Protected Areas /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Loma
                        Ro                                                                                                                                              Groncho                                   Arbol de           Yorkin      Carbon No. 1       Ro
                              Suco                                                                                                       Puerto            Treglon       Palo de                                                                                          Teribe         El Silencio                      Brava
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Calabazo                                                                                Loma Bonita                                                                                 Porcin del territorio aproximado Naso Tjr Di situada afuera de reas Protegidas
                                                                                                                                      Palenque     Bejuco               Guayaba                                                Druey
                                                                                                                                                  Serecso        Socca                                Cugin Hueco
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Cato     Struri o       Chupsco     Bondi                           Zegla                             Valle
                                                                                                                                                               Cabeza        Shincho                                                                        Pana
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Arbolde                                                 Sori             Junco o          Junquito                                                                             Naso Tjr Di Capital / Capital Naso Tjr Di
                                                                                                                                                             de Macho               Concloroe                 Drunaac                                       Jungla
                                                                                                                                               Quebrada                                                       o Piedra  Caucha           Solon      Bonyic                                      San Juan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Bajo Sodi                                           Junquito       Loma Muleto
                                                                                                                                                                                                              de Sal            Gato de                                                                                Quebrada
                                                                                                                                                                                      Maddi                                     Agua                        Huecso
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Coquital               Santa
                                                                                                                                                                                      Pescador                                                   Bonyic o                                   Rosa                                         Bella Vista
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Palma de                                                     Selvina
                                                                                                                                                       Siey                           de Boca                                     Bonyic
                                                                                                                                                                                      Chica                                                      Chunga                      Alto Sodi            Boquisco                         Junco                                                       Populated Places / Poblados
                                                                  A P P R O X I M A T E                                                                                                                                                                                                Sursuba
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Quebrada                                     La Mina        Quebrada Carbon No. 2                    La Gloria                                                                                                                         UNITED STATES

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Cochigro          Peligro                                                      Tibite                                          Rivers / Ros
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Planned Bonyic                                                      Isla Venado
                                                                Teribe                                                                                                                                                                                       n
                                                            Ro                                                                                                                                                   Hydroelectric
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Project                              Carb                                    Corriente Grande                                          Miraflores                            International Boundaries /                                                                                    Atlantic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Qda.                           Guabo                 Betania                                Ojo de
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               El Guabo                                                                    Agua                                                Fronteras Internacionales                                                                                     Ocean
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Bracha                                                             Quebrada                                                                                                                          THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Nigua No. 1                                                                                             Gulf of Mexico
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Quebrada                          Ro             Quebrada   El Bajo de                                                                                                                                                               BAHAMAS
      RICA                                                                                                                                                                                 Quebrada                                                      Quebrada                        Changuinde Leon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Puerco                                                                            Quebrada Limon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Marco              101                                        Ro
                                                                  N A S O                                              T J  R                                        D I                                                                                                                            ola 102103104105
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               la Esperanza

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  106109110111113                   Oeste                                                                                                                           CUBA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          107
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Boca del
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           108      112114
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Dos Bocas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DOM.
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Banyic                                                                                                  Gavilan            Risco    El Nance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    116                                                                                                              MEXICO                                 HAITI REP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Quebrada Gavilan
915'N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Planned Chan 75                       117118
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Santa Fe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Hydroelectric                             La Soledad                                                                                                                  BELIZE         JAMAICA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Quebrada Nieri                      Project                                        Nudobiri
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Quanigidete
                                         e                                                                                                                                                                                                                            o Quebrada Miel       Boca                                                                                                                                                                        HONDURAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Chica                                                                                                                                                         GUATEMALA                          Caribbean Sea
                                     Terib                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Charco         Valle Del
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           La Pava                   Quebrada Pluma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                128        Rey       o Nachuido
          A                                                                     T E R R I T O R Y
                                  Ro                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EL SALVADOR      NICARAGUA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      127
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       126                         119      Ro                                                                                                              COSTA RICA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Guayabal                               Risco
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Nirionte                                                                                                                                                                     R.B. DE VENEZUELA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Chica                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GUYANA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ada   Boca                                        125                                                                                                                                        Pacific            PANAMA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Quebr                                    Changuinola Arriba                          Dos Rios                  This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information shown on              Ocean                         COLOMBIA
                                                                                              L A A M I S T A D                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any judgment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Punta Blanca124Pea                                                on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or acceptance of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Blanca No. 2                                such boundaries.                                                                                                                            BRAZIL
           COST                                                                  I N T E R N A T I O N A L                                                                             Ro                                                                                         Pea Blanca No. 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             123
                                                                                                                 P A R K                                                                  Culubre                                                                                                                 Boca de Culubre
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  o Pea Blanca
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            122
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Caribbean Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   121
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     120                                                                                    Bocas del Toro
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      COSTA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Ro                                               RICA         B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Changuinola                                                    o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         c  a                                                                                PANAM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              s

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Ro Culubre                                                                                                              d  e  l  T  o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Guyacan                                                                   r o   P  r o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Bajo Colubre                                                Arriba                                                                                v   i n c e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Guyacan                                                                              A                                                               
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        N                A              M

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PALO SECO

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Nueva Zelandia        PROTECTED FOREST                                                                                                                                                                        Gulf of Panama
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Ceiba                   Ro  Changuinola                                           Approximate Naso Tjr Di
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Territory Boundary
90'N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0  20 40 60 80 100
                0 1  2           4                       8                      12                     16                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     KILOMETERS                     COLOMBIA
                                            KILOMETERS                                                                       8245'W                                                                                                                                                                       8230'W                                                           PACIFIC OCEAN

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              APRIL 14, 2009

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IBRD 36871

                                                                        8230'W                                                                                                                                                              8200'W


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PANAMA / PANAM
                                                                                                                      0 1          2          4                      8                      12                    16

                                                                                                                                                           KILOMETERS
COSTA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LAND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
  RICA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PROYECTO DE ADMINISTRACIN DE TIERRAS
                 La Palma

             California
            a                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Ngbe-Bugl-Related Request for Inspection: Management Response
      Sixaol            Ganadera                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Solicitud de Inspeccin relacionada al pueblo Ngbe-Bugl: Respuesta Administrativa
   Ro Deborah          Caribe
                     Junta
                     Agraria                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              C a r i b b e a n
                                  Fincanombre                       Ro San Juan
                                  de Dios                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    930'N
  Guabito
     Puente del Medio
                              Rio Negro                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       S e a                                                                                                                       Annex Areas desiring to be part of Ngbe Bugl Comarca /
     Puente
      Blanco                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              reas Anexas que desean formar parte de la Comarca Ngbe Bugl
  o Milla 23                          Puente de
                                                      El Puente
            SanBosques Urbanizacion    San San
                        de San San                                                                             La Barra
     San                                                                                              La Ponderosa                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Annex Areas NOT desiring to be part of Ngbe Bugl Comarca /
Ro                                               San San
                                                            Changuinola                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   reas Anexas que no desean formar parte de la Comarca Ngbe Bugl
                                                                                     Bda. 21
                                                                                     de Abril                                                                                                                              Mimit Imri                                                                                                                                                                                     Ngbe Bugl Comarca / Comarca Ngbe Bugl
                           Lago 4                                                                      Changuinola                                                                    Punta
                                                                                  La Isla         Ro                                              El Canal                           Sorosta
        Santa Marta                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Areas Regularized and to be Regularized Under Project Component 2 /
        de Yorkin                                                                                                                                                                  Rancho
                                                         Buena        Torres                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              reas regularizadas o a regularizar por el proyecto Componente 2
                                                           Vista                                                                                                                               Boca de Drago     Drago     Isla
                                                       Abajo o                 Finca                                    SAN SAN                                                           Ground Creek
                                                       Bambito                                                                                                                                                          Coln                       Bluff                                                                                                                                                                 Proposed Hydroelectric Dams / Presas Hidroelctricas en construccin
                                  Charagre                             Buena                                          POND SAK
Yorkin            Quebrada                                             Vista Arriba                                                                                                                              Caracol Chiquito
              Carbon No. 1      Ro                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Proposed Hydroelectric Reservoir / Embalses Hidroellectricos planeados
                                     Teribe         El Silencio                            Loma
                                                                       Loma Bonita         Brava                                                                                                                                      La Carretera         Paunch

 Chupsco      Bondi                                                                                                                                                                                    Punta Caracol
                       Pana                   Zegla                              Valle                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AES Concession Area / reas de Concesin de AES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Big Creek
                       Jungla              Sori              Junco o         Junquito
                                                                                                                Milla Siete Y Medio
  Solon        Bonyic                                      San Juan
                            Bajo Sodi                                            Junquito       Loma Muleto
                       Huecso                        Santa                                                                                                                                                                                     La Cabaa
            Bonyic o          Coquital                 Rosa                                          Bella Vista                                                                                                                                                           Bastimentos Wizard's Beach
            Palma de                                                     Selvina                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Rancho                                                                                Protected Areas / reas Protegidas:
            Chunga                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Bocas del Toro
                                        Alto Sodi            Boquisco                        La Gloria                                                                                                                                                                                          Dreffe Beach
                                                  Sursuba                                                                                                                                                                         Chimborazo                                Punta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Olachica                                                                            La Amistad International Park,
                             La Mina        Quebrada Carbon No. 2                                                                                                                                                                                                           Juan Brown                                                                                                                                                                                    UNITED STATES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Solarte                                                                                                                          San San Pond Sak /
                           Cochigro          Peligro                                                       Tibite
                                                 Isla Venado                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Bahia Honda                                                                                    Parque Internacional La Amistad,
                                                                                                                                                     Loma Brava                                                                                        Cayo Nancy
                  Carbn                                  Corriente Grande                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Isla                                                                                   San San Pond Sak                                                                                                  Atlantic
         Qda.                            Guabo                  Betania                                Ojo de                   Miraflores                                                                                                                                                                 Bastimentos
                          El Guabo                                                                     Agua         Quebrada                      Almirante                                                                                                                                                                            Salt Creek                                                                                                                                                       THE                Ocean
                                                                                                                  Nigua No. 1                                                                                                               San Cristobal                                                                                                                                                Palo Seco Protected Forest /                                       Gulf of Mexico
             Quebrada                          RBracha
                                                 o             Quebrada
                    Quebrada                         Changuinde Leon      El Bajo de                                                                        Puntabella                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                BAHAMAS
                      Puerco                                              la Esperanza                   Quebrada Limon                                                     Panzat                                                                                                                                Quebrada                                                                               Bosque Protector Palo Seco
                                            Marco                                                          Ro                         Nuevo Paraiso
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Alvarez
                                                                 ola                                            Oeste              Quebrada Nigua                Punta Domingo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CUBA
                                                                                                    Dos Bocas                                                                                                                                    Quebrada Higueron
                                                                                      Boca del                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Bastimentos Island Maritime Park /                                                                     DOM.
                                                                       Gavilan           Risco     El Nance                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        MEXICO                                 HAITI REP.
                                 Planned Chan 75                                                                                                                                                                                  Isla                                                                                                                         Cayo Zapatilla                            Parque Marino Isla Bastimentos
                                                                    Quebrada Gavilan                  Nance de Risco                              Rio Oeste
                                       Hydroelectric                                                                                                              Punta Gallinazo
                                                 Project                                 Santa Fe     La Soledad                                                                                                            Cristbal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Macca Bite                                                 915'N                                                                                                 BELIZE         JAMAICA
                                 Quebrada Nieri                                                                      Nudobiri              Quebrada Cacao
                                 o Quebrada Miel       Boca                           Quanigidete                                                                    Valle de Agua Abajo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              HONDURAS
                                                      Chica                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GUATEMALA                          Caribbean Sea
                                                                                       Valle Del                                   Valle de Risco                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Populated Places / Poblados
                                                                                       Rey       Quebrada Pluma
                                                                           Charco                o Nachuido
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Bella Vista
                                                                          La Pava                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EL SALVADOR      NICARAGUA
                                                                                                                                                   Renacimiento    Quebrada Juan
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Bella Vista             Buena Vista                                                                                       Playa Caracol                                                 Rivers / Ros
                                                                                                                        Ro        Quebrada Pita                                                               o Bay Viu                                               Shark Hole                                                                                                                                                                                                          COSTA RICA
                                                                                    Guayabal                                                                                Quebrada Pastor
                                                                                                                           Risco                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      International Boundaries /
                                                                                  Nirionte                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       R.B. DE VENEZUELA
                                        Chica                                                                                                                                                               Punta Pargo
                                                                                                                                    Puntapea                             Quebrada Pitti                                                                                                                                                                                                              Fronteras Internacionales
                                  Boca                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Hope Well                                                              Buena Vista                                                                                                                                                                             GUYANA
                            ada                                                                                                                                                                 Quebrada Cascajo                                                                      Cerro Brujo                       Isla                                                                                                                                                Pacific            PANAMA
                    Quebr                                    Changuinola Arriba                           Dos Rios                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                      Ocean                         COLOMBIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Loma Estrella                                                                                               Popa                                                             The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information shown on
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Aguacate
                                                                 Punta Blanca                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any judgment
                                                                                                                                                               Quebrada             Loma Azul                               Pueblo Nuevo                                                                                                       Isla Tigre
                                                                                  Pea Blanca No. 2                                                              Pinzon                                 Loma Fe                                                                                                                                                 Cayo de Aqua           on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or acceptance of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       such boundaries.
                                              Pea Blanca No. 1                                                                                    Quebrada                                                                   Cauchero                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            BRAZIL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Loma Partida
                                                                             Boca de Culubre                                                      del Pueblo               Pinzon Abajo
                                                                             o Pea Blanca                                                                                                                      Traicionera                                                                                                Punta Laurel
                                                                                                                                               Quebrada                               El Escobal
                                                                                                                                                 Platano
       LA AMISTAD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Isla Cayo
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Palmito                                                                                                                                      Agua                                                                                            Caribbean Sea
INTERNATIONAL                                                                                                                                                                 Uyama                                             Finca Doble "S"                                                                                                                                                                           Bocas del Toro
                                                                                                                                                                           Ro                                                                                                                                                                                                       COSTA
                    PARK                                                                     PALO SECO                                                         Dos Bocas                                                La Loma
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Bajo el                                                                                                                                                                      RICA        B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     o
                                                                             PROTECTED FOREST                                                     Cerro Palma                                       Cedro Abajo                  El Tapao                                                                                                                                                               c                                                                                  PANAM
                                                                                                                                                               Los Naranjos                                                                                                                                                                                                                               a s
                                                                                                                                                                                                        La Tronoza                                                                                                                                                                                              d  e
                                   Ro  Culubre                                   Ro                                                             Cabecera de                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         l
                                                                                      Changuinola                                             Quebrada Estrella                                              La Conga     Alto el Burro                                                                                                                                                                                   T  o
                                                                                                   Guyacan                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ro    P r o
                                      Bajo Colubre                                                 Arriba                                                                                                                                          Boca de Quebrada                                                                                                                                                                         v i n  c e
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Con Fe                                      Cilico Creek

                                                                                                                                                          La Negrita o                                                   Con Pe Abajo                                                                            L a g u n a d e                                                                                              P                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                       Boca de Negrita          NGBE
                                                                                                               Guyacan                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               A                                                M
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Spanish Town                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   N                A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Valle Seco
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Palma Real                                      Punta Robalo                                                      C h i r i q u 
                                                                                                                                   Quebrada                            BUGL
                       Nueva Zelandia                                                                                                 Conejo                                                                 Guyabal        Las Caas                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Gulf of Panama
                                                          Ceiba                   Ro   Changuinola                                                                                                         Los Guayabales        Los Molejones                                                                                                                                                  Approximate Naso Tjr Di
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Norteo                                                                                                                                                                                   Territory Boundary
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               El Frances
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Miramar                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0  20 40 60 80 100
                                                                                                                                                               COMARCA                                                                                                                                                                                                        90'N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Chiriquicito                                                                                                                                                             KILOMETERS                     COLOMBIA
                                                                       8230'W                                                                                                                                        Los Cedeos                              La Gloria                                           o Solate                                                                 PACIFIC OCEAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             8200'W

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            APRIL 14, 2009

