                                                               57601



   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
            International Development Association



                                                           INSP/56565-PA




 MANAGEMENT REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION

                IN RESPONSE TO THE

   INSPECTION PANEL INVESTIGATION REPORT




                        PANAMA


LAND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT (Loan No. 7045-PAN)




                   OCTOBER 28, 2010
           MANAGEMENT REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
   IN RESPONSE TO THE INSPECTION PANEL INVESTIGATION REPORT
                              OF THE
                             PANAMA
                 LAND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
                        (Loan No. 7045-PAN)



Pursuant to paragraph 23 of the Resolution Establishing the Inspection Panel (IBRD Resolution
93-10 and IDA Resolution 93-6), attached for consideration by Executive Directors is
Management's Report and Recommendation in response to the findings set out in the
Investigation Report No. 56565-PA dated September 16, 2010, of the Inspection Panel on the
captioned Project (Panama Land Administration Project, Loan No. 7045-PAN).
                MANAGEMENT REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
                           IN RESPONSE TO THE
            INSPECTION PANEL INVESTIGATION REPORT NO. 56565-PA

                                             PANAMA
                                  LAND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
                                        (Loan No. 7045-PAN)


                                                          CONTENTS




Abbreviations and Acronyms ............................................................................................ iv 
Executive Summary ............................................................................................................ v 
I.        Introduction ............................................................................................................. 1 
II.       The Project .............................................................................................................. 2 
III.      Findings of the Panel .............................................................................................. 8 
IV.       Key Issues ............................................................................................................. 10 
V.        Management's Recommendations in Response to the Findings........................... 14 
VI.       Conclusion ............................................................................................................ 16 


Annexes
Annex 1. Findings, Comments and Actions
Annex 2. Chronology of Key Project Preparation and Implementation Events
Annex 3. List of Laws and Executive Decrees mentioned in the Management Report
         and Recommendation


Maps
Map 1.          IBRD 36866. Naso related Request for Inspection
Map 2.          IBRD 36871. Ngöbe-Buglé related Request for Inspection




                                                                 iii
Panama



              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ANATI    Autoridad Nacional de Administración de Tierras (National
         Authority of Land Administration)
BP       Bank Policy
CPS      Country Partnership Strategy
IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR      Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDB      Inter-American Development Bank
IPDP     Indigenous Peoples Development Plan
IPN      Inspection Panel
OD       Operational Directive
OP       Operational Policy
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PDO      Project Development Objective
PRONAT   Programa Nacional de Administración de Tierras (Panama Land
         Administration Program)
SA       Social Assessment
SIICAR   Sistema Integrado de Catastro y Registro (Integrated Cadastre and
         Registry System)
SINAP    Sistema Nacional de Areas Protegidas (National System of
         Protected Areas)
US$      United States Dollar




                              iv
                                                                Management Report and Recommendation


                                       EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

Background

1.      On March 11 and March 20, 2009, the Inspection Panel registered two Requests
for Inspection regarding the Panama Land Administration Project financed by the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD). The First Request was
submitted by members of the Naso indigenous group and the second by representatives of
some Ngöbe-Bugle, another indigenous group living in the "Annex Areas" to the
Comarca1 Ngöbe-Buglé in Bocas del Toro Province. Both Requests for Inspection are
related to the consolidation of Indigenous Peoples' territories and involve OD 4.20
(Indigenous Peoples) and 13.05 (Project Supervision) as the relevant Bank policies.
Management responded to the claims in both Requests and presented an Action Plan in
April 2009 and a Progress Report in November 2009. The Panel's Investigation Report
was issued on September 16, 2010. Bank Management has prepared this Report and
Recommendation in response to the Inspection Panel's findings.

2.      The Project Development Objective was to modernize Panama's land
administration system. It addressed land policy, legal/regulatory and institutional
reforms; modernized the country's geodetic network and mapping capabilities; and built
the institutional capacity of various entities. The Project was approved in January 2001,
was restructured in April 2006, and closed on June 30, 2010. The Project's most notable
achievements include, inter alia: (i) demarcation of the Ngöbe-Buglé Comarca mainland
and some Annex Areas in Chiriquí and Veraguas provinces; (ii) elaboration of a draft law
for the establishment of a Naso Comarca and its presentation (twice) to the National
Assembly; (iii) delimitation of 70 percent of the Naso territory; (iv) completion of an
integrated cadastre and registry system; and (v) surveying and titling 106 percent of
targeted parcels in rural areas and 21 percent in urban areas.

3.      In April 2009, Management issued an Action Plan comprising 15 actions and
these have been completed. These 15 actions fell into seven broad areas: (i) preparation
of an Indigenous Peoples Development Plan (IPDP); (ii) clarification of legal aspects
related to the creation of a Naso Comarca; (iii) mediation efforts among the Naso; (iv)
delimitation activities in Ngöbe Annex Areas; (v) verification and strengthening of
consultation efforts by the Project; (vi) Bank staff interactions with the Requesters; and
(vii) overall Bank support to country level efforts to address Indigenous Peoples' rights.

Findings of the Panel

4.     The Inspection Panel Investigation Report was issued on September 16, 2010
and among its main findings the Panel highlights the Bank's engagement and
leadership role in supporting the land rights of Indigenous Peoples in Panama. The
Panel found that the Project included actions to meet the aspirations of indigenous
communities. It noted that the Bank acted ahead of others in addressing these issues in

1
  In Panama the term Comarca refers to an administrative division for an indigenous population created by
a specific law. The Ngöbe-Buglé Comarca was created by Law 10 of 1997 and is composed of a core area
and several adjacent or "Annex Areas."

                                                    v
Panama


Panama. The Panel also found that starting in early 2008 Bank staff have engaged
intensively and constructively with the Requesters and affected communities and that the
Requesters greatly appreciate these actions and efforts.

5.      Regarding Bank compliance with its policies and procedures, the Panel
found that although there were some instances of non-compliance, "Bank
Management has, in many respects, substantively complied with key policies and
procedures applicable to the Project, namely on Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20) and
Project Supervision (13.05)." The Panel found this to be the case especially with respect
to the concerns of the Naso people. In particular, the Panel found that Management
efforts denoted a good faith attempt to ensure meaningful consultations, consistent with
OD 4.20 and that expanded supervision actions since early 2008 were in compliance with
OP/BP 13.05 and OD 4.20.

6.      The Panel's findings on non compliance relate to: (i) project design (i.e.,
deficiencies in studies underpinning the Project related to the Ngöbe-Bugle people, lack
of a stand-alone IPDP); (ii) lapses in supervision in the early years of Project
implementation; (iii) inadequate consultations and demarcation methodologies in Ngöbe
Annex Areas; and (iv) limited follow up by Management regarding ambiguities in the
legal framework.

Management Response to the Findings

7.       Management has observations related to four key issues:

         First, Management appreciates that the Panel acknowledges the importance of
         many actions taken to address concerns about the Naso Comarca and to resolve
         related conflicts.
         Second, for projects involving Indigenous Peoples, Management acknowledges
         the need for a stand-alone IPDP, the systematic involvement of experienced social
         scientists throughout project preparation and supervision, and improving the
         quality and reporting of supervision missions. Management further acknowledges
         that the current, revised IPDP will need to be further strengthened if it is to be
         treated as a model for future programs involving Indigenous Peoples in Panama.
         Third, Management notes that it has been supervising the consultation processes
         in the Ngöbe Annex Areas, and acknowledges that these have not been fully in
         compliance with OD 4.20. Management notes that in 2007-08, Bank staff
         supervised Project consultations and recommended that the methodology to
         consult the Ngöbe people needed to be more inclusive, exhaustive and culturally
         appropriate to be in compliance with Bank policies.
         Fourth, Management notes the Panel's observations concerning ambiguities in the
         Panamanian legal framework to demarcate the Ngöbe Annex Areas, and explains
         actions taken during supervision to address this. Management further notes that
         neither private legal opinions nor government reports can settle ambiguities
         eventually arising from the Panamanian legal framework. In Panama these
         ambiguities are settled by the Judiciary through interpretation of the current legal


                                              vi
                                                     Management Report and Recommendation


       framework, or by the National Assembly through the issuance of a new law. Both
       of these actions are within the sole purview of the Government and fall outside
       the Bank's mandate.

Management Recommendations in Response to the Findings

8.      Management appreciates the Panel's finding of broad concurrence with Bank
policies and procedures applicable to the Project and acknowledges the Panel's
observations on specific instances of non-compliance during Project design and during
supervision in the early years, and its observations on systemic issues. To address the
instances of non compliance, Management has proposed an action plan including the
following:

       Management has offered its support to the Government to identify key issues that
       should be addressed in a more comprehensive IPDP, which the Government may
       update and treat as a model for future programs involving Indigenous Peoples in
       Panama.
       Management will ensure that the funds declared ineligible related to inadequate
       consultations with Indigenous Peoples identified during project supervision are
       returned to the Bank before the Loan Account is closed.
       Management will recommend to the Government to further enhance awareness
       among Indigenous Peoples of the contents and implications of Law 72 of 2008
       and its regulations. Management will share good practices on consultations during
       the multi-stakeholder workshop to be carried out before June 2011.
       Management will recommend to the recently-created National Authority of Land
       Administration (ANATI) that addressing the outstanding land claims of the Naso
       should be one of its immediate priorities.
       In November 2010, Management will verify in-situ the scope and quality of the
       latest round of consultations carried out in Annex Areas from May to June 2010
       and will issue recommendations to the Government.
       Management will recommend to the Government that demarcation of the Ngöbe
       Annex Areas in Bocas del Toro be another immediate priority for ANATI.
       Management will incorporate the Panel's findings and the lessons learned from
       this Project into the design and implementation of similar projects in the Region,
       particularly with regard to stakeholder consultations, the need to conduct social
       analyses and social assessments during project preparation, the need for a stand-
       alone IPDP, and the systematic involvement of experienced social scientists
       throughout project preparation and supervision.
       Finally, Management will make use of available opportunities to continue its
       engagement on Indigenous Peoples' issues in Panama. Drawing upon the lessons
       learned from the design and implementation of this Project, as well as other
       development projects in Panama, Management will support a multi-stakeholder
       workshop before June 2011 to discuss good practice approaches and strategies to
       promote inclusive development of Indigenous Peoples.

                                           vii
                                        I.       INTRODUCTION

1.      On March 11 and March 20, 2009, the Inspection Panel registered two Requests
for Inspection, IPN Request RQ 09/01 and RQ 09/04, respectively (the First and Second
Requests), regarding the Panama Land Administration Project ("the Project"), financed
by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD). The First
Request was submitted by members of the indigenous community of Pueblo Naso
(hereafter referred to as the First Requesters or Naso Requesters, as applicable, see Map
1), and the second by representatives of some Ngöbe-Buglé1 communities living in the
Areas Anexas or "Annex Areas" to the Comarca2 Ngöbe-Buglé in the Bocas del Toro
Province (hereafter referred to as the Second Requesters or Ngöbe Requesters, as
applicable, see Map 2).

2.      The Executive Directors and the President of IBRD were notified by the Panel of
receipt of the two Requests. Management responded to the claims in both Requests and
presented an Action Plan on April 20, 2009.

3.      In its Report to the Board, the Panel found both Requests eligible and
recommended that the Executive Directors authorize an investigation, but that the start of
the investigation be delayed for approximately four months in deference to the fact that a
new Government was taking office in the Republic of Panama, and to allow time for
progress on the actions referred to in the Management Response of April 2009. The
investigation was authorized by the Executive Directors on July 7, 2009.

4.      Prior to the initiation of the Panel's investigation, Management submitted a
progress report on its Action Plan to the Panel on November 12, 2009. The Panel team
visited Panama from January 27 to February 4, 2010.

5.      On September 16, 2010, the Panel issued its report outlining the findings of its
investigation. Management appreciates the Panel's clear and thorough presentation of its
findings. This report, responding to the findings of the Panel, is organized in six sections.
Section II briefly describes the Project and its main achievements, and it provides a
summary of the status of Management's Action Plan included in the Management
Response of April 2009. Section III summarizes the findings and observations of the
Panel, while Section IV provides additional information on key issues at the center of the
investigation. Management presents its Recommendations in response to the Panel's
findings in Section V, and the conclusion to the report in Section VI. The Panel's
findings, along with Management's comments and actions, are described in detail in
Annex 1. Additional annexes provide a chronology of key Project events (Annex 2) and
information on laws and decrees referred to in this Report (Annex 3).

1
  There are different spellings commonly used to refer to the Ngöbe-Buglé People. The Panel used Ngäbe.
In this Report and Recommendation, Management uses the spelling used in Law 10 of 1997 that created the
Ngöbe-Buglé Comarca.
2
  In Panama the term Comarca refers to an administrative division for an indigenous population created by
a specific law. There are five such regimes in the country: Kuna Yala (1938), Emberá-Wounan (1983),
Madungandi (1996), Ngöbe-Buglé (1997) and Wargandi (2000). The Ngöbe-Buglé Comarca was created
by Law 10 of 1997 and is composed of a core area and several adjacent or "annexed" areas.


                                                   1
Panama


                                      II.    THE PROJECT

6.      The Panama Land Administration Project was prepared during 1999-2000 and
approved by the Board on January 16, 2001. It was restructured on April 16, 2006 and
closed on June 30, 2010 (key Project milestones and relevant events are summarized in
Annex 2). The World Bank-financed Project (the "Project") was one of three projects that
constitute the Panama Land Administration Program (PRONAT, the "Program"), the
other two being financed by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB).

7.       As part of Project restructuring, effective on June 23, 2006, the Project
Development Objective (PDO) was simplified to read "to modernize the land
administration system, including priority protected areas and Indigenous Peoples'
territories." The main Project beneficiaries were urban and rural poor who lacked tenure
security, including Indigenous Peoples. Specifically, the Project sought to:

         Establish simpler procedures for land regularization and titling and strengthen
         land administration institutions;

         Map half of the country, survey 110,000 parcels and issue 27,000 urban and rural
         titles;

         Establish an integrated registry and cadastre system (SIICAR); and

         Consolidate selected protected areas and three Indigenous Peoples' territories
         (Ngöbe-Buglé, Kuna, and Naso).

8.     Project Components. The following description of Project components and US
Dollar amounts were effective as of June 23, 2006, the date of the Project's restructuring.
Total Project cost was US$58.57 million, with an IBRD loan amount of US$47.9 million.

         Component 1: Land Policy, Legal and Institutional Framework (US$ l3.56
         million; 23.2 percent of total Project cost). This component aimed at providing
         the policy, legal and institutional framework, as well as the capacity needed by
         the Project to deliver land administration services. The Project envisaged actions
         on three specific sets of activities: (i) introducing a series of land policy,
         legal/regulatory, and institutional reforms to simplify land titling, enable land
         sales and rentals, consolidate protected areas and indigenous territories, and serve
         as a basis for land valuation and taxation; (ii) establishing inter-institutional co-
         management mechanisms at the national and local level; and (iii) building
         capacity in local level nongovernmental organizations and municipalities.

         Component 2: Land Regularization (US$ 28.99 million; 49.5 percent of total
         cost). This component aimed at activities required for the massive land
         regularization process in Project areas. The Project envisaged three sets of
         activities: (i) modernizing the geodetic network and generating maps and satellite
         images to identify parcels in rural and urban areas for regularization, and for
         demarcation of protected areas and indigenous territories; (ii) carrying out


                                               2
                                                                 Management Report and Recommendation


         cadastral surveys to ground truth the satellite imagery, resolve issues relating to
         property rights, and issue titles; and developing an integrated information system
         (SIICAR) and updating it with cadastral survey data; and (iii) establishing
         alternative dispute resolution mechanisms.

         Component 3: Consolidation of Protected Areas and Indigenous Territories
         (US$ 7.97 million; 13.6 percent of total cost). This component aimed at: (i)
         consolidation of the National System of Protected Areas (SINAP); (ii)
         establishment and consolidation of protected areas within SINAP; and (iii)
         establishment and consolidation of indigenous territories, including support for
         the preparation of the draft law and charter3 required to establish and legally
         recognize the Naso Teribe Region; the updating of the charters of selected
         Comarcas; and the demarcation of selected Indigenous Peoples' territories.
         Subcomponent 3.2 also provided for technical and baseline studies, technical
         assistance for conflict resolution in indigenous territories, public information and
         promotion campaigns and strengthening of indigenous organizations and
         indigenous authorities.

         Component 4: Project Management and Monitoring and Evaluation (US$ 8.05
         million; 13.7 percent of total cost). This component aimed at: (i) capacity building
         of land administration entities, including strengthening them to provide land
         administration services on a decentralized basis; (ii) development of a monitoring
         and evaluation system; and (iii) strengthening the capacity of the Project
         Coordination Unit.

9.      Implementation Arrangements. Although primary responsibility for Project
implementation fell to the Ministry of Finance, as part of a national program, the Project
was implemented by multiple agencies: the National Directorate of Agrarian Reform, the
Public Registry, the Directorate of Cadastre and Patrimony, the National Environmental
Agency, the National Directorate of Indigenous Policy; the National Geographic Institute,
and the National Directorate of Local Government. Following the Project restructuring,
the Ministry of Housing was included as co-executing agency. Interagency coordination
was promoted at the national level by two structures created specifically for the Project:
the Superior Council for Land Administration and the Technical Operational Committee.
They were respectively responsible for the policy and technical regulatory frameworks
needed for Project implementation, and were supported by a Project Coordination Unit,
under the Ministry of Finance. This unit was responsible for the day-to-day management
of Project activities, coordination, financial transactions, procurement, and operational
reporting to Management.

10.    Status of Management's Action Plan of April 2009. The Management Action
Plan of April 2009 has been completed. Due to the change of Government administration
in mid-2009, implementation of the Plan took more time than originally expected, as the
new Government authorities needed time to become familiar with PRONAT's work and

3
  In Panama, a Carta Orgánica, or Charter, refers to the detailed description of the by-laws and regulations
related to an administrative division, either a Comarca, or a Corregimiento Comarcal.


                                                     3
Panama


the activities contained in Management's Action Plan to address the two Requests for
Inspection. The actions proposed in the Plan have now been completed. Details on the
status of each of the 15 actions are presented in Table 1 below.

                 Table 1. Status of Management's Action Plan of April 2009

ISSUES AND CONCERNS                                                     STATUS


Lack of stand-alone Indigenous Peoples' Development Plan (IPDP)

                                        Completed and further progress ongoing. A draft version of the IPDP was
                                        completed and publicly disclosed, and may undergo further revisions.
                                        Given the lessons learned from this project, Management has offered its
1. Finalize IPDP, including             support to the Government to identify key issues that should be
consultations with key stakeholder      addressed in a more comprehensive IPDP, which the Government may
groups.                                 update and treat as a model for future programs involving Indigenous
                                        Peoples. Management will provide an update on these discussions with
                                        the Government in the Implementation Completion and Results Report
                                        (ICR) by December 2010.
                                        Completed and further progress ongoing. A draft version of the IPDP has
                                        been disseminated through consultations, in-country websites and the
                                        World Bank InfoShop. The latest round of consultations with key
2. Disseminate IPDP through
                                        stakeholders took place between March and June 2010. The Government
consultations, in-country web
                                        has not yet submitted to Management a report on the feedback received
sites, and World Bank InfoShop.
                                        during these consultations. In November 2010, Management will review
                                        the Government's latest efforts to revise and disseminate the IPDP, and
                                        convey its findings in the Project's ICR in December 2010.
Naso Comarca Bill was not approved by the National Assembly, and Article 17 in the Ley de Tierras
Colectivas does not meet the aspirations of the Naso people
                                        Completed. Management obtained a legal opinion from the Project and an
                                        independent legal review on the implications of Article 17 of Law 72 of
                                        2008 for the Naso territorial aspirations. Management understands that
                                        Law 72 of 2008 does not preclude the possibility of the Naso people
                                        asking for a Comarca nor the possibility of the National Assembly
                                        approving its creation. Management notes that the Regulations to this law
3. Clarify implications of Article 17   were issued on July 29, 2010 and that there is no reference to either
of Law 72 of 2008, and support          Article 17, or the Naso land claims.
further mediation and
consultations among the Naso.           Completed. Management has consistently supported the Project's
                                        mediation and consultation efforts among the Naso. These resulted in the
                                        creation of a Naso Commission in March 2010 composed of ten members
                                        from both Naso factions (including Valentín Santana and Tito Santana).
                                        However, Management notes that as a result of resolutions issued at a
                                        Naso Assembly of Valentín Santana's followers on August 29, 2010, the
                                        Commission has been de-facto dissolved.
                                        Completed. Management has repeatedly followed up with the
                                        Government regarding the creation of a Naso Comarca and has received
4. Follow up with the Government        different opinions from different Government agencies regarding the
regarding potential for                 Executive's willingness to reconsider the creation of a Naso Comarca.
reintroduction of new draft             More recently, however, Management has been informed that
Comarca Bill, with offer to support     representatives from the National (legislative) Assembly (diputados)
consultations and other work            present at the August 29, 2010 Naso Assembly will transmit to the
within the scope of the Project.        National (legislative) Assembly the communities' request to reconsider the
                                        draft bill to create a Naso Comarca (the one supported by the Project and
                                        presented to the Assembly in 2004 and again in 2005).

Concern among Ngöbe-Buglé that the delimitation of Annex Areas is inadequate




                                                        4
                                                                  Management Report and Recommendation



ISSUES AND CONCERNS                                                    STATUS

                                       Completed. At Management's request, in June 2009 the Project unit
                                       carried out a legal assessment in this regard and reported that these laws
                                       did not affect the definition of Annex Areas, which remained regulated by
                                       Law 10 of 1997 that created the Ngöbe-Buglé Comarca. However, in
                                       December 2009, Management received a separate legal opinion from the
                                       Ministry of Government and Justice which concluded that Law 18 of 2009
                                       and Law 10 of 1997 have contradictory mandates as to how certain
                                       Annex Areas are to be demarcated (as an administrative Corregimiento
5. Clarify and report to Requesters
                                       according to the former, as an Annex Area according to the latter).
on the implications of Law 72 of
                                       Management notes that neither private legal opinions nor government
2008 and Law 18 of 2009
                                       reports can settle ambiguities eventually arising from the Panamanian
regarding Annex Areas.
                                       legal framework. In Panama these ambiguities are settled by the Judiciary
                                       through interpretation of the current legal framework, or by the National
                                       Assembly through the issuance of a new law. Both of these actions fall
                                       outside the Bank's mandate.

                                       Bank staff met with the Ngöbe Requesters in November 2009, December
                                       2009, and April 2010 and reported back to them on these ambiguities in
                                       the legal framework.
                                       Completed. Management has verified in-situ that the proposed
                                       delimitations for Annex Areas in some cases include trabajaderos, but not
                                       in others. On the basis of these verifications, Management recommended
6. Verify that delimitation includes   that the Project sponsor new rounds of consultations in Annex Areas,
the broader territory including        which took place in May-June 2010. The Government has not yet
trabajaderos.                          submitted to Management a report on these consultations. Management
                                       will review in-situ the outcome of these consultations in November 2010,
                                       issue recommendations to the Government and report its overall findings
                                       in the Project's ICR in December 2010.
Concerns over inadequate consultations in the Project

7. Verify improved consultations
regarding delimitation of Annex
Areas among Ngöbe-Buglé as per
                                       Completed. See item 6 above.
previous supervision
recommendations; support further
strengthening as required.
8. Continue to support efforts to
mediate between the two Naso           Completed. See item 3 above.
factions.
Need for strengthened Project capacity to implement recommendations from Social Assessment (SA),
consultation framework, and IPDP
                                       Completed and further progress ongoing. Management carried out a
                                       detailed training event in September 2009. In addition, Management will
9. Organize training event(s) for
                                       support a multi-stakeholder workshop before June 2011 to discuss good
Project staff and national resource
                                       practice approaches and strategies to promote inclusive development of
persons on social assessment
                                       Indigenous Peoples. Management will share its recently issued "guidance
processes including consultations.
                                       note on consultations in investment projects" with workshop participants
                                       and various government agencies.

Concern among Requesters that the Bank has not been sufficiently responsive

10. Summarize key points in
                                       Completed. Bank staff have met with both groups of Requesters on
Management Response and
                                       several occasions and have maintained regular correspondence with
Action Plan related to the
                                       them on various Project-related issues. In addition, in the coming days
Requests for Inspection, and offer
                                       Bank staff will discuss by telephone with both groups of Requesters the
to meet and discuss follow-up
                                       actions proposed in this Management Report and Recommendation.
actions.




                                                       5
Panama



ISSUES AND CONCERNS                                                    STATUS

11. Provide direct feedback about
previous and future missions and       Completed. See item 10 above.
interactions.
12. Continue to interact with both     Completed. Throughout 2009 and 2010 Bank staff have held several
Tito Santana and Valentín              meetings with both Tito Santana and Valentín Santana (leaders of the two
Santana and their constituencies,      Naso factions), as well as with the Ngöbe Requesters and the Ngöbe
as well as different groups among      Cacique General.4 In addition, Bank staff have visited various Ngöbe and
the Ngöbe-Buglé.                       Naso communities.
Overall concerns about poverty and marginalization of Indigenous Peoples, and pressures on their
resources
                                       Completed and further progress ongoing. Bank staff met with the Director
                                       of Indigenous Affairs in March 2010 to discuss national policy for
13. Continued country level
                                       Indigenous Peoples. In the advent of Panama's new Government, Bank
dialogue to strengthen attention to
                                       Management has prioritized the strengthening of Indigenous Peoples'
Indigenous Peoples' rights in the
                                       rights in the new Panama Country Partnership Strategy (CPS). In
Bank's portfolio.
                                       addition, Management will continue its dialogue with the Government on a
                                       regular basis.
14. National capacity building on
international good practice
standards related to safeguards, in
                                       Completed. See item 9 above.
particular environmental
management and Indigenous
Peoples' rights.
                                       Completed and further progress ongoing. In all of its meetings with
                                       Panamanian Government officials, senior Bank Management has
                                       consistently offered the Bank's assistance in the development of
15. Offer to assist the Government
                                       sustainable and equitable solutions for Indigenous Peoples' issues in the
to develop more sustainable and
                                       country. During the stakeholder consultations for the development of the
equitable solutions for Indigenous
                                       new CPS (May 24-26, 2010), participants, including Indigenous Peoples'
Peoples.
                                       representatives, considered the Bank an important ally in this regard.
                                       Management intends to continue emphasizing this issue in its broader
                                       country dialogue with the Panamanian authorities.



11.     Project Status. In December 2009, the Government requested an extension of the
Project's Closing date until to June 30, 2010 to allow for an orderly closure of the
Project. Management took the opportunity of this 6-month extension of the Project's
Closing Date (to June 30, 2010) to impress upon the Government the need to address
some unresolved issues, mostly related to the Indigenous Peoples' subcomponent
(including improved consultations in Naso and Ngöbe areas in Bocas del Toro).
Management also insisted that no new titling activities take place under the Project
during the extension period, as Bank supervision missions in late 2009 had learned that
some individual titling processes carried out in 2008 in Bocas del Toro Province did not
follow proper consultations. Management requested clarifications from the Government
on these titling processes and commissioned independent audits to assess their technical
and social integrity. Bank supervision missions (including the results of the technical and
social audits) conducted in early 2010 determined that some of the titling processes
carried out in 2008 fell outside the provisions of the Project and consequently, on June
11, 2010, Bank Management declared those activities as ineligible under the Loan
Agreement.

4
    The Cacique General is the highest individual traditional authority of the Ngöbe in Panamá.


                                                       6
                                                                     Management Report and Recommendation


12.     Project Achievements at Closing. After nine years of implementation (and two
extensions of its Closing Date), the Project closed on June 30, 2010. A total of US$ 46.0
million (97 percent of the Loan) was disbursed by October 20, 2010. Although the
Project achieved some important targets (summarized below), the final rating for overall
achievement of the Project Development Objective was Marginally Unsatisfactory,
largely as a result of significant delays in implementation, unsatisfactory allocation of
counterpart funding throughout the Project's life, and unsatisfactory implementation of
some activities under the Indigenous Peoples' territories subcomponent. The Project's
most notable achievements are:

           Demarcation of the Ngöbe-Buglé Comarca mainland and Annex Areas in Chiriquí
           and Veraguas provinces (though not the Annex Areas in Bocas del Toro Province,
           which were the subject of the Second Request);

           Elaboration of the draft law for the establishment of the Naso Comarca and its
           presentation to the Assembly;

           Delimitation of 70 percent of the Naso territory (including the natural boundaries
           that do not require demarcation);

           Approval of a Law on Mass Land Titling (Law 24 of 2006, a key legal reform);5

           Establishment of Alternative Dispute Resolution Mechanisms in all the provinces
           covered by the Project;

           Modernization of the geodetic network and mapping of half of the country;

           Completion of an integrated Cadastre and Registry System (SIICAR);

           Surveying and titling of 106 percent of targeted parcels in rural areas and 21
           percent in urban areas; and

           Demarcation of about 40 percent of targeted protected areas boundaries.

13.     Continuation of the Land Administration Program. Management understands
that the land administration project financed by the IDB has absorbed the majority of the
staff previously financed by the World Bank loan, providing for the continuation in
program objectives. Moreover, on October 5, 2010, the National Assembly approved a
bill to create a National Authority of Land Administration (ANATI) which integrates
various land agencies, including PRONAT's Coordination Unit, into one autonomous
entity. This is a significant achievement, because it consolidates many of the institutional
and operational structures developed under the Project and provides a permanent
structure to address land tenure issues in Panama. Management will submit several
specific recommendations to the new ANATI authorities related to the unfinished goals
and lessons learned under the Project.

5
    Annex 2 lists all the laws and regulations mentioned in this report.


                                                         7
Panama


14.     Going Forward. With the advent of Panama's new Government, Management
has prioritized the strengthening of Indigenous Peoples' rights at various levels of its
country dialogue. In the stakeholder consultations for the development of the new
Panama Country Partnership Strategy (CPS, May 24-26, 2010), Bank staff met with
envoys of Indigenous Peoples groups. Participants at these consultations expressed the
hope that the Bank would support the Government, inter alia, in: (i) taking a more
inclusive and participatory social and economic development approach that benefits all
Panamanians; (ii) implementing bilingual intercultural education programs; (iii) making
investments in productivity and market access for small scale producers; (iv) assessing
and mitigating the environmental impact of large infrastructure projects; and (v) working
to increase transparency and improve public sector efficiency. Management is and will
continue working with the Panamanian authorities in addressing these critical issues.

15.      Management will continue its dialogue with the Government on a regular basis,
especially in the preparation of specific projects. While the new CPS does not foresee a
land administration operation, the Bank assistance program supports the Government's
efforts to reduce poverty, especially among the rural poor and indigenous groups.

16.     Management will also support a multi-stakeholder workshop before June 2011 to
discuss good practice approaches and strategies to promote inclusive development of
Indigenous Peoples. At this workshop, Management will also discuss the recently
prepared "guidance note on consultations in investment projects" with workshop
participants. Management will provide an update on these discussions in the ICR by
December 2010.

17.     Finally, Management is incorporating the findings of the Panel's investigation and
the "lessons learned" from this project into the design and implementation of similar
projects in the Region, particularly with regard to stakeholder consultations, the need to
conduct social analyses and social assessments during project preparation, preparing a
stand-alone IPDP, and ensuring the systematic involvement of experienced social
scientists throughout project preparation and supervision.

                              III.   FINDINGS OF THE PANEL

18.    The Panel's findings may be organized in four categories: (i) general comments
about the Bank's role in land regularization and Indigenous Peoples' issues; (ii) specific
findings of compliance and non-compliance within the Project; (iii) observations on
systemic issues; and (iv) observations on issues beyond the scope of the Project.

19.     The World Bank's Role in Land Regularization and Indigenous Peoples'
Issues. Management appreciates the Panel's overall observation related to the Bank's
engagement and leadership role in supporting the land rights of Indigenous Peoples in
Panama. The Panel found that the Project specifically included objectives and actions to
meet the aspirations of indigenous communities, including the establishment of a Naso
Comarca. The Panel also noted that the Bank acted ahead of others in addressing these
issues in Panama.




                                            8
                                                                 Management Report and Recommendation


20.     The Panel also found that starting in early 2008 Bank staff have engaged
intensively and constructively with the Requesters and affected communities to seek to
better understand and help to resolve the problems they have raised. The Panel noted that
the Requesters greatly appreciate these actions and efforts by Bank Management and
hope that the Bank will remain engaged on these issues in the country.

21.     Panel Findings of Bank Compliance with its Policies and Procedures. Table 2
below summarizes Management's understanding of Bank compliance with its policies
and procedures in relation to the findings of the Panel. For further detail, see Annex 1 of
this document.

                          Table 2. Summary of Findings of the Panel
Panel Findings on the Claims of the Naso People
In compliance          The absence of a stand-alone IPDP at appraisal did not prevent the Bank from
                       taking important actions in support of the aspirations of the Naso to have their own
                       Comarca. The Social Assessment (SA) and Project Appraisal Document (PAD)
                       prepared for the Project properly highlighted the core need to give high priority to
                       the work to develop a Naso Comarca, consistent with the objectives of OD 4.20.
In compliance          The Project's support for preparation of a Comarca bill in the early years of Project
                       implementation was directly supportive of the territorial and administrative
                       aspirations of the Naso, consistent with OD 4.20 and OP 13.05. The failure of the
                       bill to pass National Assembly in 2004 and again in 2005 does not alter this
                       assessment.
In compliance          Management tried to deal with both factions of the Naso people, and repeatedly
                       interacted with the Project directly to make attempts to resolve the conflict. The
                       Panel finds these recent efforts denote a good faith attempt on the part of
                       Management that the consultation was meaningful, and that the genuine
                       representatives of the Naso participated in the process, consistent with the
                       provisions of OD 4.20.
In compliance          The suspension of Project support for Law 72 is consistent with requirements of
                       OP/BP 13.05.
In compliance          The Panel notes the importance of the Bank's active engagement in efforts to
                       address and resolve the conflict with Ganadera Bocas, in line with relevant Bank
                       policies.
In compliance          The Panel commends Bank Management for more recent expanded supervision
                       actions, which are in compliance with OP/BP 13.05 and OD 4.20. The Requesters
                       have also indicated to the Panel their appreciation for these efforts of Bank
                       Management.

Not in compliance      The Panel concurs with the view of Management [acknowledged in Management
                       Response of April, 2009] that the absence of a stand-alone IPDP, and failure to
                       diclose publicly the SA prior to appraisal, was not in accordance with OD 4.20.
Not in compliance      The contradictory situation surrounding Law 72 warrants seeking further
                       explanations from the borrower in order to achieve full compliance with OP/BP
                       13.05 and the objective of OD 4.20, to address concerns of intended Project
                       beneficiaries.
Not in compliance      The IPDP does not contain all of the elements required by OD 4.20. The new
                       document could only serve as a positive model for later IPDPs in Panama if it
                       contained all the elements of an IPDP required by Bank policy.
Panel Findings on the Claims of the Ngöbe People
In compliance          The Panel notes and appreciates the recent efforts by Bank Management to gather
                       further information [related to the case of Norteño] and stresses the importance of
                       both clarification and follow-up in line with Bank policy and the relevant Project
                       objectives.
In compliance          Management's actions following the concerns raised by the Requesters begnning
                       in early 2008 are consistent with the requirements of OP/BP 13.05 on Project



                                                     9
Panama


                           Supervision.

Not in compliance     [Project Design and Appraisal] The Panel finds that an IPDP with adequate
                      
                      consultations and studies that inform an IPDP could have identified the Annex
                      Areas in Bocas del Toro as a critical issue requiring immediate attention. The
                      Panel finds flaw in studies underpinning the Project, as it relates to the Ngöbe
                      people, which did not meet the requirements of OD 4.20 for an IPDP.
Not in compliance     [Project Design and Appraisal] Dissemination of project information of particular
                      relevance to the Indigenous People in the Project areas did not comply with the
                      requirements of OD 4.20.
Not in compliance     [Project Implementation] The methodology used for determining the boundaries of
                      the Annex Areas included consultation with only the main leaders of the Ngöbe
                      people ­ who may not have been "local" residents of the Annex Areas ­ but did not
                      involve all of the interested communities. The Panel notes this methodology was
                      not adequately participatory as required by OD 4.20.
Not in compliance     [Project Implementation] To meet the requirements of OP/BP 13.05 on Project
                      Supervision, Management should have followed up on several inconclusive and, at
                      times contradictory, legal opinions and reports on legal and regulatory
                      developments directly affecting the Requesters.
Supervision and Systemic Issues
In compliance         Management has taken many important actions since that time [early 2008] to
                      review and address the concerns raised in these Requests. The intensity of
                      supervision has increased since 2008 and meets the standards set forth in OP/BP
                      13.05 and OD 4.20.

Not in compliance          Supervision of the Project did not promptly and adequately react to warnings and
                           emerging issues during certain key phases of the Project, which is not consistent
                           with OP 13.05.
Not in compliance          Supervision visits did not include a social specialist until March 2007, which did not
                           comply with OD 4.20.



22.     In addition to the findings of Bank compliance or non-compliance with its various
policies and procedures, the Panel made a number of observations related to Project
supervision and systemic issues. These observations and Management's comments and
actions are presented in Annex 1.

23.    Issues Beyond the Scope of the Project. The Panel notes that "the Bonyik dam
has been a root cause of serious divisions within the Naso people."6 The Panel also
concludes that "[a]lthough Management cannot be held responsible for actions not
financed by the Bank, it has a responsibility to identify promptly, and recommend ways
to address, significant actions or events in the Project environment that may undermine
key Project objectives."7 While Management agrees that a development project cannot be
seen in isolation from other relevant political economy factors, Bank responsibility
should not be extended to areas or issues beyond the Project.

                                              IV.       KEY ISSUES

24.     Management appreciates the Panel's recognition of the importance of the Bank's
engagement in this type of intervention, the difficulty of addressing the very complex
issues involved, and the steps Management took to address the concerns raised by the

6
    Inspection Panel Investigation Report No. 56565, September 16, 2010, para. 199.
7
    Ibid., para. 201.


                                                       10
                                                      Management Report and Recommendation


Requesters. This section provides information related to four key issues at the center of
the Panel's Investigation Report: (i) mediation efforts and consultations with the two
Naso factions (led by Valentín Santana and Tito Santana, respectively); (ii) the studies
underpinning Project design and the role of the IPDP; (iii) consultations and the
delimitation of Ngöbe Annex Areas; and (iv) the legal framework. Management's
Recommendations and Actions are discussed in Section V below.

Mediation Efforts and Consultations with the Two Naso Factions

25.      Management acknowledges the Panel's recognition of the fact that the effects of
the schism that emerged in the Naso body politic in 2004 between people supporting
Valentín Santana and those supporting Tito Santana have prevented a resolution of
conflicts. Management also acknowledges the Panel's finding that once Management
learned in 2007 about the schism, it sought "to deal with both factions of the Naso
people, and repeatedly interacted with the Project directly to make attempts to resolve the
conflict"8 and encourage Government Project staff to interact with, consult and include
the two Naso factions. Management made several attempts to discuss the issues of the
failed Comarca law and the Project's support of Law 72 on Collective Lands with both
parties.

26.     Management acknowledges the Panel's assessment that these efforts show good
faith to ensure that the consultation process was meaningful, and that the genuine
representatives of the Naso people participated in the process, consistent with the
provisions of OD 4.20.

27.    Management also appreciates the Panel's acknowledgement of the importance of
a number of actions taken by Management to address concerns about the Naso Comarca,
Law 72, and ongoing conflicts over land boundaries, including those related to Ganadera
Bocas.

28.     On November 18, 2009, in the context of a supervision mission, the two Naso
factions accepted to work together with the Project to address the conflict related to a
private livestock farm (Ganadera Bocas) and other Naso Comarca boundary issues.
Unfortunately, on November 19, an eviction by the police of several Naso families found
to be encroaching on lands claimed by Ganadera Bocas prevented implementation of the
agreement reached the day before. Management notes that the Panel found that the Bank
cannot be held responsible for these forced evictions. Despite this setback, following
Management's recommendations, the Project once again sponsored a new agreement
among the Naso factions and in March 2010, a Naso Commission was created with the
participation of five members from each Naso faction, including their leaders, Valentín
Santana and Tito Santana. Unfortunately, due to Government bureaucratic delays, the
planned events for field-level activities by the Commission did not take place prior to the
Project's closing on June 30, 2010. Management acknowledges the Panel's finding that
the recent actions by Management are in compliance with OP/BP 13.05 and OD 4.20.


8
    Ibid., para. 148.


                                            11
Panama


29.    Management notes that a resolution of a Naso Assembly organized by followers
of Valentín Santana in August 2010 called for a break of relations with Tito Santana,
which has resulted in the de facto dissolution of the Naso Commission.

Studies Underpinning Project Design and the Role of the IPDP

30.     Management notes the Panel's observation that participatory development and
proper dissemination of a stand-alone IPDP would likely have placed the Bank in a better
position to support the Naso and the Ngöbe Indigenous Peoples. The Panel found that the
absence of a stand-alone IPDP at appraisal did not prevent Management from taking
important actions in support of the aspiration of the Naso to have their own Comarca. The
Panel also found that the Social Assessment and the Project Appraisal Document
highlighted the need to give high priority to the creation of the Naso Comarca, in
compliance with OD 4.20.

31.     However, Management acknowledges the Panel's finding that there was a lack of
attention to the issues and needs of Ngöbe people living in the Annex Areas, both in
Project preparation and in the early years of Project implementation. The socio-political
and legal situation of the Ngöbe people residing in the Annex Areas could have been
better addressed during Project preparation by highlighting risks and challenges,
particularly related to the demarcation of the territorial claims. Participation of a social
scientist in the supervision team during the early years also could have helped to identify
these risks, better address the demarcation process, and supervise the consultations and
participatory mechanisms, as was done after 2007, in line with Bank policy. Management
tried to address these deficiencies through more intensive supervision and specialized
technical assistance in the Project's later years, as described in the next section.

32.     For projects involving Indigenous Peoples, Management acknowledges the
importance of having a stand-alone IPDP, including social scientists in project
preparation and supervision, and improving the quality of the field supervision missions.
Management further acknowledges that despite the efforts to provide technical assistance
to the Project staff, the current version of the document submitted still needs to be
updated in order to address all aspects of an IPDP covered by OD 4.20. Going forward,
Management has offered its support to the Government to identify key issues that should
be addressed in a more comprehensive IPDP, which the Government may update and
treat as a model for future programs related to Indigenous Peoples. Management will
provide an update on these discussions with the Government in the ICR by December
2010.

33.     Management also acknowledges the importance of improving consultations and
participatory approaches with Indigenous Peoples more generally. Therefore,
Management plans to organize workshops in 2011 with key stakeholders, including
Indigenous Peoples and Government authorities, to widely disseminate Bank policies and
build capacity in the use of participatory approaches. Management has prepared a
"guidance note on consultations in investment projects" which will be shared and used as
training materials.



                                            12
                                                      Management Report and Recommendation


Consultations and Demarcation of Annex Areas during Supervision

34.     Regarding supervision efforts, Management acknowledges the Panel's finding
that during certain key phases of the Project, supervision did not promptly and adequately
react to warnings and emerging issues, as required by OP 13.05 and related provisions of
OD 4.20. In 2007-08, Bank staff supervised Project consultations and made detailed
recommendations to Project staff to substantially improve the consultations and to
prepare a consultation plan to properly disseminate information about the delimitation
and demarcation processes of Annex Areas. Bank staff recommended that the
methodology to consult the Ngöbe people needed to be more inclusive, exhaustive and
culturally appropriate to be in compliance with OD 4.20.

35.    In November 2009, Management agreed with Project staff that a new round of
consultations would take place in indigenous communities in Bocas del Toro.
Management emphasized the need to execute highly inclusive consultations and to
document the process. Bank staff visited several Annex Areas to assess the quality of the
consultations, and to interact with the Requesters, traditional leaders, and community
members. However, Management notes that even with an adequate consultation process,
the expectations of the Ngöbe communities may still have conflicted with the provisions
of Law 10, including the provisions to be followed in the process of demarcating Annex
Areas.

36.    During this year, Project staff have been actively consulting with Indigenous
Peoples' groups. A consultation event held on March 8, 2010 aimed at disseminating
information to Indigenous Peoples about the legal aspects of the demarcation of the
Ngöbe Annex Areas in Bocas del Toro. A total of eight consultation workshops were also
sponsored by the Project in Bri-Bri, Naso, Ngöbe, and Kuna communities to discuss the
revised IPDP. Moreover, between May 12 and June 8, 2010, the Project organized
consultation events in 14 of the 15 Annex Areas in Bocas del Toro, as well as with some
communities adjacent to the main Ngöbe-Buglé Comarca, including the community of
Norteño. Management will make field visits to some of these sites in November 2010,
and will make recommendations to the Government accordingly.

37.     Management notes the Panel's finding that Management's actions since early
2008 to review and address the concerns raised in the Requests meet the standards set
forth in OP/BP 13.05 and OD 4.20.

The Legal Framework

38.     Naso. With respect to the implications of Law 72 of 2008 (on Collective Lands)
for the Naso territorial claims, in compliance with its responsibility to assess the
country's applicable legal framework under any given Bank project, Management
confirms its understanding that this law does not preclude the possibility of the Naso
people asking for a Comarca, nor the possibility of the National Assembly approving its
creation. It also confirms its understanding that, as of today, there are no legislative or
regulatory developments that preclude that option.




                                            13
Panama


39.     Ngöbe. Management acknowledges that there are contradictory legal
interpretations with respect to the impact of Law 18 of 20099 on Law 10 of 1997
(creating the Ngöbe-Buglé Comarca). Management highlights that neither private legal
opinions nor government reports can settle ambiguities eventually arising from the
Panamanian legal framework. In Panama, like in many countries, these ambiguities are
settled by the Judiciary through interpretation of the current legal framework, or by the
National Assembly through the issuance of a new law. Both of these actions are within
the sole purview of the Government and fall outside the Bank's mandate.

         V.        MANAGEMENT'S RECOMMENDATIONS IN RESPONSE TO THE FINDINGS

40.     Management appreciates the Panel's findings of broad concurrence with Bank
policies in key areas such as the inclusion of a specific Project objective to support the
delimitation of and drafting of a bill for a Naso Comarca, Management's actions to
prevent the use of loan funds for activities related to the draft bylaws (Carta Orgánica) of
the Naso territory, and Management's more recent expanded supervision actions.
Management also welcomes the Panel's observations on specific instances of non-
compliance during Project design and supervision in the early years, and its observations
on systemic issues related to the challenges of land management and administration
projects and project supervision, more generally. The following table presents the action
plan for following up on the Panel's findings.

                     Table 3. Management Recommendations and Actions
    PANEL FINDINGS                               PROPOSED ACTION
    Related to the Naso
    1) Absence of stand-alone IPDP, and          Management has offered its support to the Government to
    failure to disclose publicly the Social      identify key issues that should be addressed in a more
    Assessment prior to appraisal, was not in    comprehensive IPDP, which the Government may update
    accordance with OD 4.20.                     and treat as a model for future programs related to
                                                 Indigenous Peoples. Management will provide an update
    Panel finds absence of a stand-alone         on these discussions with the Government in the Project's
    IPDP did not prevent Bank from taking        ICR by December 2010.
    important actions in support of aspiration
    of Naso to have own Comarca,
    consistent with the objectives of OD
    4.20.
    2) Panel finds [informal suspension of       Management will ensure that the funds declared ineligible
    disbursements] is consistent with            related to this issue are returned to the Bank before the
    requirements of OP/BP 13.05, but also        Loan Account is closed.
    finds such a contradictory situation
    surrounding Law 72 warrants seeking          Management will recommend to the Government to apply
    further explanations from the Borrower in    the consultation mechanisms envisioned under the
    order to achieve full compliance with        revised IPDP in order to foster awareness among
    OP/BP 13.05 and the objective of OD          Indigenous Peoples of the contents and implications of
    4.20, to address concerns of intended        Law 72 of 2008 and its Regulations.
    Project beneficiaries.                       Management will recommend to the recently-created
                                                 ANATI that addressing the outstanding land claims of the
                                                 Naso should be one of the immediate priorities.
                                                 Management will provide an update on the status of this


9
 Law 18 of 2009 establishes new corregimientos (administrative jurisdictions) and lists all the existing
ones in the district of Changuinola, Bocas del Toro province.


                                                      14
                                                                    Management Report and Recommendation


     PANEL FINDINGS                               PROPOSED ACTION
                                                  recommendation in the Project's ICR by December 2010.
     3) Panel now has copy of IPDP, but has       Same action as in item 1 above.
     determined it does not contain elements
     of IPDP as required by OD 4.20. It is the
     Panel's view that the new document
     could only serve as positive model for
     later IPDPs in Panama if it contained
     elements of IPDP required by Bank
     policy.
     Related to the Ngöbe
     [During Project Design and Appraisal]        Same action as in items 1 and 3 above.
     4) Panel finds that an IPDP with
     adequate consultations and studies that
     inform it could have identified the Annex
     Areas in Bocas del Toro as a critical
     issue requiring immediate attention.
     Panel finds flaws in studies underpinning
     the Project, as it relates to the Ngöbe
     people, which did not meet the
     requirements of OD 4.20 for an IPDP.
     [During Project Design and Appraisal]        To address inadequate dissemination of project
     5) Dissemination of project information of   information during Project design, Management intensified
     particular relevance to the Indigenous       its supervision efforts in 2008 and Bank staff met with the
     People in the Project areas did not          Ngöbe Requesters in November 2009, December 2009,
     comply with the requirements of OD           and April 2010 and informed them directly regarding
     4.20.                                        various Project-related issues of concern to them.
     [During Project Implementation]              In November 2010, Management will verify in-situ the
     6) The methodology used for determining      scope and quality of the latest round of consultations
     the boundaries of the Annex Areas            carried out in May­June 2010 and will issue
     included consultation with only the main     recommendations to the Government.
     leaders of the Ngöbe people--who may
     not have been "local" residents of the       Management will also recommend to the Government that
     Annex Areas--but did not involve the         demarcation of the Ngöbe Annex Areas in Bocas del Toro
     interested communities. Panel notes this     be one of the immediate priorities for the recently-created
     methodology was not adequately               ANATI. Management will provide an update on the status
     participatory as required by OD 4.20.        of this recommendation in the Project's ICR by December
                                                  2010.
                                                  Management will share good practices on consultations
                                                  during the multi-stakeholder workshop to be carried out
                                                  before June 2011.
     [During Project Implementation]              Management acknowledges that there are contradictory
     7) To meet the requirements of OP/BP         legal interpretations with respect to the impact of Law 18
     13.05 on Project Supervision,                of 200910 on Law 10 of 1997 (creating the Ngöbe-Buglé
     Management should have followed up on        Comarca). Management highlights that neither private
     several inconclusive and, at times           legal opinions nor government reports can settle
     contradictory, legal opinions and reports    ambiguities eventually arising from the Panamanian legal
     on legal and regulatory developments         framework. In Panama, like in many countries, these
     directly affecting the Requesters.           ambiguities arte settled by the Judiciary through
                                                  interpretation of the current legal framework, or by the
                                                  National Assembly through the issuance of a new law.
                                                  Both of these actions are within the sole purview of the
                                                  Government and fall outside the Bank's mandate.

     Supervision and Systemic Issues


10
  Law 18 of 2009 establishes new corregimientos (administrative jurisdictions) and lists all the existing
ones in the district of Changuinola, Bocas del Toro province.


                                                        15
Panama


  PANEL FINDINGS                                PROPOSED ACTION
  8) Supervision of the Project did not         Management highlights that the Panel noted that the
  promptly and adequately react to              intensity of supervision increased since 2008 and that this
  warnings and emerging issues during           met the standards set forth in OP/BP 13.05 and OD 4.20.
  certain key phases of the Project, which
  is not consistent with OP 13.05.              Moreover, Management is incorporating the findings of the
                                                Panel's investigation and the lessons learned from this
                                                Project into the design and implementation of similar
                                                projects in the Region, particularly with regard to
                                                stakeholder consultations, the need to conduct social
                                                analyses and social assessments during project
                                                preparation, having a stand-alone IPDP, and the
                                                systematic involvement of experienced social scientists
                                                throughout project preparation and supervision.
  9) Supervision visits did not include a       Same action as item 8 above.
  social specialist until March 2007, which
  did not comply with OD 4.20.




                                              VI.    CONCLUSION

41.    Management acknowledges the Panel's findings related to Bank compliance and
non-compliance with its policies, OD 4.20 and OP/BP 13.05. Management believes that
the proposed Recommendations and Actions presented in this Report address the Panel's
findings.




                                                      16
                                           ANNEX 1
                               FINDINGS, COMMENTS AND ACTIONS

     ISSUE / FINDINGS                                     Para   COMMENT / ACTION
                                                          no.
A.   Panel Findings on the Claims of the Naso
     People
1.   Claim that the Project has undercut the              117-   Comment: Management acknowledges
     Naso aspiration for a Comarca--Project               129    the finding of compliance with OD 4.20 by
     Design and Appraisal                                        the Panel related to the Naso territorial
                                                                 aspirations and reaffirms its commitment to
         Social analysis emphasized the critical
                                                                 meet the requirements of Bank policies in
     need for a Naso Comarca. The Panel
                                                                 the Panama work program.
     observes that the inclusion of a specific
     Project objective to support the delimitation                  Management notes the Panel's
     and drafting of a bill for a Naso Comarca                   observation related to Management's
     flows directly from analysis contained in the               current position in favor of preparing stand-
     Social Assessment (SA) prepared for the                     alone Indigenous Peoples Development
     Project.                                                    Plans (IPDPs) in such situations.
         The Panel considers that it is
                                                                 Action: No action required.
     understandable how staff might have come
     to the conclusion that they had met the
     requirements under OD 4.20 regarding the
     preparation of an IPDP. The Panel further
     notes in this regard that it has received
     explanations from Management that the
     interpretation of these provisions has been
     clarified and evolved over recent years in
     favor of preparing a stand-alone IPDP in
     such situations.
        The Panel concurs with the view of
     Management that the absence of a stand-
     alone IPDP, and failure to disclose publicly
     the Social Assessment prior to appraisal,
     was not in accordance with OD 4.20.
         The Panel finds that the absence of a
     stand-alone IPDP at appraisal did not
     prevent the Bank from taking important
     actions in support of the aspiration of the
     Naso to have their own Comarca. The Panel
     further finds that the Social Assessment and
     PAD prepared for the Project properly
     highlighted the core need to give high
     priority to the work to develop a Naso
     Comarca, in light of risks faced by the Naso
     people. The Panel finds that this is
     consistent with the objectives of OD 4.20.
2.   Claim that the Project has undercut the              130-   Comment: Management notes the Panel's
     Naso aspiration for a Comarca--Project               134    findings that the Project supported the
     Implementation and Supervision                              delimitation of a proposed Naso Comarca
                                                                 territory and that the Naso were
        The Panel's review of the evidence
                                                                 adequately informed and participated in
     indicated that during the period from 2001 to
                                                                 the process of determining Comarca
     the suspension of discussions of the bill of
                                                                 boundaries, addressing conflicts with
     law by the National Assembly in 2005, the
                                                                 regard to the boundaries, and elaborating
     indigenous territory component of the
                                                     17
     ISSUE / FINDINGS                                       Para   COMMENT / ACTION
                                                            no.
     Project supported the delimitation of a                       the bill of law for the Comarca.
     proposed Naso Comarca territory and the
                                                                   Management also notes the Panel's finding
     drafting of a bill of law for the Comarca.
                                                                   that supervision efforts were in compliance
          The evidence also indicates that the                     with OD 4.20 and OP 13.05.
     Naso were adequately informed and
                                                                   Action: No action required.
     participated heavily in the process of
     determining Comarca boundaries,
     addressing conflicts with regard to the
     boundaries, and elaborating the Comarca
     bill.
        The Panel finds the Project's support for
     preparation of a Comarca bill in the early
     years of Project implementation was directly
     supportive of the territorial and
     administrative aspirations of Naso, and
     consistent with OD 4.20 on Indigenous
     Peoples and OP 13.05 on Project
     Supervision. The failure of a Comarca bill to
     pass National Assembly in 2004 and 2005
     does not alter this assessment.
3.   Claim that Project did not Consult                     141-   Comment: Management acknowledges
     Properly with Legitimate Leaders                       150    the finding of compliance with OD 4.20 by
                                                                   the Panel on this issue.
         The Panel determined that Bank
     Management, upon learning of concerns in                      Action: Regarding supervision,
     late 2007, tried to deal with both factions of                Management acknowledges its slow
     the Naso people and repeatedly interacted                     response to evolving events and notes that
     with the Project directly to attempt to resolve               supervision efforts in the past two and a
     the conflict.                                                 half years have compensated for this
                                                                   lapse. Management further notes that it
        The Panel finds that recent efforts denote
                                                                   has taken this lesson into account, and
     a good faith attempt on the part of
                                                                   reaffirms its commitment to strengthen
     Management to ensure that the consultation
                                                                   supervision efforts in similar projects.
     process was meaningful, and that the
     genuine representatives of the Naso
     indigenous peoples participated in process,
     consistent with the provisions of OD 4.20.
        As a matter of supervision, however, the
     Panel notes with concern the significant
     lapse in time before Management seems to
     have reported, and recommended action in
     response to, the risks posed for Project
     objectives resulting from the Naso schism.
4.   Claim of Inadequate Consultations in                   157-   Comment: Management notes its previous
     Relation to Project Support for Law No.                165    acknowledgement of inadequate
     72                                                            consultations with the Naso related to the
                                                                   inclusion of Article 17 of Law 72 of 2008.
        Management acknowledges [ ] that there
     were inadequate consultations with the                            Management notes the Panel's
     Naso on the inclusion of Article 17 of Law                    emphasis on the importance of ensuring
     No. 72 and the preparation of the draft                       broad dissemination of information among
     organic charter. The Panel concurs in this                    Indigenous Peoples on matters having
     assessment.                                                   direct implications for their land rights and
                                                                   claims.
        The Panel notes the importance of
                                                       18
                                                              Management Report and Recommendation


     ISSUE / FINDINGS                                  Para    COMMENT / ACTION
                                                       no.
     ensuring broad dissemination of information                   Management also acknowledges the
     among the Naso on matters having direct                   finding by the Panel that Management
     implications for their land rights and claims,            reacted promptly once it learned about the
     such as Law 72 and the organic charter, and               preparation of the draft bylaws (Carta
     appropriate and meaningful consultations on               Orgánica).
     these matters.
                                                               Action: Management will ensure that the
         The Panel also notes that once                        funds declared ineligible related to this
     Management learned about the draft organic                issue are returned to the Bank before the
     charter and shortcomings in consultation,                 Loan Account is closed.
     Management reacted promptly to seek
                                                                  Management also will follow up with the
     further information and then to ask the
                                                               Government on how it intends to address
     Government not to use loan proceeds for
                                                               the land claims of the Naso and,
     activities relating to the organic charter or
                                                               specifically, whether it plans to apply Law
     land demarcation.
                                                               72 of 2008 (and its recently-issued
                                                               Regulations).
                                                                  Management will recommend to the
                                                               Government to apply the consultation
                                                               mechanisms envisioned under the revised
                                                               IPDP in order to foster awareness among
                                                               Indigenous Peoples of the contents and
                                                               implications of Law 72 of 2008 and its
                                                               Regulations.
                                                                  Management will report the results of
                                                               these actions in the Project's
                                                               Implementation Completion and Results
                                                               Report (ICR) by December 2010.
5.   Claim that Project Support for Law 72 has         171-    Comment: Management notes the finding
     Caused "An Uncertain Regime of                    192     by the Panel that Management's decision
     Regional Rezoning"                                        to support the process of establishing Law
                                                               72 was a good faith measure.
        The Panel is of the view that
     Management's decision to support the                         With respect to the implications of Law
     process of establishing Law No. 72 was a                  72 of 2008 on Collective Lands, in
     good faith measure that seemed reasonable                 compliance with its responsibility to assess
     under the prevailing political situation.                 the country's applicable legal framework
                                                               under any given Bank project,
         The Panel finds, however, that this
                                                               Management confirms its understanding
     decision, consistent with the policy on
                                                               that this law does not preclude the
     Project Supervision, should have been
                                                               possibility of the Naso people asking for a
     followed by stronger efforts to seek clarity on
                                                               Comarca, nor the possibility of the National
     the legal ambiguities of Law No. 72 with
                                                               Assembly approving its creation. It also
     respect to the territorial aspirations of the
                                                               confirms its understanding that, as of
     Naso.
                                                               today, there are no legislative or regulatory
          The Panel finds the suspension is                    developments that preclude that option.
     consistent with requirements of OP/BP
                                                                   Management notes the finding of
     13.05, but also finds such a contradictory
                                                               compliance with OP 13.05 by the Panel
     situation warrants seeking further
                                                               related to its actions to prevent the use of
     explanations from the borrower to achieve
                                                               loan funds for activities related to the draft
     full compliance with OP/BP 13.05 and the
                                                               bylaws (Carta Orgánica) of the Naso
     objective of OD 4.20, to address concerns of
                                                               territory.
     intended Project beneficiaries.
                                                               Action: Management will recommend to


                                                 19
     ISSUE / FINDINGS                                       Para   COMMENT / ACTION
                                                            no.
                                                                   the recently-created National Authority of
                                                                   Land Administration (ANATI) that
                                                                   addressing the outstanding land claims of
                                                                   the Naso should be one of the immediate
                                                                   priorities. Management will provide an
                                                                   update on the status of this
                                                                   recommendation in the Project's ICR by
                                                                   December 2010.
6.   Claim that Project has Improperly Failed               197-   Comment: Management notes the finding
     to Address Invasions of Naso Lands                     216    by the Panel that the Bank cannot be held
                                                                   responsible for the violent eviction of
        It is the Panel's view that the lack of
                                                                   members of the Naso in 2009.
     resolution of the proposed Comarca
     boundaries may have contributed to the                             Management notes the Panel's finding
     progressive deterioration of the land                         that the Bank actively engaged in efforts to
     conflicts, which eventually led to evictions in               address and resolve the conflict between
     2009 of some Naso families found to be                        Naso communities and Ganadera Bocas,
     encroaching on the Ganadera's land.                           in line with relevant Bank policies.
         The Panel also notes that the Naso                           Management wishes to report that as a
     internal dispute seems to have also played a                  result of resolutions emanating from an
     role in preventing a resolution of these                      August 29, 2010 Naso Assembly
     issues. The Panel finds that while the                        organized by followers of Valentín
     verification of the proposed boundaries of                    Santana, the Naso Commission (which
     Naso territory between 2004 and 2006 might                    had been supported by the Project) has
     have prevented the progressive worsening                      been effectively dissolved and the two
     of events, the Bank cannot be held                            Naso factions are again operating
     responsible for the violent eviction of                       separately.
     members of the Naso in 2009.
                                                                       Also, to Management's knowledge,
         There are signs of improvement.                           there have not been any new
     Management has informed the Panel that                        developments related to the formalization
     there is now a Naso commission for the                        of the lands ceded to the Naso by
     boundary issues that involves both factions.                  Ganadera Bocas in the past.
     Also, the old agreement between Queen
                                                                   Action: Management will recommend to
     Rufina Santana and the owner of the
                                                                   the Government that resolution of the
     company regarding the ceding of certain
                                                                   pending issues between Naso
     lands to the Naso may now be formalized.
                                                                   communities and Ganadera Bocas should
     Given the serious nature of this particular
                                                                   also be one of the immediate priorities for
     conflict, the Panel notes the importance, as
                                                                   ANATI. The status of these
     a matter of supervision, of the Bank's active
                                                                   recommendations will be reported in the
     engagement in efforts to address and
                                                                   Project's ICR by December 2010.
     resolve the conflict with Ganadera Bocas, in
     line with relevant Bank policies.
7.   Recent Actions                                     217-       Comment: Management acknowledges
                                                        228,       the Panel's finding that this document does
         The Panel now has a copy of the IPDP,          Exec       not yet contain all of the elements of an
     but has concluded that it does not contain         Sum        IPDP as required by OD 4.20.
     the elements of an IPDP as required by OD
     4.20. The Panel appreciates the intent                           Management notes the Panel's
     behind Management's action and good faith                     recognition of Management's action and
     effort to bring the Project into compliance. It               good faith effort to bring Project into
     is the Panel's view, however, that the new                    compliance on this issue.
     document could only serve as a positive
                                                                     Management notes the finding by the
     model for later IPDPs in Panama if it
                                                                   Panel that recent supervision actions
     contained the elements of an IPDP required
                                                       20
                                                               Management Report and Recommendation


     ISSUE / FINDINGS                                   Para    COMMENT / ACTION
                                                        no.
     by Bank policy, which, in the Panel's                      comply with OD 4.20 and OP 13.05.
     judgment, it does not.
                                                                   Management also acknowledges the
         [T]he Panel would like to highlight the                appreciation expressed by the Requesters.
     importance of a number of other recent
                                                                Action: Management has offered its
     actions taken by Bank Management,
                                                                support to the Government to identify key
     including actions on the ground, to address
                                                                issues that should be addressed in a more
     concerns about the Naso Comarca, Law No.
                                                                comprehensive IPDP, which the
     72, and ongoing conflicts over land
                                                                Government may update and treat as a
     boundaries. Repeated supervision missions
                                                                model for future programs involving
     have been carried out in the Project area
                                                                Indigenous Peoples. Management will
     beginning in November 2009 close to one
                                                                provide an update on these discussions
     visit a month--since the Project closing date
                                                                with the Government in the ICR by
     was extended to June 2010.
                                                                December 2010.
        The Panel notes and commends Bank
                                                                    Moreover, Management will make use
     Management for [the] more recent expanded
                                                                of available opportunities to continue its
     supervision actions, which the Panel finds
                                                                engagement on Indigenous Peoples'
     are in compliance with OP/BP 13.05 and OD
                                                                issues in Panama. Drawing upon the
     4.20. Requesters have also indicated to the
                                                                lessons learned from the design and
     Panel their appreciation for these efforts of
                                                                implementation of this Project, as well as
     Bank Management.
                                                                other development projects in Panama,
                                                                Management will support a multi-
                                                                stakeholder workshop before June 2011 to
                                                                discuss good practice approaches and
                                                                strategies to promote inclusive
                                                                development of Indigenous Peoples.
B.   Panel Findings on the Claims of the
     Ngöbe People
8.   Claim that Annex Area Issues were not              245-    Comment: Management acknowledges
     Adequately Addressed                               268,    the Panel's finding that studies
                                                        Exec    underpinning Project, as they relate to
         No field study of sufficient depth to detect   Sum     Ngöbe people, did not comply with OD
     possible problems in the Annex Areas
                                                                4.20.
     seems to have been conducted. The Panel
     finds that this is a flaw in the studies                      Management also acknowledges that a
     underpinning the Project, as they relate to                stand-alone IPDP with adequate
     the Ngäbe people. This does not comply                     consultations could have identified the
     with OD 4.20.                                              Annex Areas in Bocas del Toro as a critical
                                                                issue requiring timely attention.
         The Panel recognizes the difficulty of
     identifying and addressing an issue that                   Action: See Actions under Item 7.
     official leaders representing an indigenous
     group did not bring to the attention of Project
     officials. It is the Panel's judgment, however,
     that more-inclusive consultations should
     have been carried out, and would likely have
     brought the Annex Area issue to light.
        The Panel finds that the lack of a stand-
     alone IPDP generated adverse
     consequences for the Ngäbe people of the
     Annex Areas. It is the Panel's view that an
     IPDP with adequate consultations and
     studies that inform an IPDP could have
     identified the Annex Areas in Bocas del Toro


                                                  21
     ISSUE / FINDINGS                                       Para   COMMENT / ACTION
                                                            no.
     as a critical issue requiring timely attention.
9.   Claim that Consultations in Delimiting the             273-   Comment: Management acknowledges
     Annex Areas were Inadequate                            289    the Panel's finding that the polygons
                                                                   offered to Ngöbe communities in the
         The Panel observes that the polygons
                                                                   Annex Areas did not meet the expectations
     offered to Ngäbe communities in the Annex
                                                                   of the communities.
     Areas did not meet the expectations of the
     communities.                                                     Management has acknowledged that
                                                                   consultations in the Annex Areas did not
         The Panel finds that the methodology
                                                                   comply with OD 4.20. As soon as
     used for determining the boundaries of the
                                                                   Management identified deficiencies in the
     Annex Areas included consultation with only
                                                                   consultations in the Annex Areas in early
     the main leaders [who] may not have been
                                                                   2008, it made specific recommendations to
     "local" residents of the Annex Areas, but did
                                                                   Project staff to redo these consultations
     not involve the interested communities. The
                                                                   applying a highly participatory approach.
     Panel notes that this methodology was not
     adequately participatory as required by OD                       Management notes that the
     4.20.                                                         Government, under the auspices of the
                                                                   Project, has carried out a new round of
         Interviews in the field suggest that, if
                                                                   consultations in Annex Areas during May
     adequate polygons had been offered, many
                                                                   and June 2010.
     of the Annex Areas now listed as having
     rejected Comarca membership would have                            Management also notes that Article 2 of
     preferred to be in the Comarca because it                     Law 10 of 1997 establishes certain
     would provide stronger land tenure security                   provisions to be followed in the process of
     than they presently enjoy.                                    demarcating Annex Areas and mandates
                                                                   that delimitation of Annex Areas in Bocas
                                                                   del Toro be carried out by a commission
                                                                   composed of various Government entities
                                                                   and that these delimitations be submitted
                                                                   by the Executive to the National Assembly
                                                                   for approval.
                                                                       Management highlights that even with
                                                                   an adequate consultation process, the
                                                                   expectations of the Ngöbe communities
                                                                   may still have conflicted with the provisions
                                                                   of Law 10, including the provisions to be
                                                                   followed in the process of demarcating
                                                                   Annex Areas.
                                                                   Action: In November 2010, Management
                                                                   will review in-situ the scope and quality of
                                                                   the latest round of consultations in some
                                                                   Annex Areas in November 2010 and will
                                                                   issue recommendations to the
                                                                   Government.
                                                                       Management will also recommend to
                                                                   the Government that demarcation of the
                                                                   Ngöbe Annex Areas in Bocas del Toro
                                                                   should be one of the immediate priorities
                                                                   for ANATI. Management will provide an
                                                                   update on the status of this
                                                                   recommendation in the Project's ICR by
                                                                   December 2010.


                                                       22
                                                             Management Report and Recommendation


     ISSUE / FINDINGS                                 Para    COMMENT / ACTION
                                                      no.
10. Claim that the Comarca Boundary had               300-    Comment: Management notes that
    been improperly restricted: the Case of           306     although this specific issue was not
    Norteño                                                   brought to its attention prior to December
                                                              2009, nor was it mentioned in the Request
         During its investigation, the case of the
                                                              for Inspection, once Management learned
     community of Norteño was brought to the
                                                              about this issue in the course of Project
     attention of the Panel. This case has to do
                                                              supervision, it took prompt action and
     with the demarcation to the Ngäbe-Buglé
                                                              requested the Government to revisit the
     Comarca in the early years of the Project.
                                                              area, consult with community members,
        It seemed evident to the Panel that no                and propose ways to address this problem.
     one present actually knew the case well,
                                                                  Management also notes that it notified
     and the National Boundaries Commission
                                                              the Panel about this issue in January 2010,
     members discussed the possibility that, in
                                                              prior to the Panel's visit to Panama later
     the future they might have to change the law
                                                              that month.
     [10 of 1997].
                                                                 Management notes that the
        It seems possible that the boundary was
                                                              Government, following recommendations
     changed at some point subsequent to 2004
                                                              from a supervision mission, carried out a
     during the demarcation process and that the
                                                              round of consultations in the community of
     community was not consulted about this. If
                                                              Norteño to assess this issue in May­June
     so, this change may have harmed their land
                                                              2010.
     tenure security by leaving them unprotected.
                                                              Action: No action required.
        The Panel notes and appreciates [recent
    efforts by Bank Management to gather
    further information on question], and
    stresses the importance of both clarification
    and follow-up in line with Bank policy and
    the relevant Project objectives.
11. Claim that Project Failed to Address              307-    Comment: Management acknowledges
    Encroachments in the Annex Areas.                 328     the Panel's finding related to the delays in
                                                              the delimitation of Annex Areas.
        It seems clear that if issues of co-
     management had been properly addressed                       Management also notes the Panel's
     and the delimitation of the Annex Areas had              finding that Management's actions
     occurred in a timely way, the Ngäbe would                following concerns raised by the
     have been in a better position to negotiate              Requesters comply with the requirements
     terms and conditions of a concession within              of OP/BP 13.05.
     the land.
                                                                 Regarding supervision, Management
        The Panel finds that Management's                     acknowledges its slow response to
     actions following the concerns raised by the             evolving events and notes that it has
     Requesters [...] are consistent with the                 considerably strengthened its Project
     requirements of OP/BP 13.05 on Project                   supervision efforts in the past two and a
     supervision.                                             half years.
        [A]s matter of supervision, the Panel                 Action: Management notes that it has
     notes the absence of any earlier reference in            taken this lesson into account and it
     supervision reports to the potential risks for           reaffirms its commitment to strengthen
     Project objectives by the Chan 75                        supervision efforts in similar projects in the
     concession. This lapse in supervision is                 Region.
     similar to that identified by the Panel with
     respect to emerging developments and
     problems affecting the Naso during Project
     implementation.
C.   Supervision



                                                 23
     ISSUE / FINDINGS                                       Para   COMMENT / ACTION
                                                            no.
12. Adequacy of Project Supervision                         330-   Comment: Management notes the Panel's
                                                            345    appreciation for the Bank's financing of a
         The Panel commends the Bank for
                                                                   Project aimed at securing territorial rights
     financing a Project aimed at securing
                                                                   for Indigenous Peoples in a challenging
     territorial rights for the Naso and the Ngäbe,
                                                                   environment.
     and acknowledges the challenging
     environment in which the Bank was pursuing                        Management acknowledges the Panel's
     this objective. The Panel finds, however, that                finding that the Bank, in critical stages of
     Management, in critical stages of the                         the Project, did not supervise in a way that
     Project, did not supervise in a way that was                  was commensurate with these challenges.
     commensurate with these challenges.
                                                                       Management also notes the finding that
        [T]he Panel found that these critical                      it has taken many important actions since
     events and risk factors affecting the local                   early 2008, including the systematic
     population were not reported accurately in                    incorporation of experienced social
     the middle years of Project supervision.                      scientists, to review and address concerns
                                                                   raised in the Requests and that the Panel
         The Panel also noted [...] an important
                                                                   finds this meets the standards set forth in
     failure to analyze changing circumstances.
                                                                   OP/BP 13.05 and OD 4.20.
         In view of the seriousness of the threat to
                                                                   Action: Management is incorporating the
     the Naso as a people from encroachments
                                                                   findings of the Panel's investigation and
     on their still unprotected lands, the Panel is
                                                                   the lessons learned from this Project into
     of the view that supervision should have met
                                                                   the design and implementation of similar
     a higher standard.
                                                                   projects in the Region, particularly with
        It is the Panel's view that Management,                    regard to stakeholder consultations, the
     as a matter of supervision, should have                       need to conduct social analyses and social
     been more active and engaged to guide and                     assessments during project preparation,
     verify Project actions, according to Bank                     having a stand-alone IPDP, and the
     policy, with regard to consultations and land                 systematic involvement of experienced
     demarcation with Ngäbe Annex Area                             social scientists throughout project
     communities.                                                  preparation and supervision.
        The Panel finds that supervision of the                       See also Item 7 regarding the planned
     Project did not promptly and adequately                       multi-stakeholder workshop on good
     react to warnings and emerging issues                         practice approaches and strategies to
     during certain key phases of the Project.                     promote inclusive development of
     This is not consistent with OP 13.05 on                       Indigenous Peoples.
     Project Supervision.
        [S]upervision visits did not include a
     social specialist until March 2007. This does
     not comply with OD 4.20 on Indigenous
     Peoples.
        Management has taken many important
     actions since [the February 2008
     Supervision Mission] to review and address
     concerns raised in [the] Requests. The
     Panel notes that the intensity of supervision
     has increased since 2008. The Panel finds
     that this meets the standards set forth in
     OP/BP 13.05 and OD 4.20.
D.   Observations on Systemic Issues
13. Challenges of Land Management and                       350-   Comment: Management appreciates the
    Administration Projects                                 355    Panel's observation related to the Bank's
                                                                   engagement and leadership role in
        This investigation suggests that the Bank
                                                       24
                                                          Management Report and Recommendation


ISSUE / FINDINGS                                   Para    COMMENT / ACTION
                                                   no.
should be given credit for engaging in this                supporting the land rights of Indigenous
extremely important Project in Panama,                     Peoples in Panama.
though it may not have invested sufficient
                                                              Management also notes the finding by
resources to address the risks involved,
                                                           the Panel that Management promptly took
especially with regard to supervision.
                                                           responsive action once it discovered the
   The Panel notes and appreciates that                    problem of conflicting components during
once Bank Management discovered this                       Project implementation.
problem [conflicting project components]
                                                               With regard to the Bank's engagement
during implementation, it promptly took
                                                           in these issues in the future, Management
responsive action.
                                                           notes that with the advent of Panama's
     Bank Management has played a                          new Government, Bank Management has
leadership role in seeking to support the                  given priority to the strengthening of
land rights of indigenous peoples in Panama                Indigenous Peoples' rights at various
through this Project. The Project included a               levels of its country dialogue. In the
core component responding to fundamental                   stakeholder consultations for the
aspirations of the indigenous communities,                 development of the new Panama Country
and unlike other donors the Bank was willing               Partnership Strategy (CPS, May 24-26,
to take on the risks inherent in this kind of              2010), the Bank met with representatives
work. Furthermore, once the Requests for                   of indigenous groups. Participants
Inspection were filed, Bank staff                          considered the Bank an important ally for
constructively engaged with the affected                   the implementation of the Government's
communities to help resolve the issues. For                new five-year development plan.
all these reasons, the Requesters and
                                                           Action: Management will continue its
affected people have expressed their hope
                                                           consultative dialogue with the Government
that the Bank will remain engaged in these
                                                           on a regular basis. While the new CPS
issues in Panama in the future, following
                                                           does not foresee a land administration
relevant policy safeguards. The Panel is
                                                           operation, the Bank assistance program
likewise of the view that continued Bank
                                                           supports the Government's overall efforts
engagement on indigenous issues in
                                                           to reduce poverty, especially among the
Panama, in line with policy, is critical.
                                                           rural poor and indigenous groups.
                                                              See also Item 7 regarding the planned
                                                           multi-stakeholder workshop on good
                                                           practice approaches and strategies to
                                                           promote inclusive development of
                                                           Indigenous Peoples.




                                              25
                                         ANNEX 2
                                      CHRONOLOGY OF
                        KEY PROJECT PREPARATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
                          MILESTONES AND OTHER RELEVANT EVENTS

May to November, 1999         Project preparation
December 14, 2000             Negotiations
January 16, 2001              Board Approval (Original Closing Date: September 30, 2006)
April 2, 2001                 Signature of the Loan
July 19, 2001                 Effectiveness
October 14-18, 2004           Mid-Term Evaluation Mission
September 2004                New Administration of President Martín Torrijos
October 20, 2005              Request from Government to Restructure the Project
April 11, 2006                Restructuring Approval by the Board (first order)
June 23, 2006                 Effectiveness of the Restructuring (New closing date of December 31,
                              2009)
January 30-February 2, 2008   Bank staff meet with the First and Second Requesters in Bocas del Toro
                              during Supervision Mission
March 3-14, 2008              Bank staff meet with the First and Second Requesters in Bocas del Toro
                              during Supervision Mission
March 11, 2009                Inspection Panel Registers the First Request
March 20, 2009                Inspection Panel Registers the Second Request
April 20, 2009                Bank Management submits Management Response and Action Plan to the
                              Inspection Panel
April 27-29, 2009             Meeting with First and Second Requesters during Supervision Mission,
                              informing them of content of Management Action Plan
May 3, 2009                   General elections in Panama
May 26, 2009                  Bank Management declares ineligible expenses related to preparation of
                              draft Charter under Law 72 of 2008
July 1, 2009                  New Administration of President Ricardo Martinelli
July 15, 2009                 Senior Bank Management meets new Panamanian authorities
September 14, 2009            Bank Management alerts Government to possible suspension of
                              disbursements due to lack of action on various Project issues
September 21 to 25, 2009      Bank carries out safeguards training workshop in Panama
September 28, 2009            Government allocates resources to Project, thereby preventing suspension
                              of disbursements
November 2, 2009              Management submits Progress Report to Panel
November 16-20, 2009          Bank staff meet with First and Second Requesters during supervision
                              mission, update them on status of Action Plan; mission learns about
                              possibly ineligible titling activities in Bocas del Toro
November 18, 2009             Project sponsors an Agreement among the two Naso factions to work
                              together in finishing the demarcation of the Naso territory
November 19, 2009             Police evict Naso families from lands claimed by a private livestock farm
                              (Ganadera Bocas). This prevents implementation of the Naso Agreement
                              reached the day before

                                                26
                                                   Management Report and Recommendation


December 10, 2009      Government of Panama requests Bank to extend Project Closing Date
December 13-16, 2009   Bank staff visit Ngöbe Annex Areas; Requesters notify Management for
                       the first time of a demarcation problem in the Ngöbe community of
                       Norteño (not mentioned in the Request, since it is not an Annex Areas)
December 28, 2009      Management notifies Government of extension of Project Closing Date
                       provided there is a moratorium of titling activities by the Project in Bocas
                       del Toro Province
January 8-18, 2010     Management reiterates its request to Government for detailed reports on
                       titling activities in Bocas del Toro
January 14, 2010       Management receives from the Ministry of Government and Justice a
                       legal opinion on the incompatibility of Law 10 of 1997 and Law 18 of
                       2009
February 2-6, 2010     Management launches technical and social audits of various titling
                       processes in Bocas del Toro, Veraguas and Chiriquí
March 2, 2010          Under the auspices of the Project, the two Naso factions (led by Valentín
                       Santana and Tito Santana, respectively) agree to form a Naso
                       Commission to work on the demarcation of the Naso Comarca
April 13-15, 2010      Bank staff meet with members of Naso Commission
June 8, 2010           Bank Management declares ineligible expenses related to certain titling
                       processes in Bocas del Toro
June 30, 2010          Project closes. Grace period to submit withdrawal applications and settle
                       accounts until October 30, 2010
August 24, 2010        Management receives copy of approved Regulations of Law 72 of 2008
August 29, 2010        Assembly of Naso followers of Valentín Santana request National
                       Assembly representatives to reconsider bill to create Naso Comarca. Naso
                       Assembly also calls for a break of relations with Tito Santana's faction
September 16, 2010     Inspection Panel submits its Investigation Report to Bank Management
October 5, 2010        National Assembly creates the National Authority for Land
                       Administration (ANATI) which incorporates the Project Coordination
                       Unit




                                       27
                                          ANNEX 3
                      LIST OF LAWS AND EXECUTIVE DECREES MENTIONED IN
                       THE MANAGEMENT REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION


Law No.10 of 1997, "By which the Ngöbe-Buglé Comarca is created and other measures are
taken."
Law No. 24 of 2006, "Which declares that the land regulation and mass titling activities executed
by the State are matters of public order and social interest, and adopts other provisions."
Law No. 72 of 2008, "Which establishes the special procedure for the allocation of collective
ownership of lands of indigenous peoples who are not within the Comarcas."
Law No. 18 of 2009, "Which creates corregimientos in the Districts of Chiriquí Grande and
Changuinola in the Province of Bocas del Toro."




                                                  28
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               IBRD 36866R
                                                                                                                                                  82°45'W                                                                                                                                                                                      82°30'W
                                                                          Las      Loma
                                                                          Delicias Bonita
                                                                          Abajo
                                                                                              Sibube                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PANAMA / PANAMÁ
                                                                                                                      Sinostre
                                                                                                                                                                                      R I                                                                                                                                  C a r i b b e a n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LAND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
                                                                              Las      Sibube




                                                  ola
                                                                Endi
                                                                              Delicias Adentro




                                                 Sixa
                                                                              Arriba                    El Valle de
                                                                                                                           Tiger
                                                                                                                                         Puerto
                                                                                                                                         Elena        Empacadora                          C
                                       A                                                                Sinostre




                                                Río
                                                                                                                             Hill                     Finca 47
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PROYECTO DE ADMINISTRACIÓN DE TIERRAS
                                                      Boca de Yorkin
                               T                                      Tebata
                                                                                                                                    Empacadora
                                                                                                                                       Finca 46                Dos Caños                                                                                                                                                                       S e a
                                                                                                                                                                  El Muro
                                                                                                                             Alto de                                   Finca 45 Adentro                                                                                         La Palma

                 S
                                                                                                                           dos Caños     Dos Caños          Las
                                                                                                                                           Adentro       Tablas         Empacadora
                                                                                                                                                                        Finca 45
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            California
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Naso-Related Request for Inspection: Management Report and Recommendation
         C O
                                                                                                                                                     Barranco Adentro           Barranco
                                                              El
                                                              Guabo       Sinadila
                                                                              Albata
                                                                                                                                                                 Boimbota
                                                                                                                                                                 Barranco Medio
                                                                                                                                                                                  Afuera
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ganadera
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Caribe                       SAN SAN                                                                                                      Solicitud de Inspección relacionada al pueblo Naso:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Deborah
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Río Sixaola
                                                                                    Dakles
                                                                                                                                                                        Alto Nance
                                                                                                                                                                                           Washout        La
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Isla                Finca 41
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Junta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Agraria                        POND SAK                                                                                                            Informe y Recomendación de la Gerencia
9°30'N                                                                                                                                 Santa Clara
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Arenal                  Civil                                          Fincanombre                         Río San Juan
                                                                                                    Agua de Salud                                          Quebrada Canela            Isla Grande        Mesa                                                                                         de Dios
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Guabito
                                                                      La Golondrina
                                                                                                                                                                                             Vicira                                                                  Puente del Medio
                                                                                      Río
                                                                                            Yo
                                                                                              rkí                       Sanury                                                                                                          Victoria        Guameru                                Rio Negro                                                                                                                                      Approximate Naso Tjër Di Territory Boundary / Límites aproximados del Territorio Naso Tjër Di
                                                                                                    n                                                                                                      El Arenal Matina                                          Puente
                      Namuwuoki                                                  Soroy                                                                                                     Quebrada                                                                  Blanco
                      (Cabeza de Tigre)                                                                                                                                              Río Conejo                                                                   o Milla 23                               Puente de
                                                                                            Yorkin               Kapequicha                              Las Palmas
                                                                                                                                                                                        Sa
                                                                                                                                                                                          nS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Urbanizacion            San San        El Puente
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       La Barra
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Proposed Hydroelectric Dams / Presas Hidroeléctricas en construcción
                                                                                                                                                                                             an                                     Ganadera Bocas                             Bosques de San San
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   n                                                                                                                            La Ponderosa
                                                                                                                                                                                                            San San                  Río San Sa                                                                        San San                                                                                                                Protected Areas / Áreas Protegidas:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Changuinola
                      atsti




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Bda. 21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        San San Tigra                                                                                                                                        inola
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         de Abril                       angu                                                      La Amistad International Park, San San Pond Sak / Parque Internacional La Amistad, San San Pond Sak
                     Río K




                                                                                                                                                                                                            San San Druy                                                                                                                                                           h
                                                                                                                                                      Boroni                                                                     Diriri                                                                                                                                       Río C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Lago 4                                                              La Isla
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Soron
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Quebrada Nance                La Mona Romulo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Santa Marta                                                                                                                                                                 Palo Seco Protected Forest / Bosque Protector Palo Seco
                                                            i
                                                          cu




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Loma Bandera                                      de Yorkin
                                                         Es




                                                                                                                                                            PALO SECO                                                                                                                                                          Buena         Torres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Areas Regularized and to be Regularized Under Project Component 2 /
                                                      Río




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Loma Viento                                                                                          Vista
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Peña Blanca                                                                              Abajo o
                                                                                                        kín



                                                                                                                                                        PROTECTED FOREST                                                                                                                                                     Bambito                                                                                                          Áreas regularizadas o a regularizar por el proyecto Componente 2
                                                                                                       r
                                                                                                    Yo




                                                                                                                                                                                          Polvogloro o       Sieykin SIEYLLIK
                                                                                                 o




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Cui Cuin                                                                                            Buena
                                                                                                 Rí




                                                                                                                                                                                      Arbolde Guabitas                                                                                      Charagre
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Vista Arriba
                                                                                                                                                               Río Teribe Garraplata        Groncho Duerpsco                 Brucso o        Quebrada                          Quebrada                                                                  Loma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Portion of Approximate Naso Tjër Di Territory Outside of Protected Areas /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Arbol de            Yorkin                     Carbon No. 1         Río
                         Río
                               Suc
                                  o
                                                                                                                                                             Puerto           Treglon        Palo de
                                                                                                                                                                                            Guayaba                         Calabazo Druey
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Terib
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          El Silencio
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Loma Bonita Brava                                                                                Porción del territorio aproximado Naso Tjër Di situada afuera de Áreas Protegidas
                                                                                                                                                           Palenque    Bejuco                                    Cugin Hueco
                                                                                                                                                                      Serecso       Socca                                        Struri o          Chupsco                 Bondi Pana                       Zegla                               Valle
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Shincho               Cato
                                                                                                                                                                                  Cabeza
                                                                                                                                                                                de Macho                 Concloroe     Drunaac Arbolde
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Caucha
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Jungla               Sori               Junco o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         San Juan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Junquito                                                                                          Naso Tjër Di Capital / Capital Naso Tjër Di
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       o Piedra                      Solon                  Bonyic       Bajo Sodi                                              Junquito        Loma Muleto
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Gato de
                                                                                                                                                                   Qu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       de Sal                                                       Huecso                          Santa                         Q
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Maddi                           Agua                                              Coquital                                                ue
                                                                                                                                                                     eb
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Pescador                                ic                     Bonyic o                                    Rosa                              br              Bella Vista
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Selvina           ad
                                                                                                                                                                       ra
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ny                        Palma de
                                                                                                                                                                                                          de Boca                           Bo                                                                                                               a
                                                                                                                                                                         da                               Chica                         da                               Chunga                      Alto Sodi             Boquisco                            Ju
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 nc                                                                    Populated Places / Poblados
                                                                                                                                                                            Siey                                                    bra                                                                         Sursuba                                             o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ue
                                                                        A P P R O X I M A T E
   R I C A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Q                                                           La Mina        Quebrada Carbon No. 2                       La Gloria                                                                                                                                   UNITED STATES
                                                                           e                                                                                                                                                                                                            Cochigro
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Peligro                                                            Tibite                                                   Rivers / Ríos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Isla Venado
                                                                        rib                                                                                                                                                             Planned Bonyic
                                                                      Te                                                                                                                                                                Hydroelectric                           ar bón
                                                                Río                                                                                                                                                                     Project                            a. C                                         Corriente Grande                                                Miraflores                                     International Boundaries /                                                                                          Atlantic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Qd                       o Guabo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             uab                              Betania                                    Ojo de
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Fronteras Internacionales
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     a El G                                                                              Agua          Quebrada                                                                                                     Gulf of Mexico                   THE                   Ocean
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             eb  rad                          Bracha
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Río              Quebrada El Bajo de                                    Nigua No. 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Qu Quebrada                              Ch         de Leon la Esperanza                                                                                                                                                                                 BAHAMAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      an                                                   Quebrada Limon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Quebrada Ba
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Puerco                 Marco           gu 101 102103104105                                Río
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ino                                                   Oe                                                                                                                                      CUBA
                                                                       N A S O                                                           T J Ë R                                             D I                                                                                                                                 la

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Gavilan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             106
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 109110111113
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      108
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Boca 112114
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     107 del
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Risco
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Dos Bocas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     El Nance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ste

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MEXICO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DOM.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        116                                                                                                                                                             HAITI REP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Quebrada Gavilan 117
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    nyic



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     118
9°15'N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Planned Chan 75               Santa Fe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Hydroelectric                        La Soledad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       BELIZE                 JAMAICA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Quebrada Nieri                                                                               Nudobiri
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Project        Quanigidete
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  o Quebrada Miel   Boca
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Chica                                                                                                                                                                     GUATEMALA HONDURAS                       Caribbean Sea
                                          ibe




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Charco        Valle Del Quebrada Pluma
                                      Ter




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               La Pava
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   128        Rey       o Nachuido
                                   Río




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 NICARAGUA
                                                                                         T E R R I T O R Y                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EL SALVADOR
   T A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         127
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          126                            119
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     COSTA RICA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Río Risco
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Guayabal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Nirionte                                                                                                                                                                             R.B. DE VENEZUELA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            hica
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  B    oca C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GUYANA
   S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             a da                                                      125                                                                                                                                           Pacific            PANAMA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ebr                                                                                                                  This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Qu                                              Changuinola Arriba                              Dos Rios
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information shown on              Ocean                              COLOMBIA
   O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any judgment
                                                                                             L A A M I S T A D                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Punta Blanca124
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Peña Blanca No. 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or acceptance of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               such boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BRAZIL
                                                                                         I N T E R N A T I O N A L                                                                                                                                                                                                 Peña Blanca No. 1
   C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               123
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Rí




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Boca de Culubre
                                                                                                                                                                                                                o




                                                                                                  P A R K                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             o Peña Blanca
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Cu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    l ub




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             122
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           re




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      121
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Caribbean Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        120                                                                                       Bocas del Toro
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               COSTA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                RICA      B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Río

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ca                                                                                 PANAMÁ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Ch

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     e                                                                                                                 s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                lubr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             an

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               u                                                                                                                           de
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ío C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              gu

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       R                                                                                                                                      l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ino


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ro
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    la

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Guyacan                                                                     Pro
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Bajo Colubre                                                       Arriba                                                                          vince

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    P                                                                                                Á
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Guyacan                                                                          A                  N                 A                   M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PALO SECO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Nueva Zelandia            PROTECTED FOREST                                                                                                                                                                             Gulf of Panama
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Ceiba                    Río Changu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           inola
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Approximate Naso Tjër Di
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Territory Boundary
9°0'N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0    20 40 60 80 100
             0   1      2           4                       8                            12                           16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      KILOMETERS                            COLOMBIA
                                                  KILOMETERS
                                                                                                                                               82°45'W                                                                                                                                                                                       82°30'W                                                               PACIFIC OCEAN

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OCTOBER 18, 2010
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IBRD 36871R
                                                                                82°30'W                                                                                                                                                                                            82°00'W



                                                                                                                                     0          1     2            4                         8                           12                         16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PANAMA / PANAMÁ

COSTA
                                                                                                                                                                                    KILOMETERS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LAND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
 RICA
                 La Palma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PROYECTO DE ADMINISTRACIÓN DE TIERRAS
             California
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Ngöbe-Buglé-Related Request for Inspection:
     aola
    Six




                          Ganadera
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Management Report and Recommendation
  Río




          Deborah         Caribe
                       Junta
                       Agraria                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     C a r i b b e a n
   Guabito
                                       Fincanombre
                                       de Dios
                                                                            Río San Juan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        9°30'N                                   Solicitud de Inspección relacionada al pueblo Ngöbe-Buglé:
      Puente del Medio
                            Rio Negro                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S e a                                                                                                                                            Informe y Recomendación de la Gerencia
       Puente
       Blanco                      Puente de
    o Milla 23                        San San    El Puente
             an     Urbanizacion                                                                                              La Barra
          n S Bosques de San San
      Sa                                                                                                               La Ponderosa                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Annex Areas identified in Law 10 of 1997/
  Río                                         San San
                                                                   Changuinola                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Áreas Anexas identificadas en la Ley 10 de 1997
                                                                                                Bda. 21
                                                                                                                                inola                                                                                                                           Mimit Imri                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ngöbe Buglé Comarca / Comarca Ngöbe Buglé
                                                                                                de Abril                  ngu
                              Lago 4                                                                                   Cha
                                                                                                                 Río                                                                                             Punta
                                                                                          La Isla                                                                        El Canal                                Sorosta
         Santa Marta                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Areas Regularized and to be Regularized Under Project Component 2 /
         de Yorkin                                                                                                                                                                                             Rancho
                                                               Buena          Torres                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Áreas regularizadas o a regularizar por el proyecto Componente 2
                                                                Vista                                                                                                                                                         Boca de Drago        Drago     Isla
                                                              Abajo o
                                                             Bambito
                                                                                        Finca                                         SAN SAN                                                                           Ground Creek
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Colón                         Bluff                                                                                                                                                                                                  Proposed Hydroelectric Dams / Presas Hidroeléctricas en construcción
                 Quebrada
                                       Charagre                               Buena
                                                                              Vista Arriba
                                                                                                                                     POND SAK
Yorkin
              Carbon No. 1        Río                                                                 Loma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Caracol Chiquito                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Proposed Hydroelectric Reservoir / Embalses Hidroelélectricos planeados
                                         Terib             El Silencio                                                                                                                                                                                                    La Carretera            Paunch
                                               e                           Loma Bonita                Brava
  Chupsco    Bondi Pana                       Zegla                                Valle                                                                                                                                               Punta Caracol
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Big Creek
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AES Concession Area / Áreas de Concesión de AES
                                          Sori                     Junco o      Junquito
                     Jungla
              Bonyic                                              San Juan                                     Milla Siete Y Medio
    Solon                  Bajo Sodi                                              Junquito Loma Muleto
                      Huecso                          Santa                                                                                                                                                                                                                         La Cabaña
           Bonyic o           Coquital                 Rosa                                        Bella Vista                                                                                                                                                                                                     Bastimentos Wizard's Beach
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Rancho
           Palma de                                                       Selvina
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Bocas del Toro                                                                                                                                                     Protected Areas / Áreas Protegidas:
           Chunga                      Alto Sodi             Boquisco                        La Gloria                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Dreffe Beach
                                                  Sursuba
                                           Quebrada Carbon No. 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Chimborazo                                      Punta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Juan Brown                                     Olachica                                                                                      La Amistad International Park,                                   UNITED STATES
                            La Mina
                          Cochigro
                                             Peligro                                                      Tibite                                                                                                                                                                                                 Solarte                                                                                                                                           San San Pond Sak /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Bahia Honda
                     bón
                                                 Isla Venado
                                                                                                                                                Loma Brava                                                                                                                                  Cayo Nancy                                                                                                                                                             Parque Internacional La Amistad,
             a. C
                  ar                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Isla                                                                                                   San San Pond Sak
          Qd                       o Guabo
                                                          Corriente Grande                                                Miraflores                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Salt Creek                                                                                                                                                                                       Atlantic
                         El G
                               uab                              Betania                              Ojo de
                                                                                                     Agua                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Bastimentos                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Ocean
                    ada                         Bracha                                                             Quebrada                  Almirante                                                                                                                           San Cristobal                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Gulf of Mexico                   THE
               ebr
            Qu Quebrada                        Río              Quebrada El Bajo de                              Nigua No. 1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Palo Seco Protected Forest /
                                                     Ch         de Leon la Esperanza                                                                   Puntabella                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BAHAMAS
                     Puerco                 Marco
                                                        an
                                                            gu
                                                                                                       Quebrada Limon
                                                                                                         Río                     Nuevo Paraiso
                                                                                                                                                                     Panzat                                                                                                                                                                                   Quebrada                                                                                               Bosque Protector Palo Seco
                                                               ino                                             Oe                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Alvarez
                                                                   la                                             ste         Quebrada Nigua                Punta Domingo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CUBA
                                                                                                  Dos Bocas                                                                                                                                                                             Quebrada Higueron
                                                                                     Boca del
                                                                                                 El Nance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Bastimentos Island Maritime Park /                                                                          DOM.
                                                                        Gavilan         Risco                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 MEXICO
                                   Planned Chan 75                                                                 Nance de Risco                                      Rio Oeste                                                                                   Isla                                                                                                                                                Cayo Zapatilla                                Parque Marino Isla Bastimentos                                                                        HAITI REP.
                                                                            Quebrada Gavilan
                                        Hydroelectric
                                                   Project                                          Santa Fe           La Soledad
                                                                                                                                                                                          Punta Gallinazo                                                       Cristóbal                                                                                      Macca Bite                                                               9°15'N                                                                                                                   JAMAICA
                                   Quebrada Nieri                                                                                    Nudobiri                Quebrada Cacao                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               BELIZE
                                                                                                 Quanigidete                                                                                 Valle de Agua Abajo
                                   o Quebrada Miel   Boca
                                                     Chica                                                                                           Valle de Risco                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GUATEMALA HONDURAS                       Caribbean Sea
                                                                                                  Valle Del Quebrada Pluma
                                                                                                  Rey
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Populated Places / Poblados
                                                                                                            o Nachuido
                                                                                  Charco                                                                                                                                                                        Bella Vista
                                                                                 La Pava                                                                                                    Quebrada Juan                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EL SALVADOR      NICARAGUA
                                                                                                                                                                         Renacimiento
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Bella Vista                Buena Vista
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Shark Hole
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Playa Caracol                                                           Rivers / Ríos
                                                                                                                                                      Quebrada Pita                                 Quebrada Pastor                              o Bay Viu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        COSTA RICA
                                                                                                                                         Río Risco




                                                                                            Guayabal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 International Boundaries /
                                                                                          Nirionte                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               R.B. DE VENEZUELA
                                             hica                                                                                                      Puntapeña
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Punta Pargo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Fronteras Internacionales
                                         ca C
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Quebrada Pitti                                                                                          Hope Well                                                                        Buena Vista                                                                                                                                                                                                 GUYANA
                                  Bo
                              ada                                                                                                                                                                                              Quebrada Cascajo                                                                                    Cerro Brujo                         Isla                                                                                                                                                             Pacific            PANAMA
                           ebr
                    Qu                                              Changuinola Arriba                                    Dos Rios                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Loma Estrella                                                                                                               Popa                               Isla Tigre                               The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information shown on              Ocean                              COLOMBIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Aguacate                                                                                                                                  this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any judgment
                                                                         Punta Blanca                                                                                                  Quebrada                 Loma Azul                                       Pueblo Nuevo
                                                                                           Peña Blanca No. 2                                                                             Pinzon                                         Loma Fe                                                                                                                                                                                                   on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or acceptance of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Cayo de Aqua
                                                    Peña Blanca No. 1                                                                                                   Quebrada                                                                                   Cauchero
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  such boundaries.                                                                                                                                   BRAZIL
                                                                                                                                                                        del Pueblo                                                                                                                                          Loma Partida
                                                                                       Boca de Culubre                                                                                              Pinzon Abajo
                                                                                       o Peña Blanca                                                                                                                                              Traicionera                                                                                                             Punta Laurel
                                                                                                                                                                    Quebrada                                     El Escobal
                                                                                                                                                                      Platano                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Isla Cayo
  LA AMISTAD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Caribbean Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                                          ma




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Palmito
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Agua
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Uya




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Finca Doble "S"
INTERNATIONAL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Bocas del Toro
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 COSTA
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Río




     PARK                                                                                  PALO SECO                                                                                   Dos Bocas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Bajo el
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            La Loma                                                                                                                                                                               RICA       B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      El Tapao                                                                                                                                                                                   o
                                                       e
                                                                                       PROTECTED FOREST                                                                 Cerro Palma
                                                                                                                                                                                        Los Naranjos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Cedro Abajo                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ca
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PANAMÁ
                                             u    lubr                                                                                                                                                                                  La Tronoza                                                                                                                                                                                                                            de
                                        Río C                                                                                                                          Cabecera de                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               l
                                                                                          Rí




                                                                                                                                                                   Quebrada Estrella                                                         La Conga          Alto el Burro                                                                                                                                                                                                         To
                                                                                           o




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ro
                                                                                                Ch




                                                                                                                 Guyacan                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Pro
                                                                                                  an




                                            Bajo Colubre                                                         Arriba                                                                                                                                                                  Boca de Quebrada                                                                                                                                                                                        vince
                                                                                                    gu




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Con Fe                                            Cilico Creek
                                                                                                       in




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       P                                                                                                Á
                                                                                                           ola




                                                                                                                                                                               La Negrita o
                                                                                                                                                                                                         NGÖBE
                                                                                                                                                                                                         NG BE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Con Pe Abajo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Laguna de
                                                                                                                              Guyacan
                                                                                                                                                                            Boca de Negrita
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Spanish Town
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             A                  N                 A                   M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Valle Seco
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Palma Real                                              Punta Robalo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Chiriquí
                          Nueva Zelandia
                                                                                                                                                      Quebrada
                                                                                                                                                        Conejo                                   BUGLÉ
                                                                                                                                                                                                 BUGL                                           Guyabal         Las Cañas                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Gulf of Panama
                                                                 Ceiba                     Río Changu
                                                                                                               inola
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Los Guayabales              Los Molejones                                                                                                                                                                      Approximate Naso Tjër Di
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Norteño
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    El Frances
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Territory Boundary
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Miramar                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0    20 40 60 80 100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         9°0'N
                                                                                                                                                                                       COMARCA                                                                                                       La Gloria
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Chiriquicito
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                o Solate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         KILOMETERS                            COLOMBIA
                                                                              82°30'W                                                                                                                                                                     Los Cedeños                                                                                                                                                                                 PACIFIC OCEAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   82°00'W

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OCTOBER 18, 2010
