                                                                                             47910
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
THE INSPECTIONPANEL                                      1818 HStreet, N.W.       Telephone: (202) 458-5200
                                                         Washington, D.C. 20433   Fax :(202) 522-0916
                                                         U.S.A.                   Email: ipanel@worldbank.org



     WernerKiene
     Chairperson

                                                                            IPNREQUEST RQ 09/04

                                                                            March 20,2009


          MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORSAND ALTERNATES
     OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANKFOR RECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT


                                     Re: Requestfor Inspection
                    PANAMA: LandAdministration Project (Loan No. 7045-PAN)


             Please be advised that on March 17, 2009, the Inspection Panel (the "Panel") received a
     Request for Inspection (the "Request")    related to the above-mentioned Project. The Panel
     registered the Request for Inspectioninthe Panel's Register on March 20, 2009, as provided in
     paragraph 17 o f the Panel's Operating Procedures. It also delivered a copy o f the Request to the
     President o f IBRD pursuant to paragraph 17 o f the Resolution that established the Panel.
     Enclosed for your informationare:

             (1) A copy o ftheNotice ofRegistration; and
             (2) A copy o fthe transmittalMemorandumto the President.

             Because this Request raises similar issues and refers to the same project as the Request
     for Inspection o f February 25, 2009, and for reasons o f economy and efficiency, the Panel will
     consider processing both Requestsjointly as it has done inprevious similar situations.

     Enclosures


INTERNATIONALBANKFORRECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENTASSOCIATION
THE INSPECTIONPANEL                                       1818HStreet,N.W.        Telephone: (202) 458-5200
                                                          Washington,D.C.20433    Fax : (202) 522-0916
                                                                                  Email: ipanel@worldbank.org

Werner Kiene
Chairperson


                                                                     IPNREQUEST RQ09/04

                                                                              March 20,2009


                         MEMORANDUM TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE
        INTERNATIONAL BANK FORRECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT


                                       Requestfor Inspection
                  PANAMA: LandAdministration Project(Loan No. 7045-PAN)



              In accordance with paragraph 17 of IBRD Resolution that established the
      InspectionPanel (the "Resolution") and paragraph 17 o f the InspectionPanel's Operating
      Procedures (the "Operating Procedures"), Ihereby notify you that on March 17,2009, the
      Inspection Panel (the "Panel") received a Request for Inspection (the "Request") related
      to the above-referenced Projects.

              IhaveonMarch20,2009,whichisalsothedateofthedispatchofthisnotice,
      registeredthe Request inthe InspectionPanel Register.Enclosed are:

              1. copy o fthe Notice o f Registration; and
              2. copy o fthe Request for Inspection

              In accordance with paragraph 18 of the Resolution, paragraphs 2 and 8 of the
      "Conclusions of the Board's Second Review of the Inspection Panel" (the "1999
      Clarifications"), and paragraph 18 (d) of the Operating Procedures, Bank Management i s
      hereby notified that it must provide the Panel, no later than April 20, 2009, with written
      evidence that it has complied, or intends to comply with the Bank's relevant policies and
      procedures in relation to the above-referenced Projects. The subject matter the
      Management must deal with ina response to the Request i s set out inparagraphs 3 and 4
      o f the 1999 Clarifications.

                                            2




        After receivingthe Management response, the Panel will, as outlined inthe 1999
Clarifications and as provided by paragraph 19 o f the Resolution, "determine whether the
Request meets the eligibility criteria set out in paragraphs 12 to 14 and shall make a
recommendation to the Executive Directors as to whether the matter should be
investigated."

        Because this Request raises similar issues and refers to the same project as the
Request for Inspection o f February 25, 2009, and for reasons of economy and efficiency,
the Panel will consider processing both Requestsjointly as it has done inprevious similar
situations.

        The Request hasbeenassignedIPNRequestNumber RQ 09/04.


                                        Sincerely,




                                      Werner Kiene
                                       Chairperson




Enclosures:

 Request for Inspection
 Notice o f Registration

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT              1818H Street,NW                   Phone: (202) 458-5200
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                             Washington,DC 20433, USA          Fax : (202)5224916
                                                                  hternet: httD://w.worldbank.ora/insDection



                                                                                        IPNREQUEST RQ09/04

                                                                                         March20,2009



                                      NOTICE OF REGISTRATION

                                        Re: Requestfor Inspection
                        PANAMA: LandAdministrationProject(Loan No. 7045-PAN)


                On March 17, 2009 the Inspection Panel (the "Panel") received a Request for
       Inspection (the "Request") related to the Panama: Land Administration Project (the
       "Project"4n Spanish, Programa Nacional de Administracidn de Tierras-PRONAT).
       The Requestwas submitted by leaders o fthe "Congreso deArea Anexa de laProvincia D e
       Bocas Del Toro" on behalf o f the communities that live in the so-called "Areas anexas"'
       to the Comarca Ngabe-Bulge2 inthe Bocas del Tor0 Province, Panama (the "Requesters").
        The Requesters claim that they and the community that they represent have beenharmed
       and are likely to suffer further harm from the above-referenced Project.

                On February 25, 2009, the Panel received a first Request related to this Project
       raising similar issues on non-compliance and harm, and registered it in the Inspection
       Panel Register on March 11, 2009 as IPN Request RQ01/09. The first Request was
        submitted by representatives o f the indigenous community o f Pueblo Naso, several
        individual members o f the community and representatives o f some community
        organizations.


       The Proiect

                The Project is partially financed by a loan from the International Bank for
       Reconstruction and Development (the "Bank") in an amount equal to forty-seven million
       nine hundredthousand dollars (US$ 47,900,000). The Loanwas approved on January 16,
       2001. After experiencing some implementation problems, the Project was restructured on



         InEnglish"neighboring areas"
         Accordingto Section 1.02(0ofthe LoanAgreement      "`Comarca' meansthe indigenousterritory
       establishedas a specialpoliticalandadministrativesubdivision ofthe Borrower's territory,pursuantto the
       procedureset forthinthe Borrower'spoliticalconstitution" LoanAgreement(LandAdministrationProject)
                                                               .
       betweenRepublic ofPanama andthe InternationalBank for ReconstructionandDevelopment,datedApril 2,
       2001(the LoanAgreement). The LoanAgreement was amendedinJune2006.



                                                                                                                         1

June 23, 2006 to narrow the project scope and outputs and improve "implementation and
financing modalitie~."~

         According to the original Loan Agreement, the objectives o f the Project were to:
(a) promote equitable access to land and improve land tenure security by providing Land
Administration Services in the Project Area; and (b) enhance natural resources
conservation through the consolidation of the SNAP4and Indigenous Peoples Territories.
The LoanAgreement, as amended to reflect the restructuring o fthe Project, provides,
however, that "the objective of the Project is to modernize the land administration system,
includingpriority protected areas and Indigenous Peoples Territories."           '
           After being restructured in March 2006, the Project has four components:6 (1)
Land Policy, Legal and Institutional Framework, which includes activities aimed at
improving the existing policy and legal institutional framework and strengthening the
institutions providing land administration services; (2) Land Regularization Services,
supporting the modernization o f the Borrower's geodetic network, the gathering and
analysis of land tenure related data, including the development and implementation of an
Integrated Cadastral and Registry Information System (SIICAR) and "the carrying out of
legal cadastre surveys and area-based measurementand land demarcation activities;" (3)
Consolidation o f Protected Areas and Indigenous Territories, which supports the
consolidation o f the National Protected Areas System (SNAP), the establishment and
consolidation of protected areas within SINAP, andthe establishment and consolidation o f
indigenous territories in the project area; and (4) Project Administration, Monitoring &
Evaluation providing technical assistance services and support for land administration
entities at national and local level.

         The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) states that Project-supported land
administrationactivities cover a range o f land regularization actions, including legal rights
recognition, titling, conflict resolution, legal cadastre, and registry, and that the
consolidation o f SINAP and indigenous territories, entails mapping, field demarcation,
buffer zone limits, determination of their legal status; and land management plans in
selected areas including local andparticipatory consultation proce~ses.~

         The Project component related to Consolidationof Protected Areas and Indigenous
Territories entails the carrying out o f physical demarcation activities in protected areas,
and provides for participatory decision-making processes to define boundaries and status
o f the demarcated areas. Inthis regard, the PAD states that        " consolidation of indigenous
peoples territories includes not only technical actions related to demarcation" but also a
number of complementary activities, such as conflict resolution and "support to design or


  Memorandum and Recommendation ofthe President on a Proposalto Restructure the LandAdministration
Project -Loan No. 7045- PAN for the Republic of Panama., datedMarch 27,2006. SEC. R2006-0047, dated
March 30,2006.
  The Loan Agreement states that "SINAP" means "Sistema Nacional de Tierras Protegidas" the Borrower's
'systemof protected areas.
  Amendment to the Loan Agreement, dated June 23,2006.
'Project
  Source: current Project InformationDocument (PID)
         Appraisal Document (PAD) on a ProposedLoan inthe Amount o f US$47.9 million to the Republic
of Panamafor aLand Administration Project, datedDecember 14,2000, pg. 3



                                                                                                      2

complete the Cartas Orgrinicas' [Organic Charters] and other regulations and norms
dealing with the administration of indigenous territoriesYy9(emphasisadded).


The Request

         The Requesters object to the way the Project is being implemented, particularly in
relation to disclosure o f information activities, and the consultation and measurement
methods utilized in the demarcation o f the Ngabe territories in the Bocas del Tor0
province, the Parque Internacional (World Heritage Site), the Bosque Protector [Protector
Forest] Palo Seco (tropical upland forest), and the Bastimentos National Marine Park.
According to the Requesters, not only do the Project's actions violate their human and land
occupation rights, but also contravene to the conventions and international treaties to
which Panama is a party as well as "the World Bank's strategies and operational policies
on indigenouspeoples approved by the Bank's Board on February 22, 2006."

         The Requesters state that the Government rejected a proposal on how to deal with
the "cireas anexas" (defined as such in Law No. 10 of 1997) and, as a result, it was not
possible to demarcate these areas or territories that "were left out" of the Comarca Ngabe-
Bugle.

         The Requesters claim that, upon a request from the communities of the "cireas
anexas" and o f the islands o f the Boca del Tor0 province, local Bank staff agreed to meet
with them inthe PRONAT offices inthe town o f Changuinola. Inthis meeting, to which
Government officials also participated, the Requesters expressed their concerns about the
implementation o f the PRONAT and what they consider "negligence and irregularities"
directly affecting the land rights o f the Ngabe communities o f the Bocas del Tor0 province
and the "cireas anexas", which remain outside the limits of the Comarca Ngabe-Bugle.
According to the Requesters, as a result o f this meeting, Bank staff agreed to make an
evaluationo f the Project and address their concerns.

         The Requesters claim that duringa follow-up visit that took place inJanuary 2008,
local Bank staff were informed that the communities were about to complain against
irregularities inthe implementationo f PRONAT to the Bank's "executive management" in
Washington. Inresponse, the Requesters state, they were then told to wait untila March 2,
2008 community meeting where local Bank staff would present an answer to their
concerns. According to the Requesters nobody from the Bank attended the March meeting
and untilnow they have yet to receive a response from the Bank.

         According to the Requesters, in 2001 the Government o f Panama obtained Bank
financing so that PRONAT could measure and demarcate the territories of the native
peoples o f the Bocas del Tor0 province. They claim, however, that "practically since that
moment, this Program has violated the indigenous land rights, since PRONAT's main
objective is to title land and not to demarcate territories." They also claim that the Project
i s restricting the areas recognized as indigenous peoples lands to those used for housing,


  A "Carta Organica" is a set of rules andregulationsgoverning the internalaffairs of aComarca.
  PAD pp. 6-7



                                                                                                   3

excluding the areas that the communities use `tfor materials, medicines, craft items,
workshops and other production activities"

          The Requesters argue that "the lack of territorial protection has allowed tourism,
mining and hydroelectric enterprises to speculate with our land which is shamelesslygiven
away by the national airthorities by way of Law number 2 of 2006 on concession and
titling of islands and coasts ...>>    10


          The Request also claim that the Bank-financed Project supported a new Bill of
Law, approved by the National Assembly on December 3, 2008 as Law No. 72, which
established collective land property inindigenous territories and specifically prohibitedthe
creation of new "rireas anexas." In the Requesters' opinion, Law No. 72 "constitutes a
flagrant and very serious violation of the sole and true aspiration of the communitiesof the
 `heas anexas', that is, the creation of a juridical framework that would respect the
cultural and allforms ofpolitical life of the Ngabe-Buglepeople.''

          The Requesters state that they "hold directly responsible" the Governmelit and
Government institutions for their problems but, at the same time, that they "are also
disappointed with the World Bank, who has not enforced its operational policies on
indigenous peoples," adding that for this reason they are "requesting the Inspection Panel
to carry out an in-depth and detailed investigation of all that has happened since the
arrival of PRONAT in our territory."

          The above claims may constitute non-compliance by the Bank with various
provisions of the following operational Policies and Procedures:

     OD 4.20               Indigenous Peoples
     OP/BP 13.05           Project Supervision

          In accordance with paragraph 17 of the Panel's Operating Procedures (the
"Operating Procedures"), Iam notifying you that Ihqve, on March 20, 2009, which is also
the date of the dispatch of this notice, registered this Request in the Inspection Panel
Register. Please note that the Panel's registration i s an administrative procedure and it
impliesnojudgment whatsoever concerningthe merits oftheRequest for Inspection.

          As provided in paragraph 18 of the IBRD Resolution that established the Panel
(`Resolution'), paragraphs 2 and 8 of the "Conclusions of the Board's Second Review of
the Inspection Panel" (the 1999 Clarifications"), and paragraph 18(d) of the Operating
                                 "
Procedures, Bank Management must provide the Panel, no later than April 20, 2009, with
written evidence that it has complied, or intends to comply, with the Bank's relevant
policies and procedures inrelation to the above-referencedProject. The subject matter that
Management must deal with in a response to the Request is set out in paragraphs 3 and 4
o f the 1999 Clarifications.


loThe Requestrefers specifically to "the concessionof 6.2 15 hectares inthe rural area o fValle Risco, a
Ngabe indigenous territory, granted by ANAM [Autoridad Nacional del Ambiente] for the construction of
the hydroelectric project Chan 75", andpoints out that this case was denouncedto the SupremeCourt of
Justice, the InterAmerican Commission on Human Rights,and to the UnitedNations Rapporteur on
Indigenous Peoples.



                                                                                                         4

        After receiving the Management response, the Panel will, as outlined in the 1999
Clarifications and as provided by paragraph 19 o f the Resolution, "determine whether the
Request meets the eligibility criteria set out inparagraphs 12 to 14 [of the Resolution] and
shall make a recommendation to the Executive Directors as to whether the matter should
be investigated."




   The Requesthas been assigned IPNRequest Number RQ09/04.


                                     Yours sincerely,




                                      Werner Gene
                                       Chairperson




Messrs Pedro Abrego
Presidente de Area Anexa
Dionisio Elington
Presidente de Area Insular
Feliciano Santo
MODETEAP


Mr.Robert B.Zoellick
President
InternationalBank for Reconstruction and Development

The Executive Directors and Alternates
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development




                                                                                            5

