  THE INSPECTIONPANEL
  OFFICE MEMORANDUM                                                                         47768

    DATE:  March 11,2009

     TO:   Ms.Kristalina Georgieva,Vice PresidentandCorporateSecretary, SECVP

    FROM:  Peter L.Lallas, Executive Secretary, IPN T ?.
EXTENSION: 39732

  SUBJECT: Requestfor Inspection
           PANAMA: LandAdministrationProject(Loan No. 7045-PAN)


                 Attached for distribution to the Executive Directors andAlternates please find a
           Memorandum from the Chairpersonof the InspectionPanelentitled"PANAMA: Land
           Administration Project (Loan No. 7045-PAN)," datedMarch 11,2009.

                 As noted in the Notice of Registration, the Panel's "registration" is an
           administrative procedure, andit impliesnojudgment whatsoever concerning the merits of
           the Request.




           Enclosures

INTERNATIONAL BANKFORRECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENTASSOCIATION
THE INSPECTIONPANEL                                         1818 HStreet, N.W.      Telephone: (202) 458-5200
                                                            Washington, D.C.20433   Fax : (202) 522-0916
                                                            U.S.A.                  Email: ipanel@worldbank.org



     WernerKiene
     Chairperson

                                                                              IPNREQUEST RQ 09/01

                                                                              March 11,2009


          MEMORANDUMTO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND ALTERNATES
     OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT



                                      Re:Requestfor Inspection
                    PANAMA: LandAdministration Project(Loan No. 7045-PAN)


             Pleasebe advised that on February 25,2009, the InspectionPanel (the "Panel") receiveda
     Request for Inspection (the "Request") related to the above-mentioned Projects. The Panel
     registered the Request for Inspection in the Panel's Register on March 11, 2009, as provided in
     paragraph 17 o f the Panel's Operating Procedures. It also delivered a copy o f the Request to the
     President of IBRD pursuant to paragraph 17 of the IBRD Resolution that established the Panel.
     Enclosed for your informationare:

             (1) A copy o f the Notice o f Registration; and
             (2) A copy o fthe transmittal Memorandumto the President.




     Enclosures

INTERNATIONALBANKFORRECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENTASSOCIATION
THE INSPECTIONPANEL                                           1818 HStreet, N.W.       Telephone: (202) 458-5200
                                                              Washington,D.C.20433     FCLX: (202) 522-0916
                                                              USA.                     Email:ipanel@worldbank.org



                                                                                IPNREQUEST RQ 09/01

                                                                                March 11,2009



                                 NOTICE OF REGISTRATION

                                     Re: Requestfor Inspection
                    PANAMA: LandAdministrationProject(Loan No. 7045-PAN)


              On February 25, 2009 the Inspection Panel (the "Panel") received a Request for
     Inspection (the "Request")      related to the Panama: Land Administration Project (the
     "Project"-in   Spanish, Programa Nacional de Administracibn de Tierras-PRONAT).                    The
     Request was submitted by representatives o f the indigenous community o f Pueblo Naso,
     several individual members o f the community and representatives o f some community
     organizations (the "Requesters"). The Requesters claim that they and the community that
     they represent have been harmed and are likely to suffer further harm from the above-
     referenced Project.

     The Proiect

             The Project is partially financed by a loan from the International Bank for
     Reconstruction and Development (the "Bank") in an amount equal to forty-seven million
     ninehundredthousand dollars (US$ 47,900,000). The Loan was approved on January 16,
     2001, After experiencing some implementation problems, the Project was restructured on
     June 23, 2006 to narrow the project scope and outputs and improve "implementation and
     Jinancing modalities."`

             According to the original Loan Agreement, the objectives o f the Project were: (a)
     to promote equitable access to land and improve land tenure security by providing Land
     Administration Services in the Project Area; and (b) to enhance natural resources
     conservation through the consolidation of the SINAP and Indigenous Peoples Territories.




      Memorandumand Recommendation o fthe President on a Proposal to Restructurethe LandAdministration
     Project -LoanNo. 7045- PAN for the Republic of Panama., dated March27,2006. SEC. R2006-0047, dated
     March30,2006.
     'The LoanAgreement states that "SINAP" means "Sistema Nacional de Tierras Protegidas" the Borrower's
     systemofprotected areas.



                                                                                                              1

The AmendedLoanAgreement provides, however, that "the objective of the Project is to
modernize the land administration system, includingpriority protected areas and
Indigenous Peoples Territories."

         After beingrestructured inMarch2006, the Projecthas four component^:^

1. Land Policy, Legal and Institutional Framework. This component includes activities
aimed at improving the existing policy and legal institutionalframework and strengthening
the institutions providing land administration services. Such activities include "the
preparation of the required reforms to the legal and institutional pamework governing
Land Administration Services."

2. Land Regularization Services. This component supports the modernization o f the
Borrower's geodetic network, the gathering and analysis o f land tenure related data,
including the development and implementation o f an Integrated Cadastral and Registry
Information System (SIICAR) and its network in selected provinces and districts, and the
resolution o f land-related conflicts. This component includes "the carrying out of legal
cadastre surveys and area-based measurement and land demarcation activities."

3. Consolidation o f Protected Areas and Indigenous Territories. This component supports
the consolidation o f the National Protected Areas System (SINAP), the establishment and
consolidationo f protected areas within SINAP, and the establishment and consolidation o f
indigenous territories inthe project area.

4. Proiect Administration, Monitoring & Evaluation. This component provides technical
assistance services and support for land administration entities at national and local level,
including support for the design and implementation o f a Project monitoring and
evaluation system.

         The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) states that Project-supported land
administrationactivities cover a range o f landregularization actions, including legal rights
recognition, titling, conflict resolution, legal cadastre, and registry, and that the
consolidation o f SINAP and indigenous territories, which include mapping, field
demarcation, buffer zone limits, determination o f their legal status; and land management
plansinselectedareasthrough local andparticipatory consultation processes.'

         The Project component related to Consolidationof Protected Areas and Indigenous
Territories includes the carrying out o f physical demarcation activities in protected areas,
including participatory decision-making processes to define boundaries and status o f the
demarcated areas. Inthis regard, the PAD states that ``consolidation of indigenous peoples
territories includes not only technical actions related to demarcation" but also a number o f
complementary activities, including conflict resolution and "support to design or complete



 Amendmentto the LoanAgreement, dated June 23,2006.
 Source: current Project InformationDocument (PID)
 Project Appraisal Document (PAD) on a Proposed Loan inthe Amount of US$47.9 million to the Republic
o f Panamafor a LandAdministration Project, dated December 14,2000, pg. 3




                                                                                                    2

the Cartas Orgknicas[Organic Charters] andother regulations andnorms dealingwith
the administration of indigenous territories"6(emphasis added).


The Reauest

         The Requesters claim that, in violation of its own policy on Indigenous Peoples,
during implementation o f the Project the Bank did not take into account the rights and
interests o f the Pueblo Naso communities, inter alia, because Project officials are trying to
impose a "CartaOrgknica"intheir territory that i s detrimental to their rights, has not been
consulted with the indigenous people and lacks legal basis. What follows is a summary
description o fthe situationas depicted inthe Request.

         The Requesters state that the PRONATis expected to demarcate the territory ofthe
"original people" of the Bocas del Tor0 Province andthat, since its initial implementation,
"the Project has been carrying out activities in their Naso Tjer Di territory with the
support of the Dobbo Yala Foundation and the then King Tito Santana [of the Naso
people] andhis team" (emphasis added). The Requesters state that, in this context, Bank
financing made possible to agree on a Bill o f Law, supported by the Naso People, which
would create the Province o fNaso Tjer Di. This Bill o f Law was submitted to the National
Assembly o f Panamabut was never approved.

         The Requesters claim that the situation has now changed and PRONAT officials
are no longer consulting with the legitimate representatives o f the Naso Peoples, and that
this has created tensions between the members of the Naso and the Foundation carrying
out the    consultation^.^   They state that the Bank-financed Project supported a new Bill of
Law establishing collective landproperty inindigenous territories, which was approved by
the National Assembly on December 3,2008 as LawNo. 72. According to the Requesters
this new Law created "an uncertain regime of regional rezoning". The Requesters believe
that, the Project-supported new law "constitutes aflagrant and very serious violation of
the sole andtrue aspiration of the NasoPeople-the creation of ajuridicalpameworkthat
would respect the cultural andallforms of politico-traditional life of our Nasopeople, as
well as the natural, archeological andgenetic resources ingeneral that we now have and
that we have inheritedpom our ancestors andthat we are entitled to: that is the region of
Naso Tjer Di."

         The Requesters state that they asked PRONAT officials to comply with the World
Bank's Operational Policy on Indigenous Peoples and that, since no reply was received

'PADpp.    6-7
  The Requesters claim that "unfortunately, the Dobbo Yala Foundation was contracted by the Public
Enterprise of Medellin (Empresa Pziblica de Medellin or EPM) to carry out an alleged community
consultationrelated to theproposed the Bonyik Hydroelectric Project to be built within the Naso Territory."
As aresult,the Requesters assert that "in May 2004, theNasoPeoples GeneralAssembly decidedto dismiss
the then King Tito, and appoint His Majesty Valentin Santana present King of the Naso Peoples."The
Requesters add that "several weeks a$er [this event] the National Assembly rejected the Bill of Law." In
addition, they state that after the new President of Panama took office, "several individuals" of the Dobbo
YalaFoundation"became Governmentemployeesworking on the PRONATproject."




                                                                                                           3

from them, the "Nasopeople, jointly with Ngobe leaders affected by the delimitation of the
adjacent lands," sent a note to World Bank staff, inDecember2007, "requesting an urgent
visit to the area."

         They addthat World Bank staff carried out a field visit inJanuary 2008 where they
were informed about the concerns of the Naso Peoples in relation to PRONAT. The
Request claims that on a follow-up visit to evaluate PRONAT inMarch 2008, Bank staff
did not meet with the Naso people, who were left waiting for them at the community of
Bonyik. The Naso people's concerns were again expressed, at a meeting held later on in
Panama City but so far, the Requesters claim, World Bank staff have not responded to
their concerns.

         Inview of the foregoing, the Requesters state that "we are also disappointedwith
the World Bank, who has not enforced its operational policies on indigenous peoples,"
adding that for this reason they are "requesting the Inspection Panel to carry out an in-
depth and detailed investigation of all that has happened since the arrival of PRONAT in
our territory."

         The above claims may constitutenon-compliancebythe Bankwith various
provisions of the following operationalPolicies andProcedures:

    OD 4.20            IndigenousPeoples
    OPBP 13.05         Project Supervision

        In accordance with paragraph 17 of the Panel's Operating Procedures (the
"Operating Procedures"), Iam notifying you that Ihave, on March 11, 2009, which is also
the date of the dispatch of this notice, registered this Request in the Inspection Panel
Register. Please note that the Panel's registration is an administrative procedure and it
impliesnojudgment whatsoever concerningthe merits ofthe Requestfor Inspection.

        As provided in paragraph 18 of the IBRD Resolution that established the Panel
(`Resolution'), paragraphs 2 and 8 of the "Conclusions of the Board's Second Review of
the Inspection Panel" (the "1999 Clarifications"), and paragraph 18(d) of the Operating
Procedures, Bank Management must provide the Panel, no later than April 9, 2009, with
written evidence that it has complied, or intends to comply, with the Bank's relevant
policies andproceduresinrelation to the above-referencedProject. The subject matter that
Management must deal with in a response to the Request is set out inparagraphs 3 and 4
ofthe 1999Clarifications.

        After receiving the Management response, the Panel will, as outlined inthe 1999
Clarifications and as provided by paragraph 19 of the Resolution, "determine whether the
Request meets the eligibility criteria set out inparagraphs 12 to 14 [of the Resolution] and
shall make a recommendation to the Executive Directors as to whether the matter should
be investigated."




                                                                                            4

The Request hasbeenassignedIPNRequestNumber RQ 09/01.


                              Yours sincerely,




                               Werner Kiene
                                Chairperson




Messrs. Valentin Santana
       Adolfo R.Villagra S.




 Mr.Robert B.Zoellick
 President
 InternationalBank for Reconstruction and Development

 The ExecutiveDirectors andAlternates
 InternationalBank for Reconstruction and Development




                                                         5

INTERNATIONALBANKFORRECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENTASSOCIATION
THE INSPECTIONPANEL                                        1818HStreet,N.W.          Telephone: (202) 458-5200
                                                           Washington, D.C. 20433    FW:(202) 522-0916
                                                                                     Email:ipanel@worldbank.org

Werner Kiene
Chairperson


                                                                       IPNREQUESTRQ 09/01

                                                                                 March 11,2009


                        MEMORANDUMTO THE PRESIDENTOFTHE
         INTERNATIONALBANKFORRECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT


                                       Requestfor Inspection
                  PANAMA:LandAdministrationProject(LoanNo. 7045-PAN)



              In accordance with paragraph 17 of IBRD Resolution that established the
      InspectionPanel (the "Resolution") and paragraph 17 o f the Inspection Panel's Operating
      Procedures (the "Operating Procedures"), Ihereby notify you that on February 25, 2009,
      the Inspection Panel (the "Panel") received a Request for Inspection (the "Request")
      related to the above-referenced Projects.

              IhaveonMarch11,2009,whichisalsothedateofthedispatchofthisnotice,
      registered the Request inthe Inspection PanelRegister.Enclosed are:

              1. copy ofthe Notice o fRegistration; and
              2. copy o f the Requestfor Inspection

              In accordance with paragraph 18 of the Resolution, paragraphs 2 and 8 of the
      6cConclusionsof the Board's Second Review of the Inspection Panel" (the "1999
      Clarifications"), and paragraph 18 (d) o f the Operating Procedures, Bank Management i s
      hereby notified that it must provide the Panel, no later than April 9, 2009, with written
      evidence that it has complied, or intends to comply with the Bank's relevant policies and
      procedures in relation to the above-referenced Projects. The subject matter the
      Management must deal with ina response to the Request i s set out inparagraphs 3 and 4
      o fthe 1999 Clarifications.

                                            2




        After receivingthe Management response, the Panel will, as outlined inthe 1999
Clarifications and as providedby paragraph 19 o f the Resolution, "determine whether the
Request meets the eligibility criteria set out in paragraphs 12 to 14 and shall make a
recommendation to the Executive Directors as to whether the matter should be
investigated."
        The RequesthasbeenassignedIPNRequestNumberRQ 09/01.,


                                        Sincerely,     ,


                                      Werner &ne
                                       Chairperson




Enclosures:

 Requestfor Inspection
 Notice of Registration

