Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
t~-   i-i?       --g       *7  -- /7.
Report No. 9136-RW
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
FIRST EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
MARCH 1, 1991
Population and Human Resources Operation Div!sion
South Central and Indian Ocean Department, Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit             =    Rwandese Franc (FRW)
USS 1                     =    FRW 130
FRW 100                   =    US$ 0.77
Measures
Metric                            British/US Equivalent
1 meter (m)                     =    3.28 feet
1 square meter (sq. m)          =    10.76 square feet
1 kilometer (km)                -    0.62 mile
1 square kilometer (sq. km)   -    0.39 sq. mile
Glossary and Abbreviations
CPE             Conseil Prefectoral de l'Enseignement (Prefectoral Coun',il
for Education - PCE)
DFCS            Direction du Financement et des Constructions Scolaires
(Directorate of Financing and School Construction - DFSC)
DPEPERAI        Direction des Programmes de l'Enseignement Primaire, Rural
et Artisanal Integre
(Directorate of Primary and Rural Education - DPRE)
ERAI            Enseignement Rural et Artisanal Integre (Rural Education)
ETO             Ecole Technique Officielle (Vocational School)
MINIFOP         Ministere de la Fonction Publique et de la Formation
Professionnelle (Ministry of Public Services and
P-ofessional Training)
MININTER        Ministere de l'Interieur (Ministry of Interior)
MINEPRISEC      Ministere de l'Enseignement Primaire et Secondaire
(Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education)
MINESUPRES      Ministere de l'Enseignement Sup6rieur et de la Recherche
Scientifique (Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific
Research)
NGO             Non Governmental Organization (Organisation Non
Gouvernementale - ONG)
UNDP            United Nations Development Program (Programme des Nations
Unies pour le Developpement - PNUD)
UNR             Universite Nationale du Rwanda (National University of
Rwanda)
Fiscal Year                          School Year
January 1 - December 31                   October - June



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
RWANDA
FIRST EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILES
CREDIT AID PROJECT SUMMARY
I.   INTRODUCTION   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    1
II.  THE EDUCATION SECTOR . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
A.   General Characteristics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
B.   Sectoral Issues . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
1.  Infrastructure and Access to Education  . . . . . . . . 3
2.  Quality of Education. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
3.  Educational Management     . . . .  . . .  . . . .    .   . . .  * 6
4.  Financing, Budgeting and Costs. . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
5.  Resource Utilization  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
C.   The Government Sectoral Strategy
and Investment Program. a . . .    . . . . .  . . . .  . 9
D.   The Bank Group's Role in the Sector . . . . . . . . . .   . 11
III.   THE  PROJECT  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .12
A.   Project Objectives and Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
1. Consolidation/Expansion of Primary Education. . . . . . 13
2.  Quality of Primary Education           . . . . . . . . . 14
3. Educational Management .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
4. Costs and Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
B.   Project Costs and Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
1.    Project  Costs   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  20
2.  Project Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
C.   Project Management and Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . 22
IV.  PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS . .      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
V.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .. .       . . . . . . . . 28
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
Rwanda in May-June 1990. The mission members were Messrs. Djamalddine
Rouag (Mission leader, Sr. Education Planner), Peter Ngomba (Economist),
Olivier De Messi6res (Architect, Consultant), Michel Bourgeois (Educator,
Consultant) and Louis Vandevelde (Measurement and Evaluation Specialist,
Consultant). Mr. Manuel Zymelman vas the lead advisor. The report was
prepared by Mr. Rouag with contributions of Messsrs. hgomnba and De
Messieres and edited by Mrs. Whitney Watriss.  Mmes. Duch.sne and
Vaselopulos provided secretarial support in the preparation of the report.
Mr. Alain Colliou and Mr. Francisco Aguirre-Sacasa are the managing
Division Chief and the Department Director, respectively for the operation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of contents (continued)
ANNEXES
1.1   Background Information
2.1   Basic Data on the Education System
2.2   Analysis of Primary Education Construction and Furniture
2.3   Simulations of the Development of the Primary Education system
2.4   Background Information on Main Departments and Divisions of
MINEPRISEC to be Strengthened and Organization Chart of the
MINEPRISEC
2.5   Information on the Prefectoral and Sector Inspectorates
2.6   Details of the Education Sector Investment and Expenditure
Programs
3.1   Primary Education Funds Brief Description
3.2   Primary Education Funds Model for Allocating Funds for New
Constructions
3.3   Strategy for Improving the Quality of Education
3.4   Strategy for In-Service Training of Teachers and Supervisors
3.5   Main Project Summary Accounts
3.6   Project Implementation Schedule
3.7   Summary of Specialist Services
3.8   Summary of Local and Foreign Training
3.9   Supervision Summary
3.10  Disbursement Schedule
3.11  Government's Sector Policy Statement
_ap   IERD No. 22709



RWANDA
FIRST EDUCATIOk SECTOR PROJECT
DOCU'dt * S IN PROJECT FILE
REF NO.                            DOCUMENTS
…---------- ----------- ---_-- _--- _-_-_-r---- ___-_--_-_-- ---__------
GENERAL
1.   Unesco; Institut International de Planification; amelioration de
la gestion des etablissements publics d'enseignement secondaire du
Rwanda, mai 1987/UNESCO, International Institute for the Planning
of Education; improving the management of puiblic secondary schools
in Rwanda; May 1987.
2.    Banque Mondiale; Rwanda: le role des communes dans le
daveloppement socio-6conomique/World Bank; Rwanda: The role of the
communes in socio-economic development; October 1987.
3.    Ministare de l'Enseignement Primaire et Secondaire; Etat actuel de
la reforme de l'enseignement primaire, rural et artisanal integre
et secondaire; decembre 1987/ Ministry of Primary and Secondary
Educaticn; Status of the reform of primary, rural and secondary
education; December 1987.
4.   Ministbre de 1'Enseignement Primaire et Secondaire; statistiques
de l'enseignement; 1987-88.
5.   Ministbre de l'Enseignement Primaire et Secondaire; journees de
reflexion sur le systeme educatif rwandais, Kigali, mai
1988/Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education, workshop on the
Rwandese education system, Kigali; May 1.988.
6.    Universite du Rwanda; rapport de la commission chargee de
l'evaluation de la reforme de l'enseignement/University of Rwanda;
report of the commission in charge of the evaluation of the
education reform; June 1988.
7.   Ministere de l'Enseignement Primaire et Secondaire; Ministbre de
l'Enseignement Superieur et de la Recherche Scientifique;
quatri6me projet education. RequAte du gouvernement du Rwanda I la
Banque mondiale; juillet 1989/Ministry of Primary and Secondary
Education; Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research;
Government of Rwanda Report to the World Bank; July 1989.
8.    Banque Mondiale, rapport sur le coat et financement de
l'enseignement primaire, secondaire et superieur; janvier
1990/World Bank, Report on the cost and financing of primary,
secondary and higher education; January 1990.
9.   Minist&re de l'Enseignement Primaire et Secondaire, rapport sur le
systeme Oducatif et lee examens; september 1990/Ministry of



Primary and Secondary Education, Report on the education system
and examinations; September 1990.
WORKING PAPERS
1.    Miristere de l'Enseignement Primaire et Secondaire; premier projet
sectoriel de l'ducation; enseignement primaire; aspects
quantitatifs/Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education; first
education sector project; primary education; quantitative aspects;
September 1990.
2.    Ministere de l'Enseignement Primaire et Secondaire; premier projet
sectoriel de l'education; enseignement primaire: aspects
qualitatifs/Ministry of Planning and Secondary Education; first
education sector project; primary educations qualitative aspects;
September 1990.
3.    Ministere de l'Enseignement Primaire et Secondaire; premier projet
sectoriel de l'education; aspects administration et gestion;
niveau central; september 1990/Ministry of Primary and Secondary
Education; first education sector project; management aspects:
central ?evel; September 1990.
4.    Ministere de l'Enseignement Primaire et Secondaire; premier projet
sectoriel de l'education; aspects administration et gestion;
niveau decentralise; september 1990/Ministry of Primary and
Secondary Education; first education sector project; management
aspects: decentralized level; September 1990.
5.    Ministere de l'Enseignement Superieur et de la Recherche
Scientifique; premier projet sectoriel de l'4ducation; aspects
administration et gestion: amelioration du systame d'information
de gestion de l'universit. nationale du Rwanda; september
1990/Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research; first
education sector project; management aspects: improvement of the
management information system of the national university of
Rwnada; September 1990.
6.    Ministere de l'Enseigneme,lt Primaire et Secondaire; premier projet
sectoriel de leducation; direction du financement et des
ronstructions scolaires; septembre 1990/Ministry of Primary and
Secondary Education; directorate of financing and schools
construction; September 1990.



RWANDA
FIRST EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Credit and Proje t Summary
Borrower:            Republic of Rwanda
Beneficiaries:       Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education
(MINEPRISEC)
Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research
(MINESUPRES)
Amount:              SDR 16.2 million (US$23.3 million equivalent)
Terms:               Standard with 40 years'maturity
Proiect description:
Obiectives:          The objeccives of the project are to:
(a) consolidate and expand primary education: (b)
improve the quality of education and (c) strengthen
the sector's management capacity while reducing the
length of primary education and better allocating
resources.
Components:           (a)  Consolidatii  and Expansion of Primary Education
through the e..ablishment of a Primary Education
Fund while improving equity of access/enrollment
rates between prefectures and within.
(b) Improvement of the Quality of Primary Education
through (i) pre-service Primary Teachers
Training; (ii) professional development and in-
service training of primary education supervisors
and teachers and (iii) reinforcing of applied
pedagogical research.
(c) StrengtheninR the Sector Management Capacity
through (i) reinforcing of planning, budgeting,
financial control, human resources and
examination management; (ii) fostering
inspectorate administration; (iii) improving
secondary school accounting and use of resources
and (iv) rationalizing/improving the university's
management information system.
Benefits:            The proposed project would create the conditions for
the consolidation and expansion with equity of primary
education while improving its quality by (a) reducing
the length of primary education from 8 to 6 years; (b)
tying sectoral investments to the Goverrment capacity
to meet incremental costs with priority to primary



educations (c) establishing i Primary Education Fund
with allocation criteria geared towards increasing
equity of access and (d) establishing a framework for
improving the quality of education. In addition the
project would establish technical capacities for (a)
analysis of education issues and formulation of
related policies and (b) more efficient management of
the sectot resources. Consequently, it would
strengthen the institutional basis for further policy
dialogue Detween the Bank and Rwandese authorities.
Risks:               The risks are related to the inadequate management
capacity throughout the educational system. Detailed
preparation in collaboration with national
specialists, agreement reached on, additional staffing
and a sizeable training program supplemented by
specialists in key areas are included in the proposed
project to help overcome this problem. In addition,
recent hostilities underscore the ievel of uncertainty
and risk faced by the cour.try. The governament rapidly
brought the situation under control while offering to
solve the underlying political problems. In the long
run, equitable economic and social growth, part of
which is expansion of basic education, would be the
best insurance against instability.
Estimated Costs:                      --------------US$ million----------
Local         Foreign          Total
(a) Consolidation/Expansion of
Primary Education                 5.38          0.60             5.98
(b) Improvement of the Quality
of Primary Education              2.81          4.75             7.56
(c) Strengthening the Sector
Management Capacity               0.22          2.83             3.05
(d) Studies and Preparation of
Future Investments                  --          1.00             1.00
Total base cost              8.41          9.18            17.59
Physical contingencies       0.99          0.74             1.73
Price contingencies          6.66          0.95             7.60
Total project cost          16.06         10.86            26.92
Financing Plan:                       ---------------US$ million----------
Local       Foreign          Total
IDA                         14.4           8.9             23.3
UNDP                          0.0          2.0              2.0
Government                   1.6           0.0              1.6
Estimated Disbursements:              -------------USS million-----------
FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94    FY95   FY96
Annual                1.0    4.40   5.10   5.40    4.50   2.90
Cumulative            1.0    5.40  10.50  15.90   20.40  23.30
Economic Rate of Return:  Not applicable



RWANDA
FIRST EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01        The Government of Rwanda has requested IDA's assistance in
financing the gradual adaptation of its education reform of 1977 to the
country's new constraints and challenges. The intent is to start with
primary education, the objectives being to: (a) consolidate and expand
access to primary education; (b) improve the quality of education; and (c)
strengthen the management capacity within the sector. It is expected that
these objectives would be attained through a coherent government policy
aimed at: (a) reducing the duration of primary education; and (b) ensuring
adequate financing for the expansion of primary education and the
improvement of its quality. The estimated project cost would be about
US$26.9 million equivalent, of which US$0.8 million consist of taxes and
duties, with a foreign exchange component of US$10.9 million (about
40.4 percent). The United Nations Development Program (UNDP) would
contribute US$2.0 million to the project and the Government about US$1.6
million equivalent (this amount includes the contribution of the communes to
school co truction 1/). The remainder of US$23.3 million equivalent
would be t.nanced by IDA.  (Background information on the country is
provided in Annex 1.1.)
1.02        The proposed project would be IDA's fourth contribution to the
development of Rwanda's education sector. The project would help the
Government adjust its sector investment program in ways consistent with its
major priorities and the availability of resources.  After this
introduction, the second chapter of this report will be devoted to a
description of the main general characteristics and issues of the education
sector in Rwanda, as well as the Government's sectoral strategy and
investment program. The Bank Group's role in the sector will also be
described. In chapter three, the project will be presented, including
project objectives and description, project costs and financing and project
management and implementation. The fourth chapter will discuss project
benefits and risks and the final chapter will present agreements reached and
recommendations. More information on detailed aspects of the project are
presented in the annexes.
1/   There are 143 communes in 10 prefectures.



II. THE EDUCATION SECTOR
A.    GENERAL CHARACTERISTICS
2.01        Administration.  Two ministries are responsible for the
education sector: the Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education (Ministere
de l'Enseignement Primaire et Secondaire - MINEPRISEC) and the Ministry of
Higher Educ.tion and Scientific Research (Ministere de 1 Enseignement
Supdrieur et de la Recherche Scientifique - MIN'SUPRES). At the regional
level, MINEPRISEC is represented in the prefectures by the prefectoral
inspectors (inspecteurs d'arrondissements) and in the communes by the sector
inspectors (inspecteurs de secte.rs). However, not all the communes have an
inspector.
2.02        Three other ministries are also involved in training or in the
relationship between education and the workplace: (a) the Ministry of Civil
Service and Professional Training (Ministere de la Fonction Publique et de
la Formation Professionnelle - MINIFOP), which serves as a national
employment agency and which runs courses for pro-service training and
vocational upgrading; (b) the Ministry of Youth and Cooperatives (Ministere
de la Jeunesse et du Mouvement Associatif), which provides training for out-
of-school youths; 2/ and (c) the Ministry of Interior (Ministhre de
l'Interieur - MININTER), which oversees a system of continuing education
centers 3/ and provides training for ru:al leaders and continuing
education courses for adults. At the local level, the commune plays an
important role in the development of primary education as well as post-
primary non-formal education.
2.03        Structure and Organization.  In 1977, the Government decided to
reform the formal education system 4/. It initiated implementation of
the reform for primary education in 1979 and for secondary education in
1981.  The general objectives were: (a) democratization of access at all
levels; (b) qualitative and quantitative improvement of the skilled manpower
required by the economy; and (c) promotion of the notional language and
culture through the education system while maintaining openness to the
outside world through the teaching of foreign languages.
2.04        As a consequence of the reform, the primary and se--ndary
education systems are organized as followss Primary education consists of
eight years divided into three cycles. The first three years focus on
literacy and numeracy and the second three on basic general education with
introduction of French as a subject matter, while the last two years
emphasize practical courses in egriculture and basic crafts. The language
of instruction is Kinyarwanda, Rwanda's official language. Secondary
2/   In "Centres Communaux de Formation de la Jeunesse".
3/   In the "Centres Communaux de D6veloppement et de la Formation
Permanente".
4/   The mission, organization and content of primary and secondary
education were formally e3tablished through education organic Law
No. 1/1985 of January 25, 1985 and Law no. 14/1985 of June 29, 1985
and related presidential decrees and arretes.



- 3 -
education is organized into a six-year cycle. As part of the reform's
oblectives to provide skilled manpower, this level has a strong vocational
orientatian that combines general and technical courses through 12 tracks
subdivided into 28 streams. Teaching is in French. There is also a three-
year rural education (enseiQnement rural et artisanal intdfrd - ERAI)
program after the primary level that combines academic and practical courses
in agriculture and basic crafts. Teaching is provided in Kinyarwanda with
Ftench given as a subject matter. Vocational traininR consists mainly or
the practical subjects at the primary level in grades 7 and 8, the ERAI and
the vocational content of the secondary school curricula. All these
measures are meant to orient the system toward vocational education. There
are also some purely vocational schools (such as the Ecoles Techniques
Officieller - ETOs) that provide training for mid-level skills.
Consultation and coordination among the vocational education institutions
and potent4.al users are insufficient but are expected to improve under the
IDA-financed Third Education Project.
2.05        Higher Education.  The National University of Rwanda (Universite
du Rwanda - UNR) comprises 10 faculties divided into 3 campuses. In
addition to the UNR, higher education in Rwanda comprises four private
religious institutions of higher learning and a Panafrican institute of
apnlied economics. Following the completion in 1987 of the secondary
education reform, in March 1987 the Government published the "G.andes
Orientations de la ROforme de l'Enseignement Sup4rieur au Rwanda." The main
objectives of this reform of higher education are to: (a) train the skilled
manpower required by the economy; (b) diversify the financing of higher
education and improve the efficiency of dllocation and use of resources; and
(c) review the length of undergraduate programs and improve the quality of
teaching. The Government began implementl.ng the reform, particularly those
aspects related to the last objective, in :988. (Annex 2.1 provides basic
data on the educatior. system and Annex 2.4 provides an organization chart of
MINEPRISEC.)
B.    SECTORAL ISSUES
1.    Infrastructure and Access to Education
2.06        Infrastructure and Equipment. In 1989/90, primary education
consisted of 1,645 schools (centres scolaires), and in 1989 the number of
classrooms was 18,387, up from 8,501 in 1979. This growth was aimed in part
at providing spaces for the students added by the reform, which created two
extra grades, 7 and 8. Expansion of the system was achieved less through
the creation of new schools for a dispersed school population than through
an increase in the capacity of existing ones, which went from an average of
330 to 582 students and an average of 3.4 to 11.2 classrooms. Nevertheless,
despite considerable growth of the system, 21 percent of the schools do not
offer P..I the intended grades, and 26 percent lack blackboards, 43 percent
desks ;or students and 26 percent chairs and tables for teachers. The often
inadequate physical condition of the classrooms and equipment compound these
inadequacies. (Annex 2.2 provides background information on the condition
of the educational infrastructure and availability of furniture.)



2.07        Aecess and Equity.  The annual rate of growth of primary level
enrollment has declined drastically, falling from 7.8 petient in 1979/80 to
an annual average of about 4.2 percent between 1982 and 1987. Simulations
for the next 10 years based on maintaining the current pattern of allocation
of resources within the sector and taking into account the constraints on
the education budget suggest a possible decline of enrollment rate from 62
percent to 49 percent.
2.08        Because of the already relatively efficient allocation of
budgetary resources across education levels (para. 2.13) and the relatively
small share of the sector's recurrent budget devoted to boarding in
secondary education and fellowships in higher education (about 6 percent in
1988 as a result of the low level of enrollments), the introduction of
further efficiency measures, although uscessary, will not result in a
significant increase in the level of resources available for primary
education. Any savings generated from such measures should be used to
improve the quality of secondary and higher education. In fact, simulations
of the development of the education system show that the sile most
important measure that would help maintain access and enrollment rates in
primary education would be a revision of the ..tructure of the education
system and varticularly a reduction of the duration of primarv education
from eight to six years. (Alternative simulations of the future development
of the primary education system are provided in Annex 2.3.) In the
prefectures, primary enrollment rates in 1988 ranged from 69 percent to 53
percent, and the variation in enrollment rates across the communes within
each prefecture is even wider. In 1987, the transition rate from primary to
sucondary education reached 10 percent (one of the lowest in Africa), and it
has since stagnated. Jntil recently, the principal reason for this
bo'.tleneck was the policy of boarding all secondary school students, a
policy still perceived by the religious community -- who own and/or manage
most of the secondary subsidized/public schools -- as a prerequisite for
quality education, even though it leads to high unit costs and limited
access. In 1986, 40 percent of the subsidized/public secondary school
places were concentrated in three prefectures. However, the inequalities
for physical opportunities for access are partially compensated by selection
criteria promoting balanced regional intake.
Z.09        In 1987, the number of students in higher education was about
1,650 in the UNR, 350 in the private higher education institutions in the
country and about 700 abroad.
2.10        Females account for 48 percent and 46 percent of total
enrollments in primary and ERAI schools, respectively, but only 34 percent
in secondary education and 17 percent in higher education.
2.    Quality of Education
2.11        One of the major qualitative innovations of the education reformi
of 1977 was the development of curricula based on the objectives approach.
The aim of this approach is to ensure that by the end of eacht level most
students have mastered the achievement objectives established for that
level. However, the internal efficiency of the education system has



remained weak. In primary education, the causes of the inefficiency are as
follows: First, between 1977/78 and 1987/88, enrollments more than doubled,
rising from about 464,000 to 970,000. This increase led to an expansion in
the number of teachers over the same period from about 8,130 to 17,000.
However, the percentage of qualified teachers decreased from 58 percent to
52 percent. In addition, the distribution of underqualified teachers is
distorted across the three cycles of the primary level (para. 2.04): they
make up 78 percent of the staff in the first cycle, which can be considered
the most important cycle for the acquisition of basic skills and attitudes,
40 percent in the second cycle and 48 percent in the third.
2.12        Second, books are relatively scarce 5/ and not sufficiently
used when available. There is also a lack of other teaching materials.
2.13        Third, the strategy used to introduce the reform's pedagogical
innovations at the school and classroom levels was not well-articulated and
targett2d, particularly with regard to (a) the role of the school directors
and inspectors in the change process; (b) the role of pre- and in-service
training in terms of the basic content, techniques and methodologies for
teacl.ing the main disciplines, including the practical implications for
teachers of the new curriculum approach and time management; and (c) the
importance of structured formative evaluation. As a result, teachers do not
really understand the implications of the curriculum-by-objectives approach,
nor are they implementing it. In addition, some teachers do not have an
adequate mastery of French.
2.14        Fourth, the school-based examination held at the end of primary
education is designed to rank students and compare schools but not to
provide any information on student achievement, information that would help
assess the -trengths and weaknesses of students and guide improvements. The
purpose of the main examination, the National Competitive Examination for
Access to Secondary Education (Concours National d'Acces A l'Enseignement
Secondaire) is to select students competitively for the limited number of
places in secondary education (in 1988/R9, out of 58,105 candidates, only
7,057 were admitted). Thus, the indirect feedback received by the schools
does not encourage raising the level of achievement of all students but
instead encourages "cramming" for access to a higher level of education that
will benefit only a few students.
2.15        Fifth, the Pedagogical Directorate for Primary and Rural
Education (Direction des Programmes de l'Enseignement Primaire et Rural
Integre - DPEPERAI), which is responsible for the development and
experimentation of curricula, textbooks and teaching guides, as well as for
methodological inputs into the in-service training of primary teachers, has
not been able to achieve its qualitative objectives. Its main weaknesses
are an inadequate mix of skills and poor operating conditions, including a
limited recurrent budget, all of which leave it removed from the reality of
5/   The Third Education Project (Cr-1683-RW) includes a component that
addresses this issue.



- 6 -
the classroom. As a result of the above factors, the average repetition
rate is 7.8 percent and the drop-out rate about 12.8 percent.
2.16        In the case of rural education, although two-thirds of the staff
are qualified primary school teachers, they are not prepared to teach the
type of pre-professional courses offered under the ERAI. Moreover, while
the buildings and furniture are adequate, the lack of workshop equipment,
consumables and texttooks adverse'y affects quality. While the objective of
the ERAI is training for employment in the rural environment, the lack of
employnment opportunities and resulting student defection raise questions
about the relevance of this type of education.
2.17        A number of problems beset secondary education.  The
effectiveness of the vocational component is questionable and the need for
the large number of streams, given the limited range of employment
opportunities in a poorly diversified economy, debatable. Students are
assigned to a training program at the age of 14 or 15 with few possibilities
for reassignment if ill-placed, often the case considering the weakness of
the school guidance system. The time devoted to general education (French,
mathematics and science) is not equally distributed among the streams, so
that the academic achievement of secondary graduates is uneven. Thirty
percent of the teachers are not qualified, and the resultant quality of the
teaching of science and technical subjects is poor. This situation raises
questions about the level of professional skills students acquire.
Students' mastery of irench, the medium of instruction, is weak. The
average rate of repetition is 5.3 percent and the drop-out rate 9.7 percent.
The focus of examination at the end of secondary education on selection for
access to higher education does not provide needed feedback to guide
secondary education instruction, in order to increase the level of
achievement of students.
2.18       As to higher education, the UNR has serious efficiency problems.
The rate of repetition for the first year is about 20 percent and the drop-
out rate about 25 percent. The main reasons include: (a) inadequate
selection and guidance of students: (b) lack of relevance of the secondary
school curriculum to the UNR program and the encyclopedic design of the
latter; and (c) the low percentage of qualified teachers. In addition, the
management information system is not adequately organized to allow for the
comprehensive collection and processing of information relevant to policy
analysis and related measures.
3.    Educational Management
2.19        Capacity at the central level to monitor both the efficiency and
effectiveness of the different programs and resources within the education
system and to address the issues is weak. The reason is inadequate
technical capabilities with regard to the functional areas of management,
especially information oystems, policy analysis and development, planning
and programming, budgeting and control of expenditures and personnel
management, as well as pedagogical matters in a broad sense. (Background
informations on the main directorates of MINEPRISEC and an organization
chart are given in Annex 2.4.)



-7-
2.20        In the case of the Prefectoral inspectorates, in principle their
main responsibility is to transmit information between the schools and
MINEPRISEC (excluding information regarding the disciplining of primary
school teachers). Although decentralization is a stated government priority
for the sector, the authorities have not yet developed clear objectives and
a plan of action with regard to school mapping, teacher assignments, in-
service training and leadership for quality improvement. Delegation of
responsibility for these matters to lower levels would certainly improve the
allocation and use of resources as well as create the conditions for
improving quality. (Information on the prefectoral and sector inspectorates
is provided in Annex 2.5.)
2.21        The administrative and financial management of secondary schools
is weak: the directors and administrators are not trained in school
management (para. 2.18) and/or accounting; the current structure of the
school budget and the control of expenditure, as well as the accounting
system, need improvement.
4.    Financing, Budgetina and Costs
2.22        Central Government Financina.  The share of the Government's
estimated recurrent budget devoted to education in 1987 was 24.4 percent (of
the total recurrent budget of 1987, 70 percent was allocated to primary
education, 16 percent to secondary education and 14 percent to higher
education) and in 1988, 22.9 percent. However, real recurrent education
expenditures as a percentage of the Government's total were 25.7 percent in
1987, a level that is not expected to increase in the future. Consequently,
the prospects for improving access to and the quality of education depend
largely on the growth rate of its recurrent budget and the extent to which
the duration, structure and content of education are modified (para. 2.08)
and physical resources used more effectively (para. 2.29). If present
policies remain unchanged, the access and enrollment rates at the primary
level will decline, even under the optimistic assumption of a 3 percent real
annual growth in the education budget (para. 2.08).
.23        Communal Financing.  Communal revenue in 1985 amounted to about
Rwandese franc (FRW) 1.3 billion, equivalent to about 8 percent of central
government revenues. The share of education in the total communal budget is
very low, about 2 percent in most of the communes, and much of this funding
is used for literacy programs. Thus, the formal school system basically
depends on support from the Central Government and the primary school fee
(minerval) of FRW 300 (about US$2.3),
2.24        Private Financina and Cost Recoverv.  There is no effective
policy framework for promoting private financing of education, including
through a shift of costs to users. The Government subsidizes the religious
schools at both the primary and secondary levels almost entirely, although
the congregations running them have not fully accepted the Government's
recently issued policies on day schools and coeducation. Most of the



- 8 -
increasing number of private schools 6/ created through the efforts of
the parents' associations have not been recognized by the Government, a
situation that sends a negative signal to putential promoters.   Users' fees
at the primary level represent about 6 percent of the unit recurrent costs,
while at the secondary and higher education levels, where they were recently
introduced (FRW 9,000 and 20,000 respectively), they represent about 18
percent and 6 percent, respectively. However, the primary education fees
are for day schooling, while the secondary and higher education fees are for
boarding students and for higher education they are financed through
Government-awarded fellowships of FRW 90,000. The fees for private
secondary and higher institutions, for registration and boarding are
substantially higher.
2.25        Budgeting and the Underfinanc4.ng of Quality Inputs.  While the
allocation of sectoral resources among the levels of education is efficient
(64.5 percent for primary education and ERAI, 14.6 percent for secondary
education, 15.4 percent for higher education and 5.5 percent for
administration), quality-related inputs (such as classroom materials) are
underfinanced, a situation that is worsening. In 1987, the salaries
MINEPRISEC paid to teachers represented 86.2 percent of the recurrent
education budget, whereas the share allocated to improving quality was only
2.4 percent (teaching materials -- 1.7 percent, printing of textbooks --
0.41 percent, teacher training -- 0.08 percent, and school maintenance --
0.80 percent). The trend is discouraging: between 1982 and 1988 the share
of teachers' salaries in the budget went from 78.7 percent to 86.2 percent,
whereas the share allocated to quality-related inputs declined from 3.89
percent to 2.39 percent. Moreover, between 1982 and 1986 the share of
fellowships and administration rose from 26.5 percent to 31.3 percent of the
MINISUPRES recurrent budget. In that latter year, the share of
administration was 9.4 percent of that budget. Also in 1986, only 43.1
percent of total university expenses went for "education,. with 22.5 percent
going for administration and 14.0 percent for student food and lodging.
2.26        Unit Costs.  Compared with other African countries, recurrent
unit costs are quite low at the primary level and high at the university
level: in 1986/87 they were only FRW 4,004 (about US$50) 7/ at the
primary level, 49,352 FRW (about US$640) at the secondary level and FRW
343,978 (about US$4,500) at the higher education level (the figure for the
ERAI was FRW 15,467 (about US$200)). Those high unit costr reflect the poor
and inefficient use of resources, as well as the lack of economies of scale
in higher education.
6/ In 1988, there were about 59 schools with about 7,500 students. No
boarding is available at these schools.
7/   Exchange rate in 1987: 1US$ - FRW 79.58.



5.    Resource Utilization
2.27        Human Resources.  The average ratio of teachers to students in
primary education is about 1 to 57 8/i In secondary schools it is only 1
to 14 because of the constraint of boarding. In higher education it is 1 to
7. About 500 civil servants in the MINEPRISEC offices in Kigali administer
the stafi in the schools for a low management to staff ratio of about 1 to
42. The university *employs* about 1,100 auxiliary staff, or about 1 for
1.5 students.
2.28        School Infrastructure.  Because boarding is practically required
for access to public/subsidized secondary education and because of both the
low teacher/student ratio (para. 2.28) and the weak administrative training
of secondary school principals and management staff in the intensive use of
resources, the secondary school infrastructure is not fully used. In higher
education, the information system arnd management norms are not sufficiently
developed to allow for fully efficient use of the physical and human
resources.
C.    THE GOVERNMENT'S SECTORAL STRATEGY AND INVESTMENT PROGRAM
2.29        The Government, fully aware of the education sector's importance
to economic development and of the constraints and issues facing it, is
pursuing a two-stage approach to the preparation of strategies for the
sector. As part of the first stage, over the past few years it has been
conducting a major assessment of the impact of its education reform, mainly
on primary education, in order to adjust to the new economic realities, as
well as working to improve the quality of primary education. The second
stage would focus on solutions to the issues identified in post-primary
education.
2.30        Following significant technical debates in 1989 and
consultations in early 1990 with representatives of the population at both
the prefectoral and national levels, particularly on the issue of the
duration of primary education, the first stage produced the following
policies:
(a) Structure of primary education -- reduction of its duration from
eight to six years (decision taken by Council of Ministers,
February 1, 1991).
(b) Access and equitv -- (i) increase of access and enrollment
rates at the primary level in accordance with the availability
of public and private financing; (ii) adjustment of the sector
investment program to conform to the sector's priorities and
constraints; (iii) establishment of a primary education fund
geared toward attaining (i) above; and (iv) reduction of the
8/   However, because of the double-shift system in grades 1-3, the ratio
of teacher to the number of children in a given class ~s 1 to 42.



- 10 -
disparities in the rates of enrollment across and within
prefectures.
(c)  Quality of education -- (i) the strategy to be pursued to
improve the quality of education focuses on increasing/improving
the level and quality of the most quality-enhancing inputs
(namely, teachers and their direct supervisors, teaching
materials, and curricula and examinations); and (ii) development
of an assessment capacity for monitoring improvements in the
quality of education.
(d)  Cost and financina -- (i) cost savings by reducing the duration
of the length of primary education from eight to six years; (ii)
increased cost recovery in secondary education through an
increase in fees from FRW 7,800 to 9,000; (iii) cost recovery in
higher education through the introduction of a FRW 20,000 fee
for boarding students and the enrollment of day students; and
(iv) priority allocation of incremental budgetary resources to
primary education and quality-related inputs.
2.31       To pursue those policies, the Government has developed a three-
year rolling investment program for the period 1990-92.  It has resulted
from intensive discussions aimed at reconciling the Government's needs,
donors' commitments and the above strategy. The estimated investment
program for 1990-92 and the incremental recurrent costs for 1990-95 are
provided in Table 2.1. The level of foreign financing tfr the program and
the budgetary allocation the Government needs to make to meet the
incremental recurrent costs are discussed in paras. 2.33 and 2.34. The
details of the investment program are provided in Annex 2.6. During
negotiations, the Government and IDA agreed on a policy statement
encompassing the above-mentioned government sector strategy (paras. 2.29 to
2.31) and related rolling investment program. The Government has just
issued such strategy statement (para. 5.04).
Table 2.1t EDUCATION SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM
AND EVOWTION OF THE INCREMENTAL RECURRENT COSTS
(In constant 1989 mi ll Ion FRW)
------ Incremntal recurrent costs -----
PIP 1990-92    1991  1992    199   1994   1996
------.-_.-_----.----..-__---__----_----_---__---.----_.----_----_-__-------___-.-------------
Primary Education              1,096.00    68.86  89.99   138.25  188.28 118.26
Secondary Education            2,688.00    12.16  81.086    1.6e  26.98  25.93
Tertlary Educatlon             1,794.00     9.40   9.40    9.40   9.40  9.40
Other (undletributed by level)  1,839.00   8.76   8.76    8.75   8.75   8.75
TOTAL                   6,927.90    68.71  125.10  176.29  172.86 172.86
…__...._...____..__.._._______________________________________________________._._________.__.
2.32       Financing for the 1990-92 program would be divided among the
donors as follows: IDA, through the ongoing Third Education Project, about
US$8.9 million and through the proposed First Education Sector Project,
US$12.6 million with co-financing by the UNDP of about US$0.6 million during
that period (para. 3.28). The Government of France would finance about



- 11 -
US$1.4 million, with one of the projects for US$0.7 million being co-
financed by the United Nations Development Program; the Government of
Belgium would finance about US$5.2 million. Other sources of funding
include: the Finnish International Development Agency (FINNIDA) (US$2.9
million), the Governments of Algeria FRW (US$2.9 million), Switzerland
(US$O.9 million), Japan (US$5.1 million), Canada (US$5.6 million), Germany
(US$1.9 million), the African Development Bank (US$25.8 million), UNDP
(US$1.7 million), the United States Agency for International Development
(USAID) (US$1.7 million), the European Development Fund (US$0.2 million).
The Government of Rwanda would contribute about US$7.5 million equivalent.
2.33       Assuming an average annual growth rate of 2.5 percent in the
Government's recurrent budget (in real terms) over the next five years, the
implementation of the agreed upon investment program and the timely
reduction of the duration of primary education, the share of education in
the recurrent budget would stabilize at about 25 percent at the end of five
years. (Table 2.2 provides details on the evolution of the sector's
recurrent costs.)
Table 2.2: RECURRENT BUDGET FORECASTS FOR THE EDUCATION SECTOR, 19 W-95
(In constant 1969 millilon FRW)*
--.-.-.------------_--_-_-.-_-_-.---.-.-_----_-_----------__---__-.---.-___--__.-_-_-_-_-_----
i99      1991       1992      1993     1994      1995
MINEPRISEC           6,832     5,412     6,627     5,696    6,869      6,022
MINESUPRES            392        401       410       420      429       439
TOTAL              5,724     5,613     5,983     6,116    6,286      6,461
oROWTH RATE (X)                 1.66      2.15      a 0      2.82      2.74
TOTAL GOV. REC. BUDGET 24,700    23,800    24,100    24,600    NA        NA
SHARE EDUC/TOTAL (X)   28        24        25        25        NA        NA
------------------_---_-_-_-----------------_--___-__-----------_-----____---__----_-----_----
*          The Inflation rate for 1990 used to deflate the current figures is 10.9.
D.    THE BANK GROUP'S ROLE IN THE SECTOR
2.34       Past Bank Assistance.  The Bank Group has supported Rwanda's
education sector with three education projects that have emphasized the
uevelopment of primary and secondary education. The First Education Project
(Credit 567-RW for US$8.0 million) was approved in June 1975 and closed in
December 1983, 18 months after the original closing date. The project
supported the improvement of the quality of primary education and its
relevance to the job market, as well as institution-building for project
implementation. Following early delays attributable to project complexity,
poor accounting and the unfamiliarity of the authorities with Bank Group
procedures, in the end the project was well-executed, and a commendable
community effort was made in the construction of school workshops. The
Project Completion Report (PCR) noted inefiective teacher training, weak
management of the school printshop and unsatisfactory distribution of
textbooks as problems for the sector.
2.35        The Second Education Project (Credit 1263-RW for SDR 9.0
million, or US$10.0 million equivalent), approved in June 1982, supported
training in nursing, primary level teaching and commerce/economics to meet
the acute shortages of personnel in these fields. It also supported



- 12 -
institution-building within the project implementation unit. Initial delays
resulting from late recruitment of the required technical assistance
specialists were later overcome, but delays in the sketch design and
procurement for the construction of the commerce training college led to the
postponement by 24 months of the closing date from September 30, 1987 to
September 30, 1989. All covenants in the Development Credit Agreement were
met.
2.36        The Third Education Project (Credit 1683-RW for SDR 13.5 million
or US$15.6 million equivalent), approved on April 25, 1986, supports the
Government's program to improve the quality of primary and post-primary
education by providing funds for the supply and distribution of textbooks
and the establishment of a self-sustaining textbook/replenishment scheme.
The project also provides financing for a technical secondary school and a
national vocational training center. The credit, which was signed on May
23, 1986, became effective on February 27, 1987, five months past the
originally scheduled date. Although procurement issues have caused some
delays, in general, implementation is now progressing satisfactorily.
2.37        IDA Lending Strategy.  The Bank's strategy is to help the
Government pursue affordable development of the sector through: (a)
adjustment of the overall structure of the education system while improving
its quality, starting with primary education; (b) improvement of the
efficiency of resource allocation and use; and (c) mobilization of non-
public resources. This strategy would be implemented gradually by: (a)
reviewing the structure and duration of the education system, starting with
primary education; (b) improving its overall management and efficiency; (c)
diversifying its financing through better targetting of incentives to the
private and subsidized schools and increased cost recovery at the post-
primary levels; (d) expanding primary education; (e) increasing post-primary
enrollments as required by the functioning of the labor market and financing
constraints; (f) improving the level of quality-related inputs, teaching
pr%.cesses and evaluation of outcomes at all levels and (g) transferring to
the communes the function of management of resources for school
infrastructural development and maintenance. Within this framework, the
Government's two-stage approach, as well as the strategy it has developed as
part of the first stage, are basically sound and should be supported.
III. THE PROJECT
A.    PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
3.01        The proposed project is designed to complement the contributions
of other donors in support of the implementation of the Government's medium-
term strategy and sector program as outlined in Chapter II. Within this
framework, and within the limits of financing constraints, the objectives of
the project are to:
(a) consolidate and expand primary education through the
establishment of a primary education fund geared toward
improving both the equity of and access to education at this
level both across an4 within prefectures;



- 13 -
(b) improve the quality of education through Ci) pre-service primary
teachers' training; (ii) professional development and in-service
training of primary education supervisors and teachers: and
(iii) improvement of applied pedagogical research;
(c)  strengthen the sector's management capacity through: (i)
improvement of planning, budgeting, financial control, human
resources and examination management; (ii) strengthening of the
inspectorates' administration; (iii) improvement of the
accounting and use of resources of secondary schools; and (iv)
rationalization/improvement of the university's management
information system.
3.02        To these ends, the proposed project, which is expected to be
completed by March 1996, would finance a part of the following elements.
1.    Consolidation/Expansion of Primary Education
3.03        Primary Education Fund.  To improve access to primary education
while promoting its equity across and within prefectures and bettering the
conditions for instruction, the proposed projtnt would establish a Primary
Education Fund to finance the construction of 2,000 new classrooms (84,000
new places), rehabilitation of 400 more and reconstruction of an additional
300. In addition, the project would provide furniture for the 2,000 new
classrooms and for the equivalent of 30 percent of the 8,700 presently
unfurnished ones.
3.04       An interministerial commission, to be set up under MINEPRISEC,
would be responsible for (i) the yearly allocation of resources from the
fund to the prefectures and (ii) monitoring of implementation of related
programs. The commission, to be presided over by MINEPRISEC's Minister or
his nominee, would be composed of the Director General of Primary and Rural
Education (Directeur Gdndral de l'Enseignement Primaire et ERAI in
MINEPRISEC), the Director General of Communal Development (Directeur G4n4ral
de D4veloppement Communal in MININTER) and the Director of the Budget
(Directeur du Budget in MINIFIN) with the objectives of allocating the
resources of the Primary Education Fund and monitoring the implementation of
related programs. The Head of the Directorate of Financing and School
Construction (Direction du Financement et des Constructions Scolaires -
DFCS) would be the Secretary of the Commission.
3.05        The Prefectoral Council for Education (Conseil Pr4fectoral de
l'Enseignement - CPE) would distribute to its constituent communes the
resources allotted to the prefectures 9/. The distribution of the fund's
resources would be handled as follows: in the case of new construction and
related furniture, the resources would be allocated in two stages: first to
9/   The CPE is chaired by the Prefet and comprises the prefectoral
inspectors, the Burgmasters, the principals of secondary schools, the
representatives of the associations sponsoring private schools and
parents' representatives.



- 14 -
the prefectures and chen to the communes through the use of a model aimed at
reducing the disparities in the rates of enrollment across and within
prefectures. For reconstruction and rehabilitation of classrooms, the funds
would be first allocated in proportion to existing number of classrooms in
prefectures and in communes; then the communes would submit to the
MINEPRISEC detailed justifications and estimations of their proposed
reconstruction and rehabilitation work in the protocol document (para 3.06).
(A description of the model and related distribution of funds is provided in
Annex 3.1.)
3.06       At the communal level, the Communal Council for Education
(Conseil Communal de l'Enseignement - CCE) would be responsible for the
allocation of the resources for the construction, rehabilitation and
furniture for both public and private schools. 10/ New construction
would be geared at completing existing schools (to have the maximum of six
years divided into two cycles) or creating new schools in accordance with
the local school map. The head of the DFCS would be responsible for
disbursing the funds at the communal level following submission and approval
of a protocol. The protocol would include a description of the proposed
school construction and rehabilitation, reconstruction sites, the commune's
bank account number and a copy of the receipt of the communal deposit.
Evidence of the deposit in a bank of 10 percent of the request from the Fund
would be a condition of disbursement by MINEPRISEC to the communes. The CCE
would implement the construction and furnishing of the classrooms. Non-
governmental organizations (NGOs) are available in all prefectures to assist
the communes as necessary. The technical staff of the DFCS would be
responsible for random inspection at the communal level and would distribute
technical information designed to improve the quality and efficiency of the
implementation of the component. (A description of the overall functioning
of the fund, including the protocol, is provided in Annex 3.2). Conditions
of disbursement under the categories of the primary education fund would be
the establishment of the interministerial commission under MINEPRISEC's
minister or his nominee (para. 3.04) and issuing of a ministerial circular
providing inforrmation to the communes on the functionning of the fund, and
related procedures, including the conditions to be met before funding and
the standard form of the protocol to be prepared by each commune.
2.    Quality of Primary Education
3.07       To heighten the quality of primary education, the project would
focus on improvement of the inputs that research has linked positively to
impact on quality. The inputs to be improved by the proposed project are
the leadership provided by supervisors, the academic and professional
training of teachers, and the relevance of the curricula, teaching materials
10/  The CCE is chaired by the Burgmaster and comprises the sector
inspector, representatives of each association sponsoring private
schools, the principals of the rural education instructions (CERAI),
the directors of primary schools, two communal counselors and
parents' representatives.



- 15 -
and examinations. Improvement of the conditions for teaching through
classroom reconstruction and rehabilitation (para. 3.03) and of the level of
satisfaction of teachers and supervisors through betterment of staff
management (para. 3.13) would contribute to the quality of education. The
overall management of pre- and in-service training, including the
development of a yearly training program, would be the responsibility of the
Committee of Coordination and Management of Training created by MINEPRISEC
in December 1988 under the chairmanship of the Director General for Studies
and Educational Research. (The strategy for improving quality is described
in Annex 3.3. The strategy and organization for the pre- and in-service
training of teachers and the professional development of supervisors are
provided in Annex 3.4.)
3.08        Improvement of Pre-Service Teachers Training.  To improve the
pedagogical training of future primary teachers and the contribution of the
staff of the teachers' training colleges to the in-service training of
existing primary teachers, the proposed project would: (a) upgrade the
qualifications of 60 professors at the teachers' training colleges in the
areas of general education and specific teaching methodology, classroom
observation and evaluation, and manegement of documentation centers; (b)
construct documentation centers and acquire their supply of textbooks (about
1,500) at the 10 teachers' training colleges with the highest enrollment,
one in each region; (c) construct 10 observation classrooms in the teaching
practice schools (ecoles d'application) attached to the teachers' training
colleges. To this end, the project would finance civil works, technical
assistance and local training, furniture, equipment, and textbooks for the
documentation centers. During negotiations, the Government gave assurances
that it would, by June 30, 1992, improve the rules and procedures governing
the functionning of teaching practice schools (ecoles d'application) and the
conditions of selection of their staff.
3.09        Professional Development and In-Service Training of Supervisors
To develop the pedagogical leadership required to promote the improvement of
teaching/learning in the schools, the proposed project would assist in the
professional development of the 10 prefectoral inspectors, the 150 sector
inspectors and the 660 primary school directors.
3.10        The professional development of the prefectoral inspectors would
consist of a one-week seminar for each of the five years of the project.
The training would be geared toward improving their managerial capacities
and introducing them to current education theory and research outcomes
related to the improvement of quality and the management of change. The
upgrading of the sector inspectors would involve training for three weeks
over four years of the project, with the aim of improving their professional
skills in teaching methodologies, classroom observation, supervision and
counselling techniques, as well as their familiarization with the problems
of leadership and change. Upgrading of the primary school directors would
consist of training for a total of seven weeks over the duration of the
project, with the training content the same as that for the sector
inspectors, with an emphasis on teaching methodologies. One week of
training in the development, maintenance and evaluation of school
infrastructure would also be included in the training program. These



- 16 -
training prograrrs would be held at the central level for the orefectoral and
sector inspectors and at both central and decentralized levels for the
primary school directors.
3.11       In-Service Training of Primary Teachers.  To increase the level
of qualifications of teachers, the pro*ect would assist the upgrading of the
3,500 unqualified teachers and the recycling of 3,000 underqualified.
Upgrading the about 3,500 unqualified teachers, which would be carried out
at the prefectoral level, would involve a total of eight weeks of training
in the summer of the second and third years, followed by the recycling of
the 3,000 underqualified teachers, to take place over the same amount of
time during the fourth and fifth year. This training would be geared, in
the case of the former, toward building up their basic knowledge and skills
in relation to the curricula of primary education, as well as, in all cases,
planning and implementation of assessments of teaching and its outcome.
During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it would, prior to
January 1992, improve the rules and procedures governing the sector
inspectors and primary school directors to increase their supervisory
attributions.
3.12       Strengthening Applied Pedagogical Research.  To complete the
pedagogical support and leadership required to improve the relevance and
quality of education (para. 3.07), the proposed project would assist in
strengthening DEPEPERAI. After the reduction of the duration of primary
education, the directorate would adapt the curricula at this level, with the
focus on the fundamental subject matters (Kinyarwanda, French, mathematics
and "etude du milieu", which would i'nclude topics on environment,
population, health and nutrition). It would also adapt the textbooks and
teaching guides accordingly and contribute to the in-service training of
primary teachers. In parallel, the French Government is assisting DEPEPERAI
improve the teaching of French. To strengthen the technical capacity of
DEPEPERAI for curriculum development and related experimentation/assessment
and for the editing of textbooks and teaching guides, the proposed project
would finance technical assistance, training abroad, local training,
equipment and incremental operating costs. In addition, it would finance
collective teaching materials for primary schools.
3.    Educational ManagemelnL
3.13       To improve the capacity for sector management, the project
would reinforce: (a) the capabilities of the central government institutions
to conduct studies and plan, to carry out budgeting and financial controls,
to manage personnel and to organize examinations; and (b) the capacity at
the prefectoral level for pedagogical leadership and at the secondary
schools for efficient use of resources. To improve the efficiency of
resource utilization, monitor costs and develop sector policies and re;ated
resourcs allocation priorities, the project would strengthen: (a) at central
level, the Directorate and services of studies and evaluation, planning,
budgeting and monitoring of expenditures, staff management and examinations,
as well as the management information system of the University of Rwanda;
(b) at prefectoral level, the administrative capacity of the Prefectotal
inspectorates through the delegation of part of the project tasks to this



- 17 -
level while undertaking studies on the attributions to be decentralized; (c)
at the secondary level, the financial, administrative and pedagogical
management of the schools.
3.14       Studies and Evaluation.  To improve the capacity for policy
analysis and development and for monitoring and evaluating MINEPRISEC's
program, the Directorate of Studies and Evaluation would be strengthened so
that it can better handle its current and additional responsibilities under
the proposed project and undertake or follow up on the studies financed
under the project and related policy analysis regarding the second stage of
the Government's strategy (para. 2.3C). During project implementation, two
additional high-level staff would be recruited for this directorate. The
Directorate would, in addition to its regular tasks, have tot (a)
undertake/follow up on the creation of an approval/registration system for
all investment projects as an instrument of planning/control of the
MINEPRISEC investment program and related recurrent costs: (b) develop a
system of indicators for monitoring the MINEPRISEC programs (tableau de
bord); and (c) undertake the agreed upon studies and develop justification
and terms of reference for further ones (para. 3.31). Ir addition, it would
undertake, with the Directorates of Planning and of the Budget the annual
review with IDA of the public investment program/public expenditure program
(PIP/PEP). To this end, the project would finance, for the Directorate of
Studies and Evaluation: (a) training abroad; (b) specialist services: (c)
equipment; and '4) incremental operating costs.
3.15       Education Plannina.  To develop a capacity to pla,a for primary
and secondary education and related finances, to monitor costs and to make
decisions regarding the priority allocation of resources for the e:pansion
of primary education and quality inputs, the Education Planning Directorate
would be strengthened by the recruitment of two additional high-level staff
and its involvement in preparing the MINEPRISEC budget and review of the
sectoral PIP/PEP. During project implementation, the Directorate would: (a)
develop, in collaboration with the Directorate of Studies and Evaluation, a
master plan to gradually expand the statistics being collected in keeping
with the system of indicators developed to monitor the overall MINEPRISEC
program (tableau de bord); (b) improve the reliability and timing of the
publication and analysis of education statistics; and (c) undertake a cost
and financing study of post-primary education and develop recommendations
for its expansion within the context of limited public funding. To this
end, the project would finance for the Directorate of Education Planning:
(a) training locally and abroad; (b) specialist services; (c) equipment; and
(d) incremental operating costs.
3.16       Budgeting and Monitoring of ExDenditures.  To promote the
budgeting ru&.ction as a tool for establishing the development priorities of
the sector wit' in the annual plan/budget, the project would support the
introduction of improved budgeting practices, including: (a) the development
of a three-year rolling recurrent budget for MINEPRISEC; (b) the translation
of the Ministry's th-ee-year investment and recurrent budget into an annual
plan/budget ensuring that additional recurrent resources are allocated to
the priority areas, especially primary education and quality inputs while at
the same time making sure that necessary annual capital -ists of agreed upon



- 18 -
investments are covered; (c) strengthening the technical capacity for budget
preparation/implementation of the Directorate of Financial Services; and (d)
reviewing the budgetary documentation and gradually developing standards
for the allocation of resources and for information systems to facilitate
the mornitoring of expenditures. To this end, the project would financet (a)
technical assistance; (b) training abroad and locally; (c) equipment: and
(d) incremental operating costs.
3.17        Personnel Management.  To prop up the different aspects of
personnel management and thus increase the level of satisfaction of staff
(para. 3.13) while ensuring efficient use of resources, the Personnel
Management Division woulds (a) undertake a census of MINEPRISEC staff,
improve the framework for maintaining a per6onnel roster and computerize and
process personnel management information; (b) improve the system for timely
payments and career changes and promote this change through policy and other
measuree, including in-service training in close collaboration with the
Directorate concerned; and (c) analyze the outcome of school mapping
exercises in order to develop a multi-year recruitment and training program.
To this end, the project would finances (a) technical assistance; (b)
training abroad and locally; (c) equipment: and (d) incremental operating
costs. During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it would
complete: (a) the census of the teaching staff and the school mapping
exercise for primary education by June 30, 1992, and the same activities for
secondary education personnel by June 30, 1993; and (b) the computerized
record of primary education personnel by June 30, 1993, and the record of
secondary education personnel by June 30, 1994.
3.18        Examination Management.  To improve the effectiveness of
examinations as an instrument for strengthening the quality of education and
selection for higher educational levels whilei rationalizing their
administrative management, the new Division of Examination would: (a)
establish a national primary education examination at the end of primary
education to assess the achievement of primary school children; (b) analyze
the functions, content and number of the current examinations and propose
relevant changes; and (c) develop regulations for the organization,
financing and correction of examinations. To this end, the project would
finance technical assistance. During negotiations, the Government gave
assurances that it would, by December 31, 1992, reorganize the national
primary education examination so as to assess the basic educational
achievements of students.
3.19        Prefectoral Ins,ectorates and Secondary Schools.  The main
objective of this project element is to strengthen the management capacities
in the decentralized administrative units both by improving management at
the regional inspectorates and by strengthening the administrative,
financial and pedagogical management of secondary schools. The
strengthening of management at the secondary school level would focus on
increasing the rate and efficiency of utilization of existiag capacities in
order to expand access from primary to secondary education. Management
capacity at the regional level would be improved so as to permit a better
di3tribution of funds and control of resource use at the regional and school
levels as well as to provide better pedagogical support to teachers and



- 19 -
better monitoring of the quality of instruction. These objectives would be
attained through rationalization of the accounting system and the
introduction of efficiency measures aimed at improving the use of resources
and teachers. To these ends, the project would finance: (a) specialist
services; 'b) training abroad and locally; (c) equipment; and (d)
incremental operating costs. The project would also finance a study of
decentralization to analyze the objectives, process and schedule for the
decen:ralization to be undertaken by the Government. In addition, the
project would incorporate many decentralized activities (such as teacher
trainin- and the primary education fund) that would help initiate tht
decentralization.
3.20       National University of Rwanda.  To improve the information base
for policy analysis and development and for decision-making and to increase
the efficiency of the allocation and use of resources, the project would
support rationalization of the system of data collection, gradually
expanding it into an integrated management information system. The first
step would consist of setting up an operational data system, to include the
collection, storing/retrieving and updating of information related to the
basic inputs (such as students, teachers, technical and support staff,
streams/modules disciplines) of the university. The second step would
involve computing efficiency indicators (such as the faculty/student ratio,
utilization of space, and potential teaching hours available and used) and
their application to policy analysis and planning. To this end, the
proposed project would finances (a) equipment; (b) training abroad and
locally; and (c) technical assistance.
4.    Costs and Financing
3.21       The proposed project would support the G. rernment's medium-term
strategy and three-year rolling investment program through the
implementation of the following cost reduction anc' :eallocation measures
(para. 2.32):
(a)  completion by October 31, 1993 of the reuo.tion of the duration
of primary education from 8 to 6 years.  "his measure would
result in the availability of about 120,0 '. places for the 7-12
school-age population as targetted by the slew six-year education
system and a lowering of the cost per gradu te by about 25
percent;
(b) an annual Government/IDA review of the drat't rolling three-year
investment and expenditure program, by October 31 of each year
at the latest, starting in 1991, to ensure that sector
developments conform to the sector's financial capacity, while
respecting the priorities for the allocation oi resources to
primary education and quality inputs;
(c) as part of the preparation of the second stage, completion
before, and discussion with IDA during the project mid-term
review, of the outcomes of the studies on the devalopment of
strategies for post-primary education (para. 3.31).



- 20 -
B.     PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
1.     Proiect Costs
3.22         Summary of Proiect Costs.  The project costs (with taxes and
duties) are estimated at FRW 3,499 million, or US$26.9 million equivalent,
with a foreign exchange component of US$10.9 million. The taxes and duties
are estimated at US$0.8 million. The costs include: civil works, provision
of furniture, equipment, vehicles and teaching materials; specialist
services; training; incremental operating costs; and funds for studies and
the preparation of future investments. (A summary of the project costs is
presented in Table 3.1, and the incremental recurrent costs for the project
items are shown in Table 2.1. Annex 3.5 presents tables showing the main
project summary accounts.)
TABLE 5.1: Project Coats Sumary
U of    N totsl
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  foreign   base
--- FRW (million) ---    -- USS (millon) --   exchango  costs
A. Primary Education Fund       399.6   77.7  777.5    5.4    6.6    t.O          10.0     54.0
B. Primary edu. qual. aspocts
1. Pro-servic primary
teachers training          57.8   70.2  106.0    0.8    6.5    0.8 6        6.0       4.7
2. In-servic teacher
training                  326.9  2065.1  631.0    2.5    1.6    4.1         38.6      28.2
3. Applied peds. research      1.1  542.3  543.4    0.0    2.6    2.6          99.7     15.0
Subtotal                     864.8  617.6  962.5    2.8    4.6    7.6          62.9     48.6
C. Management central level
1. Inform., Planning and
Evaluation                  5.0   87.0   92.0    6.6    6.7    6.7          94.6      4.0
2. Budgeting A Fin. control    o.6   57.8   87.9    0.0    0.8    0.8          96.4      1.7
S. Personnol Managemnt         6.1   36.3   41.4    6.6    0.8    0.3          87.7      1.8
4. Managemnt of exams          o.o    8.68   3.       0.0    6.o    6.o    166.6         0.2
Subtotal                      10.7  164.4  176.1    0.1    1.3    1.8          98.9      7.7
0. Monagement decentralized
level
1. Prefectoral level mgt.      0.0    4.1    4.1    0.0    0.0    0.6    166.6           6.2
2. Adm A fin mgt sec. sch.     6.9   62.5   71.5    0.1    0.6     0.6         87.5      3.1
S. Peds. mgt of schools        1.3    5.1    6.6    0.0    0.6    0.1          74.6      0.5
Subtotal                      10.7   71.5   62.2    0.1    6.5    0.6          87.6      8.6
E. UNR mgt. lmprovemnt            0.7   81.1   81.9    6.0    0.2    6.2         97.7       1.4
F. Management of the project      6.6  230.9  237.6    6.1    1.6    1.0         97.2      10.4
Total Baseline costs           1098.1  1193.2 2268.4    6.4    9.2   17.6         52.2    166.6
Physical contingencies        128.9   95.9  224.6    1.0    0.7    1.7          42.6      9.6
Price contingencies           866.8  122.9  983.2    0.7    6.9    7.6          12.4     45.2
…- -------------------                           _______________
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS            2067.5  1412.0  5499.4   16.1   10.9   26.9       40.4      158.1
3.23         Basis of the Cost Estimates.  IDA has reviewed the cost
estimates for the civil works and furniture for the primary education
component with the Project Implementation Unit and NGOs. They are based on



- 21 -
a sampling of recent construction costs and uf purchased furniture costs.
Construction of a classroom averages US$3,500 and classroom furniture about
US$650, including taxes. IDA has also reviewed the cost of furniture and
equipment for the other components with the staff of MINEPRISEC and in
relation to quotations obtained during the appraisal mission for comparable
items. The technical assistance costs are US$131,25! per year for a long-
term specialist and US$12,000 per month for short-term consultants. A
fellowship for foreign fellowship training runs US$2,400Amonth and US$3,300
for travel. For local training, the figures are a per diem of FRW 1,000,
travel costs of FRW 1,000 and an allowance of FRW 250 per person for
training documentation. These cost estimates reflect prices at the time of
appraisal (June 1990).
3.24       Customs. Duties and Taxes.  All items specifically imported for
the proposed project would be exempt from direct customs duties and taxes in
line with standard practice of the Government except for the materials to be
used for the construction and furnishing of classrooms and small purchases
related to operating costs. Of the estimated construction and furnishing of
classrooms and purchases related to project operations, about US$0.8 million
would represent custom duties and taxes. During negotiations, agreement was
reached with the Government that all items imported for the proposed project
would be exempt from direct customs duties and taxes, in line with the
practice of the Government to grant customs duties and tax exemptions to
imports for educational purposes.
3.25       Operatina Costs.  These costs are related to the maintenance and
operation of the equipment financed by the project and include the salaries
of the additional staff for the Project Implementation Unit (an
administrator, an accountant and two drivers).
3.26       Continaency Allowances.  The project costs include an allowance
for physical contingencies equal to 9.2 percent of total project costs (FRW
323.5 million, or US$2.5 million equivalent) for the civil work, furniture
and equipment. To take account for price increases, an annual rate of 3.6
percent has been applied to foreign costs. Following the recent devaluation
of the Rwandese franc from about FRW 80 per US$ to FRW 130 per US$, annual
inflation rates are projected at 26.2Z in 1991, 12.5Z in 1992, 5.7Z in 1993,
4.6Z in 1994 and 4.5Z in 1995. These have been applied to local costs.
Furthermore, local and foreign price contingency adjustments of 20 percent
and 3.62 respectively were used to adjust base costs for inflation between
the date of data collection and the date of effectivness (July 1991). Price
contingencies are estimated at 28.2 percent of the total project costs.
Total contingencies are 37.4 percent of the total project costs.
3.27       Foreian Exchanae Component.  The foreign exchange component was
estimated as follows: (a) civil works, 10 percent: (b) imported furniture,
100 percent; (c) locally manufactured furniture, 10 percent; (d) imported
vehicles, 100 percent; (e) training abroad, 100 percent; (f) local training,
15 percent; (g) specialist services, 100 percent; and (h) additional
operating costs, 87.6 percent. The resulting foreign exchange component,
including contingencies, is estimated at about US$10.9 million, or about
40.4 percent of total project costs.



- 22 -
2.          Proiect FinancinR
3.28        The plan for project financing specifies that US$25.3 million
equivalent (94 percent of total project costs) would come from external
sources. The IDA would finance US$23.3 million, or about 86.6 percent of
total project costs. Assistance from the United Nations Development Program
(for specialist services) would amount to US$2.0 million. The Government
would finance the balance of the project costs, which are equivelent to
US$1.6 million or about 6 percent of total project costs (this amount
includes the contribution of the communes to the construction of schools),
as indicated in Table 3.2. A condition for credit effectiveness would be
that conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the cofinancing by the
United Nations Development Programme have been fulfilled.
TABLE 8.2: Financing plan by disbursoment category
(In US$ million)
Local    Duties
Foreign    (excl.   and
IDA    UNDP    Ovt.   Total   Exchange  taxes)   taxes
Civil Works           7.9     0.6    0.9      8.8    6.6        7.7      0.5
Furniture             2.7     0.0    9.a      8.6    0.2        2.6      9.2
Vehicle A Equi.       1.0     0.0    0.0      1.0    1.0        0.0      0.0
Pedagogical
Material            8.6      0.0    6.6      3.0    8.0        0.0     0.0
Local Training        6.2     0.0    0.2      5.4    0.6        4.9      0.0
Training Abroad       1.0     0.0    0.0      1.0    1.0        0.9      0.0
Studies & Future
Project             1.8      0.0    0.0      1.8    1.8        0.0     0.0
Technical assis.     060      2.0    0.0      2.0    2.0        0.0      0.0
Technical assis.
at UNR              0.1     0.0    6.0       0.1    0.1        0.0     0.0
Incremental opera.    1.1     0.0    0.2      1.8    1.1        0.1      0.1
Total disburs.       28.3     2.0    1.6    26.9   10.9         16.8     0.8
…--------_-------------_--------------------_-----------_--_--------__-----_-__-------------
C.          PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
3.29        Status of Preparation.  The project is at an advanced stage of
preparation. Detailed working papers were developed in collaboration with
MINEPRISEC and MINESUPRES staff. The appraisal mission developed a computer
model that would be used to allocate resources from the Primary Education
Fund to the prefectures, and then arong the communes, for new construction;
MINEPRISEC has approved the model. MINEPRISEC is preparing to issue
standards for the construction of, and furniture for, schools to apply to
both private and public primary schools.
3.30        Proiect Implementation Unit.  The Directorate of Financing and
School Construction (Direction du Financement et des Constructions Scolaires



- 23 -
- DFCS) would be responsible for implementing the proposed project according
to the arrangements prevailing under the Second and Third Education
Projects. It would be responsible for overall administration of the project
(procurement, accounting, auditing and relations with IDA) as well as for
post-primary civil work and related professional services, for the
functioning and monitoring of the Primary Education Fund under the guidance
of the interministerial commission (para. 3.04). For the educational and
management components of the project, the relevant directors involved in
each project activity would have technical responsibility for implementing
that activity. To strengthen the operational capabilities of the DFCS, the
directorate, which is responsible for all the civil works of the investment
program, would be reorganized into an administrative and accounting, civil
works and an equipment sections. One important new responsibility of the
directorate under the project would be to ensure the application at the
communal level of the criteria for school construction and to monitor the
outcome and use of funds. To this end, the DFCS would: (a) prepare a manual
for the improvement of the quality and cost efficiency of rural traditional
construction and train the building technician directing the DFCS
construction unit "Ginie Scolaires on this subject, and (b) prepare a
prototype bidding document for the procurement of new school construction
and furniture in accordance to IDA guidelines for LCB and to prepare a
seminar for HINEPRISEC sectoral inspectors in primary school civil works and
furnishing procurement and supervision. To strengthen tine capabilities of
the DFCS, the proposed project would finance: (a) furniture, equipment and
vehicles; (b) specialist services; (c) training abroad; and (d) incremental
operating costs, including the salaries of four national contract staff.
Durina nezotiations, the Government gave assurances that by December 31,
1991, it woulds (a) issue an arrete reorganizing the DFCS into the three
divisions of administration, civil works and equipment; and (b) recruit four
additi- al staff (an accountant, an administrator and two drivers) with
quali'._cations satisfActory to IDA. (Annex 3.6 shows the project
implementation schedule).
3.31        Studies and Preparation of Future Investments.  The proposed
project would provide funds for already agreed-to studies and for further
ones to be agreed upon with IDA, as well as for the possible preparation of
future investments. The studies agreed upon are: (a) an assessment by the
UNR (Department of Education) of the professional development training for
primary education supervisors (para. 3.09); (b) evaluation of the efficiency
of post-primary rural education (paras. 2.04 and 2.17) and assessment of
possible alternatives, to be followed by pilot experiments of recommended
options; and (c) the development of the second stage of the Government's
strategy (para. 2.30). These studies would focus on the appropriateness of:
(a) the current structure and internal organization of secondary education
and the examination system; (b) school subsidies in relation to government
objectives and policies; (c) cost and financing of secondary and higher
education, including the structure and impact of subsidies and fellowships;
and (d) the quality of higher education. The studies are expected to result
in policy recommendations for the adjustment of post-primary education.
During negotiations, the government gave assurances that by April 30, 1993
at the latest, it would undertake with IDA a mid-term review to assess
progress in achieving the project development objectives.



- 24 -
3.32       Technical Assistance and Training Abroad.  All specialists'
services would be procured under contracts on terms and conditions
acceptable to IDA in accordance with IDA's guidelines for the use of
consultants. (A list of specialist services and training abroad is given in
Annexes 3.7 and 3.8.) During negotiations, the Government confirmed its
intention to apply IDA's guidelines for the use of consultants.
3.33       Maintenance.  A condition attached to the allocation of
resources of the Primary Education Fund to the communes (Comunal Education
Council, CCE) is that they commit to financing a preventive maintenance
budget for schools by earmarking 10 percent of the school fee (MINERVAL) to
this activity. The schools' directors would be introduced, as part of their
in-service training, to the importance of and issues related to maintenance.
The DFCS would prepare and distribute a manual on primary school preventive
maintenance and would monitor the maintenance and report its findings
annually to the interministerial commission.
3.34       Environmental Impact.  This project is not expected to have any
adverse effect on the environment because of the small size of the
construction involved. However, because of the overall impact of population
density on the environment, the review of the primary education curriculum
would include, as part of the etude du milieu, consideration of
environmental issues.
3.35       Women's Education.  The share of girls enrolled in primary
education is 48 percent, in rural schools (ERAI) 46 percent, in secondary
schools 34 percent and in higher education 17 percent (para. 2.10). The
primary objective of the project, to increase primary school enrollment,
would boost overall access, including for women.
3.36       Procurement.  Last country procurement assessment was prepared
and reviewed in 1986 and national procurement procedures were found
generally acceptable. A procurement seminar was organized by IDA in
May/June ;990 for the different project units responsible for implementing
IDA-financed projects in Rwanda. In order to supplement the procurement
capabilities of the implementing agency, the DFCS would be strengthened by
an administration specialist and a procurement consultant specifically for
the standardization of bidding documents (Para. 3.30). For the proposed
project, the procurement arrangements shown in Table 3.3 would apply (the
figures in parentheses show the IDA financing).



- 25 -
Tablo 3.8: AMOUNTS AND METHODS OF PROCUREMENT
(US2 million)
Frocuroment Methods
Project Element                    ICe            LCB         Others           N/A          Totol
Costs
Civil Works a/
(a) Primsry Education                        6S            1.69                         6.29
(5.94)      (1.52)                       (7.46)
(b) Other parts of the                        1.54                                      06.4
project                                   (0.49)                                   (0.49)
Furniture k/
(a) Primary Education                         2.97                                      2.97
(2.66)                                   (2.68)
Equlpmnt, Vehicles and              4.01                                                    401
teaching materials I/            (4.01)                                                  (4.01)
Technical assistance and                                       3.18            5.43         I6.6
training abroad and locally 1/                              (1.12)          (5.18)       (6.89)
Incremental operation costs S/                                                 1.28         1.26
(1.08)      (1.66)
Studle  and preparation of                                    1.26                         1.28
future Investments                                          (1.25)                       (1.26)
TOTAL                          4.61        To. 11           1           -§77          WU 
(4.01)       (9.11)       (8.92)          (6.26)      (23.38)
3j      The construction contracts for new primary schools, for the documentatlon conters and
for the observation clasoroms (US87.18) would be awarded through local competitive
bidding (LCD) procedures acceptable to IDA, In which foreign bidders would have the
opportunity to participate. Rehabilitation and roplacemnt of existing primary schools
(US81.70) would be done by force accounts.
WX      The contracts for furniture (USt2.97) would be awarded through LC8 procedures
acceptable to IDA.
g/      The contracts for the major packages of equipment, textbook* and vehicles would be
awarded on the basis of International competitive bidding (ICB) In accordance with IDA
ouldelines, Including foreign and local bidding advertisemnts, public opening of bids
and award to the lowest bidder. (A margin of preforenc equal to 15 percent of the
c.l.f. bid price of Imported goods or the actual customs duties and Import duties,
whichever Is lose, would be allowed for domestic manufacturers).
The technical assistance and training abroad contracts (US11.12) would be awarded In
accordance with IDA Guidelines for the use of consultants. The local training would be
undertaken by the Ministry of Education with Technical Assistance support.
3/      The recurrent expenses would be Incurred through normal Government procedures
acceptable to IDA.
Note:   The flgures In parentheses are the amounts financed by IDA.
3.37           Given the small size of the primary school construction and
rehabilitation works (averaging US$7,000 to US$33,000 per contract), their
dispersion around the country and the nature of the specified standards, it
is expected that projected contracts would not attract overseas bidders and
are therefore best suited for LCB procedure. It is also expected that
because, the quantities of work involved cannot be defined in advance,
completion of existing schools and rehabilitation of classrooms would be
done by force account to the extent that LCB cannot be carried out. The
project furniture would be procured locally because (a) it is low quality
artisanal type furniture readily available locally at significantly lower



- 26 -
than international prices; (b) the dispersion of the 4,500 classrooms to be
furnished, of which 2,000 would be constructed in a phased manner; and (c)
the absence of storage facilities. These characteristics as in other
primary education projects are expected to discourage overseas bidders.
These items would therefore be procured mainly through local competitive
bidding (LCB).   The bidding documents for procurement under the primary
education funds would be submitted to IDA for review.   Bidding documents
for ICB and LCB other than those related to the primary education fund would
be submitted to IDA for review and approval. IDA review of documents would
be required for equipment, vehicles, teaching materials and technical
assistance contracts exceeding US$75,000. In addition, the annual program
for in service training of both supervisors and primary teachers would be
submitted to IDA for review and approval. About 48 percent of all expected
procurement would be subject to prior IDA review. The remaining would be
subject to selective review by supervision mission and by audit (para.
3.39). Conditions of disbursement under the categories of the primary
education fund for each prefecture would be that documentation of at least
one construction and one furniture contracts from at least the two communes
for each prefecture would be subject to review and approval by IDA before
transfer of funds to any commune of this prefecture.
3.38        Special Account.  To facilitate disbursement, an amount of
US$1.00 million equivalent would be advanced from the IDA credit and
deposited in a special account in a bank acceptable to IDA. That amount is
estimated to cover about four months of expenses for all project
expenditures financed by the proposed credit.
3.39       Accounting. AuditinR and Reporting.  The project director would
maintain separate accounts for the IDA credit.  These accounts would be
subdivided into expenditures for each component. Durina negotiations, the
Government gave assurances that: (a) IDA project accounts, including
disbursements against a statement of expenditures (SOEs), would be audited
annually by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA, within the six months
following the end of the borrower's fiscal year beginning in 1991; and (b)
the project director would submit to IDA a semi-annual report on project
implementation and expenditures by June 30 and December 31 of each year
beginning in 1991 and a completion report within six months of the closing
date of the proposed credit. During implementation the Government regularly
met auditing requirements. A supervision summary of the project is provided
in Annex 3.9.
3.40        Disbursements.  Disbursements under the proposed IDA credit
would be made on the basis of the percentages shown in Table 3.4.
Applications to IDA would be aggregated into packages of at least US$20,000
equivalent. Expenditures for operating costs and expenses related to
contracts and/or expenditures valued at less than US$20,000 equivalent would
be reimbursed against certified SOEs, for which the DFCS would retain the
documentation for review by IDA supervision missions and for annual audits.
Applications for replenishment would also include a statement from the bank
holding the account of the transactions under the account since paiement of
the previous application, with the balance certified by that bank. (The
estimated quarterly disbursement schedule is shown in Annex 3.10.)



- 27 -
Table 8.4t ALLOCATION AND DISBURSEMENT OF THE IDA CREDIT
(USS 000)
Percentsge of
Amount of            expenditures
Category of                 the credlt           to be financed
Expenditure                 allocated               by IDA
(1) Civil works
(a) under part A of        7,0                   gW
the project
(b) other                    an WM
(2) Furniture
under part A of          2,000                  W
the project
(8) Equipment, vehicles       8,1f0             IN of forelgn
and teaching material                        expenditures and
W of local
expenditures
(4) Consultantesearvices      6,0               100 of foreign
and training                                 expenditures and
95 of local
expenditures
(6) Incremental operating       see                   90
costs
(6) Studies                     eoo              00 of foreign
expenditures and
go of local
expenditures
(7) Unallocated               8,000
TOTAL          23,800
IV. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.          BENEFITS
4.01        The project would create the conditions for the consolidation
and further expansion with equity of primary education while improving its
quality by: (a) reducing the duration of primary education from eight to six
years (this reduction will provide 120,000 places in primary schools for
children of the 7-12 year age-group); (b) tying sectoral investments to the
Government's capacity to meet the incremeiital costs, with priority to
primary education; (c) increasing equity of access through the establishment
of a Primary Education Fund with allocation criteria geared to this effect
and creation of about 84,000 additionnal places; and (d) establishing a
framework for improving the quality of education, including a comprehensive
teacher training program and the development of a new curriculum which
includes health, nutrition, population and environmental concerns. In
addition, the project would establish technical capacities for: (a) the
analysis of educational issues and formulation of related policies; and (b)
more efficient management of sector resources. Concomitantly, it would
strengthen the institutional basis for further policy dialogue between the



- 28 -
Government and the Bank on post-primary education while improving cost-
efficiency.
4.02       In fact, the potential benefits of this project are vast in
terms of improved human resources of all kinds. Examples of the indirect
effects are improved health, nutrition and agricultural production as well
as a greater awareness of population issues as a result of increasing the
numbers attending and completing primary educationg there are also benefits
stemming from the increasing number of girls receiving education (especially
because the increase in overall enrollment will benefit girls
disproportionately, to the extent that fewer girls than boys are now
enrolled). Moreover, the improved quality of students as a result of better
teaching at lower levels would in turn lead to increased internal efficiency
throughout the education system.
B.         RISKS
4.03       The risks are related to inadequate management capacity
throughout the educational system. Detailed preparation of the project
components jointly with national specialists, the provisions for additional
staffing and the sizable training program supplemented by specialists in key
areas included in the proposed project should help overcome this problem.
In addition, recent hostilities underscore the level of uncertainty and risk
faced by the ccuntry. The government rapidly brought the situation under
control while offering to solve the underlying political problems. In the
long run, equitable economic and social growth, part of which is expansion
of basic education, would be the best insurance against instability.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01       During neaotiations, the Government and IDA agreed on a policy
statement encompassing the Government's sector strategy and related rolling
and investment program (para. 2.31).
5.02       During negotiations, the Government and IDA agreed on the
procurement procedures (paras. 3.32, 3.36 and 3.37)
5.03       The Government also gave assurances that it would:
(a) by December 31, 1991, (a) reorganize the DFCS into three
divisions of administration, civil works and equipment; and (b)
recruit four additional staff (an accountant, an administration
and two drivers) with qualification satisfactory to IDA (para.
3.30);
(b) by June 30, 1992, improve the rules and procedures governing the
teaching practice schools (ecoles d'applications) and the
selection of their staff (para. 3.08);



- 29 -
(c)  by June 30, 1992, improve the rules and procedures governing the
sector inspectors and primary school directors to increase their
supervisory attributions (para. 3.11);
(d)  complete (i) the census of the teaching staff and school mapping
for primary education by June 30, 1992, and the same for
secondary education personnel by June 30, 1993; and (ii) the
computerization of the records of primary education personnel by
June 30, 1993, and of secondary education personnel by Juae 30,
1994 (para. 3.17).
(e)  by December 31, 1992, reorganize the national primary education
examination so as to assess the basic educational attainment of
students (para. 3.18);
(f)  complete by October 31, 1993 the reduction in the duration of
primary education from 8 to 6 years (para. 3.21);
Cg)  undertake, by October 31 of each year at the latest, starting in
1991, an annual government/IDA review of the draft and of the
three-year rolling investment and expenditure program to ensure
development of the sector consistent with the financing
capability while respecting the priority of allocating resources
to primary education and quality inputs (para. 3.21);
Ch)  by April 30, 1993, at the latest, undertake a government/IDA
mid-term review to assess progress in achieving the project
development objectives (para. 3.31);
Ci)  exempt all items imported for the proposed project from direct
customs duties and taxes, in line with the practice of the
Government to grant customs duties and tax exemptions to imports
for educational purposes (para. 3.24); and
(j)  implement the proposed project according to the procedures for
procurement (paras. 3.32, 3.36 and 3.37) and accounting,
auditing and reporting (para. 3.39) agreed upon during
appraisal.
5.04       Prior to board presentation, the Government provided IDA with a
formal policy statement encompassing the Government's strategy, related
investment program and its financing agreed upon during negotiations (para.
2.31). The letter is provided in Annex 3.11.
5.05       A condition of effectiveness of the credit would be that the
conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the cofinancing by the United
Nations Development Programme (UNDP) have been fulfilled (para. 3.28). The
conditions of disbursement of the credit for the primary education fund
would be the establishment of the interministerial commission under the
HINEPRISEC's minister or his nominee and issuing of a ministerial circular
providing information to che communes on the functionning of the fund and
related procedures including the conditions to be met before funding and the



- 4b -
standard form of the protocol to be prepared by each commune (para. 3.06).
Conditions of disbursement under the categories of the primary education
fund for each prefecture would be that documentation of at least one
construction and one furniture contract from at least two communes for each
prefecture would be subject to review and approval by IDA before transfert
of funds to any commune of this prefecture (para. 3.37).
5.06        Subject to the above agreemeiLts and conditions, the project
constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA credit of SDR 16.2 million (US$23.3
million equivalent) to the Republic of Rwanda.



- 31 -                               ANNEX 1.1
Page 1 of 1
RWANDA
FIRST EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
BACKGROUND INFORMATION
I. THE COUNTRY
1.        Rwanda, a small country of 26,000 km2 with a per capita income
of abolit US$310 (1989), is one of the least developed countries in Africa.
A number of constraints impede its economic development, chief among which
are: (a) its landlocked position, which adds considerably to transportation
costs; (b) its lack of natural resources; (c) its narrow export base,
mainly coffee, which renders the economy vulnerable to external factors;
(d) its lack of trained manpower; and (e) the .growing scarcity of arable
land, a reflection of the continued rapid growth of its population.
2.        With a population estimated in 1989 at 7.3 mil.ion, Rwanda is
the most densely populated country in Africa, with an average density of
280 people per square kilometer, a condition which puts heavy pressure on
the availability of land. The annual rate of population growth is
currently estimated at 3.7 percent, one of the highest in the world. Among
the consequences of this high rate of population increase is a sharply
rising demand for education, training and productive employment.
II. THE SOCIO-ECONOMIC CONTEXT
3.        Rwanda is essentially an agricultural country, with agriculture
accounting for half of GDP and 75 percent of total export earnings. The
nation's balance of payments is heavily dependent upon a single export,
coffee. During the 1970s, thanks to high coffee prices in the world
market and prudent government management, Rwanda's economic performance was
good, particularly in comparison with other SSA countries -- its annua l GDP
growth rate of 6 percent was nearly double the average rate for Sub-
Saharan Africa during that period. However, in the 1980s the situation
gradually deteriorated for several reasons. The price of coffee fell and
is not likely to rise in the near future. Because of the tight control the
Government maintained over all segments of the ecbnomy, the productive
sectors were not responsive to the new economic environment. Finally, an
important coumpounding factor was the high rate of population growth, which
largely outstripped the Government's capabilities in terms of investment
and job creation. 
4.        These developments had the most adverse impact on the budgetary
situation. The overall budget deficit in 1987 was about 11.5 percent of
GDP and in 1988 about 8.7 percent. This deficit occurred despite the
Government's introduction of a number of austerity measures consisting
mainly of budgetary restraints and import restrictions. The fiscal
situation is not likely to improve in the medium term, and the budgetary
prospects look bleak. In 1990, the Government decided to discuss with the
IMF and -he Bank a potential structural adjustment program.



-32 -                           ANDZX-1.2
Pags 1 of 1
FIRST SECTOR EDUCATION PROJECT
BASIC DATA ON THE EDUCATIO?i SYSTEM
Area                                    About 26,000 km2
Population                              About 7,300,000
Current growth rate p.a.                3.7
Density/km2                             280
GNP per capita (1989) (US$)             310
Literacy rate (govt. estimates 1982)   37
Teacher/
Student
Education (1987-88)        Establishments Enrollment 2 Girls    Ratio
Primary                        1,633       969,908       49       1/57
Post-primary (ERAI. Or. 9-11)   328         27,220 a/   46        1/14
Secondary (Gr. 9-14)
Public                          74        20,743      (35       1/14
Subsidized                      10         2,688      NA b/    1/15
Private (not recognized)        58         7,471       52       1/19
Higher education (1986)
Public                           9         1,675      15        1/7
Private                          5           400      NA        NA
Abroad                                       700       NA       NA
Ratio to
Unit Cost (1986)               In FRW              Primaa
Primary                         4,004                   1
Post-primary (ERAI)            15,467                   4
Secondary                      49,352                 12
University                    343,978                  85
Educational Expenditures (1987) (FRW millions)
Recurrent     2       CaDital       2
Primary                              3,861       70         --
ERAI                                                        68         18
Secondary                              848       16        204         53
Higher education                       735       14        110         29
2 of the Government's recurrent budget (1987)s 23
Total expenditures (recurrent and capital) on educatios as X of GNP: 3
a/ Less than in 1984/85, when the figure was 31,245.
b/ NA - Not available



- 33 -                                  ANNEX 2.2
Page 1 of 2
RWANDA
FIRST EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
PREX1IER PROJET S7CTORIEL DE L'EDUCATION
Analysis of type of prim.ary education constructions
Analyse des types de constructions dans 1'enseignement primaire
(1988-89)
Solle, de cla3se con3truites en (go mbre de 3ale*):    iTotal
Code Prifecturel BriTu I BriToI PiTu I PiTa   PlaTe  PierTo PIerT  salles
OiButare         t 5451   1861    III    13        3       0       0   1.758
1 1 Buumbe      218   1 i 020      21   557       40       9       1  1,847
C ua  ug u53j   447              0    548    142         0           1.1190
3IGikor oro      801j   278       54_    81        0       0       0   1 214
4!Gisenui      10311   577         51    37       12       7      12   1,681
5iGttar re     1768i   362        23      40       0       0       0  2 193
61 Ki bung   _   95_    450        0    940       31       O       O   1516
7,Kibute    _ 822    457           1      47         _     0       0   1 328
8[Kigali         2661  1     _639_     1   569     0       0       0  2.47S
1 9LRu henot ri  4381   9081    651   316          7      14    125   1,873
Total   70371  63241   1621  3148    236          30    138  17075
[Pourcentagc]  41.211  37.041  o.9gS   18.44    1.38    0.18    0.81  100.00
Salle3 de clese coustruits ema !X):
CadesPrifectare BriTu  BriTo [ PiTv   PiTo   PlaTe  PierTa PierT. Total
O Butare          88      11I
1 rBuumba         12      551      0      30       2       0       0    100
2 lCuencuou   1    4      38       0      46      12       0       0    100
3j1iorso   1    66        23       4       7       0       0       0    100
4 Gisenti         61      34       0       2       1       0        1    100
5 Gitarar         81      17        1      2       0       0       0100
6 Kiburno          6      30       0      62       2       0       0    100
7 Kibuue    7     62      34I      0       4       0     0               100
8|K1qj1 ; I    11         66       0      23       0       01      0      0
91PuhErL          23      483             17       0 -        t    710
I
Total cue.tractise   BnTo+BriT§ (S)                       te:-
Code I Prefecture[ Briue Autre   Total                  C      IMar   Teit
6 Butare          98       2    100                  ErlTU . brlaue -tulle
2]Buumba    i    67       33     1 00                BriTo abrigue  tale
1iCua_ uqu   1    421     58     100                 PiTO a .ise    toile
_9IGi_konro          89       11    100                  PlaTo- olanche tole
8fGisenui         96       4    100                  PlorTo -gierre  teal   I
3iGitarame        97       3    100i                 PierTu oPierre  tuile
4!Kibungo         36      64    100
I   7IKibuye          96        410oo
I   51 Kigliug        77      23     100
I   01 Ruhenger  |    72I     281    100|



RUANDA
FIRST EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
PREHIER PROJET SECTORIEI. DE l'EDUCATION
Primary education enrollment and desks availability
Effectifs de l'enseignement primaire et (lisponibilitE des pupitres
aelles de cl.
Effectifs de 1 Enselgmcuent Primuire et disponibiliti des pupitres dons leUs prfeclures                      nkceia1res
pour
fCode Prifecturms Nombre   Nombre d'ilive         _     Pupi^tres          Nombre dI coles selon niveatxx dkPso  IjIe!I  CoMpoer
d ecole3   1-0     I - 3   enp1aceeI .p   normse  de monde lere 1-2 1-3 1- 4 1-  1-6 I - 7  1 -       1 I- 6
B utera       169 106,271   61,066  10,997    10   17,408    6 411    I 6   4   4 1   2~4                 I-          56
1 Byumba       160  97,773   61,245   5,362    1 8   15,257    9,895    1   7   2   1   1  1 4 :  -:        i         45
2 Cawnguga     132  72,389  41,428   4,066    18   11,883    7,81 7   1   6   5   3   4  12 -O:: n           f:A1      54
3 Gikongaro    134  57,946    9,767  4,497    13   13,022    8,525   3   5   4   6   5  14   7  . . .                  64
4GisenyI       173  60,310   59,274  4,403    14   6,186    1,783   0   9   3   3   3   6 - 9 . 3            6        54
5 Giterama     218 136,160   71,170   6,647   20  23,364   16,717   0   9  14  11   4   6                             to8 100
6 Kibunqo      130  85,544  48,783   5,370    16   14,069    8,699   2   5   9   4   3   6  - -43
7 Kibuye       150  68,417   41,393  5,606   12   10,895    5,289   0  13   6   2   6  12 :    11                      93
8 Kigali       190 159,953   87,270 17,778    9  26,897    9,119    1   2   2   I   i   2 :- -             i           22
9 Ruhengeri    165 113,002  64.669  5.762    20   10f570  12?00             _ 5    1 _?_ 3   5 __A ::':4'$ 4-0
TOTAL   6   45 95745 540  07062   9  67  S0 37  40 n9S :IS sf                                                 5 566
_                           A.  _                                     I_
%______.-x-:~:                 45%           1 00l      55%
Norms e  1-3     10.00  6tav./pupitre
4-8       4.00  6Iv/upuitre
oo D
z
0
Phl X



- 35 -                                                   ANNEX 2.3
Page 1 of 3
RWANDA
FIRST EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
SIMULATIONS OF THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE PRIMARY EDUCATION SYSTEM
I. Same structure and resources allocation
rUE               luOSIT                   INY(st        UNIT CISI        M1119IMI9         MI.M11        13.11U1      1111.I1*C14        IIt4flhR
I,      3S A0          soI03 78 711is1.                941,314           42.71           Mnn               214           14.41
7                41,414,43          11211,4101l           13.900         974,924            19.31           14.21             1611         15, 7J
1 . 59.44)           12s4 111           13.932          914,421           U.111            491t1            US           135,19
*74*,te            44.95    X 931,031               15.1.            4II.f            351          1U.l1
S  *i,si.eii       19,39,34 Xr14.111                    93t, 41           54.21            11.91            414          44,074
4                lS I3,t5 3          Z11.903,441          44.204         15I,O41            53.91   .       13.91             431          14,719
7                14,051,.Q3          11.110,33            14. 24         942,b19            52.21           *0.11            5ss           14,411
^ 14,112,141                         1I,141.ZI5           44.351         914,945            S.M             62.311            45!          li6,11
1297?1              12,2t2.431           44.413         91,3t              14.0:           111.1 13!                     14.347
10                1.,432.I&1          92,4284,47           44.475       1,002,54             49.11           37.12             534          11,0n
II                14,349,10           42,642,233           ;4.541       1,01|199             43.22           51.11t           19            11,371
12                04 ,54,434          4,234,eI1            14.1122      1,032,511            47.21           53.31            5             1,I00
Is                44.131,399          424071,14             144.9       1,04i.557           4U.21            53-.2             S"           17,141
14                10,919,411          42,259,191           14.190       1,00,363             41.2?           52.U1            Sol           38,93
Is                15,1S1,141         I2,14,1               44.111       1,073,517            44.31          5I."               164          11,343
Inort*s    itiall  ropatnt Suilt 110,10VI -    i-                t,S,O
lffilil Prtiary Sthool ludiet (110e10RIA)*                   X  s  e
Shift  ro     7 kdPctiooi in  U,1V (Af r *    ---- F,2
Ast  of Stoh of IUp.604 1EN    11 110hlltI9 ---      -              3.03
laltool IOlqet Actilvty I   1fIuOII (SEtCM5 1111---           113,193
Iiitial Iodqtt ktlsity 3 111J921 4l2A1- .                           o371,
laltial ldget Activity 311S11UI3I  NStlI9 . 11.1-            141, 0oe
Inital ladgot kl.vly 4191111141 I   Ki. 311Ce.1-             1113,0W
lititil  . Evla kIlltviy 3 4131 slItiOUS  I-                  4331,134
Isitill  .Et ktivit    I 1111311   l0IIISI3I*iP-              1311,743
laillol IaE4et ktlvllv 7IIU.119)7- -               -          -   -.-It 0                  - -.---- .                                   .--
Inlitil lyftit ktivity t( 9M 113                                     1 so
1^itl  Mi dg#et ktivity 9 I1U  1   *        ---     _                If
1.4th!l i.ld#t AtIt,lt  It   11011101 -*-so-                         9
Pitt @4 Iroth  Ativity I 1            *411,1 -                      3.01
Pitt el krog tk AtivIty 2 IA13 1.             ---                   3.01
Pltt  4 Irout% kctivity 31 411                                      Lot---  51S
941t of bot   Ac ktivity 4 (I41.41 * _-           -                 3.99
Rate Of Iouth   ticvity   IIE411) ------                            3.
aie of f1,0lb ktitv   I Ity 11 -1..                 -               3.t1
Pale ol Erouth 11atAcIilty  I1111      *--           .              o 1e
Rate 04 Ileetto tivity I NAAI I            …       -                *.n1
P     fte .4 kntb  It1vity 9 t4i1i9t   ---      ---                   n1
P4et  I   ftelA  Activity 1  (P3I1*J00 -                             e-
10M1*:1 un1t Cost 7.w  I     ot    t 11111,IICOIII ---            43.41
Cost of ridll ot%rle      p        rw    ATI     -.              423.9
let 0l ,       utw,l p,r Stltu,t 1e931  .------   - ,            4.901
cost Co"slrctie  pOf itest 1cn1  1---- '                        4114.
Pro,. @o  Tend. Ihlftila  l1o.  t.cl  at it.   3 13.31            .99"
Pro.. of lea.ch       . IhIIINOp M,  halt ItOt I,  13.61           0. 0
7fre. of reach. skitli.e   Ala.  Ie   it Ott Y  43.91           1. 0
Itllel Eloer of Iltoehts In Pr!,. Iceotl l10173                  6,49
Liosor gowth Clo.4f1elot of VIVO  P7V)VI                         3n0.o
lolt. Pvos. el (tlertl.  Itoi. IN P7t1. kA.  t1      9            I,42
Llee   keith CuftlIuo li   tol [V IVO Il179l                    349.4
Closite, I"I"to            * 1     ------                         24.19
Clomarn.ii ole ICt  1114 .        …         . -                   41.74
Pe1t bight 1l tech. 493I113                  --    -               34.7
t of 11terlo  Tealcers to 3aIar  kill A IPCITAl                    12.91
t o1f 4w!., e1g§Io  sr tl olory scale I IPCT*l                     33.91                                                                       .. . -  . .
o *I toteIil  teachers to l3lte   scale  t 17F9111                  4.9
* e4 boil eg le1ohe, ts solory  cale A It11,)                      44.41



- 36 -
ANNE 2.3
Page 2 of 3
RWANDA
FIRST EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
SIMULATIONS OF THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE PRIMARY EDUCATION SYSTEM
1I. Same structure and different allocation
ttW              MIII                    law?   mI1 CMI    llS1NC~tI  EU.MIS1   SU.96132  U.T1 cnw
2               63,581,243          40527,e6U         *J3.U6?       n2,3s             48.21          U1.41 t9                     8I,NI
*  3             03, 711, 399      03,41 5,43 3        43. 941      961,4 15          0 . 83         u   .  n                      £
4                3,9,              13,34,uIq          64.116         919,455          39."1           1.311            u          u,m
3               04,014,04          44,019,485         04.5         8,584,222 1,61,312  SCS            ".                3          11,1
*  4             1 4,2 3 3, 0 1 1   04, 5 51 ,0 17    1 4 .16       8, e n,13s        3 6.4 2          4 1."           11          1 ,
,407,531,s        04,145,0,t          04.151      8,069,513          5.93            164 1u                         321
I*               04,S?,54           04,|X ,641          0.S331     16191,212          31.45           16.11 1n3                    15.1
04,173,285        14,893,449          04.m        8,122,05           31.01           n. no                        189,
"0,44,934         05,032,258          04.335      1,111,931          34.4             19.u:n          OF          18,1*
I1               U1,IU2,U14         05,217,533         14406        1,10,01            14.2            U.U              t5          J294
; 12              65,346,091         04jil2,02           4.1413     6,,5.1                              5.21n            up    .     *,I"
13                 j?,17,00         04,934,591         04.521       M,24,1                             45.91           93148,163
64                5,194,31"4.2 14,115,222              04.s 1       8,319,29           34.53           U.5t            "            3,322
*            II1              04,011,40          64,101,492         04.48        1,396,90           339             u4.93           93           72,322
.;un~~Eveat" hdp8 bt b41U5*SOVI    -.---                       12,3353
10.68.1 Pr8w, kbosi hdget iliUi,P          tl l -       03,294,0
ofre    dcatie   a M N  (ALF)             -                    21.22
ofte si keeh of 3." 5w  l3*11e1oUt 1    -L
taItUal hijet kttuwtt  I 13.13 il     c0381iE).-          01,893
leittal kdget ktiv8 ty 2 IN1S    I E1   l-      1- 0373,00
leitNKa& t 0.68 ktiwitY 3 61815,21 6I111KI.  9W.1-         $U,lm
lsittial hiet kt6v6ty 4 41481*41 8ILIN. UMCf I.           117i3,
leitll ldi,et kttwhty I 1II5   ou8 01511-                 0231,124
ldltiul hSAlt kteitty I (IU.11 IUIIIIIISt0         -         0388,743
1.61618 higet kt8w,tt 7 61S78  I---            _.-9
sitlal 0.09t ktlvlt9  (8lUl81  --              .-               9
Wiltdl leijt Atiwity 1  lto81J   -------
Rate of keitb Activity I            -----,11 … ---             2.11
Rate ofl itwth ktsi,ty 2 (Il19. 1      -----                   50t
kate .4 ke.tb ktlisty 3  1411.3          ----                  2.
11at1  of Iru.h Activity 4  011.4114                           $X---- * 0.1--. - 
-- - -. ---ate of kthb Actlivilt Sl -4    ---...                                    - -   1-
late of  e ul'ktiitj A 11111)6 -            ----8
late of growh Activity 1 60IE     --.- ---                    5.5
late @6 keith *tbvhty S 431831.------                           0.'
lite of  reith kgt80ty 9 680159   -----                         0.05
late Of 1eith ktivity If 11101   0        ----                 5.5
WWilal lit Ct    t r Stedeet 6IlI ,6C15t----                   3.40
Cat  I Aieieistrotim   r  leacher  Clt)                      122.40
C    ot d4 ttlal p rtideel IWSII   ---                       ".64
Cnu t Cotr tie pwet SteNit ICCPI -            ---           50.4.11
Prep. If labc. Sifting  18. kile at Stop 3 J1 31               0.9
prep. of hac. s56lt8lm  1Al. sale at StoA 161.11               5.
Prej. of Teach. 56llth, Sal. Scale at stop 9  .81,9
Ieitll hiker of Stifest$ in Prav. kha.tl 3134"9              4,459
Lieanr  reith Coelicint  f swe"  Ism                         33e.11;
ftal. Nlee. of leletle  Sted. is pri. 6kh. I615m              423
tilew keith Cwlef l ic el of tSI        815                  140.
nlwe NW$ cl-----                                              24.15
Cleave  sie IC i8llE I-----                   -4-.14
leor f1qt l       Teaciears lIlIO.TICI *1-----*                34.1
1 .4  t    I" letei w Teac s to SaI,1 kSale A IPCI,.A          12.51
teo  ltitrsel leackis t Il saia     1 ale I  C    ___    35.01
t1 .o Ielu,se v1*&X" ee     to s.t, %alep C IPCI to             0.41



ANNEX 2.3
- 37                                                                           Page 3 of 3
RWANDA
FIRST EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
S7.XtLAT:OTNS OF T:- DE'TELO?kNT OF THE PRIMARY EDUCATION SYSTEM
IIZ. Reduction by two vea:s and different resources allocation
its gtuM0 III EN3tA :!C F!%4AKE SCOULATICI 90CEL FOR f9i1i0 10C0W.
115               lUOfT                     21117         UNIt C3ST         ITUIOTS        MA6.RTEL        Im.TE2           IN CINER TOIAtRu
I                63,427,044          527,091,423           13..49          94,1240            74.92          141.2t          3. 4             16,37
:*3. us, :f7          11,313sIe          53.413        1"c,72               77.2             14.4             342           17,134
3                53,707,9:7           53,549,543           U3. 14        1,021,5.5            ?4.31           79.92              05          7t,55j
4                5,1204,791           53,039,08            13.7it        1,044,             7n.52             73.11             452           17,119
5                5,004,330            53,052,472           53.U37        1,064,500            74.42           73.52              454         I,124
4                 54,142,490          53,503,914           *3. 99        1,44,344             73.nn          3.01             4U9            13,351
7                54,324,013           53,492.414           53.9l4        1,!04,141           7. 22             91.42            4U            13,364
*                54,490,410           53,439,735           U4.050        1,127,113            71.11            0.42             454           Ie,m
9                 54,442,203          $3,939,133           54. 1; i       ,;51,134            76.1       2    32.               575           19,431
10                54,839,331           $4,134,416           U4.170        1,174449            69.3n               .42            44l           ze,04o
11                 5,02 2,172          54,545,543           51.:$1        1,204,34            46.2             77.2 n            441           20,539
12                55,210,750           5,000,U;             U 54.30       1,2"2,781           47152            71.32             41            20,95o
13                55,405,294           54,344,448           *4.3U%        1,:55.27S           44.72            77 .9             712           21,01
'14                 65,405,97           54,215,447            $4.45:       1,  0.977            41.71            73.02             700          21,645
15                IS,*  *,21           04,055,644           U .527        1,0,',07            44.32            74.04             704           22,247
.-TrM3 la1ti4l GOVorsAWt bhist IU0I.IOV)  --------    122,58,300
laitial Primry Scthl Bdget llS0.PRIA  -----                  53,:94,000
Skart of Eduatie  in hW6OS   (ALF)                                  25.22
Rate of growth df IUMOV i lTE.RCKill  -----                          3.02
lattial  IdUat ktivity  I U11.11 ISECOOAIPII-E-                5453,193
Isitial helot ktivity  2 l10.2) 21          Al)-----            t7,000
itisl Bdget Ativity  I SIlO 31 (ERhISM  SlP.)-                 54t0,000
Aitiul Budget ktivity  4  ,ItIUO4l  (A1.1N. SECONO.-           *I7t,040
Initial heo;t Ativity  5 IIUO51 (I          525 1-              57,124
lastial bsgegt kAtivity t  141U04 1 (ADI5NISTRATION)-          5311,743
Initial hIu t- Atinty  7                                              so 7b  -  SO
Initial hdfst Aktivity I S.$)*3                                       GO---5
Isitial IsOgat ktivity 9 I111091 -- 
lostial b6&et Atinity 10 IWO 1101 -----  
Rats of Irntk ktivity I IUTE.11 --                                   2.02
11ts of d rowth Activity 2 (1tE.) 2 --             --                  .3n
Rats otf  rowth ktivity 3 (Ptf.tl                                    3.02
kbt  do  keuth ktivity 4  1ATE.41                    -.0t
hts of 6roth  ctivity S (3AIII5-)                                    0.o.
lats of d I tr     Activity 6 lIRt.6)  - ----                        2.02
Rts of growth Activity 7 (21T1.71                   -                0.02
bts of d retb kttvivty 3 (1AE11) -                                   0.02
Rate of frotS ktivity 9 WIS.e!)                                      0.01
ats of kSoth ktivity I0 IUTElSI                                      6.52
Ilitial Uliat Cost Pm  Stdudt (INII TCVCT)           -     .        3.17
Cost of AdoisistraUis  per Tta hr ICWT    ---                      52.
Cost f4 Itrial   r Student ICO-)                  -                .00
Cost Coestrcti.. pir Stisudt (CCPS)          --                   544.0
Prop. of  teKh. IhiftirSl ka1. ICAl  at St"  3 U1tl                 0.00
Prop. of teach. Shifting Sit. Siall at St"  6 1614                  0.00
Prap. af reach.  ha(tias  Sil. Scale at stte *  UJ                  0.00
Initial lkior of Students to Priv. Scoal  S5t901                   4,459
Lisalr Grnsth Coefficinst of VPI"O  I         )                   350.00
lit, lkuh, of btwriaq  Stud. Is Priv. Sc. (IES1Ve                 1,423
UnLsr 6routl Cesfficient of [S71VO IEVIV(                         140.00
Classree Meirs (Cml  --                     - --                   24.70
Clsrosite Cl           E) ICSl/E  ----    -        -               41.74
Ner  Taught hy Teaher 1s 01* TCEI -                                  4.7
2 of Estsriol teachers to Salary kcale A (PCT.A)                    12.02
2 of Ert.ruor  T.,ctews to Salary  cale 0 IPCT*Il                    3.02
I of fntselq r,ecA,, Isto Salary Scale C IP!.CI                      4.02
1 Of Cster:oq teacters to Slaryf Scle A I1C1  1                     44.0t



- 38 -
RWANDA                                 ANNEX 2.4
FIRST EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT                   Page 1 of 4
Background Information on main Departments and Divisions of
MINEPRISEC to be strengthened.
1)         Department of Planning:  At present, the Department of Planning
is directly attached to the office of the Secretary General and includes the
School Mapping and the School Statistics Divisions. Its main
responsibilities include:
-    Planning the development of primary, secondary andtrural
education through the elaboration of short, medium and long-
term plans (Five Year Development Plans and Sectoral Development
Plans)
-    Making short, medium and long-term enrol,ment forecasts and
planning for educational infrastructure, equipment and
financing;
-    Developing and updating of school map;
-    Looking into questions relating toa the creation, closing,
regrouping and transfer of schools;
-    Centralizing the collection of data relating to educational
financing;
-    Exploring sources of financing of educational projects and
programs;
-    Undertaking surveys and analyses of the educational system; and
-    Organizing seminars.
To undertake these responsibilities, the Department of Planning
presently has three education planners attached directly to the Director's
office. There are also two secretaries for the whole department and a
foreign specialist in educational planning financed by Belgian technical
assistance. The main output of the Planning Department is an annual
statistical bulletin (annuaire statistique), the school map and some ad hoc
reports. Very little real planning and studies are conducted.
2)         Department of Studies and Evaluation:  At present, the
Department of Studies and Evaluation is also directly attached to the Office
of the Secretary General. This department is basically a public relations
office in charge of receiving, informing and orienting visitors to the
ministry; it also has the responsibility of gathering necessary information
and making it available to the Minister and Secretary General; it also
informs the various MINEPRISEC services of meetings and other activities
taking place outside MINEPRISEC.
The Department of Studies and Evaluation has three Officers,
including two specialists in Educational Psychology (of which the Director
is one) and a Secretary. The Department does very little studies and
evaluation as its name may imply, due to a lack of human and material
resources.
3)         Department of Financial Services:  The Department of Financial
Services is attached to the General Directorate of Administration and has
the following as its main responsibilities:
-    Preparation of budgetary forecasts for schools as well as the
execution of the budget allocated to schools;
-    Payment of subsidies to schools;



- 39 -                                ANNEX 2.4
Page 2 of 4
_    Payment of salaries to teachers;
_    Making payments to suppliers;
_    Purchase of office equipment;
_    Maintenance of official vehicles attached to MINEPRISEC;
_    Relations with agencies providing funds to educational
establishments ; and
-    Exploration of ways to rationalize and improve the system of
educational financing.
Attached to the Department of Financial Services are: the Accounting
Office, the Salaries and Social Security Division and the School Equipment
Division. The whole department has about fifty-six officers, of which three
are university graduates, thirty are clerical officers with secondary school
certificates or equivalent. eleven are secretaries, one is a driver and one
is a messenger. Though the Department seems to be well staffed, it lacks
well-qualified personnel and necessary equipment to carry out its major
responsibilities.
4)         The Division of Financial Control:  The Division of Financial
Control is also attached to the General Directorate of Administration and is
responsible for:
-    the verification and control of the management of credit;
-    settling financial claims;
-    analyzing financial reports;
-    calculating the operating costs of schools; and
-    controlling the receipt and use of financial contributions from
parents. The Division has about four officers but lacks the
equipment to undertake any effective financial control.
5)         The Division of Credit Manaaement and Supplies:  The Division of
Credit Management and Supplies is attached to the Office of the Secretary
General and is in charge of:
-    the elaboration of annual and multi-annual budgetary forecasts
for the central services of MINEPRISEC;
-    the execution of the budget of these central services;
-    the distribution and the management of equipment and offices to
each department;
-    the hiring, management and firing of drivers;
-    relations with the Inspector of Financ2s.
To perform these tasks, this division has eleven Officers and the twenty-
eight drivers available to the Ministry as a whole.
6)         Personnel Manaeement:
There are several services dealing with personnel management
including:
-    the Office of Personnel Management which is directly attached to
the Office of the Secretary General and has only one staff
member who is basically in charge of managing personnel files,
developing a calendar for leave, monitoring the participation of
personnel in community work (umuganda) and studying ways of
improving the productivity of personnel.



- 40 -                                ANNEX 2.4
Page 3 of 4
the Division of Primary Education Personnel and the Office of
Rural Education Personnel, both of which are directly attached
to the Directorate General of Primary and Rural Education. The
Division of Primary Education Personnel has six officers while
the Office of Rural Education Personnel has five. They are each
responsible for the management of the administrative and
teaching staff within each of these sub-sectors. '
-    the Office of Secondary Education Personnel Hanaiement, is
directly attached to the Directorate General of Secondary
Education and has four officers. It is in charge of managing
the files of administrative and teaching staff of the secondary
education sub-sector, the recruitment and transfer of these
personnel and the updating of personnel statistics. It also
performs forecasts in terms of the' requirements for teaching
staff.
One major problem with personnel management is that tasks are
scattered all over the ministry and there is little coordination, a lot of
duplication and a lack of understanding among all concerned as to who is
supposed to do what. There is also a lack of standardized procedures so
that the same categories of staff mav be managed or remunerated differently.
7)          Department of Examinations and Orientation.  The Department of
Examinations and Orientation has three major division:
i)   Division of Studies and the Statistical Analysis of Exam
Results.
ii)  Division of School and Professional Orientation.
iii) Division of Examinations.
The main responsibilities of this department includes:
-    the organization of all national examinations and other exams
that any public or private institution or embassy may ask it to
organize;
-    the organization of selection and orientation tests;
-    the design and improvement of tests that are adapted to the
local environment;
-    the preparation and dissemination of information (to the public
and to schools) relating to the statistical analysis of
examination results
This department is very new and still being organized. The Division
of Examination now has only two officers. Much of the work relating to the
organization of examinations is now handled by the Bureau Pedagogique de
l'Enseignement Secondaire'.
The organization chart showing the complete set of General
Directorate, Departments, Divisions and Offices is attached.



SECRETAIRE
GENERALI
DIRECTION 6ENERALE     DIRECTION GENERALE      DIRECTION 6ENERALE    DIRECTION 6ENERALE
DE             ETUDES Er RECHERCHES      DES PR06RAMMES        ENSEIGNEMENT SEC.ET
L'ADMINISTRATION       ~PEDAGOGIUES             PRIM. ET INTE6RES   FORMAT. DES CADRES
DIRECTION            DIRECTION DES           DIRECTION DES           DIRECTION DE           DIRECTIONDE    1
ETUDES ET              AFFAIRES          PROGRAMMES DE LENS.        LENSEIGNEMENT          LENSEIGNEMENT            t"  O
EVALUATION             JURIDIQUES         PRIMAIRE ET INTEGRES         PRIMAIRE               SECONDAME                  s
DIRECTION    i       DIRECTION DES     I      DIRECtION        |    DIRECTION DE      I    DIRECTION DE LA   I
SERVICES                     MME DE         LENS. RURAL ET      FORMATION DES CADRES |!
PLANIFICATION            FINANCIER                                  ARTISANAL INTEGRE         SUGALTERNES
DIRECTION     |        DIRECTION     I       DIRECTION DU
INSPECTION    |      FINANCEMENT ET   I   PERFECTIONNEMENT DU
SCOLAIRE          CONSTRUCTIONS SCOL.       PERSONNEL ENS.



- 42 -                           ANNEX 2.5
Page 1 of 1
RWANDA
FIRST EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
Some information on the Prefectoral and Sector InsDectorates
Since March 1981, the administration of the education sector is being
undertaken by two ministries: MINESUPRES, responsible for the National
University of Rwanda (UNR), the National Pedagogical Institute (IPN) and
other third-level institutions; and MINEPRISEC, responsible for first- and
second-level education. However, MINEPRISEC delegates much authority to the
prefectoral and communal levels where it is represented by prefectoral and
sector (or zonal) inspectors respectively. There are 10 prefectoral
inspectors (one for each prefecture) and in 1987/88 there were 125 sector
inspectors, although there are 143 communes in total. This implies that
some communes do not have sector inspectors. These prefectoral and sector
inspectors have responsibility mainly towards the primary education sub-
sector. Sector inspectors report to prefectoral inspectors who in turn
report to the central offices in Kigali. For secondary education, there are
secondary inspectors who operate nationally.
Primary inspection, at both regional and local levels, displays
certain serious shortcomings from a pedagogical and an administrative point
of view. Pedagogically, there is inadequacy in the support and advice given
to teachers, and administratively regional and local inspectors lack the
resources necessary to adequately manage the system.  The proposed project
intends to deal with some of these shortcomings.



- 43 -
RWANDA                          ANNEX 2.6
FIRST EDUCATION SECTOR PROJE<C             Page 1 of 3
Details of the Education Sector Investment and Expenditure Proframs
(PIP/PEP)
The two education ministries (MINEPRISEC and MINESUPRES) have
prepared a sectoral plan along 'a growth without adjustment aid change"
path. It includes an 'Investment Request' for the next few years, but says
little about a current expenditure program. The request is relatively
ambitious, amounting to about 14 billion FRW for 1990-92. About 221 of
investment program is allocated to primary education, 44Z to secondary
education, 2? to rural education (CERAI) and 36? to higher education and
scientific research.
This capital investment programme is basically characterized by the
rapid expansion of physical infrastructure at all levels of education and,
as stated earlier, a general lack of a sense of the recurrent cost
implications of the program.  Though it is hoped that the bulk of the
capital investments will be based on foreign aid, the problem of recurrent
costs still remains, since many donors tend not to finance local recurrent
costs.  Inadequate provision for the financing of future recurrent costs may
imply that there will be a lack of maintenance of future buildings, their
rapid depreciation and therefore a waste of present investment. Yet, the
debt burden for the country as a whole will be greater.
A 'priority" public investment program (PIP) is proposed in this
report, to take better account of the absorptive and financing capacities of
the country.  Projects and programs were selected from among the
government's initial program on the basis of the following criteria: (1)
they support the sector strategies explicitly stated by the government; (2)
they are consistent with other activities of the sector; (3) they are cost-
effective; and (4) they have progressed to a point where stopping them at
this stage would be totally uneconomical.
The proposed priority program thus determined implies an annual
average expenditure of about 2.3 billion FRW (in 1989 prices) for the 1990-
92 period, for a total PIP 1990-92 of 6.9 billion FRW.  Of this total
investment program., 16? is allocated to primary education (for
rehabilitation, furniture and equipment and construction of new schools),
38? for secondary education, 26? for higher education and 20? undistributed
by level (though much of this applies to primary and secondary education).
In accordance with the government's decision to impose a moratorium on the
creation of new rural educatipn institutions (CERAI), no capital investments
are allocated to this sub-sector.
A program of current expenditures is a.so proposed. These are based
on the recurrent cost implications over the next five years of the priority
investment program.  These recurrent costs are calculated on the basis of
unit costs by sub-sector and type of education, given full utilization of
the created capacities. For the proposed education sector investment
project, detailled calculations of additional recurrent costs to the
government were made. Given the 1990 recurrent budget of 6.2 billion FRW for
the two Ministries of Education, it is estimated that on average the



44                                     ANMEX 2. 6
Page 2 of 3
recurrent budget would increase by 2.31 per annum over the next five years,
givon the priority investment program.
The following table provides details of the proposed priority PIP for
1990-92 and the related public expenditure program (PEP) for 1991-95 for the
education sector.



ROAM                                                                                  AIDS  2.6
l0iM MIJET SfLIMIEL 0fE LII[A1II
INORAMNE  HIdECS! ISS90 MRItITAIIE P9.3 LIE RIU3 £3 AWAX
(~ ilIi_ de FM.. pr;* I_)
165E!I DJ r6f*9c          P a0      ANN A T I ON                CSiT lFPWXZ6  GU P.ET   CUlMS IS 11 D DD fOlESMMh 0 8=                   t561   STAlU   CW3Ct          cm r
- P I .P.   CULF 3906    96ErI G SAILJL  0055 MUM (A LA 06A0  GU    9 !W)   c33T Oft  StIE  161     UI"TA
0L268 In    f0    399        I92 1990-92      TOTAL      EV.     0   BE FWD       199      992    so92n   3994       No   Cam   PA U        b
A) 9060I6! PR6AIE: 4I..   .
I P1JEI £WCATIOI IV - IDA                 0        0  O63         423    1006      2291      i69    2112  AM(Cr.d)   6. .4    6.1    33.2   12E.3  J31    1911  sN6M            66(.l3..)
2 OtlATIN  OTLII9 SCOLAIWE               6        20       i        6       56      0IS              150 FACJFUJ       6.0 *.0          0.0     0.0      0.0 *          cam
3 IWIUT1S  W. FiW(AIS                              9       12      12       23      a3               a3 FAC            0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0          N82*  "
TOTAL FMAWRE:                                   29      6       4U3    1on        2454     I69    29                 3.     66.3   133.a   12.3   a3s.3
1) 9E100   S8AIFAAl:
1) 8tlLES AQW-VIET3MNAiRES:
I CtWT. A El. EC. A111-VET.  UHI         161     206      23        0      22.      360       Go     320 P33I6        2.f      2.2      2.3     2.2      l.a    *99  IN cam        w      661_
2 EA. SC. A*0-VET. 6A51it6E                6      10        a       a       23       32               32 fAC           0.0      .0      6.0     0.0      6.0          muc
S COPA. A ES. EC. At-VIET. 1509          276     130       93       0      2.       s0o      363     344 ALC5. E   4 .1        2.3      23-      0.0      .g-    am   * cLm        46-   46
4 EC. ALUI-P3SIEwE    ISWA6A            137      3 2  22          21       14      247              241 SUISSE        1.6     1.0      3.6      3.6     1.6           tca         S     d
11) ECOLES TIRCCHAJEL:
I CO161. a Ea. E.T.I. CW11611             0       40       0        a       40       40       40       0              2.2      2.2      2.2     2-.      2.2   13199 <UNEN         "     ISTs
2 CGST. El EU. E. T. 13668               .0      136      136     136      406      406              49 JW             0.0     6.6      6.6     6.6      6.6         392006        we   owls
3 IMENOVA91 E.T. CATIJSA                  0       20                        20       20       20       0               0.0     0.0      *.0     0.0      0.0 o    993 *9d0 _
4 fAD II ETD CVAI   . CIAAR1IW A          0        O7    360     a"9    IS         i199    1i      144 FAD(rrt)    0-         14.3    is. 1    34.3    14.1    to" 68060    -           9011
S E   105IOJtW SECT.     T    El_lom   212        6       0        0        6      220              2207 8.0          2.0     2.6      2.6     0.0   * .        el"_i c4   U        0    "I'la
311) AUFS:
t COST. SALLE POLY. COL. 0I51*          In6       46       0        0       46      232              2n2-              0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0   *.e111
TOTAL SEDAOMMIE:                     t*60     136       63      704    26"       3666    a2        26              Sv. to6  2s."     1.93    29.92   25."9
C) SEEI@6me 5993183
I Ac0to061  fAC. OMIT                     0        0      7S       75      IS*0     I0               I30 0E.5E        0.0      0.0     0.0           0.0 6.6         6*
2 Cffl. En.T.S  (FAD 1)                 325      150      162     149      461      19        OF     12 FAD            04      9.4      0.4     6.4      9.4         m CAAS        we   6911
3 ASSIT. MPE 96. sMr.                     4       et       Ss       4      1        144              146 435           0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0         Si CS
4 F16t ION P6D. 2                        a1s      32       0        0       32       91               91 68.06        0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      6.0         Si COM
5 *0OGN    FAC. Ar£IE                    25       46      46       46      SW       364              164 ISAUO         6.0     0 0      0.0     0.0      0.0         aSI AR
a km C_. OOP-  .                        626      36       360       0      260      a"               SW CAN"          6.0      0.0      0.0     0.6      6.0         De cam
7  5IE5O   o9. gUp.                     346       ay       0        0 *      7      43n              435 CM1AA        0.e      0.0      0.0     0.0      6.6         el cam
* CUSl. INS"                            251       13       0        0       13      264              36*  MD          0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0             0cm
9 19l51A. A E4. It4T                      0       90       0        0       90       90       90       0              0.0      0.0      0.0      .0      0.0         in605
10 EXT918I6 FAC. AL0141PE                  '       23     160      UO       323      327              321 CMM          0.0      0.0     0.09     0.0      0.0 6inmo
TOTAL SIPER33:                        1UO      102      6U      424    17S4.    3416       147   3711               9.40    9.40     9.40    9.40    0.40
0) AU9  (CN-OISISUE):
I *0.E! IDA I33                         6        26      299"    146      TOe      Is"       I66    36 OA(Ce)  *.7             3.1      3.1     3.1      3.7         of cam        6w    GO 46
2 A.T. DIEI IE SCO1AI3E                 41D       37       0        0       37      426              426 NFA          0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0-          .E  C
3 CME                                    46       t0       0        0       10       S6               S 6ELCE         0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0         of Caf
4 03                                    216        6       s        0 °    I        452              412 6E0CE        0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0         Bo COlOA
* 0WUrE SCOL. IAil  (193. E6. SAL.)    tOo        20       0        0       20      100              200 C LO          0.0     0.0     0.0      0.10    0.0 *-          CaS
4 A. T. IPLAIFICATilN fE LDG.            46        6       0        0        6       62               62U  EC         0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0         El Cwn
7 SOr                                   466       15     6S         0      142      620              6s WA            0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0         so cam
* FOPe5 0Si13EWI84 OES E6OL.S             0        0      t00     3oo      200      200      200       0              0-0      0.-0    0.0      0.0    0*.-0         _
* 90401I4 86. FRIVE                                0        0       0       60       60      so        0              0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0        N6U8h'6
T.TAL AUFES:                          2275     654      547     240    1359      3634      446    33S"             *.71    2.75    2.75    2.U5    2.71
0) 0R6t TOTAL:                                so0     2631    24617   1Q29    627    13236    112   320"                    93.1   125.1 176.3   372.4   112.4                                     6 0
|rr
0



- 46 -                            ANNEX 3.1
Page 1 of 7
RWANDA
FIRST EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
PRIMARY EDUCATION FUND
I. OBJECTIVES OF THE FUND
1.          Two objectives of the project are to improve access to primary
education while promoting equity across and within the 10 pr4factures.
These objectives are also the general objectives of the Primary Education
Fund to be financed by the IDA credit: rehabilitation of primary school
infrastructure and construction of new schools are also necessary measures
to attain these objectives while improving the conditions of the
testing/learning activities.  More specifically, the resources of the Fund
would be used to strengthen the role played by the communes in the
development of primary education and to facilitate initiation of a nation-
wide system of implementation of efficient, durable and economical schools
adapted to local conditions and to the distribution of the population.
II. BACKGROUND ON THE CONSTRUCTION OF PRIMARY SCHOOLS
2.          Parents have demonstrated a will to build and rehabilitate
classrooms, and communities and managers/owners of schools have sometimes
succeeded in using school fees and borrowed funds to obtain construction
materiais and classroom furniture. Rural construction technology is well-
adapted to the local climate, and suitable construction materials are
available.  However, a lack of construction norms, maintenance and
consistent accounting criteria are problems. MINEPRISEC is already
preparing norms for school construction and would prepare, under the
project, training and materials to assist the commune leadership in
improving their procurement, accounting and maintenance practices. Non-
governmental organizations (NGOs) in all regions can also provide management
support and training.
III. PRIMARY SCHOOLS CON RUCTION AND REHABILITATION
3.          It is estimated that 4,000 classrooms need to be rehabilitated,
1,000 reconstructed and for the project period 2,000 additional ones built.
The total cost of the needed rehabilitation, reconstruction and construction
and of classroom furniture is currently estimated at approximately US$21.0
million. While parents contribute semestrial school fees, or minerval,
central government, local and private financial resources for construction
are inadequate.  Insufficient financing to pay for masons and carpenters,
construction materials and furniture constrains rehabilitation and expansion
of the primary school infrastructure. In addition, the fees are typically
used to expand existing schools.



- 47                           ANNEX 3.1
Page 2 of 7
IV. FINA4CING BY THE PROJECT
4.          The project would finance the construction of 2,000 new
classrooms, rehabilitation of 400 and reconstruction of 300 primary
classrooms, that is approximately 44 percent of the need. The IDA credit is
designed, inter alia, to complement communal financing of civil works and
furniture for primary classrooms that need to be rehabilitated or
reconstructed and for new schools to be constructed in accordance with
school mapping criteria. IDA would finance 90 percent of the cost ($9.33
million) through the Primary Education Fund, and the communes would finance
the equivalent of 10 percent of the cost (equivalent to $1.04 million). The
communes would deposit their contributions in a local commercial bank, with
the funds ultimately controlled by the CCE. This communal account is
expected to continue as a permanent fund to s9ipport the primary schools
managed by the oCE.
V. PARENTS' CONTRIBUTIONS TO PRIMARY SCHOOL INFRASTRUCTURE
5.          Parents would continue to pay an annual school fee of FRW 300
per student (minerval) and to contribute manual labor for construction
projects (umvtanda). However, parents' contributions are not included in
the cost of the project.
VI. THE PRIMARY EDUCATION FUND
6.          Recognizing the effectiveness of decentralized management, the
Government proposes to devolve the responsibility for school construction to
the communes. It has also agreed to allocate funds, first to the regions
(prefectures) snd second to the local level (communes), according to a pre-
set model (see Annex 3.2) that takes into account the factors that affect
access and equity. The mechanism that would be used to channel IDA credit
financing from MINEPRISEC to the communes would be the Primary Education
Fund, constituted by the relevant categories of the Credit Agreement and
through the Project Special Account.
7.          The Project Special Account Fund would be located in a central
commercial bank and used for disbursment to the communes, into local bank
accounts specified for, and limited to, the purpose of financing primary
school civil works and furniture.
VII. THE-PROTOCOL
8.          The Communal Education Council (CCE) would make proposals
regarding the allocation of Fund resources to existing or new primary
schools within the commune to MINEPRISEC in a document, called the protocol
(the standard form of which would be prepared by DFCS), that: (a) describes
the objectives of the school mapoina program, the construction/
reconstruction/rehabilitation plan, the schedule and the budget proposed by
the commune; (b) specifies the basic construction norms of MINEPRISEC, the
land requirements, the dimensions of the classrooms and furniture, and
orientation, lighting and ventilation criteria, bidding procedures,
maintenance guidelines and format for school budget accounts; (c) lists the



- 48 -                           ANNEX 3.1
Page 3 of 7
conditions of disbursement of funds to the commune; together with a
statement of technical management resources, a school bookkeeping plan and
bank acount references in order to benefit i.:om the IDA fund, and (d)
indicates the schedule of disbursment to the communes.
VIII. THE CASH FLOW
A.    IDA CREDIT TO THE SPECIAL ACCOUNT
9.          The Government has agreed to channel funds directly from the
special account to the communes. IDA would disburse an agreed upon amount
from the credit to the special account when the following conditions are
met: (a) effectiveness of the credit; (b) notification of IDA by the
Government of the number of the bank account where the special account would
be located and of the names of the people authorized to sign the checks and
(c) a request by the Government to IDA to disburse the initial amount from
the credit to the special account.  Replenishment of the special account at
regular intervals would be conditional upon submission by the Government to
IDA of a statement of expenditures (SOE) financed by the special account
until the specified ceiling for the special account is reached, when further
disbursements would automatically cease.
B.    SPECIAL ACCOUNT TO COMMUNAL ACCOUNT
10.         Following the meeting of the condition for disbursement under
the categories of the Primary Education Fund, the Communal Fund accounts
would be financed by the Special Account when the CCE, assisted by the
Communal Monitoring Committee (Comitd de Suivi) has prepared the protocol
and obtained MINEPRISEC's agreement. The communes would issue checks for
services obtained using procurement procedures acceptable to IDA. Under no
condition would these accounts be used for any purpose other than those
specified for the special account and the Fund.
C.    SCHEDULE OF FUND DISBURSEMENT TO COMMUNES
11.        MINEPRISEC would disburse the amount of the Fund granted to a
commune as follnws: (i) 20 percent upon notification of HINEPRISEC by the
local bank of a dep6sit of 10 percent by the communie; (ii) an additional 20
percent upon receipt by  .e sector inspector of the signed civil works or
furniture contract; and (iii) the final 60 percent after supervision and a
satisfactory report on ongoing works by the local inspector.
IX. ADMINISTRATION OF THE FUND
12.        Administration of the Fund would be organized as follows: (a) at
the central level, responsibility would rest with an Interministerial
Commission for the Fund (Commission Interministdrielle du Fonds - CIF), to
be established within MINEPRISEC; (b) in the 10 pr6fectures, with
Prefe,:toral Councils for Education (Conseils Pr6fectoraux de
l'Enseignement - CPE); and (c) at the level of the 143 communes, with the
CCEs, assisted in technical matters by its appointed Communal Monitoring
Committee (Comite Communal de Suivi - CCS).



49 -                          ANNEX 3.1
Page 4 of 7
13.        The CIF at the central level, presided over by MINEPRISEC's
Minister, would be composed of the Director General of Primary and Rural
Education (Directeur Gendral de l'Enseignement Primaire in MINEPRISEC), the
Director General of Communal Development (Directeur General du D6veloppement
Communal in MINITER) and the Director of the Budget (Director du Budget in
MINIFIN). The Project Implementation Unit's director would be the secretary
of the CIF.
14.        At the local level, the CCE, presided over by the Burgmaster,
includes the local inspector (Inspecteur de Secteur under MINEPRISEC) and
parents' representatives, as well as representatives of the owners/managers
of the public and private schools. The CCS would include the sector
inspector and would be supported by a communal accountant responsible for
managing the local Fund accounts and building technicians. The sector
inspectors would receive special training under the project on primary
school construction, furnishing, procurement, maintenance, budgeting and
reporting.
X. LIAISON AND CONTROL
15.        At the central level, the DFCS would, assisted by specialists
financed by the project: (a) monitor the allocation of the resources of the
Fund at the regional and communal levels and verify the correct application
of the criteria; (b) develop the standard form of the protocol document to
be used by the communes and verify the proposed agreement (protocol) against
MINEPRISEC norms and the school map; (c) prepare and issue typical bidding
documents acceptable to IDA for the civil works and furniture for use by the
communes; (d) take all necessary measures to make certain that an audit of
all Fund accounts and the special account is conducted annually by an
independent auditor acceptable to IDA and that the auditor's annual report,
including recommendations, is delivered on time to MINEPRISEC and MINIFIN,
with a copy to IDA; (e) organize frequent field visits, with the concerned
CCS, on a random basis to verify the accounts and observe performance at the
regional and communal levels; (f) make general recommendations based upon
these observations; (g) initiate and complete, as lessons are drawn from
field experience, a construction and maintenance manual for the benefit of
communal authorities; (h) prepare and issue to the communes regular updated
accounts of the unit colts of construction, furnituce and maintenance;
(i) prepare and issue to the regions regular updated evaluations of the
resources offered by regional government services and by ONGs; and (j)
prepare for MINEPRISEC and CIF, with copy to IDA, quarterly reports on the
technical, procurement and financial issues, on progress vis-&-vis initial
objectives, on lessoni learned and on actions to be taken. The CIF would
verify that the allocation of resources from the Fund to the regions
complies with the agreed upon pre-set model and would prepare regular
reports to the ccncerned ministries, with a copy to IDA, on the allocation
of the Fund.
16         At the rea.bnal level, the CPE would verify that the allocation
to the communes complied with the pre-set model.
9 -



- 50 -                            ANNEX 3.1
Page 5 of 7
17.        At the local level, the CCE, assisted by the CCS, would prepare
the protocol and submit it to the DFCS for the approval of MINEPRISEC. The
CCS accountant would prepare the local Fund accounts in compliance with the
format indicated in the protocol. Management of the site selection,
construction strategy, scheduling and budget would be the responsibility of
the CCE. The sector inspector, trained by the project, would be accountable
for the management of the fund and of procurement according to procedures
acceptable to IDA.
18.         In a decentra.ized process, the collection and evaluation of
information and feedback of processed data to users and performers is a
condition of successful attainment of the objeccives.



- 51 -                            ANNEX 3.1
Page 6 of 7
RWANDA
FIRST SECTOR EDUCATION PROJECT
PRIMARY EDUCATION FUND
A. PROCEDURE FOR ALLOCATION
Mod.l
1                e~~~~ommtt" 
treguion
Distibution              of
botwood~~          CO= cl 
D1stibQuou         1u4Prot    > acK
co=wni.lties       c       & scSoou
-    CozuAll Educatkon                
.*               Co Zdl                        r       
Supervit, K                                                   AUtL>
Dwtebution       {und/Pe loc=
withm MONrir  & rcoolo
communit       '         Sp 
\/~~~pooo
§ ~    OM   D t of 
'     X~~seu



- 52-                         tage t of 7
RWJANDA
FIRST SECTOR EDUCATION PROJECT
PRIMARY EDUCATION FUND
B. FINANCLAL CIRCUIT
Credit
L Rgional Education
] Sp.al                           Council
ACCOUnt
Communal Education
Council  
t  deegaton            
Xdding ant                     /bidoung
< focaccount              >              for ,
civi wokfvntr
'  cos
accounting 



~53~                          ANNEX 3.2
Page I of 5
RWANDA
FIRST EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
PRIMARY EDUCATION FUND
MODEL FOR ALLOCATING FUNDS FOR NEW CONSTRUCTION*
1.        There are various formulae for distributing funds within an
educational system, each developed in such a way as to attain certain
objectives or meet certain criteria. Some have been developed to provide
incentives for curriculum change, others to discourage the teaching of
certain subjects, and still others to increase attendance rates or decrease
drop-out rates. The objective of the Primary Education Fund that would be
created in this project is to raise the enrollment rate at the primary
level. As such, the formula to be used to allocate the funds is primarily
based on the number of children of school-going age who are not attending
school. An equity element is also built into the formula so that poorer
prefectures and communes are given greater weight in the calculation.
Since the poorer communes tend to have relatively lower enrollment rates
than do the richer ones, enrollment rates would be used as proxies to
distinguish poor from rich communes. The formula is designed in such a way
as to give a child in a prefecture or commune that has a lower enrollment
rate a higher weight than a child in a prefecture or commune where the
enrollment rate is high.
2.        The formula is as follows:
Hi - f(Ci, (1-ri)]
where H is the amount of money allocated to prefecture or commune i;
C is the number of children of school-going age who are not in school; and
r is the enrollment rate.
3.        The weights applied to the enrollment rate would be distributed
using a linear function with the maximum weight, for example, 2, applied to
the prefecture or commune with the lowest enrollment rate and a weight of 1
to the prefecture or commune with the highest enrollment rate.  The weights
for prefectures or communes in between would then be determined.
4.        The formula described above would be applied in two stages:
(a) First to distribute the funds among the 10 prefectures,
(b)  second to distribute the funds among the communes within each
prefecture.
* This model was developed by Mr. Manuel Zymelman.



ANNEX 3.2
54 -                            Page 2 of 5
5.        The most recent year for which a complete set of data was
available for all the variables that are required to run the model was
1987/88. A couple of other data problems had to be dealt with. There was
a 22 percent discrepancy between the data on total population obtained from
the National Population Office (ONAPO) and the Ministry of Planning
(MINIPLAN) and those obtained from the communes through MININTER. A 22
percent adjustment was therefore made to the data on the population by
commune obtained from MININTER.  Since the school-age population by commune
was not available, the general average percentage for this group in the
total population of Rwanda and other similar SSA countries was used. This
rate is 16.6 percent for 7-12-year-old children and 21 percent for 7-14-
year-olds.
6.        The following table shows the distribution of funds across
prefectures and communes within each prefecture, calculated on the basis of
the above considerations and using a six-year primary school cycle. (The
results obtained using an eight-year cycle are not significantly
different.)



ANNEX 3.2
- 55 -                                   Page 3 of 5
RWANDA
FIRST EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
PRIMARY EDUCATION FUND: DISTRIBUTION AWiONO PREFECTURES A
COMNES FOR THE CONSTRUCTION OF NEW SO40OLS.
Porfocture            School-see          Enroll snts       Enrollmnt.      Alloeation
or Commune            Populatlon          Grades 1-6          Rate
(7-12)
Butere                   163,306            90,950              0.5O         1,60,626
syueba                   125,602            38,150              0.71           600,459
Cyangugu                  64,451            60,000              0.71           460,053
Cikongoro                 90,931           56,920               0.63           790,771
Clianyl                  123,132            35,020              0.69           752,327
C;tarama                 153,105           105,740              0.69           934,569
Kibungo                   87,691            71,600              0.82           206,208
K6buyo                    78,175            60,140              0.77           283,700
Kigali                   167,561           131,210              0.33 U16,148
Ruhongori                139,536            93,200              0.67           971,529
TOTAL                  1,193,853           643,690              0.71         6,600,601
BUTARE                                                                       1,560,826
Huye                       5,448             3,336              0.61            49,977
Ngo.a                      5,043             4,109              0.31            14,454
Ndora                      6,440             3,213              0.50            91,5U2
Nyaruheng.r                8,364             3,814              0.46           136,744
Kibayl                     9,640             5,123              0.63           121,910
Mug.nza                    7,655             4,411              0.58            81,002
muyira                     6,683             5,530              0.3            17,260
Ntyavo                     9,473             5,792              0.61            37,555
Ciahamwu                   7,757             3,936              0.51           106,836
Kigimbo                   10,349             5,302              0.51           140,125
Mbazl                      5,995             3,290              0.5            71,085
Shyanda                    8,992             5,027             O.             102,562
Runyinym                   9,093             6,195              0.60            60,612
Muyaga                     6,400             4,162              0.65            49,686
Mugus                      6,622             4,117              0.63            58,399
Waroba                     8,729             6,049              0.53            92,236
Ruhashyc                   6,278             3,875              0.62            56,436
Nyabliulndu                6,663             4,816              0.66            45,184
Rusatira                   0,400             3,790              0.59            63,990
Nymkizu                   11,341             6,695              0.59           114,283
Total                    153,368            91,324              0.60         1,660,326
BYUIMBA                                                                        690,40
Kiyomb.                    6,717             6,362              0.94             4,392
Wduksarngo                 6,903             4,004              0.67            35,302
Cyungo                     7,533             4,348              0.55            72,709
Kivuyo                     5,961             3,787              0.64            40,275
Bwisige                    6,243             3,146              0.60            40,363
Kimnyami                   8,007             6,661              0.71            40,061
Ngarama                    6,48'             5,144              0.79            20,621
Muvumba                    7,901             6,936              0.88            13,093
Mureambi *                10,368            10,503              1.00                 0
Cyungo                     7,926             6,434              0.69            42,440
Kibali                     7,929             6,034              0.76            30,286
Muhura                     9,419             6,403              0.57            79,461
Cituza                     7,321             5,261              0.72            34,6S3
Tumba                      6,567             3,07i              0.47            77,233
Buyoga                     8,370             6,081              0.73            38,169
Citi                       7,942             4,465              0.66            69,606
Rutare                     7,121             4,384              0.62            61,317
Total                    120,201            89,076              0.71           690,469



- 56 -                                            ANNEX 3.2
Page 4 o   S
CYANCUCU                                                                          45U,Ot3
Karerg-ru                   0,250              5,381              0:*5
Nyakabuye                   7,262              3,773              0.62             *0,097
Bugerma                     6,513              6,54 03                                I
aCisho" o7,103                                 4,794              0.64             53,905
Cylho.g                     7,127              5,796              0.81             16,916
K  _ hsg@                   7,177              5,233              0.73             31,461
Kaswebes                    I,5                6,009              0.70             43,539
C*umz@                      3137               5,723              0.70             42,791
Olauom                      7,825              5,048              0.66             54,602
Qatara                      3,302              7,684              0.32             20,097
0aiare-                     0,764              4,674              0.68             40,241
Total                      84,440             69,553              0.71            416,053
MubugK                      7,726              4,846              0.63            700771
Rwrmu ko                    55669              3,537              0.64             46,322
Kerambo                     5,043              3,622              0.72             23,574
Muoanmo                     6,043              4,004              0.t8              e,20t
Mueo                        7,573             5,785               0.75             23,239
luseb.ye                    7,210             4 260               O $§             74,920
Kiwu                        7,121                                 05949  O        11 29,463
Nshill                      8,887              4,90t              0.tt            112,994
Kars"                       6,072             4,346               0.72             21,U33
Klnyo.akhro                 6,756              4,174              0.62             01,330
Rukondo                     7,108              4,089              0.63             70,748
Nyamabow                    3,410              5,2900             0.50             71,124
MudamojIwa          ~~~6,650           3,011               06.7,2
Total                      90,130             56,739              0.63            790,771
CISENY!                                                                           r6752,327
Rubswu                      8,340              4,353              0.49            106,702
Ruerere                     7,767              4,062              0.64             57,017
Mutura                     10,494              7,496              0.71             66,439
Kanama                     10,089              7,205              0.71             63,074
Nyamyumba                   3,348              5,896              0.71             45,537
KNyove                     12,513              9,847              0.76             51,064
RKyba                       3,121              5,900              0.73             40,201
Kibiliro                   11,207              7,149              0.64             82,186
Satinsyl                   13,145              3,923              0.64             91,104
aseke                      09,936              6,603              0.6              95,613
Kasago                      9,960             9,734               0.90              2,714
cloly.                     12,244              3,461              0.69            712,737
Total                     123,064             86,213              0.6             752,327
CITARAMA                                                                          934,569
Bulinga                      ,5 U61            4,350              0.57             86,496
13uling                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~0.60  103,411
Mushubati                  11,831              7,130              0                57,12
Nyabikefike                 9,496             6,496               0.68              7,1260
Nykabaikdk                  9,377              5,300              0.02             76,702
KNy kbands                  84s0               4,976              0C839            760 ,3C9
Kayenzi                     7,574              6,200              0.32             19,235
Rutobws                     7,493              5,342              0.73             25,677
Rundbw                     11208360.76                                             47,335
Tabs                               5~~~~~~~~,336      0.68             55,517
Tab.n9                     11,220             6,4                 0.53             75,026
Mukingi                     3,273              4,682              0.30             25,944
Tombw ue911 ,                                  7,149              0.90              60,742
Kigema                       ,i  .              ,3                0.65             66,615
Ntonswo              0~~, 141           6,230              0.65             56,170
Ntangw@                     0,559              5,2600.74,6
Masango             ~~~~7,970           3,290              0.63              6,7
Murama                     13,231               ,0                  .               452
Nymabuy 1a7,432                                5,030              0.63             21,163
To bitS 11C7,621                              6,161               0                2134C0
Musambr                   152,932            105,655              0.60            934,560



ANNEX 3.2
- 57 -                                       Pag  T  0  5
K3NUNOO                                                                          Mo,Mo
Mueoebe                    96340              6,0W0               0.6             44,574
Saho                        8,255             1,485               0."             87,470
Sukire                      7,265             5,065               0.70            29,00
Rusufe                     12,982            11,590               0.66            16,479
Muhail                      7,793             5,526               0. 71           29,177
RutoR&                      6,282             4,665               0.77            16,649
Kabororn                    6,477             4,600               0.74            20,766
Kayonza *                   5, 2U             5,949               1.00                 0
Kiaormo                     6,012             7,60                0.96              ,229
Pukaue                      7,190             6,685               0."              4,615
Siren6r                     6,791             6,190               0.90             1,741
Total                      67,660            71,604               0.62           206,26
KSiUYE                                                                           203,700
Kivuau                     10,286             6,240               0.61            76,393
Swakire                     6,901             7,177               0.00            24,126
WUanda                      7,965             1,825              0.74             11,264
Citeel                     10,410             7,555               0.73            45,095
Gishy1ta                    6,067             4,549               0.65            47,766
Mobaniz                     7,595             5,629              0.77             25,955
Coseyu                     10,025             6,545              0.65             16,454
Ruteire                     6,567             7,543              0."              12,505
Rwa.atu                     7,777             7,531               0.97             2,517
Total                      76,434            60,622              0.77            283,700
KIGALI                                                                           316,149
Kansobe                     9,490             7,040               0.64            12,249
Butamwe                     6,047             5,070               0.64             7,705
Nyorugenge *                7,129            14,640               1.00                 0
Rubungo a                   6,392             9,260               1.00                 0
Oiko.ero                    9,316             6,091               0.65            51, 67
3icumbi                    15,019            12,590               0.84            19,152
3ikoro                      6,409             1,900               0.70            25,517
Rutonso                    10,495             7,465               0.71            27,865
Muga- bai                   9,020             5,625              0.62             54,293
Mbogo                       6,672             4,140              0.60             29,164
Shyorongl                  10,162             6,900              0.66             51,069
Tare                        6,115             5,600              0.71              1,205
cashora                     8,674             6065f               0.79            16,109
Ngonda                     12,066            10,540              0.87             11,497
Kanzonse                   14,367            13,190               0.92              ,4609
Musass                     6,442              4,490              0.70             16,239
Rushashi                    7,347             4,760              0.65             25,217
Total                     157,5685          131,576              0.65            316,146
RUHENCERS                                                                        971,128
Ruhondo                     9,917             5,370              0.54            10L,os4
Cyabingo                   10,877             5,910              0.54            118,612
Nyarutavl                  10,661             6,210              0.56            100,470
Kigoabe                     9,583             6,470              0.66             60,6H3
Kini;g                      8,090             5,900         -    0.73             56,154
Sutaro                     10,399             6,620             0C.0              72,072
Mukingo                    6,796              5,835              0. 6             12,869
Nkuli                       7,147             5,600              0.79             22,754
Gatonde                     7,151             5,630               0.79            2,0 96
Ndunu                       7,906             5,955               0.75            32,067
Nyakinama                   9,830             4,530              0.46            141,118
Nyamuter                    6,246             4,106             O.               43,057
Nkumba                      7,392             5,040              0.60             44,726
Kidsho                      6,651             4,280               0.64            48,704
Nyamugal                    9,034             7,145               0.79            29,551
Cy.ru                      11,603             6,060              0.68             72,266
Total                     139,490            92,960              0.67            971,126



- 58 -
ANNEX 3.3
Page 1 of 2
RWANDA
FIRST EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
STRATEGY FOR IMPROVING THE QUALITY OF EDUCATION
1.    The ouality of education is reflected in the following three indicators:
(a) the supply and quality of inputs; (b) the 'climate* of the school and
classroom teaching; and (c) performance on tests and examinations. The data
available relate mainly to the first indicator; consequently, it would be the
principal focus in introducing changes, while improvements in teaching and
student performance would be both the changes and objectives to be attained.
2.    The inouts that would be targetted for improvement are those that
research has shown to affect quality. They are, in order of importance:
(a) teachers and the quality of their training; (b) textbooks and teaching
materials; (c) curricula; and (d) the "philosophy" and methods of supervision.
The impact of these inputs on Rwandan education would be strengthened as much
as possible by improving (a) the working conditions in all clAsses, (b)
personnel management and (c) the objectives and organization of the
examination administered at the end of primary school.
3.    In addition to improving the qualifications of primary school teachers
in methodology and fields of knowledge (i.e., concepts, facts and principles)
relevant to primary education, teaching skills would be upgraded through both
pre- and in-service training, with particular emphasis on: (a) understanding
(i) the pedagogical foundation of the primary subsystem and (ii) the
curriculum-by-objectives approach and its implications; 'b) developing an
acceptable standard of exoertise in (i) educational planning, both at the
classroom level and with regard to the functions of the various administrative
instruments employed to this end (i.e., the sequencing of the content, record
books and lesson plans), (ii) basic teaching techniques, (iii) specific
teaching methods for the various subjects, (iv) the structuring of lessons,
selection of methods.,and materials in relation to the objectives sought, and
evaluation of results and their use in improving the system; and (v) methods
of motivating students; and, finally, (c) consciousness-raising with regard to
(i) the impqrtance and use of time, (ii) teamwork in the schools, and (iii) a
clear perception of long-terr cognitive and behavioral objectives.
4.    As regards textbooks and teaching materials, improvements to textbooks
would consist of: (a) limiting the number I/ of textbooks to the absolute
1/    Limitation of the number of textbooks, together with their printing and
distribution, is included in the IMPRESCO component of the Third Education
Project (Cr. 1683-RW). This component also contains plans to establish
fees for book users, which will be deposited in a revolving fund to ensure
a supply of textbooks. Consequently, no new investment is planned for this
purpose.



- 59 -
ANNEX 3.3
Page 2 of 2
minimum necessary in relation to the main subjects (Kinyarwanda, French,
mathematics and the local environment), for reasons relating to the time
necessary for their development, costs and handling; (b) improving their
didactic quality; (c) advancing steadily the expertise with which primary
teachers use them; and (d) increasing their availability to and use by
teachers.
5.    Because the first cycle of primary education operates on a double shift
system, the time available for teaching is limited to about 17 hours per week.
As such, a principle underlying the development of curricula would be that
most of that time be devoted to the acquisition of basic knowledge and skills.
DEPEPERAI has the technical capacity to make sure that this is done.
Consequently, no investment is planned int his area, except for a minimum of
training.
6.    To a considerable degree, efficient supervision depends on the standards
set for the qualification of inspectors, the frequency of inspections and
their objectives and focus, and the manner in which counselling/feedback are
de" vered to teachers. The principles governing improvements in this area
would be: (a) upgrading of inspectors' qualifications; (b) preparation of
observation materials and grading charts as part of the program for evaluating
project impact; and (c) increased frequency of inspections for providing
advice and support for teachers.
7.    While improving quality is a very long-term process, it is also obvious
that no single input by itself can produce a significant improvement. As a
result, the principle of complementarity and irtegration of activities would
govern the strategy for improving quality.
S.    Support in the area of examinations and assessments would be provided in
such a way as to achieve the following: (a) adaptation of the examinations so
that they fulfill their functions better and strengthening their psychometric
characteristics; and (b) development of higher level skills as a result of the
educational experience. To a greater degree than in the past, the function of
examinations would be to provide feedback at the var.ious levels so that
adjustments can be made and remedial work undertaken to increase the level of
attainment of the majority of students.  The approach described above would be
suppo:ted by research to increase knowledge of the primary system's
operations, quality, effectiveness and efficiency.



- 60 -
ANNEX 3.4
Page 1 of 5
RWANDA
FIRST EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
OUALITY OF EDUCATION:
STRATEGY FOR IN-SERVICE TMIANING OF TEACHERS AND SUPERVISORS
I. SPECIFIC OBJECTIVES
1.          The specific objectives are to:
(a)   Upgrade the professional competence of unqualified primary school
teachers in accordance with the basic principles presented in Annex
3.3.
(b)   Upgrade  the  professional  competence  of  directors  and  sector
inspectors, strengthen their expertise in the same areas as teachers
while providing them with information on the theoretical foundations
of the training imparted, increase their mastery of the specific
methodologies applietd to the basic subjects, upgrade their expertise
and application of supervisory and advisory techniques and
instruments, and familiarize them with new approachs to staff
training and the promotion of new pedagogical ideas.
Cc)   Upgrade the overall competence of prefectoral inspectors with regard
to the management of pedagogical activities, as well as knowledge
and skills, by providing them with access to the most recent
educational thinking, including that regarding the theory of change
and techniques to promote it. This information must also include
methods for improving the management and use of resources.
I:. PRINCIPLES AND PROCEDURES
3.          The principles governing this upgrading are based on knowledge of
those factors that will most efficiently achieve the objectives and also on the
importance of certain human considerations, in particular the views of targetted
staff regarding the degree to which their contributions are requested and
integrated, the degree'of their icceptance of the training program (these factors
are among the principles underlying the theory o' change), and considerations
of constraints as they affect trainers and trainees. The principles guiding the
choice of objectives, course content and methods of training must be based on
the teaching problems encountered by the teachers themselves and on
identification of those techniques in which they are least skilled. They must
also take into account the skills and patterns of behavior that the decision-
makers wish to introduce. As a starting point, a profile should be prepared of
the knowledge and skills desired from teachers, directors and inspectors at the
sector level and that are regarded as necessary for the performance of their



- 61 -
ANNEX 3.4
Page 2 of 5
professional duties. To thJs end, the various procedures and instruments would
be as follows:
A.    PRIORITIES AND SCHEDTULING
4.          Before the component is launched, the needs of teachers for training
must be identified so that properly targetted training programs can be prepared
during the first year of the project.
5.          Once the component is launched, the priority in scheduling the
training would be to train school principals and sector inspectors. Training
for primary school teachers would begin in the second year of the project (once
the in-service training of the targetted trainers has been started by the
educational authorities) and would take the form of retraining courses,
pedagogical days (iournEes p6dagomiaues) and supervision of teachers and
provision of advice.
B.   MANAGEMENT AND REGULATORY STRUCTURE
6.          All trairing would be managed by the training program's Coordination
and Management Committee, chaired by the Director General of Pedagogical Studies
and Research.   In addition to preparing the overall plan for this training
program and the general content for the targetted groups (i.e., principals,
sector inspectors and prefectoral inspectors), the Committee would be in a
position to review/appraise in detail: (a) the technical aspects of central level
training and its objectives, content and methods, as well as the evaluation
procedures submitted to it; and (b) teacher training proposals submitted by
prefectoral inspectors. The Director of Personnel Training and the Director of
Primary Education would ensure that the Committee's decisions are properly
executed .l/
1/    ¶lWhen the retraining program to be financed by the United Nations Childrens
Fund (UNICEF) was prepared, the Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education
established a Committee in December 1988 to coordinate implementation of
the programs of advanced training and retraining for teachers.   The
Committee is supervised 4ointly by the Director General of Research and
Studies and the Director General of Primary Education. Advanced training
programs will be organized and supervised by the Director of Advanced
Training, assisted by the Director of Primary Education, the Director of
School Ins -;ction and the Director of the CNRE. The Directors of Primary
and Secondary Education Programs are members of tha Committee (with respect
to curricula issues), and the Committee also includes the Director of
Planning and the Management Division Chiefs, depending on the agendas.
It is also planned that the Ccmmittee will include any specialists whose
opinions would prove useful.  This same Committee could be used in this
project.



- 62 -
ANNEX 3.4
Page 3 of 5
C.    SELECTION OF TRAINEES
7.          As regards primarv teachers, the directors and sector inspectors are
the best-informed about individual professional shortcomings and are therefore
in the best position to select trainees.  The actual procedure for selection
would be determined at a later date and would take into account the quantitative
targets for the sector. Retraining is intended for all unqualified first- and
second-cycle teachers, i.e. , about 6,500 teachers who possess "post-primary
certificates" or have failed to complete the secondary cycle. However, it would
be necessary to test them briefly to divide them into comparatively homogeneous
groups and ascertain whether they possess adequate basic knowledge (i.e., as
regards writing, reading, understanding of the material to be taught, etc.).
8.          Sector inspectors and principals should be selected whose academic
standards and professional performance give them the necessary :redibility vis-
&-vis their subordinates and enable them to benefit from the training and the
possibility of integration into the new structure. They should also possess a
sound command of French, because its strengthening in primary education is key
to any qualitative progress at the secondary level.
9.          As far as possible, provision should be made to replace the most
incompetent individuals, and, at the school level, qualified teachers should be
selected who are capable of transmitting the training they have received to their
colleagues, rather than inefficient heads of institutions.
D.    CONTENT AND METHODS
10.         The various training programs described in this report are intended
to be indicative. In particular, those intended for teachers must be based in
part on what the teachers themselves identify as desirable, so that their
priority training needs can be ascertained as precisely !s possible. The results
of these studies (in the form of tests for determining their basic level of
general knowledge and questionnaires to elucidate, pedagogical and practical
issues) would provide a means for defining precisely the training objectives and
content appropriate for the general training standards and qualifications to be
achieved. These activities would also be used to establish a training evaluation
system for the project.
11.         The content for primarv school teachers' trainina should focus on
a rapid revision of their basic academic knowledge and an enhanced understanding
of the following: (a) the pedagogical foundations of the education system and
its basic principles; (b) the fundamental information necessary to understand
the curriculum-by-objectives approach and its implications; (c) basic concepts
of educational psychology; (d) lesson preparation and presentation and related
techniques;  (e) elementary  assessment  procedures;  and  (f) basics  of class
management, student motivation, the preparation and use of teaching materials,



- E3 -
ANNEX 3.4
Page 4 of 5
and the benefits of teamwork.   It is suggested that only 35 percent of the
training time be devoted to theory and the rest to practical work. The traininf
methods employed should themselves serve as a demonstration of sound practices.
12.         Separate programs would be prepared and provided for teachers from
each of the two primary cycles. The training program for the second cycle would
devote somewhat more attention (one week) to theoretical, methodological and
practical problems of language teaching, particularly French.
13.         The  content  of the  training  for sector  inspectors  and  school
directors should be practically the same as for second-cycle teachers, although
greater attention would be paid to the theoretical aspects and the issues of
observation, communication, counseling, school management, the motivation of
teachers and leadership. Additional topics could include the more efficient use
of human and financial resources and the organizttion of examinations'.
14.         The content of the seminars and workshops for PrAfectoral inspectors
would address the overall management of pedagogical activities, including the
theory and practice of supervising training in specific subjects, and raising
the level of general educational awareness.
E.    MONITORING AND ASSESSMENT
15.         This essential aspect of training would be carried out by the
University of Rwanda.  The assessment would comprise two phases: first, the
development of technical tools for evaluating training achievement and, second,
application of the tools to determine the impact of the training on students.
III. PRINCIPLES AND PROCEDURES FOR IMPLEMENTATION
A.    FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
16.         The  training  of  prefectoral  and  sector  inspectors  and  school
directors would be handled at the central level by the ,eneral Directorate of
Pedagogical. Studies and Research or, on its behalf           the case of sector
directors, by the Drefectoral inspectorates. Once the Training Coordination and
Management Committee has approved the annual programs, they must be submitted
to the DFCS so that the necessiry financing can be assessed.  The DFCS would
(following consultation with IDA) open a line of credit for the center at which
the training is to be provided  and may, if some of the latter possesses a
finance office, transfer the funds to them for each course before it starts.
In the latter case, evidence of expenditures must be prepared at the end of each
training session and submitted to the DFCS administrator.
17.         At the prefectoral level, inspectors would manage the training of
terachers and, if so delegated, that of the school directors. The annual in-
service training programs of the prefectoral inspectorates, once approved by



- 64 -
ANNEX 3.4
Page 5 of 5
the Training Coordination Committee, would be submitted to the DFCS for cost
assessment and the allocation of financing, which would have to be utilized in
accordance with the same conditions as defined above, with the training center
being replaced by a teacher-training school.
B.    QUANTITATIVE PROGRAM
18.         The  10  Drefectoral  inspectors  would  receive  one  week  of
training/information each per year throughout the project period. Some higher-
level staff from the Ministry could also be included in that training.  The
training would be mixed, with instructors incluiding both external consultants
and UNR professors.
19.         The 150 sector inspectors would receive three weeks of training each
per year for four years. In light of the practical nature of this training, they
would be divided into 3 groups of 50 participants each, and these groups may be
divided into 2 subgroups. The academic training -- provided by two instructors
per week -- would be provided by Rwandese nationals, although there might be a
need for some non-Rwandese input. This input would be restricted to three weeks
per year. The annual program would be submitted to the DFCS for the allocation
of financing under the same conditions as described above.
20.         The 650 school directors would receive a total of seven weeks'
training each throughout the project period. This training would be mixed (with
academic instruction provided by two people per week) and may be provided at
the central and/or local level, if so designated by the Training Coordination
Committee. Because of the practical nature of this training, the participants
may be divided into smaller groups of about 50 people each. The annual program,
for which the Training Coordination Committee would be responsible (in
consultation with prefectoral officials), would be submitted to the DFCS for
the allocation of financing, under the same conditions as defined above.
21.         About 6,500 teachers would receive four weeks of training in the
second and third years of the project, i.e., eight weeks of training for two
years for first-cycle teachers, then the following two years for second-cycle
teachers. 'The training would be provided through teacher-training schools,
retraining centers and other facilities in the prefectures.   The practical
aspects of the activities may-be partly organized and implemented through
pedagogical days, which should be frequent events complementing the teacher
training and mobilization activities. For practical reasons, the 6,500 teachers
should be divided into groups consisting of between 25 and 30 people, each having
3 instructors.   The  training would be given by  school directors,  sector
inspectors, specialists in educational psychology and experts from the
'pedagogical units' (directions D4dafozioues).



RWANDA
FIRST EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
Summary Accounts Cost Summary
FRW                              US3                           N Total
------------------------------    ---------------------------   X Foreign       Base
Local   Foreign     Total       Local  Foreign    Total      Exchange     Costs
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
___________________
A. CIVIL WORKS                      660.0      61.1      611.1         4.2      0.5      4.7          10.0      26.7
B. FURNITURE                        184.7      20.5      206.3         1.4      0.2      1.6          10.0       9.0
C. EQUIPMENT A VEHI ULES              0.0     116.8      116.8         0.0      0.9      0.9        100.0        6.1
0. PEDAGOCICAL MATURIAL               0.0     332.9      332.9         0.0      2.6      2.6         100.0      14.6
E. TECINICAL ASSISTANCE               0.0     234.0     234.0          0.0      1.8      1.8        100.0       10.2
F. TRAINING
1. LOCAL                         342.6      60.6     403.0          2.6      0.6      3.1         15.0      17.6
2. FOREICN                         0.0     118.2     113.2          0.0      0.9      0.9        100.0       6.2
Sub-Total                           342.6     173.6      521.2         2.6      1.4      4.0         34.3       22.8                 E
0. STUDIES A FUTURE PROJECT           0.0     138.3      138.3         0.0      1.1      1.1        100.0        6.0                  H
Total INVESTMENT COSTS             1077.3    101.2    2165.5          8.3      8.3     16.6         60.1       94.4
II. RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                                                  '   x   I
A. ADDITIONAL OPERATING COST         16.9     112.0      127.9         0.1      0.9      1.0         87.6        6.6                 o
Total BASELINE COSTS               1093.1    1193.2    2236.4          8.4      9.2     17.6         62.2      100.0                 n
Physical Centingncice            128.9      96.9     224.8          1.0      0.7      1.7         42.6        9.8                 o
Price Ceatiagenci-e              806.3     122.9     988.2          6.7      0.9      7.6         12.4       43.2
Total PROJECTS COSTS               2067.3    1412.0    3499.4         16.1     10.9     26.9         40.4      153.1
- -----------~~~__=                     =                                                                             r'i_== _
0
Valel  Scaled by 1000000.0 -   12/4/1990  16:03



RWANDA
FIRST EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
Project Cost Summary
FR3                              US3                           X Total
_____-_--__________--------- --                --------------   X Foreiga       Base
Local   Foreign     Total       Local  Foreign   Total       Exchaa9      Costs
A. PRIMARY EDUCATION FUND           699.6       77.7     777.3         6.4      0.6      6.0          10.0      34.0
S. PR. EDUC. QUAL. ASPECTS
1. PRE-SERVICE TEACHER TR.        37.3      70.2     106.0          0.3      0.6      0.6         66.0       4.7
2. IN-SERVICE TEACH. TR.         326.9     296.1    631.0           2.5      1.6      4.1         33.6      23.2
3. APPLIED PED. RESEARCH           1.1     342.3     343.4          0.0      2.6      2.6         99.7      16.0
Sub-Total                           384.3     617.6     982.3          2.0      4.8      7.6         62.9      43.0
C. MHHENT CENTRAL LEVEL
1. INFORM., PLANNING A EVAL.        6.O      67.0      92.0         0.0       0.7      0.7         94.6       4.0
2. BUDGETING A FIN. CONTROL        0.6      37.3      37.9          0.0      0.3      0.3         96.4       1.7
3. PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT            6.1      36.4      41.4         0.0       0.3      0.3         67.7       1.3
4. MANAGEMENT OF EXAMS             0.0       3.8       3.8          0.0      0.0      0.0        100.0       0.2
------------------------------    _____________________-___      ------------ - - - - - --      -    -
Sub-Total                            10.7     164.4    175.1           0.1      1.3      1.3         93.9       7.7                    m
D. M MENT DECENTRALIZED LEV.
1. PREFECTORAL LEVEL MUMENT        0.0       4.1       4.1         0.0      0.0       0.0        100.0       0.2
2. ADL A FIN MOMENT SEC. SCH        6.9      62.3      71.3          0.1      0.C      0.5         37.6       3.1
3. PED. MOMENT OF SCHOOLS          1.9       5.1       6.6         0.0       0.0      0.1         74.0       0.3
Sub-Total                            10.7      71.5      82.2          0.1      0.5      0.6         97.0       3.6                    z p       0%
E. UWR MANIMENT 11WRNOEUENT           0.7      31.1      31.9          0.0      0.2      0.2         97.7        1.4                   I >
F. MANAGEMENT OF THE PROJECT          6.6     230.9     237.6         0.1       1.9      1.          97.2      10.4 
Total BASELINE COSTS               1093.1    1193.2    2236.4          8.4      9.2     17.6         6 52.2   100.0
Physical Contlag clei            126.9      95.9     224.6          1.0      0.7      1.7         42.6       9.6
Price Contingencies               665.3    122.9     966.2          6.7      0.9      7.6         12.4      43.2
0
Total PROJECTS COSTS               2067.3    1412.0    3499.4         16.1     10.9     26.9         40.4     153.1                    H
Values Scaled by 1000000.0 - 12/4/1990 15:03
1W
0



RWANDA
FIRST EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
Summary Account by Project Coeenpnt
FRI
PRE-SERV  IN-SERVI                     BUDCETIN PERSONNE             PREFECTO    ADM A    PED.
PRINARY     ICE      CE      APPLIED  INFORM.,    C a         L     IANACEME    RAL        FIN    HM'ENT
EDtCATIO  TEACHER  TEACH.    PED.   PLANNING    FIN.    MANACEJE   NT OF    LEVEL    M'"ENT           OF
N FUND     TR.       TR.   RESEARCH   A EVAL.  CONTROL    NT          EXAMS   MUENT   SEC. SCH  SCHOOLS
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
____________________
A. CIVIL WORKS                      Ct2.1      39.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
B. FURNITURE                        206.3       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
C. EQUIPMENT A VENICULES              0.0      13.9      46.C      10.1      12.9       6.0       4.7       0.0       0.0       6.6       0.0
D. PEDACOCICAL MATERIAL               0.0      36.8       0.0    298.1        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
E. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE               0.0       3.7      62.0       3.4      42.9       0.0      17.8       3.6       0.0      21.0       4.7
F. TRAINING
1. LOCAL                             0.0       1.7    378.0        0.1       4.6       0.0       5.C       0.0       0.0       9.9       2.1
2. FOREIGN                           0.0       0.0       0.0      23.9      19.8      26.9       9.6       0.0       4.1      29.4       0.0
Sub-total                             0.0       1.7    378.0       24.0      24.3      2C.9      15.1       0.0       4.1      39.3       2.1
C. STUDIES A FUTURE PROJECT           0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS              777.3      96.0    486.6    333.6        30.0      31.9      37.6       3.8       4.1      65.7       6.3   a,
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. ADDITIONAL OPERATING COST          0.0      13.0      46.6       9.8      12.0       6.0       3.8       0.0       0.0       5.5       0.0
Total BASELINE COSTS                777.3     106.0    531.0    343.4        92.0      37.9      41.4       3.0       4.1      71.3       e.8
Physical Conti _ ci-              116.,      12.5      31.1      33.0       C.8       2.5       2.5       0.2       0.2       4.1       0.3
Price Conting.mcios               569.8      33.0    286.0       22.3      13.0       3.6       6.9       0.5       0.2      13.1       2.0
Total PROJECT COSTS                1463.7    163.6    848.1    398.6    110.8          44.0      50.8       4.t       4.5      86.5       9.2
Taxos                              87.8       C.3       3.5       0.8       0.9       0.C       0.3       0.0       0.0       0.4       0.0
Foreign Exchaug                   101.3      33.0    243.8    397.0    102.7         43.1      43.5       4.6       4.6      72.7       6.0
… -------- --------- -------- -   ------- --------- -------- --------- ----     ---    ----  …---
Values Scaled by 1000000.0 12/41/1990 16:02
0
aXI-
W",



FzMSv 0UCATION SECTO PRECT
Summy Ac...t by Project Component
FR,
WE    MAAEME                   Physicael       Price
MAh'MENT   UT OF                Cotinonmctlo    Contingenclie
1WROVEM    THE
Dff   PROCT    Total          s    Amout       X  A_mt
I. RNEST  COSTS
A. CIVIL NORS                      0.0       0.0    611.1     16.0     91.7   72.9    445.5
S. FUM11IlUK                       0.0       0.0    206.3     16.0     80.0   78.8    160.4
C. EII T  VWIULES                  5.3      11.t    116.0     10.0     11.6    6.5       7.0
D. PDAGOGICAL MATERIAL             0.0       0.0   832.9      10.0     88.1    6.0      20.0
E. IECNICAL ASSISTANCE             0.0      66.6    234.0      5.0     11.7   11.2      20.2
F. 7RAININS
1. LOCAL                          0.2       1.0    408.0      5.0     20.2   70.1    202.7
2. FORIGEN                        2.7       2.8    118.2      5.0      5.9    9.7      11.4
Sub-total                          2.9       3.9    621.2      6.0     26.1   5.4    204.1                                 c
0. STUDIES A FUTUIE PROJECT        9.3    130.0    130.3       C.0      0.9   14.0      19.4                               C
Tota l DWESTWEIT COSTS            26.0    211.1   2153.5       9.0    212.0   44.0   902.9 0
II. REEUlrE COSTS
A. ADDITIONAL OPERTDIN  COST       C.8      20.5    127.9     10.0     12.0   19.8      25.3                               C
-   ----------                  ------                                            0
Total BASELIIE COSTS              81.9    237.0   2206.4       9.3    224.3   43.2   900.2
Physical Contingencies            2.      13.0    224.6
Price Ceattng.nceon               4.1     33.7   908.2      10.0      90.7                                               C
Total PROJECT COSTS               83.2    205.0   8499.4       9.2    823.5   20.2   906.2
T.os.                            0.4       0.0     99.3     12.7      12.7
Foreign Exchan                   87.1    272.8   1412.0      7.4    104.7
Valu  Seald by 1060000.0 12/4/1060 15:02
ea.
0



tWANDA
FIRST EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
Financing Plan by Project Coeponato
US'
IDA             UNDP         Gov-rnoent         Total                Local
___________________________--__---__--------------------------------   For.    (Encl.  DOtilo
Amrnat    X    Amount    X    Amount    X    Ameunt    X          Exch.   Tax-)   A Tax.
A. PRIMARY EDUCATION FUND         10.1   90.0      0.0    0.0      1.1   10.0    11.3   41.3        0.3      9.3      0.7
S. PRE-SERVICE TEACHER TR.        1.1   91.3       0.0    2.7      0.1    6.0       1.2    4.4      0.6      0.C      0.0
C. IN-SERVICE TEACH. TR.          6.7   37.2       0.6    8.4      0.3    4.3       6.6   24.2      1.9      4.6      0.0
D. APPLIED PED. RESEARCH          3.0   93.7       0.0    1.0      0.0    0.4       3.1   11.4      3.1      0.0      0.0
E. INFORM., PLUNNING A            0.4   E2.0       0.4   48.0      0.0    1.9       0.9    3.2      0.3      0.1      0.0
F. BUSOETING A FIN. CONTROL       0.3   97.9       0.0    0.0      0.0    2.1       0.3    1.3      0.3      0.0      0.0
0. PERSDUNEL MANAOEENT            0.2   50.4       0.2   41.3      0.0    1.3       0.4    1.6      0.3      0.1      0.0
H. MANAGEMENT OF EXAMS            0.0    0.0       0.0  100.0      0.0    0.0       0.0    0.1      0.0      0.0      0.0
I. PREFECTORAL LEVEL M'ME         0.0  100.0       0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0       0.0    0.1      0.0      0.0      0.0
J. ADM A FIN U'MENT SEC.          0.6   71.6       0.2   26.7      0.0    1.6       0.7    2.6      0.6      0.1      0.0      E
K. PED. MI'MENT OF SCHOOLS    *   0.0   36.9       0.0   61.4      0.0    1.7       0.1    0.3      0.0      0.0      0.0
L. UNR MAN'MENT IWROVEMENT        0.3   97.7       0.0    0.0      0.0    2.3       0.3    1.1      0.3      0.0      0.0      M
M. MANAGEMENT OF THE              1.6   69.7       0.6   26.6      0.1    3.8       2.2    6.1      2.1      0.1      0.0
Total Disbura..nt                23.3   86.6       2.0    7.6      1.6    6.0    26.9  100.0    10.9    16.3          0.8
----------- - ----0~~~~~~~~~------
Values Scaled by 1000000.0  12/4/1990  15:03
inDo
:0
0
L4
0
PX~~~'



FIRST EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
Finauciag Plas by Disbursmeont Category
US'
IDA             U1NDP        Government         Tot I                Local
___-_ __ --------- --- - ---  -------------                    ----- ---  For.   (Excl.  Duties
Amount    I    Amount    X    Amount    X    Amount    X           Exch.  Tnome)  A Tax.
A. CIVIL WORKS                    7.9   90.0       0.0    0.0      0.9   10.0       3.8   32.8      0.6      7.7      0.5
B. FURNITURE                      2.7   90.0       0.0    0.0      0.3   10.0       3.0   11.0      0.2      2.6      0.2
C. VEHICULE A EqUIPUENT           1.0  400.0       0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0       1.0    3.9      1.0      0.0      0.0
D. PEDAGOGICAL MATERIAL           3.0  100.0       0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0       3.0   11.0      3.0      0.0      0.0
E. LOCAL TRAINING                 5.2   0 .6       0.0    0.0      0.2    4.5       5.4   20.2      0.6      4.9      0.0
F. TRAINING ABROAD                1.0  100.0       0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0       1.0    3.9      1.0      0.0      0.0
C. STUDIES A FUTURE PROJECT       1.3  100.0       0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0       1.3    4.7      1.3      0.0      0.0
H. TECHNICAL ASST. (ex.           0.0    0.0       2.0  100.0      0.0    0.0       2.0    7.6      2.0      0.0      0.0    F1
1. TECHNICAL ASST. AT UNR         0.1  100.0      0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0      0.1    0.3       0.1      0.0     0.0
J. INCREM'TAL OPERATINC           1.1   84.3       0.0    0.0      0.2   15.7       1.3    4.7      1.1      0.1      0.1
Total DIaburagm_ t        ~      23.3   86.5       2.0    7.6      1.6    6.0    26.9  100.0    10.9    15.3          0.6
Valueo Scaled by 1000000.0 12/4/1990  16:03                                                                                                  -
0
En   I
r'i
0
0
r'1
0~~~0
a' 
0
'ibw
ov u



b-i
Firt Euatto. Sector Project
Iloeotat oI Schedule
l   du tcal..f   Fund
Specialist    ""Iet s 
5. leec  f seemd cycle~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Si a
r}411-^ta    aobXTE         -    -   111k        sIz1-    z  1   I  l-33!-1  1 L[                                        IIu  l 
SWIA lrst sei"l                                  ttW        iglg itt   csaAt l X                                        
L.OtA - °1  __  I  'i-I L  - --- _ 
tralmllg~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.i



Rw.anda,
First Edcat ion Seot-r Proje-t
Implementation S<hecule
- =          --  19?2                         3 -T----- 1S 3
.   JS101"10OIJ  -t      J_ATS -0 ^: OD'J * im xi| A   11 U    '-'Al i Jr 7-WS lOtIWAfVA         I D' FA DZl^J "g F>* JJ I}*g
u pment                                                                : , I                 _                               i imii
b Iludr t ing                                                            t
T5Iiradning abroadocunents tn *v
llov_ller  1 9
z m ~ ~ ~       ~          ~          ~           ~         ~          ~         ~         ~          o
TrainiLng abro"         ... . . . .      ~        ~         ~        ~        ~        ~        ~        ~       ~        ~       ~       *1
7 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ "0



-73-                                                          AMElX 3. 7
Page 1 of I
SMY UP WKZM.37 U~~~~~P  XPAM 
A maje,aoimum /I so                    .S   IS                                                                  mSe
P.ROML.AVSV..U S 11Mn
1 Pso-oo"wlo. trebuling of1"    toug .                1 *1.06                  1.e0               uw
-Veadhee trbinl~~ ~~oeb.l loto    S             16.00                         Wam
.t_, *ws1^1." 1"11@*           0              ".eo~~~~~~.0                 W
Mesltoit for .s         ,,riel
dewelsmet of erofotor,
1__et                                            a              g.e      i.e oa
4eimaulteate for l.-go."                                                                      Wm
AT TM Coodrooor.3                                                                          a        amtae
* Del le  Pedgegoe Peserd
inmltet fr p     erevJ        e.                  *              i.        *.e_
-Ceutet for owoluetb   tw.                       I0             0.00                          ti
a. _gia  simtse iw
1 ueferet_le, PI.ebum  A beluetbe
-MUuetbeeel Stetlotbebee                          I                                           k.w i
4sMOter SpeIaIlI*,                                I             U .o                          uoM
11uestion Plew.r                                  I               .m ta
-U1duestlemal bweluetlun hpesielotI60                                                         a
_I P_r_nel Nombe  emat
-ptormee.o meoognemA adate preeeeelng
m.ts.t                                           a              14.00                        lW
lavelftstlefte ~NDGeeeM
C utent, be   d..t.h  .e.d  -   ne"               I              a.c0                         WP
.4..ee,.h    .                                   S                        a                     r
C. KDnIc: aminlgiewe                Ui1
AT  1 1mJZW Lam.
I Adeln. A Fin. beegeeee of See. S'e  is
-A. etlRg lPoel let                               1              6.00                         tamp
-inmultent, to gerdieete tr.  .tlw*teog           1               1.0o                        Wm
-a  Specialists wouedert"h   4 te i,   8i                                10.00                Wm
S Pedegeglel 11afesgemet of See. sehoubo
-Ceinsulteet to help with trlle                                    .e                        lam
1 i Plaesgemat, loteforiout spot"e
C" ltoete, to kelp develep, "ZS                                  5.16     0.75                 S
D. UM=   einuw
I Uo   for_  I9f the WmS
-E le.., In Ilarth  C                             1              1.0      0.7
4lddbeo Eaporo                                    1               1.00 t*SP
-AIdlter/Aeeeseete Ceetrel lop                    1       t$8.75                               W
tUTU.                                                                               64            111.00    11.16



_ 74 _                                                            ANNEX 3.8
Page 1 of 1
Pmw UIJATIOI so"~ PMao
OP   w S            e      m             O
mriom      CAL4   M      M U
1011111111111110PDW'De0
A. 086LWDATIOM/AN111ON111
DaO4V3        OPF PDVWIt SI.
I Pre-Gopvise training o1 toscers,
-WorldInge Ohil Is.  ieebiirere of
leggIr training oelelow                           s0     L              60.00         MA (.9)/OT (.)
9  n-gervie Irnining
-Por ereleebern  IAP* stors,                       10    L.               10.00        mA (.9)/aowr (.i)
-Per 60.1f  Ifeps4boP6                            Sao      1             480.00        MA CV)/am  (.1)
-Per primrp  I_1  direebere                       660      1            U1181.00       MSA (.*)/GM    1)
a AgoiIa  P.dagg1 i6 I fe rek
-0ad, In Pr.. edlting, ,,,,r. dew. a Iva.           a      P              60.00        IDA
.-la   training In eu.rr. d.v. a ova.              40      L              40.00        MA (.9)/Q    (.1)
6. M516: ¶ITOWflUgP IWVSET
AT TM CeIRAL La.
I Znfecmbie   Pleroin  * Uvalvebim
1olhelarehip 1o etudies In a. S ieiti                I      P              11.OO       MA
-11"s  rahip for studiese 1in CespWe so.             I      P              11.00        MA
-Seke.1^ruip for stdio., ift W. Panning              I      P              11.00        MA
*Goleievehsip for  tudi. la a. awaluebion           1      P1.00                       MA
-TreIning frlet iefers.t In plGAning.
evalu~ation a AnfertWigA t"olnele
-Prefeeterai Inepoebere                      10     L              10.00        WA (.)OT  (.1)
-lSeter iAa0wUe*                            148     L             148.00        WA (.)/GOVT (.1)
a Owdgesing a Pintanolal Control
-oherb braining esuree. abroad In
Pineneisi1 management                              A     P               18.00        WA
-111shI.rtkip for studies In Aseomining              a      P              18.00        WA
-ehlnalrekip for studio. In Pia. "*netemn           1     P               11.00        IMA
a Personnel management
-Tr.aining en Pereennol Date Pe.oee noag             7      P              21.00        WA
-Operulien of serking grop on
Pereannel management                               10      L              10.00        MSA (.9)/GOVT (.1)
-TreAin"I an egvleriaasll et por se ne
monatesaee.                                        Io      L              011.00       :DA (.9)/GOVT (.)
C. MDI6Ulm I S *iOl)64U MMMET
AT OUU1rPLUM  L1111.8.
I Pr61..lerel Level l nsggesrb
-TrainlAg abpa.d for I mnbeat
In the are. of d.eeonralia.blen                     I     P               6.00        WA
A5 ain. A Pla. MBansagmen  of bad. keIwl.
-Training  nbred In Pinenial Managemesnl            is      P              17.00        WA
-Tralinng In *4 1111for nw "G. al
direeter. end annuAel traBiniAg for
twenty bursar. IA AdainlelArabien and
Pineneiul "lInageean.                             10o      L             160.00        MA (.9)/GOT (.1)
IPdagegsael NaiASoGIA  of Se.. ge"lugl
Tranllne I nA pedg"ig manageme 6 o1
1in eee"eedry seheai direatere and
'Pref.e d'Etud..  St the  J1                              L              61.00        WA (.)/GOVT (.1)
0. 1W T b             i 
I km6 lhtnag@wA   LermstiWA Swab..
41eleilershys abrd In plinnin /
sam:"mont.                                                P.00                         ISA
-LeesI TraInting on Phnageegt Mmdcla                1s      L               8.78        WA (.0) /aOV  C. 1)
-L, SI Training M Capuper Uls.                       I      L               4 .         IMA  .9/OT (-1)
I Sperb. for th  OMe
-Sehoiarhip for 311 loks braining 61 a
IvildIng  ngiAgear                                  I     P               8.78        MSA
-LaeeisIt-I raImeaingW  bu IId Ino %SohnI oese
be 180 imeser ln*ope.er.                           1O     L             180.00        WA (.)/GOVT (1)
TOTAL                              L13                                                                       9106.00



- 75 -                          ANNEX 3.9
Page 1 of 2
RWANDA
FIRST EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
SUPERVISION SUMMARY
1.   Bank suDervision input.  Regular supervision needs are described in
Table 1 below. In addition, specific tasks such as review of progress
reports, procurement and disbursement actions, audit reviews, etc., are
estimated to require a total of five-staff weeks of various specialists
inputs per annum.
2.   Borrower'g contribution to supervision
(a) Progress reports will be submitted twlce a year, in June and
Decemberl they will comprise a summary of implementation under each
project component, as well as financial tables. The DFCS will
collect inputs from each responsible Directorate and prepare the
reports,
(b) Once a year, in october at the latest, a joint government/IDA mission
would be undertaken to review the draft investment and recurrent
budgets fcr the sector for the upcoming fiscal year and of the three
year rolling plan to ensure development of the sector consistent with
the government financing capability while respecting the priority of
allocating rewources to primary education and quality inputs. In
addition, and by april 30, 1991 at the latest, a government/IDA mid-
torm? review would be undertaken to assess progress in achieving the
project development objectives.
(c)  The PIU will be responsible for coordinating arrangements for IDA and
donor supervision missions and for providing information to them.
(d) Mission briefing and wrap-up meetings will ba chaired by the Director
of the DFCS rnl will include all directors concerned as well as the
key MinisttJ of Finance and Ministry of Interior staff.
3.   Cofinanciers'contribution to supervision. UNDP will share
supervision tasks with the Banl as follows: (a) participation to all
missions briefing and wrap up meetings; (b) separate, focused supervision
missions will be conducted with full consultations on TORs, aide-memoires
and results.



- 76 -                              ANNEX 3.9
Page 2 of 2
Table is Bank suvervision inDut into key activitles
Staff
Schedule          Activities                     Skill reaulrements      weeks
06/91        Review of effectiveness and             Educator               4
d'sbursement conditiors                ArchLtect
10/91        First PIP/PEP joint review              Educator              8
supervLsion                            Economist
Management specialist
Architect
04/92       Supervision                              Educator              6
Management specialLst
Architect
10/92       Second joint PIPIPEP review              Educator              6
supervLsion                             Economist
Archltect
04/93       Mid-term joint review                    Educator              8
Economist
Management specialist
Architect
10/93       Third joint PIP/PEP review               Educator              6
supetvision                             Economist
Architect
04/94       Supervision                              Educator              6
Management specialist
Architect
10/94       Fourth joint PIP/PEP revlew              Educator              6
supervision                             Economist
Architect
04/95       Supervision                              Educator              6
Management specialist
Architect
10/95       Fifth Joirt PIP/PEP review               Educator              6
supervisio.;                             Economist
Architect
04/96       Supervision                              Educator              6
Management specialist
ArchLtect
02/97       Completioi mission                                             10



-77-                          ANNEX 3.10
Page 1 of 1
RWANDA
FIRST EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
SCHEDULE OF ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS
CALENDRIER DES DECAISSEMENTS
(In USS million)
ACCUMULATED       UNDISBURSED
QUARTER             DISBURSEMENT            DISBURSEMENTS       BALANCE
FY 92
1                     1.00                   1.00              22.30
2                     1.10                   2.10              21.20
3                     1.10                   3.20              20.10
4                     1.10                   4.30              19.00
FY 93
1                     1.10                   5.40              17.90
2                     1.20                   6.60              16.70
3                     1.20                   7.80              15.50
4                     1.20                   9.00              14.30
FY 94
1                     1.50                  10.50              12.80
2                     1.50                  12.00              11.30
3                     1.50                  13.50               9.80
4                     1.20                  14.70               8.60
FY 95
1                     1.20                  15.90               7.40
2                     1.20                  17.10               6.20
3                     1.10                  18.20               5.10
4                     1.10                  19.30               4.00
FY 96
1                     1.10                  20.40               2.90
2                     1.00                  21.40               1.90
3                     1.00                  22.40               0.90
4                     0.90                  23.30               0.00



- 78 -
ANNEX 3,11
Mars 1991
Monsieur Francisco Aguirre-Sacasa
Directeur
D6partement des Pays des Grands Lacs
et de I'Oc6an Indian
Banque mondialo
1818 H Street
Washington D.C. 20433
USA
Obj: Premier Projet Education Sectorial
Strat6gic du Gouvemement du Rwanda
Dana Is secteur de I'Edueatlon
Monsieur Is Directour,
J'al I'honnaur de vous faire part cli-pr6s, de Is stratibgi du gouvemement du Rwanda
pour ie secteur de I'Education. Comma vous l seavez, Is sectour do l'Education a felt l'objet en
1977, pour ses aspects enseignoment primaire et socondaire, d'uns r6forme do see objectife.
do so structure at de see contanus. La strat6gie at ibs modallt#s pratiqucs d'application de
catte r6forme ont permls d'on concritiser les principaux objectifs formola visas.
La r6forme ayant couvert an 1987 I'ensomble des onseignements primaire et
socondaira, Is moment 6talt venu de procider a son 6valuation par rapport, non pas b css
objectifs formels, male a ses objectifs g6n6raux de d6mocratisation, d'association de i'Ccole au
processus do d6velopemont national, et de renforcement do Is culture at do Ia langua nationals,
at, d'une manu6re plus g6nerale, d'am6lioration de Ia quallt6 de l'enseignement, condition
fondamentals de Ia rentabilisation des sacrifices financiers consentis. Cotte 6valuation, en
particuller au niveau de i'anseignement primairs, etait d'autant plus n6cessalre qua Is contexte
soclo-aconomique devenait plus contraignant par suite des fluctuations de Ia valour de noe
exportations et qua la population r6clamait la modification de certains aspects de notre systec
scolaire.
Catte op6ration, a laquelle diff6rents organe i at institutions nationaux ont particip6 a
abouti au besoin de proc6d#r a l'adaptation de cirtLins des aspects de Ia r6forme pour mieux
assurer la realisation de ses objectifs ge6nraux. En cons6quence, Ie gouvernement du Rwanda
a d6volopp6 un sch6ma directeur d'adaptation de Ia r6forme aux nouvelles r6alit6s dont lee
principes directeurs, les objectifs et la strat6gie sont donn6s ci-apris:
1. Princliss directeurs
Compte tenu des contraintes et problemes sectoriels evoqu6s an Annex 1, Ise
principes directeurs de la strat6gie du gouvernement sont les suivants:
(a)    I'expansion des ditf6t'ents niveaux d. systime dducatif et lour
am6lioration qualitative so situcront dans iee limitac des capacitis
nationales de financcment des charges r6currentes & I'horizon de
programmation retenu. Dans co cadre, et an conformit6 avoc Is



- 79 -
politique g6n6rale de rigueur financiere du gouvernement, uno attention
particuliere sera apport6e a la gestion des programmes sectoriels
d'investissement et de depenses quel qu'en soit la source de
financement;
(b)    Ia fonction ossentielle fix6e au systCme 6ducatif etant d'assurer un
enseignement de qualit6 et au moindre coOt, les objectifs C cot offet
seront d'amUliorer la pertinence des contenus et des mdthodes
d'enseignement et d'accrottre la part dans les d6penses de
fonctionnement de celle directement Wias aux aspects qualitatifs;
Ic)    compte tenu de Ia limitation des ressources publiques et du besoin
d'accrottre le niveau de l'accds a l'ducation, I'er couragement do la
contribution des organisations privees au financement et developpement
de l'enseignoment et, de cello des parents a la couverture des frais de
scolarisation, en particulier aux niveaux post-primaires, sera
systematiquement poursuivi tout en prevoyant un system. d'aide
financiere aux eleves doues mais d'origine socio-iconomique
difavorises;
Id)    pour le developpement du systeme 6ducatif, Ia prioriti continuers a Otre
donnee a l'enseignement primaire pour des raisons de rentabilite sociale
comme de promotion des bases de l'opportuniti d'acces aux niveaux
suivants. Le diveloppement des niveaux post-primaires sera fonction
des capacitis financieres publiques et des mesures d'encouragement du
sectour prive;
(e)    I'amelioration de Ia qualite de l'education Ost l'un des factours los plus
importants de l'efficacite de l'utilisation des ressources par sa
rentabilisation de l'ensemble des investissoments (amilioration do Ia
retention, de Ia fluidite et du niveau de realisation des objectifs
cognitifs). Toutefois par sa nature, I'amelioratlon de la qualite est un
processus gradual et a long torme dont le succes depend de Ia prise en
compto du cortexts de depart, du degre d'implication des principaux
acteurs dons I'elaboration de la strategie a rotenir et de IA fiexibilite de
gestion du processus. A cot effet, Is systeme de gestion de Is qualite
sera guide par la continuite et sera articule autour de la contribution et
de la responsabilisation de I'encadremont aux diffirents niveaux, de Ia
flexibilite des interventions et dos possibilites d'ivaluation et
d'ajustement.
If)    on vue de definir los mecanismes et processus d'application des
principes ci-dessus, leur mise on oeuvre et lour suivi, uns attention
soutenue sera accord6s a l'amelioration de l'efficaciti des difflrents
sous-systhmes de gestion, on particulior de coux relatifs a l'information,
I'analyse et la pr6paration de la decision, le devoloppement de differents
programmes et le suivi de leur execution.
2. Oblectifs et stratipie
L'objectif general propose par le gouvemement dons le secteur est de proceder au cours
des dix prochaines ann6es, au developpement quantitatif et qualitatif du systeme educatif sur Ia



- 80 -
base des principes 6nonc6s ci-dossus et dons Is respect des orientations 9gndreles de la
rWforms. Autrement dit ii s'agit, compta tanu des bosons do l'onvironnamnnt soclo-
6conomiquo et des contraintes financibros do proc6der:
(a)   au d6vulooaement auanttatHf du smctour par:
-     I'adaptation do la structure et dela dur6o du systimo 6ducatf;
I'accroissement de l'afficacit6 dans l'utiisation et ledlocatbon des
ressources publiques disponiUes;
-     la moblisation do ressources additlonndes non-publiques.
lb)   I'am6rloration uailitativa da I'nselanement ow:
-     ia r6duction progressive do In proportion dos onsaignants ous-qualsi
aux diff6rents niveaux;
-     I'amlloratlon des carect6ristiques psychotechniques des cxermns et le
d6voloppoment d'un systbme do masures et d1valuatlon;
bIs renforcement progressif des capacit6s de rechorches p6ddgogiques
appliqu6.s et d'daboration do matiris didactiques;
(c)   I'accroissement de l'afficacitd de aestion du systime dducatlf par:
-     I'amUloration de Ia pertinence, Ia flabItE et 1'6ventail des nformation
de gestlon intemr ot extemc collect6es et do leur traltement;
-     Ib renforcement et Ia dffusion progressive des techniques d'enlyse des
informatlons, de prEparation do Ia dEcision et dE6aboratlon do
programmes aux niveaux consid6rds hnsi quo Ie calcul do lours offes
financiers;
-     la dElEgation progressive des dEcisions do gestion techniques eux
niveaux los plus appropri6s du point do we de ltfficacit6;
-     I'am6iiorathon decs procEdures budg6talroc s ctoriees et Ia mics en pIece
des instruments at m4canlames de coordination et de suivi des
programmes.
A l'ffot do concr6tiser cas obJels. Is gouvemement a rotonu un approche on deux
phases.          so focailsant cur les probibmes do I'nseignomont primirm. et do
I'amdliorathon do le gestion du sacteur tout en dEvoloppent les conditins de Is price do dcilion
pour Is seconds dope. La saconda phase, qul chevaucherst largemont Is premlrn sarak
essontllelmnt focaliede sur les probibmos structurels ot qudlitets do l'nseignement
secondairs, lS formations extra-scolairec at l'sm6llorstlon de l'cfficcite de l'ensognemnt
sup6rdur, tout en pourmuivent Is consolidation do I'nseignement primire (t de a gestion du
socteur.



- 81 -
Vous trouverez en Annexe IIh d6tal de* obeecte at des mosures relatifh b I pramire
phase de Ia strat6gie at les grandes lignes des objctifo qui seront poursuivis durant I seconde
phase. at on annex. Ill Io programme soctoriol dhivostlssomont pour Is priode 1990-1992
Jo profits do cone occasion pour vous romorcier de Ia contribution de votro
Departement at soution qui nous ost opport & traver Is pro,ot on rf6ronca pour Is ralisation
de Is promi ro phase de notro stratugbo. Jo souhoito quo a casoution pulses so pourulvr et so
concr6tiser oussit8t quo possible pour to d6voloppoment et Is miss on oouvro de I s condo
phase.
VeuMle agr6or. Monsieur la Diroctur, 1_xproslon do ma considton distligu6.
Daniel Mbangura
Ministro do I'Ensoignemont
Primaira et Secondaire



- 82 -
ANNEXE 1
STRATEGIE DU GOUVERNEMENT DANS LE SECTEUR DE L'EDUCATION
PREMIERE PHASE
A. Obiectifs et d6veloDoement
Los objectifs sectoriels a promouvoir dans la limits des contraintes financieres et los
actions a cot effet sont les suivants:
(1)    Exoansion du svsteme 6ducatif par:
-     la consolidation du niveau de scolarisation de l'enseignoment primaire;
-     le maintion du niveau de transition ontre les onseignements primaire et
secondaire; et
-     la rdorientation de I'ERAI (Enseignoment Rural et Artisanal Int6gr6) et sa
consolidation avant touts nouvelle expansion.
(2)    Amlioration de la ouallt6 de l'enseionement orimaire par:
-     I'amelioration des conditions physiques d'enssignement et de Ia disponibilit6 et
utilisation de materiels didactiques;
-     la formation on cours doemploi des onseignants sous-qualifi6s et ronforcoment
de lour soutien pedagogique et suivi au niveau de la classe;
-     I'adaptation des progranrmes de 1'onseignement primaire et Is reorganisation du
concours national a la fin de ce cycle on vue de l'evaluation du niveau cognitif
des 6l1ves; et
le ronforcoment de la recherche dducationnelle appliqu6e et l'implication do
lNuniversitM dans cotte recherche.
(3)    Renforcement de la aestlon par:
-      rIamelloration des capacit6s de gestion des services centraux (budg6tisation,
analyse et planification; gestlon du personnel) et decentrallsation du
MINEPRISEC;
-     lo d6veloppoment des instruments et des m6canismos de maltrise et de contrOle
du programme sectoriel d'investissoment et de laIde ext6rieure sinsi que de
leurs effets financiers (Direction des 6tudes et Cvaluation);
-     Is renforcement du systtmo comptable des 6tablissoments scolaire et Is
formation du personnel concem6;
I 'accroissement de l'efficacit6 d utilisation des capacit6s d'accueil des
etablissements secondaires par Ia formation du personnel de direction; et
-     le ronforcement du systtme d informatique de gestion de l'universit6 du
Rwanda.



- 83 -
B. Mesures orincipales d'accomoaanement
(1)    Mesures d6ih orises
-     r6ductlon de Ia dur6e de l'enseignement primaire de 8 & 6 ans (d6cislon du
Conseil du Gouvernement en date du ler f6vrler 1991);
-     accroissement des frals de scolarit6 dans l'enseignement primaire de 100 FrW a
300 FrW et dans l'enselgnement secondaire de 7,800 FrW a 11,000 FrW Dane
I'enselgnement sup6rleur, les frals d'inscriptlon ont 6t portas 1 20,000 FrW; et
-     Claboration d'un programme triennal glissant d'investissomont ot do
fonctionnement du secteur. Le programme d'investissement et la d6tall des
depenses aditionnelles gdn6r6es sont donn6s en Annexe Ill.
(2)    Mesures a orendre
dans l'Caboration du budget de fonctionnement, priorit6 sera accord6e aux
dipenses qualitatives dans I'enseignement primaire (formation en court d'emplol
des enseignants; Inspections et examens, et manuels scolaires et autres
matiriels p6dagogiques); et
-     rdorganisation du concours national on vue de permettre i'ivaluatlon du niveau
cognitif des 61eves.
DEUXIEME PHASE
A. Qkig
L'objet de la deuxieme phase est de continuer l'effort d'adaptation de Ia r6forme de
1'ducation au niveau de 1'enseignement secondaire et de poursuivre l'effet de rationallsatlon et
d'am6lloration qualitative de 1'eriseignement sup6rieur, objet de Ia r6forme de 1988. A cot
effet, leas tudes n6cessaires e5ont le financoment east privu dans Is premier projet Education
sectoriel seront achev6s au pluz tard le 30 juin 1992, de manlere a engager Is dialogue avec
l'Association Internationale pour le d6veloppement, sur le contenu de Ia strat6gie pour lea
enseignements post-primaires at sur so contribution pour la mise en oeuvre de cotte strat6gle
dans le cadre d'un deuxieme projet sectoriel.
S. Etudes
Leos tudes prevues a i'effet de Ia deuxieme phase portent sur:
1.    Enseignement secondaire
-     I'enseignement sacondaire, ca structure et son organisation. en liaison evec lee
objectifs de son expansion essentielloment sur financement priv6, de sa
dissemination g6ographique et de r6duction de l'intemat & ce niveau;
Ia qualit6 de l'onsaeignement secondaire en particuller pour ce qul conceme
l'enseignement du fran$a;s. des mathEmatiques et des sciences en relation avec
la formation des onseignants; et



- 84 -
-     oI'fficaclit do I'nuslgnomont rural at artisanal hitigrd et los possibilt6s et
moduldis d'dducation at do formation extra-scolairo & offri aux sortants de
I'onselgnmont primairo.
2.    Ensulncamnt sunidur
-     hI dogr et I'dvontel d'autonombs do l'unlversiti on rocation avac
I'accomplissoment efflcco do ces missions; et
-     'lfficaclf6 hntomo et extomo do IUNR t ies perspectives do son
diveloppomont an fonction des bosohis do I' nvironnoment soclo6conomrlqu.
3.    Cot et financenmnt de I'ducaton
Ms coOts et financeonts du secaur ducol; une atention particullro *wr
attach  II (a) Is bro    des obj,ct. modulith et Impoct des sstmos do
financomnnt do I'ensegnement socondalre subsidl6s rltanivomnt sux objectifo
du gouvcmemont (moblbstbon de ressourcos du  cteur privi mixlt; rOduction
do l'Itamat); et lb) wux systiwe do soutimn at d'ald sux tudanXt.



- 85 -
RWANDA                                 ANNEXE 2
Secteur de l'Education
I. SYNTHESE DES PROBLEMES
A.    LE SYSTEME EDUCATIF
1.    L'Enseianement Primaire et Secondaire.  En 1977, le Gouvernement du
Rwanda decidait de proceder a la reforme du systeme d'^ducation et entemait
sa mise en application dans l'enseignement primaire, en 1979, et dans
l'enseignement secondaire en 1981. Les objectifs generaux de la r;forme
sont principalement les suivants: (a) la democratisation de l'acces i tous
les niveaux; (b) la reponse aux besoins qualitatifs et quantitatifs de main
d'oeuvre qualifiee de l'economie; et (c) la promotion de l'enseignement de
la langue et de la culture nationale dans l systeme educatif tout on
maintenant son ouverture sur le monde par l'enseignement des langues
itrang&res. En consequence, le systeme de l'enseign.ment primaire et
secondaire est organise comme suit: enseiRnement vrimaire de huit ans,
subdivise en trois cycles. Le premier focalise our lea apprentissages
fondamentaux; le second sur l'enseignement geniral de base et le troisieme
ilargit cot enseignement de base a l'agriculture et ; l'artisanat.
L'enseignement est donne en kinyarwanda et le francais est objet
d'enseignement a partir du deuxiame cycle. EnseiRnement Rural et Artioanat
Inteare (ERAI) de trois ans, combinant l1.nseignement general et pratique
dans lea domaines de l'agriculture et de l'artisanat. L'enseignement est
donne en kinyarwanda et le francais eat objet d'enseignement. Enseignement
secondaire constitue d'un seul cycle de six ans. Ce niveau d'enseignement,
dans le cadre de l'objectif et en reponse aux besoins de main d'oeuvre
qualifiee, est professionnalise, dispensant de ce fait des enseignements
generaux et techniques par une organisation en douze filieres subdivisees en
28 options. L'enseignement est assure en francais. EnseiRnement
professionnel: L'introduction d'un enseignoment pratique dans le troisieme
cycle du primaire, la mise en place de 1'ERAI et la professionnalisation de
l'enseignement secondaire sont toutes les decisions visant * orienter
davantage le systime d'enseignement vers la pr;paration et l'incertion dans
l'environnemertt socio-;conomique. En outre, il existe un enseignement
proprement professionnel dans les ecoles techniques officielles visant a la
formation des techniciens moyens.
2.    Lenseitnement sup;rieur.  l'Universiti Nationale du Rwanda comprend
dix facultes reparties our trois camps. En consequence de l'achevement en
1986 de l'application de la riforme dans lenseignement secondaire et du
besoin de sa poursuite au niveau plus ;l-v;, le Gouvernement a finalis;, en
1988, sea orientations en mati;re do r;forme de l'enseignement superieur.
Les objectifs de cette reforme sont pour lVessentiel: (a) de former la main
d'oeuvre qualiflie requise par l'economie; (b) de diversifier les sources do
financement dans .'ensaignement superieur et y am;liorer l'utilisation et
l'allocation des ressources et (c) en r;duire la dur;e et on am;liorer la
qualite. Ces orientations sont, a des degr;s divers, soit en cours de
traduction en mesures specifiques, soit en cours d'application.



- 86 -                               ANNIEXE 2
B.    LES PROBLEMES SECTORIELS
3.    Acces.  Le taux annuel de croissance des effectifs de l'enseignement
primaire a diminue de manire progressive, passant de 17,8% en 1979 et 1980
a une moyenne de 4,2% entre 1982 et 1987. Les simulations faites sur les 10
prochaines annees, basees sur le maintien des tendances actuf'.'    en matiere
d'allocation des rsssources. et prenant en compte les contrUir.t:.
financieres 1/ indiquent la possibilite d'un declin Progressif ; la fois des
taux d'acces et de scolarisation qui passeraient your le premier de 72 i 572
et pour le second de 62 a 49%.
Par suite de l'efficacite de l'allocation des ressources entre
niveaux educatifs (para. 11) et de la faiblesse relative des parts du budget
de fonctionnement consacrees aux internats de l'enseignement secondaire et
aux bourses du superieur 2/, l'introduction des mesures de rationalisation
de ces deux aspects, bien quo necessaire, n'entrainerait pas un
accroissement significatif du niveau des ressources disponibles pour
l'enseignement primaire et devrait pouvoir, en tout etat de cause, etre
utilisee pour l'amelioration de la qualite aux deux niveaux consideres. En
fait, los simulations du diveloppement du systame aducatif 3/ mzntrent
clairement que la mesure stratetique pour le maintien, sinon l'.ccroissement
du taux de scolarisation du primaire, est la revision de la structure du
systeme d'enseienement et specifiquement la reduction de la duree de
l'enseignement primaire de 8 a 6 ans.
Le constat decoulant des simulations op;ries rejoint les conclusions
et recommandations de l'evaluation de la reforme par l'Universite Nationale
du Rwanda.
4.    Equite.  Les disparites des taux d'acces et de scolarisation par
prefecture allaient en 1986-87 pour le premier de 68,1 ; 98,4% et pour le
second de 52,6 i environ 69%. En 1987, le taux de transition entre les
niveaux primaire et secondaire a atteint pour la premiere fois 10%. Les
facteurs principaux de ces goulets d'etranglement resident: (a) dans
l'orientation, en train d'etre reconsideree, de lier I'acces i la
disponibilite d'une place d'linternat, bien que cela accroisse les coats de
scolarisation i ce niveau et reduise les possibilites d'utilisation optimale
de capacite d'accueil et (b) dans la structure de l'enseignement secondaire
peu flexible 4/. En 1986, 402 des etablissements secondaires publics et
subsidies itaient concentres dans trois prefectures. Cette inigalite de la
distribution des etablissements est compensee par le systeme de selection a
l'acces. Le nombre d'etudiants dans l'onseignement stuperieur public est
1/   Rapport de mission de MM. J.B. Musabimana et C. Kayinamura, 1987.
2/   Par suite des effectifs encore reduits de l'Enseignement Superieur.
3/   Taux de croissance annuel du budget retenu pour le secteur: 32.
4/   Rapport de mission de MM. Musabimana et Kayinamura deja cite.



- 87 -                              ANNEXE  2
d'environ 2.000 auxquels s'ajoutent 300-350 dans le prive et 850 a
l'etranger. Les filles repr'sentent 482 des effectife dans leneeign.ment
primairel 462 dans 1'ERAI; 342 dans l'.nsoignoment secondaire et 172 dans
l'ensoignoment superiour.
5.    Qualite de l'education.  Dana l'enseignement primaire, 242 des *coles
sont incomplites. L'une des principales innovations de la r;forme, du point
de vuo qualitatif, a *te le d;velopoment des prograzmme par objectifa visant
normalement i co que la plus grande partie des ;lives atteignent ; la fin de
chacun des cycles les connaissances at habiletes retenues. Toutefois,
l'efficionce interne du syat;me eat rost;e faible. Les causes de catte
faiblesse sont au nombre de cinqt la premi4re oet due par suite du
doublement des offectifs au cours de la derniire decade et du doublement
correspondant des enseignants au fait quo la proportion de maotres non
qualifies a sonsiblement augments, passant do 42 ; 482 entre 1977 et 1987.
A cola s'^aoute la r;partition inegale et, au plan pidagogiqu,t inadtquate
des onseognants qualifi;s ontre lea cyclos, ces derniers repr;esntant 222
dans le promier (le plus important du point do vue do la relation de
I'enfant ; l';cola), 582 dans le second et 92,52 dans le dernier la
deuxi4me eat la relative raret;s (a) des manuols scolaires et leur faible
utilisation la oa ils sont disponibles 1/, a laquolle a'ajouto la faiblesse
do la qualite p'dagogique de ces manuels, toutefoli, une capacit; en mati;re
d' dition eat en cours de d;valoppoment et (b) do. mauvaises conditions de
travail osentiellement au niveau primaire (itat physique des classes dont
202 sont d'une condition pracaire) alors quo 322 dentre elles ne poss;dent
pas de tableau noir, 56% n'ont pas de pupitros, 80% n'ont ni table ni chaise
pour le maltre et 98% n'ont pas oncore de capacit; de rangement de
materiel 6/. La troisime cause de faiblesse eot que la stratigie retenue
pour l'introduction de la reformo dans le syst;me iducatif, bien qu'ayant
abouti * la mise en oeuvre doestructures et contenua nouveaux, no somble
avoir result; en une intigration, par les nsoeignants, des implications
pratiques de cette approche par objectifi. La auatrilme est que
comparativement aux besoins on formation en cours d'emploi et de soutien
pedagogique necossaires pour l'amilioration du niveau acadimique et
professionnel des enseignants non qualifies, la friquence des supervisions,
des conseils et de la formation en cours d'emploi, reste eloignee des
besoins, malgre les efforts consentis. En outre, ceux-ci auraient gag-e a
etre focaliss sur les besoins de formation prioritaires.
6.    Dans l'enseeinement rural et l'artisanat intiare, deux tiers des
enseignants sont des maitres qualifies du primpire, mais leur formation ne
correspond pas aux prof;ls necessaires pour l'enseignement des disciplines
pre-professionnelles offertos dans ce type d';tablissement. Les batiments
et les mobiliers sont adequats mais la faiblesse de l';quipement des
ateliers, de la disponibilit; des matieres premieres et des manuels
5/   Le probleme fait l'objet d'une intervention dans le cadre du Credit
1683-Rw (Production et Distribution des Manuels Scolaires).
6/   Co problame fait *galement l'objet d'une intervention dans le cadre
du Credit 1683-Rw.



- 88 -                              ANNEXE 2
scolaires ont un *ffet n;gatif our la qualit;. En outre, et alors que
l'objet de 1'ERAI eat la formation pour l'emploi rural, la faible
disponibilit; de co type d'emploi so conjugue aux handicaps ;nonces
pr;cedemment provoquant la d;saffection progressive des parents et des
el4ves pour ce type d'enseignement, *ntraInant du mAeme coup des
interrogations our son efficacita externe, et sa validite comme reponse aux
problemes cr;es par le faible taux d'acc;a ; l'ensaignemont secondaire.
7.    Dana l'enseignemont secondaire, le temps attribu; a l'enseignement
g;neral (langues, mathimatiques, sciences) dans leo diffirentos options est
inigal et entra;ne une disparit. de niveaux au moment de l'accis a
l'enseignement supirieur. En outre, 302 des enseignants ne sont pas
qualif ue. L'enseignement des sciences et doe disciplines techniques semble
faible par auite de la raret; des ensaignants qualifiis dana ces
disciplines.
8.    Concernant l'enseignoment supirieur, l'Universiti Nationale du Rwanda
(UNR) est confrontie a do sirieux problemes d'efficaciti. Le taux de
redoublement pour la premieire annie eat d'environ 205 et celui d'abandon
252.  Les causes semblent en etre: (a) le fait que l'UNR, contrairement ; la
pr-tique ginirale dans ce domaine, n'itait pas responsable du recrutement ni
.   silection de sea futurs enseignants, ce qui vient d'itre corrigi; (b)
la raible adiquation entre leas options de l'enseignement secondaire et
celles du supirieur; (c) le pourcentage relativement faible des enseignants
qualifiis.
9.    Coats et financement.  Concernant le financement public, les parts du
budget total de fonctionnement consacries a l'iducation itaient
respectivement de 24.3% en 1987 et de 22,7Z en 1988. Toutefois, la part de
l'education dans lea dipenses totales rielles de fonctionnement s'est ilevie
a 25,7% en 1987. Du fait de son niveau dija ilevi, cette derniere part
pourrait, au mieux, se maintenir i son taux actuel. En fait, les
perspectives d'accroissement de l'acces ; 1:iducation et de l'aamilioration
de sa qualiti dipendront uniquement de l'ivolution du taux de croissance du
budguet (menaci par la conjoncture) et de iaamilioration de l'efficaciti
dans l'allocation et l'utilisation des ressources disponibles, de
l'adaptation des structures.
10.   L'approche actuellement menie pour promouvoir le finencement privi de
l'iducation reste encore a ameliorer.  Les icoles "subsidiies" sont preque
entiirement financies sur fonds publics. Le niveau de recouvrement des
coats d'enseignement aux niveaux primaire, secondairo et supirieur
reprisente 7,52 du cout unitaire du premier 7/ et reste a miliorer aux
autres niveaux.
11.   Allocation du budget.  Le budget du secteur itait, en 1987, riparti
d'une manuere adequate entre lea trois niveaux d'enseignement, soit
7/   Rapport sur les coauts et financement de l'enseignement primaire,
secondaire et supirieur, Banque Mordiale, Janvier 1989.



-89-                                ANNuEl 2
respactivemont 702 pour le primalr. et 1'ERAI, 16S pour 1. secondaire at 142
pour le sup;riour.
Le budget du MINEPRISEC pour la mime ann;e ;ait ventil; do la
mani're suivanto: 892 pour l'enseegnemont, 7,42 pour leadtlnlstratlon et
3,62 pour la subvention aux intornats du secondaire (subventions aux
internats repr;sentant 202 du budget de co niveau). Los salalroa deo
*nsei;nants repr;sentalent 86,2S de co budget &lors quo le resoure
allouees aux lntrants gualitatife no regr;sentalent aue 2.432 (materiol
didactique 1,721 impression des manuels scolaires 0,412; formation on cours
d'omplol 0,121 divers 0,22) et quo ilentretion des .tablissments no
*';lavait qu'; 0,82. Entre 1982 et 1988, la tart des *&laires dans l1
budget de fonctionnoment est pass.. de 78,72 a 86,22 alors quo cello allou;e
aux intrants qualitatifs diminuait de 3,9 * 2,42.
Lo budget du MINESUPRES en 1986 so distribuait comme suit: tranfert
a l'UNR, 39,32; bourses, 31,32 et administration 9,42. Intre 1982 et 1986,
la part dos bourses est pass.e de 26,5 ; 31,32 au d;pend do l'administration
et risque, si la tondanco so confirmait, de rogner progressivoment la part
des intrants qualitatife de l'enseignoment. En 1986, 43,12 seulom_nt du
budget total de 1'UNR ont *t; consacr;s aux d;penses d'ensoineomnt *lors
que 22,52 *llalent ; l'administration (un pourcentage considerable) et 14,02
aux oeuvres universitaires, le reste allant i la rocherche et aux depenses
diverses 8/.
12.   Les couts unitaires sont eloves au niveau de l'univerasit  mais
relativemont bas a celui du primaire. En 1986-87, leo couts unitaires
s'9levaient ; 343.948 FRW dans le superieur, 49.350 FRW dans le secondairo,
15.437 FRW dans 1'ERAI mais seulement 4.004 FRW dans le primaire, soit un
rapport entre primaire et superieur de 1 i 80.
13.   Utilisation des ressources non monetaires.  Au pan de l'utilisation
des ressources humaines, le ratio maltre-;lve oest de 1 pour 57 dans le
primaire mais seulement de 1 pour 14 dans le socondaire et de 1 pour 7 dans
le superieur. En outre, los heures do travail demandies aux enseignants du
primaire et * ceux du socondaire sont pratiquement dans un rapport de I ; 2
slors quo lea contraintes d'eneeignanta sont surtout dans le post-primaire.
Par ailleura, ; partir des bureaux du MINEPRISEC, environ 700 fonctionnaires
administrent 23.000 enseignants et personnel de soutien, soit un 'ratio de
gestion' de 1 pour 32, moindre quo dans le primaire. L'universit; pour sa
part emploie un personnel de soutien de pr;s de 1.100 personnes, soit
pratiquomont une pour doux ;tudiants. Toutefois une ;tude de
rationalisation de l'utilisation des ressources vient d'&tre achov;e pour ce
niveau d'enseignoment.
14.   Au plan de l'utilisation des ressources Dhvysiues.  Les classes de
l'enseignement primaire sont utilisees avec un ratio de 1 pour 57 et
l'accroissoment du taux d'utilisation dans l'enseignomont secondaire ost en
cours d';tudes. Dana l'onseign.ment superieur, les capacitis d'accueil et
8/ Rapport our lea couts et financoment d&j& cit;.



-90 -                                ANNEXE 2
leur type d'utilisation viennent d';tre calcul;s et lea modalit;s
d'accroissement do ce taux sont i i'etude.
15.   Cavacit;s d'administration et do sestion.  Au niveau central, les
capacitis d'analys. et do planification, de gestion des ressources et de
suivi des differents programmes auront besoins d';tre doveloppees comme il
ressort d'une itud. recente du PNUD.
16.   Au niveau r;lfectural et communal.  La decentralisation constitue
l'une des prioritos du gouvernomont. Toutefois, une claire difinition des
types d'actions et niveaux de decisions correspondants a dicentralisor/
deconcentrer reate ; pr;ciser. ,& dicontralisation d'activitis bien adaptie
au nlveau retonu pemettra, par le d;veloppement du *ens de "l'appropriation
et de la responsabilit.l qui en d'coule, de mobiliser do nouvelles
rcesources tout en cr;ant lec condltions d'cm;lioration de la qucalit; de
services.
(edu. rwa)



eMAI
~CR9 FUJET SIBCTUEL DE L-EIATIGH
96BPM6E O'INWE5TISS8T PRItITAIE FOB LA SETB   DUmATIF
(_  i.1 I   - I  R .   . P,i- IW)
IJET mu F                 P e  0 CR A H N A T 1                H COW ET FIlICE.rW DU FUJEF  CoS Hs CTieS A           .ITIELS      S     CUFMI- STATnW CAPACI1E    COW
P. IP      COIWT IlL   ET  96t1 OJ 691LAt 0GUE  ff (A tA O4IACE MU COMA TMEI)  CtI-T DES  GU    TOTALE UNrTAIIE
CaL I"    3960    1991    399  199D-92        TAL    DEW.    DOW  DE FOND    1991    1962     1            994      9S9  cOUS FIJET   (l6.6-  (p.,
A) ESEOIEffT 3II161W:                                                                                                                                                              4 -..)) ** .
I PUJET  tATIfIV - I*                     0       0      663      423    1006      2231     is1    2112 IDA(Cr-)   63.4    30.3   133.3   133.3   133.3    1901 NOUEAU 2000(cloo..)
2       IERATI04  iLIat SCOLAIiO         9        20      Is       Is      S6      ISO               160 FAC/FM1J     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0         am COBS
3 F6U04iZ Si FRUNCAIS                     0       9       12       12      33        33               33 FAC          0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0         P0NE16
TMTAL MI362E:                           a       24     613      453    t095      2464     in      29               63.4    SD.1   333.3 1U.3   133.3
S) 86E1006T SCEG4AIE:
I) MOES A-EI        iSLIES:
I COST. a En. g. AL0-fT. IU t1    161           206       23       0      229      320       60     320 FPNIDA       2.3      2.3     2.3      2.3      2.3    1991 E4 COURS     300   456
2 E. SC. AO-WET. KASTAIE                  6       i0       a        6      26        32               32 FAC          0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0         94 COURS
3 C6NST.   En. eC. ALS-VEW. 1e501       276      136     9i        0      229       507     363      344 ACtI00E      3.3     3.1      3.1     0.0      0.0     1966n CO3S       400   464SI
4 EC. Aal-FrEsTSTRE NYAMSWA            173       32      21       21      74       247              247 SUISSF       1.4     3.6      1.6     1.6      3.6         IN COUS      200   46
11) ICOLES TmOMlIUES:
I COST. A EA. E.T.I. Cim o S              0      40        0       0       40        40      40       0               2.3     2.3      2.3     2.2      2.3    3993 NOUVAU       IO6  93716
2 COST. AT EA. E.T.3. IwA                 0      133     336      134     406       406             406 .69           0.0 o    .6      56e     6.6      6.6    199 IESNAAU       360   931IS
3  ^ATISN E.T. C0*3.3A                    0       0                       20        20      20       0               0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0    1991 N01NEAU
4 FAD   16 ET CYACU  CITANME A            0      100     360    653      159     1S"     116    1454 FAD(.,-t)    0.0    14.1    14.1    14.1    14.1    3992 N@I6EAU         900   931t6
61940511
6 ETC ICICUII StCT. 8EnCIIE             232        a       0        0       6       220              220 tE.CE        2.6     2.6      2.6     0.0      0.4    396 of CDJRS       ISO   41)te
111) A6116ES:
I CONST. SAllE POLY. COL. 01E556        i66      46        0       a       44      232              232 9CE           0.0     o.0      0.0     0.0      0.0         IN CURS
T11AL SECSAIRE:                       3 006    336    a6        704    2679      3665     39      326?            12.16   31.66   31.11  25.93   26.92
C) SUAFGU          IE4 32693K:
I ARAOE'HOT  FAC. OM01                    0       0       75      75      ISO       360             350 ffLGE         0.0     0.0      0.0    I0.0      0.0         NOOVAU
2 COT1. E.H.T.S. (fAD 3)                a22      3S0     162      149     463       76       *7      72 FAD           9.4     9.4      9.4     9.4      9.4         Di COURS      120  4699S
3 ASSI. IIEFUE  M6. SUr.                  4       6l       5s       4     340       144              144 664          0.0     0.0    0o0       0.0      0.0         54 COURS
4 FP31e13 PID- U1                        65       32       0        0      32        i1              97 E0CE          0.0     e.o      0.0     0.0      0.0          Of C(UtS
a R9ENFOR   T FAC. AOUwIE                25       46      46       46      136      164              364 06Aio        0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0         EN COBS
* 13 COW. INST.                         636      Sao     30         0     360       an               G9 CA0MD         0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0    O.           94 COBRS
7  EPFE ENS. SIV.                       346      67        0       0       61       435              435 CANADA       0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0         EN COBRS
6 COST. lA65A                           353       33       0        0      13       264             367 FED           0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0 oE COURS
* IfRAST34. A EA. IRSIT                   0      90        0       0       90        90      e0       0               0.0     0.0      0.0 o    ,       0.0         506E1
W0 E*3E6SIN FAC. AOaCRUIE                  4      23      160      ISO     323      327              321 CAWA         0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0         Iw6AU
TOTAL SWERIEBO:                       140      702     6        424    1794      34ss     147    3331              9.40    9.40    9.40    9.40    9.40
0) AU1ES (ON-DWIS1IMUE):
I FUJET IDA 1I                         62      266      292      146     706      1536     16S    1368 IDA(Cr.J)    3.7      3.7      3.7     3.7      3.7         Bo COJRS     460   46
2 A.T. I9601I3IE SCOlAIE                433       17       0        0      17       426              426 WA           0.0     o.o      0.0     0.0      0.0         84 CORS
3 CNE                                    as       10       0        0      10        36               66 HELCE        0.0     o.o      0.0     0.0      0.0         E4 COBS
4 OPES                                  276       M       as        0     176       452              452 fELCE        0.0     O.o      0.0     0.0      0.0         EN CORS
a e94fE scOL. SPARE (FM. *S. SEC.)    tOo       20        0        0      20       200              200 69.0E        0.0     o.0      0.0     0.0      0.0         EN CODS
6 A. T. nMIFICAVIS IAE L-09.             46       6        0        0       C        52              62 9ELE          0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0           f er CUS
7 S4                                   46       75       67       0      142       126             62 WA             0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0    o     4 COBS
6 FONDs OB4IEETIB DES ECKLES              0       0      100      300     200       200     200        0              0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0          0U1E*AU
I    10139T4 BE. PRWE                     0       60       0        0      so        so      so       0               0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0 eNEwA
TOTAL AUnRES3                        2276       64     647      246    133       3434     440    316               2.75    3.75    3.75    3.75    3.75                                     z
D) 945t  TOTAL:                               g0"     2631    2467    162       4927    13236    3162   32079              3.7   326.1   170.3   172.4   172.4



21cr                                   240                                     29e30                                    3
RWANDA
FIRST EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT                                                                                           UGANDA
0~ ~~~~~~~~~~~  A N5                                              Z A T>ZN I A
Primary Education fund
ot  r        Conslrucion (PSC)
rr RebubilaltRion (PSR ZAIRE_r  J   
Pre-service Teachers Training                                                                                                                            AKO
Docu.sstaion Cerdes                                                                                                           I ,
CObsermsolon Rooms
I ServceTraining of Supervisors
ond Primary Teao ers
*      ,I;edP dagogical Research                                                PARK      p   pMtP ' ;                       .       YLJNWA
Educational Manogement
Centrdtl ,-el
Pre*edoml Le,el                                        ' 
Secondary Schools                                                 FOREST
c-       UNR
Project Implementotion Unit                                                                                                                               Muhen
o      Towns
t    National Capital                                         KfGAU
Riv,ers
| 2&"                 Commune Boundaries
Prefecture Boundairies                                             VA1f
Internationol Boundar; es                                                                       °
6 ) ) B i ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Gitorama   1  /
UGA: .r'
ole ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~    ~     1
KENYA DF ~~~~2°30 g-gg                                         NYUNGWE ro  Chhe ,,
ZAIRE    t        >o~1o    O                                               fOREST                        -      .  . .,  FOE
881RUNDI a 1 ^ \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Butons O)                                                                           B    }UR UN  D  I J
o & T NZAB TIA  NZANIA
ZA{2y<nww                    tt)\_
-a       ZA                                                                                                                                     wwrmc         oS  c 2s                0c
tJ < 5 oZAm90 i              QUE t  - ... w .u                                                                                                                                                                              '
Cr;    <            < stn         I                                 \                                                                               stES  o     s    lo   IS   2(!   25   3t'         '- ' '''LS-           t25
t2 ) ) . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~29%0                                                             \230               3d'(                                    3d-3G  |
C>



