Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
.ReportNo: 20187
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CREDIT 22270)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 16.2 MILLION (US$ 23.3 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
FOR A FIRST EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
March 16, 2000
Human Development Unit, AFTH4
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 1999)
Currency Unit = RwF (Rwanda Franc)
RwF 1= US$ 0.003
US$ 1 = RwF 336.06
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                  Country Assistance Strategy
DPEPERAI            Direction des Programmes de l' Enseignement Primaire, Rural
et Artisanal Integre
(Directorate of Primary, and Rural and Integrated Artisanal Education)
ICR                  Implementation Completion Report
FRW                  Rwandese Franc
MINEPRISEC           Ministere de 1' Enseignement Primaire et Secondaire
(Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education)
NGO                  Non-Governmental Organization
PSR                  Project Status Report
PTA                  Parents and Teachers Association
TDP                  Teacher Development Program
UNDP                 United Nations Development Program
Vice President:   Callisto Madavo
Country Director:   Emmanuel Mbi
Sector Manager:    Arvil Van Adams
Task Team Leader:   Joseph Bredie



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No
1. Project Data                                                                      1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                     1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                              4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                7
6. Sustainability                                                                    8
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                     9
8. Lessons Learned                                                                  11
9. Partner Comments                                                                 12
10. Additional Information                                                          19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                24
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                26
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                27
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                30
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                   31
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                               32
Annex 8. Aide-Memoire of Implementation Completion Report Mission (01/20/2000)      33
Annex 9. Borrower's contribution: Uncompleted contracts as of 01/25/199             39
Annex 10. Borrower's contribution: Evaluation of Achievement                        40
Annex 11. Beneficiary Survey Results                                                45
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P002242                                      Project Name: Rwa-Education Sect. Cr
Team Leader: Joseph W. B. Bredie                         TL Unit: AFTH4
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: March 16, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: Rwa-Education Sect. Cr                          L/C Number: 22270
Country/Department: RWANDA                                             Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: EE - Education Adjustment
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  04/07/88                               Effective: 06/24/92           06/24/92
Appraisal:  05/17/90                                 MTR:
Approval:  04/09/91                               Closing: 09/30/96           09/30/99
Borrower/lImplementingAgency: GOVT./MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:     Callisto Madavo                           Edward K. Jaycox
Country Manager:     Emmanuel Mbi                             Francisco Aguirre-Sacasa
Sector Manager:      Arvil Van Adams                          Alain Colliou
Team Leader at ICR:   Joseph Bredie                           Djamalddine Rouag
ICR Primary Author:  Joseph Bredie; Jer6me Chevallier
and Anne Anglio
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development M
Impact:
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                       U
Project at Risk at Any Time:
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Objectives and outcomes of previous projects. The First Education Sector Project (FESP) was
the fourth Bank-assisted education project designed to continue the earlier efforts to build quality human
capital in Rwanda. The objectives of the First Education Project approved in 1975 were to improve the
quality and vocational relevance of primary education and strengthen sector management capacity. The



objectives were achieved, although teaching of practical subjects in school workshops was unsatisfactory,
costly and lacked market relevance. The First Credit was closed in 1983. The Second Education Project
approved in 1982 supported secondary commercial and nursing education and primary teacher training,
and strengthening sector administrative and pedagogical capacity. With the exception of enrollment targets
for primary teacher training, the objectives were achieved despite implementation delays of about two
years. The Second Credit was closed in 1989. The Third Education Project approved in 1986 included
assistance for improving the quality of primary and post-primary education and strengthening sector
management capacity. These objectives were not achieved. Delays were encountered in procurement,
printing of textbooks and construction. In 1993 when the Third credit closed, only one component, the
post-primary one, was operational and implementation was judged unsatisfactory.
The outcomes of the earlier projects were mixed. By December 1991, the original Closing Date of
the Third Education Project, primary enrollment rates had reached 62 percent. But the length of primary
education, and the excessive vocational orientation of the seventh and eight year of primary and of lower
secondary, were problematic in terms of affordability and relevance. Also, quality as measured by the
number of qualified teachers, provision of books, and length of classtime, remained low notwithstanding the
efforts of three projects to improve it. Moreover, sector management remained weak, despite efforts to
strengthen it in all three projects. The situation in the sector was exacerbated by explosive population
growth (over 3.5% percent, per annum). The need to build schools to accommodate the fast growing
population diverted resources and attention from the quality objectives. Moreover, inadequate resources
for sector management meant that there was never an effective inspection system to assure quality
standards. In view of these problems and the budgetary constraints arising from the rapid population
growth in the face of deteriorating revenues, the Government and the Bank agreed in 1990 on a strategy
designed to initiate an affordable development of the sector. The strategy comprised: (a) adjustment of the
structure of education starting with a reduction of the length of primary education, while at the same time
improving the quality of education; and (b) increasing the efficiency of resource allocation and use, and
mobilizing non-public resources.
Objectives of the First Education Sector Project (FESP). The Project was identified and
prepared during the 1989/90 tense political-military period, which erupted in war in October 1990. The
Project was the first one to take a sector-wide approach. It supported several policy changes: reducing the
length of primary education to six years by October 1993; phasing-out the ineffective grade seven and eight
vocational orientation; having the communities define their primary education needs; and establishing a
better balance between general and technical secondary education. The project was to assist the
Government's program by: (a) consolidating and expanding primary education; (b) improving the quality of
primary education; and (c) strengthening the sector's management capacity while reducing the length of
primary education and better allocating resources. The total project cost was estimated at US$26.9
million. The Credit in an amount of US$23.3 million was approved in May 1991, and became effective in
July 1992. The Government was to finance US$1.6 million and obtain from UNDP the remaining US$2.0
million. The project got off to a slow start and only a small amount of the Credit was used before the
genocide violently interrupted its implementation in April 1994.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The transitional Government of National Unity sworn in July 1994 decided to reopen all primary
and secondary schools by January 1995 as a means of healing and reconciliation after the genocide. It
agreed with the Bank on a post-conflict emergency program that would be implemented within the
framework of the Project. Parallel emergency work in the sector was done under a separate Economic
Recovery Credit managed by the Ministry of Finance. The objectives of the Project were not formally
-2 -



revised. To make up for time lost during the war and post-conflict period, the closing date of the Credit was
extended three times, from September 30, 1996 to September 30, 1999.
3.3 Original Components:
3.3.1 Consolidating and expanding primary education (US$6.0 million). The Project included
a fund for the construction of 2,000 new classrooms, rehabilitation of 400 more, and reconstruction of an
additional 300. In addition, it included furniture for the 2,000 new classrooms and for 30 percent of the
8,700 classrooms without furniture. Funds for new classrooms would be allocated based on a formula
designed to reduce disparities in enrollments across and within prefectures, and those for reconstruction and
rehabilitation on the basis of estimations of needed classrooms by the communities.
3.3.2 Improving the quality of primary education (US$7.6 million). The Project included: (a)
Improvements in Pre-Service Teacher Training: the qualifications of 60 teacher training college professors
would be upgraded. Documentation centers would be constructed at ten regional teacher-training colleges
and supplied with textbooks. At each of the ten colleges an observation classroom would be constructed,
equipped and furnished in the attached teaching practice schools; (b) Professional development and
in-service training of supervisors: Ten prefectoral inspectors, 150 sector inspectors, and 660 primary
school directors would be trained in one, three and seven week seminars respectively to provide pedagogical
leadership; (c) In-Service training ofprimary teachers: upgrading of 3,500 unqualified teachers through
eight weeks of training. Recycling of 3,000 under-qualified teachers in eight weeks of training; and (d)
Strengthening applied pedagogical research: the technical capacity of DPEPERAI, the Directorate in
charge of curricula, to adjust the primary school curricula and adapt the textbooks was to be strengthened
through technical assistance, local and overseas training and incremental operating costs.
3.3.3 Strengthening educational management (US$2.1 million). The Project included: (a)
Strengthening the analytical, planning and management capacity of the central Government institutions
(US$1.3 million). The Directorate of Studies and Evaluation was to be provided with training, specialists,
equipment and operating costs to improve its capacity to undertake studies and policy analysis, review
investment projects, and develop a monitoring system for the MINEPRISEC (Ministry of Primary and
Secondary Education). The Education Planning Directorate was to be provided with training, specialists
and operating costs to strengthen its capacity to prepare plans and budgets for primary and secondary
education, monitor expenditures and decide on resource allocations for expansion and quality
improvements. The MINEPRISEC was to be provided with training, equipment, technical assistance and
operating costs to develop a three-year rolling budget, translate this into annual capital and recurrent
budgets, improve the budget preparation and implementation capacity of the Directorate of Financial
Services, develop standards for budget allocation and indicators for monitoring; (b) Strengthening the
pedagogical leadership of the prefectoral inspectors and their capacity to use resources efficiently at
secondary level (US$0.6 million). Management at the regional level was to be improved to permit better
distribution of funds and control of resource use at the regional and school levels, provide better
pedagogical support to teachers, and monitor of the quality of instruction. Measures were to be introduced
to improve the efficient use of resources and teachers. A study of decentralization was also included. The
prefectures were to be given specialists, local and overseas training, equipment, and operating costs; and
(c) Establishing a management information system at the University of Rwanda (UoR) (US$0.2 million).
To improve policy analysis and decision making, the UoR was to be provided with an integrated
management information system. The first step was to set up an operational data system of basic inputs.
The second step included the formulation of efficiency indicators. The UoR was to receive equipment,
local and overseas training and technical assistance.
- 3 -



3.4 Revised Components:
During the 1995-97 post-conflict period, the components were revised to include: (a) rehabilitating
primary schools in ten regions, furnishing 3,000 classrooms, training 6,000 teachers and procuring 450,000
textbooks; (b) rehabilitating, and re-equiping 20 secondary schools; (c) rehabilitating and re-equiping the
Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education; (d) rehabilitating the Butare Center for Pedagogical
Training, and the Teacher Training College in Remera; and (e) constructing a national examination center.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The initial project objectives were fully consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy. They were
based on an analysis of the access, equity and financial requirements of the sector. The objectives
addressed a much needed restructuring of the sector, while continuing to expand access, improve quality
and involve the communities in education. They were measurable and detailed. However, the Project was
too complex given the limited management capacity at the central and regional levels. It was not realistic to
expect that the central and regional institutions would be able to implement the Project efficiently given the
problems with the implementation of the ongoing Third Education Project. Several years were required
before the efforts to strengthen management would take hold. Also, the financial and technical demands of
the construction program on the communities were not in line with their capacity.
The overall approach of the Project was rational. Reducing primary education to six years and
creating a better balance between general and technical education at secondary, and thereby reducing
expenditure and increasing primary enrollments made sense. Also, the allocation of substantial resources
to strengthen sector management was necessary. The design of the Project was technically sound, but
economically, financially and institutionally inappropriate. The economy was contracting and government
revenues deteriorating. The Govemment's contribution was six percent, but the experience with the earlier
projects showed the chronic lack of counterpart funds. Finally, the risks were seriously underestimated.
The political-economic situation had deteriorated rapidly and civil war had erupted before the Project was
approved. It was not realistic to expect that this complex Project could be implemented as planned under
these conditions.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The outcome of the Project is mixed. It helped to reduce primary to six years and expand access
despite the set-back of the war and renewed high population growth following the genocide. Despite the
devastating situation immediately after the genocide and the complex political and security situation of the
post-conflict situation, the Project achieved the emergency program objective of rehabilitating schools and
allowing children back in school, often the only safe place in many communities. The original objectives of
improving quality and management were not changed and were largely overlooked given the pressure to
reopen the schools. Thus, because of the war, the quality of primary education did not improve and may
actually have declined. In the same vein, the effect of the genocide on sector staff meant that sector
management did not improve in the areas of planning, personnel and public finance management, except at
the University of Rwanda. The war caused destruction of infrastructure and resources and displaced sector
personnel. The overwheiming commitment to restoring access in a post-conflict situation with limited
resources crowded out efforts to improve quality and management. The Project should be rated
satisfactory for the expanding access objective, but unsatisfactory for the quality improvement objective,
and partially satisfactory for the management objective. Against the original objectives the Project
- 4 -



outcome should be rated unsatisfactory. However, in terms of the emergency program objectives, the
outcome is rated marginally satisfactory, because it helped to get many children back into school.
The achievement of the objective to expand access and improve equity of primary education has been
satisfactory. The construction and rehabilitation of schools helped to bring primary enrollment in 1998/99
back up to 67 percent, close to the 1989/90 pre-war level of 71 percent. This was despite the destruction
caused by the war, and a 21 percent increase of school-aged children between 1989 and 1998. Equity
across regions has also improved.
For lack of resources and capacity, the original objective to improve quality was put on hold in the
post-conflict period. It was resumed only towards the end of the Project. As a result, the original objective
to improve the quality of education has been unsatisfactory. Quality indicators for primary school
completion 22 percent, number of qualified teachers 40 percent, number of teachers provided with teaching
materials 40 percent, number of books per pupil 20 percent have either stagnated or deteriorated. The
exception is the transition rate to secondary, which increased to 21 percent in 1997/98 from 1 I percent in
1989/90. The destruction of schools and supplies and the displacement of teachers during the war have
been largely responsible for this situation. However, the Government's strong commitment to access
crowded out attention to quality. Even in post-conflict situations, however, minimum quality standards
must be pursued because poor quality education does not equip youngsters with the capacity and
competencies needed for reconciliation and rebuilding the economy and the society. Moreover, poor
education represents a cost to society without a clear benefit.
Similarly, the original objective to strengthening management has not been achieved for lack of
resources, particularly human resources. Attention to management capacity resumed towards the end of
the Project. Measured against the original objective which was not changed, capacity for policy analysis,
planning, and public finance at the central level remains weak. Administrative and pedagogical capacity
improved little. Only half of the planned sixty prefectoral inspectors have been trained. Also, 154 sector
inspectors have been trained, but their training was poor. Headmasters have not been trained. The capacity
of sector inspectors and directors to provide pedagogical support, monitor quality, and allocate resources
efficiently remains weak. On the other hand, the management information system at the University is
functioning and helping with the efficient allocation of resources.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Consolidating and expanding primary education
Construction, rehabilitation andfurnishing classroom. The outputs achieved under this
component meet and in some cases exceed the original targets. About 1,450 of the 2,000 new classrooms
envisaged have been constructed. About 4,330 classrooms have been rehabilitated compared to 400
targeted at appraisal. The quality of construction of some 100 new and 150 rehabilitated classrooms is
below standard due to poor contractor performance, changing security conditions, or poor supervision.
Also, only five percent of the schools have latrines and none have staff rooms. Moreover, allocations for
maintenance remain inadequate across the sector and many new and rehabilitated classrooms are in need of
repair. Furniture has been provided for 7,460 classrooms well above the appraisal target. However, many
schools still have inadequate furniture. Ninety-four of the 140 communes signed a protocol with the
Government for the construction of new classes. But the condition set at appraisal of a 10 percent
contribution was waived and replaced by a five percent Government contribution. In addition, 7 secondary
schools, the Ministry of Education, and the Butare Center for Pedagogical Training have been rehabilitated
and re-equipped under the emergency program.
- 5 -



Improve the quality of primary education
Improvements of Pre-Service Teacher Training. The post-conflict situation seriously disrupted this
component. As a result, the qualifications of only two of the 60 planned teacher training college professors
could be upgraded. Also, the original component of constructing documentation centers was abandoned and
replaced by expanding 7 secondary schools. During the emergency program 5,600 new primary teachers
have been recruited and trained. It was difficult to find teachers during the post-conflict period and many
new teachers recruited had not completed much more than primary education. Organizing their training
was difficult as there were few qualified trainers left and the teachers training program and materials had
been destroyed during the war. But the five-day training they received was seriously inadequate. An
integrated teacher development program commenced only in March 1998, because the Ministry of
Education decided to resume teacher training only after completing the revision of the curriculum. As a
result of the devastation of the conflict, about 60 percent of the primary school teachers remain not
qualified. Also, only about 4,500 teacher manuals have been procured and distributed during the
emergency program leaving most teachers without such manuals, which are essential, particularly for those
who are poorly prepared.
Professional development and in-service training of supervisors and primary teachers. Despite the
conflict, the training of 12 prefectoral inspectors and 155 sector inspectors was accomplished. But the
planned training of 660 primary school directors was not. Destruction of employmnent record and
procedures meant that the employment statute for the inspector service has to be redone and the role of the
inspectors to provide pedagogical leadership has not been formalized as of today. The upgrading of 3,500
unqualified teachers and recycling of 3,000 under-qualified teachers will be done under the new integrated
teacher development program. This program commenced in March 1998.
Strengthening applied pedagogical research. During the late post-conflict period, the technical
capacity of DPEPERAI (which became the National Curriculum Center) was strengthened through staff
training and the provision of equipment and books. The department completed the revision of the primary
curriculum in 1998 and is currently working on the revision of textbooks. The primary examination has
also been revised and is now giving parents and employers a better picture of student's achievements and
study and career options.
Strengthening educational management
Strengthening the analytical, planning and management capacity of the central Government
institutions. Achievement of this component was set back by the war. Despite this, the capacity of the
Directorate of Studies and Evaluation to undertake studies has been improved somewhat through staff
training. The Directorate's capacity for policy analysis, review of investment projects, and monitoring
remains weak. The capacity of the Education Planning Directorate has not improved. The Directorate has
not yet been able to produce plans and budgets for primary and secondary education, nor does it have the
capacity to monitor expenditures or deciding on resource allocations for expansion and quality
improvements. Budget preparation and implementation capacity of the Ministry of Education remains weak
despite the preparation of a public expenditure review by the Bank and sector finance studies by other
Donors.
Strengthening the pedagogical leadership of the prefectoral inspectors and their capacity to use
resources efficiently at secondary level. Because of the war, only two of the ten prefectoral inspectors have
been trained. Their capacity to effect better distribution of funds and control of resource use at the regional
- 6 -



and school levels, provide pedagogical support to teachers, and monitor the quality of instruction remains
weak. The inventory of the profiles of teachers was carried out in November 1999. The envisaged study to
analyze the objectives, processes and schedules for decentralization could not be done due to the
displacement of staff and changes in regional administration in the post-conflict period.
Establish a management information system at the University of Rwanda (UoR). A management
information system has been developed at the UoR and is now being used to improve policy analysis and
decision making. The equipment, local and overseas training and technical assistance provided by the
Project have been put to good use.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Because of the genocide and post conflict situation, staff turnover at the Ministry of Education has
been high and only few of the new staff have been trained. There is a shortage of staff in accounting,
planning and evaluation and monitoring. As a result, capacity for policy analysis, planning and public
finance management remains weak and few of the planned administrative, accounting, monitoring and
evaluation procedures are in place. Similarly, at the regional level, the inspectorates function poorly since
the role of the inspectors has not been formalized. The inspectors do not have the resources or capacity to
decide on the efficient allocation of staff and supplies to schools, provide pedagogical support, or monitor
quality. At the school level, few directors and teachers have been trained. The transparent accounting
procedures to show the use of fees (FRW 300 per annum) and the use of the community contributions are
not yet in place in the schools.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Credit effectiveness was delayed, in part by the difficulty of securing the US$2.0 million
contribution from the UNDP. Eventually this condition was waived, and the Credit was declared effective
in June 1992, fourteen months after Board approval. Initial disbursements were slow. More than one year
after Credit effectiveness, only a handful of communes had been able to deposit 10 percent of the cost of
the schools to be built or rehabilitated, which was a condition of disbursement for civil works. By
end-1993, less than US$1.0 million had been disbursed from the Credit, compared to US$12 million
estimated in the SAR. Project implementation was deeply affected by the war, the need to reopen schools
in the post-conflict period and the shortage of counterpart funds.
The impact of the war on implementation. The war had started before Credit approval and
culminated in the 1994 genocide and massive displacement of populations. In May 1995, project activities
were adjusted to help with emergency school reconstruction and rehabilitation. The objective became to get
students back in school. For about two years most project resources were focused on rehabilitating
thousands of schools all over the country. Implementation of the emergency program was hampered by the
dearth of enterprises capable of building the many class rooms. The unstable security situation in the
- 7 -



country disrupted the program. Also, a large number of teachers had been killed or left the country in 1994.
The Government had no choice but to hire replacement teachers most of whom were unqualified. The
unconditional commitment of the Government to reopen the schools, coupled with the destruction of
resources, both human and physical, largely crowded out the objective of improving the quality of
education. It became difficult to maintain even minimum quality standards. It also meant that there was a
shortage of staff to manage the sector and the Project, and that these staff could not be freed to get training,
or otherwise improve their management skills. Sector management and project supervision were weak as a
result.
Implementation constraints of the post-conffict period. Implementation after the war was set
back by the rapid increase of primary school-age population by about 21 percent from school-year 1989-90
and 1997-98, putting considerable pressure on scarce resources. Coping with the increase in the face of
weak sector management capacity diverted attention from the need to maintain minimum standards of
quality of education. A large part of sector resources had to be allocated to physical facilities to
accommodate an ever growing number of students.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The Government was slow to complete the steps required for effective implementation of the project.
The Bank supervision mission in April 1993 noted that the training of prefectoral inspectors, the
strengthening of the project unit, and the identification of professors of teachers' training institutions had
not been initiated.
Chronic shortage of counterpart funds. The provision of counterpart funds has been a problem
throughout project implementation and the reason for substantial implementation delays. The general
shortage of funds, which affected implementation of the previous projects, was exacerbated by the expenses
for rehabilitating the economy and providing security in the country. In 1997, the Governmenfs
contribution was FRW 2.8 million only (less than US$10,000). It increased in 1998 to FRW 81.2 million
(about US$274,000), still short of requirements. There was no contribution in 1999. The 2000 budget
includes counterpart funds, including money for making the last payment to firms, which have satisfactorily
completed works.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Constraints on supervision and weak project financial management. The school building and
rehabilitation program ran into considerable difficulties because of the lack of qualified contractors,
unstable security conditions, and the difficulty of supervision in a post-conflict environment. The
communities that had entered into construction protocols before the conflict had in many cases been
displaced by refugees with different needs and requirements. Also, sites had been abandoned during the
war or the post-conflict period. A 1997 review found a number of deficiencies in school buildings. Project
staff were changed, and the capacity of the project unit weakened until 1998. An accountant was hired in
late 1997 and took office in 1998. In the meantime, recommendations made in the audit reports could not
be implemented given the weak financial management capacity. For instance, in 1998, the auditors noted
that practices, such as analysis and follow-up of amounts paid to contractors, systems for monitoring
vehicle expenditures, or procedures for cash management were not in place. Weak financial management
persisted since the project accounted was never properly trained to learn to use the computerized project
accounting system.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
-8 -



As a result of the inadequate project financial management, the mission was not able to obtain
estimates of the final cost of the Project. While the accountant keeps records of expenditures, payments
made and reimbursement received, he is unable to produce balance statements. According to the latest
Government statement, it financed US$221,745.14 in counterpart contributions. The Bank disbursed a total
of US$22,799,179.06 of the US$23,300,000.00 Credit amount. The Government is submitting paymnents
up to the end of the January 31, 2000 grace period. The balance of the Credit will be canceled.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Given the constraints of the post-conflict environment, the sustainability of the Project is
uncertain. The Government succeeded in making a major effort to rehabilitate and build schools.
However, proper construction standards have not been applied due to the difficult post-conflict
circumstances. Several schools built or rehabilitated are already in need of repair. No permanent
procedures or activities could be put in place to maintain the schools as the Government and
communities face competing demands for scarce resources. The Government maintains a school
rehabilitation fund for maintenance and is working with Parent Teachers Associations in the
communities to obtain community contributions for maintenance but funds from both resources are
constrained. Minimum standards of quality of primary education could not be maintained due to lack of
resources and sector management capacity. Renewed attention to quality is emerging particularly in the
training of teachers and the upgrading of school curricula. Also, a follow-up Bank-assisted project is
under preparation and has substantial resources for quality improvements. But the impact of these
measures will take time to materialize. Both quality and sector management need to be drastically
improved before the project accomplishments in terms of providing schools and acquiring basic
competencies can become sustainable.
No maintenance of schools. Presently, no arrangements are in place for maintenance of the
schools, except for a token contribution from the parents and from the school rehabilitation fund.
Parents are expected to make an aDnual contribution of FRW 300 per student (less than a dollar) to the
running and maintenance cost of the schools. There is no information on how this contribution is used
by school principals. In any event, the amount is far too low to meet even the minimum requirement for
maintenance. Many schools show signs of poor maintenance and coupled with the lack of books and
furniture remain environments that are not very conducive for learning. The sustainability of the
investment in school construction and rehabilitation is unlikely until a workable solution for school
maintenance is put in place in the near future.
Educational achievements are poor. Because of the war and insufficient resources, the
Project only managed to make a beginning with restoring the minimum standards of quality of
education. Some teachers were trained and some books were distributed, but far from what is required
to ensure an adequate level of education. The quality of education remains poor in Rwanda today,
raising serious doubts about the sustainability of what the children have learned at school. Lower grade
classes are crowded with repeaters, but higher grade ones thin out as children drop out in large
numbers. Particularly in rural areas where opportunities to apply language and numeracy skills are few
and access to printed information scarce, these skills may erode rapidly. Recently, the Government has
increased efforts to train teachers and improve the curricula. Also, a fifth education project with
substantial resources for quality improvements is being prepared. These are encouraging
developments, but it will take several years before they will have an impact on education quality and
-9-



attainment.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Constraints on operating and maintenance funds. Schools built or rehabilitated with project
funds operate under difficult circumstances. Budget allocations cover the salaries of the teachers, but
almost nothing else. Local communities have to provide resources needed to operate or repair the
schools. In view of pervasive poverty in the rural areas, little can be done to support schools. In urban
areas, parents contribute to operating costs, such as the salary of a watchman, or a minor repair. They
also supplement the salaries of teachers when possible. In a school visited by the ICR mission in a poor
neighborhood of Kigali, parents pay an amount of FRW 1,000 per student per quarter in addition to the
annual school fee of FRW 500. This quarterly contribution would increase the salary of a teacher by
about 25 percent to the equivalent of about US$83 per month. This contribution allows the school to
obtain better teachers. In contrast, parents in rural areas are often too poor to pay for school uniforms
(average cost FRW 2,000). It is not clear if urban parents will be able to sustain their contribution for
the foreseeable future. The lack of funds for non-salary items is particularly serious. For example,
books have been provided under the project, but quantities are far from sufficient. The few available
books are kept in the classroom, and teachers are expected to use them the following academic year.
Safe places for keeping books have not been provided, nor money to buy replacement or new books,
and it may be difficult to ensure that the books will be there for the next few years.
Without adequate budget allocations to cover the cost of school operations and maintenance, and
the provision of teaching materials, the Project investments are not sustainable. Sustainability would be
more likely if public expenditure reviews would be conducted annually to assess budgeted amounts and
actual expenditures for the schools, and if these budget funds would be made available in a timely
manner.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Tlhe quality at entry of the Project is rated unsatisfactory. The Project, the fourth in a row, was
approved in April 1991, at a time when less than 45 percent of the Third credit had been disbursed. The
outbreak of hostilities in October 1990, before the Project was approved, only made things worse. Under
these conditions it was unreasonable to expect that the Project, which was more complex than its
predecessors, would be implemented as scheduled. Considerable delays and problems were experienced.
Initial Credit closing, which was set for September 30, 1996 had to be postponed thrice to September 30,
1999.
7.2 Supervision:
Initial supervision missions did their best to help the Government put in place the organizational units
and procedures for project implementation. However, despite serious delays in project start-up, the
missions to encourage the project staff, consistently rated the Project satisfactory for implementation
progress and highly satisfactory for achievement of development objectives. The Project ratings were
eventually downgraded following the September 1993 supervision mission. But the achievement of
development objectives was still rated satisfactory at that time. In late 1993 and early 1994, the Bank sent
two missions to Rwanda to identify and prepare a proposed Fifth Education Project. In view of the slow
start of the (fourth) Project, the message given to the Borrower was not appropriate.
- 1 0-



The Bank was one of the first donors to return to help immediately after the genocide. In
November-December 1994, the Bank fielded a mission to appraise the Emergency Recovery Credit and
make proposals for the restructuring of the Project. The Bank quickly agreed to assist the Government with
the rehabilitation of the school network, to get students back in school as quickly as possible. Project
activities were adjusted, but there was no formal project restructuring. In retrospect, it would have been
better if the Project would have been formally restructured. The agreement to reopen schools, as safe
havens in the communities, made sense. The fact that management capacity and resources were not
available to improve quality should have been noted. Initial objectives should have been revised to take
account of new constraints and realities. Appropriate performance indicators should have been defined.
Components should have been scaled down to take account of reduced implementation capacity, and the
closing date should have been extended beyond September 30, 1996. However, since the objectives were
not changed, the ICR mission had to assess achievements of original objective as well as the emergency
program objectives of the post-conflict period.
There was continuity in the composition of Bank missions. The task manager who supervised the
Project in the early years, participated in most missions even after he retired from the Bank. This helped to
make missions' aide-memoires issue-oriented and focused on action plans. It also provided continuity as
national staff changed frequently during the post-conflict period. Changes in project staff delayed attention
to the serious problems encountered in project accounting. In 1997 when staff were finally in place, the
supervision mission included a financial management specialist to begin to deal with these issues. Missions
consistently rated the Project satisfactory on both implementation progress and achievement of development
objectives based on adjusted project objectives and response to the emergency program. However,
compared to the original objectives there were problems with physical implementation and the lack of
progress in improving the quality of education.
Under normal circumstances, supervision by the Bank would be rated unsatisfactory. In this case, the
Bank team did its best to help the Government achieve its objective of getting children back to school as
rapidly as possible, in spite of extremely difficult conditions. It also helped the Government fornulate a
new post-conflict strategy for the education sector.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall Bank performance is rated as partially satisfactory. The quality at entry was poor.
Following the genocide and the constraints of the post-conflict situation, the Project should have been
formally restructured and simplified. Supervision missions attempted to pay attention to the quality and
management aspects of the sector, to financial management of the project, and to the project development
objectives. However, the national political and social context was a most difficult one. Quality and
management suffered serious set backs and affected project achievements and sustainability. On the other
hand, the Bank did its best to help the Government reopen the school system after the 1994 genocide, and
focus on strategic issues for the education sector.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Government established a working group to prepare the Project. Following significant technical
debates in 1989, the Government consulted with representatives of the population in early 1990 on the
objectives of a reform program for education. It reached a consensus to reduce the duration of primary
education from eight to six years and create a primary education fund that would help communes build and
- 1 1 -



equip schools, provided they made an initial effort. The Government performance during Project
preparation is rated satisfactory.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's performance is rated partially satisfactory. The Government managed to get
children back into schools following the devastating genocide and difficult post conflict situation, but did
not give enough attention to minimum standards of schooling. In the early years, implementation
performance was highly unsatisfactory. Following the resumption of project activities in May 1995, a
considerable effort has been made to rebuild rehabilitate and build classrooms. Although resources and
capacity were insufficient more should have been done to improve the quality of education and to
strengthen sector management. Counterpart funding has remained a chronic problem.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Overall the performance of the Ministry of Education is rated partially satisfactory. In the early years,
the Ministry proved unable to establish the agreed upon conditions for project implementation.
Implementation of the emergency program ran into difficulties when some contractors were unable to meet
the specifications set in their contracts. In some cases this situation was beyond the Ministrys control due
to difficult security conditions. The project staff was changed in 1998 causing disruption in supervision
and project management. After 1998, project implementation improved. However, financial management
remained weak, as the new accountant, hired in 1998, was not properly trained and had difficulties in
operating the accounting software used in the Project.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall the performance of the Borrower is rated partially satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
TIhe Credit was a useful instrument to transfer resources to the education sector, which was starved for
funds. The Credit was also timely in that it supported a much needed restructuring of the sector. However,
the design of the project was complex and not scaled to existing institutional capabilities. Implementation
was interrupted, after some twenty months by the terrible genocide. Following the genocide, the
Government and the Bank showed flexibility and imagination in using the Credit to restore access to
education. With the help of the Credit, it became possible to restore enrollments in primary education
nearer to pre-genocide levels in a short time. Subsequently, security-related expenditures interfered several
times with counterpart funds allocations, which delayed implementation.
In general, the intent and commitment of the Government to restore access after the genocide in the face
of scarce resources was sensible but affected implementation of the quality and management activities. The
pressure to provide minimum schooling coupled with the chronic shortage of funds forced a trade-off
between allocating most resources to restore access and not enough to improve quality and to strengthen
sector management. This decreased the development impact of the Credit. Quality standards dropped to
levels where the rates of repetition and dropout became alarmingly high, and the rates of completion, and
acquisition of competencies, alarmingly low. The economic value of schooling may no longer match the
cost under these conditions. Weak management at all levels as a result of the war exacerbated the situation.
The capacity to allocate resources to where they are needed most, monitor the health of the sector, and
evaluate sector outcomes was not put in place. In the current situation, it would not be economically viable
to consider further expansion of access without allocating substantial resources to achieve radical
- 12 -



improvements in quality and management. At the same time, human capital in Rwanda remains inadequate
for the task of reconciliation and rebuilding the society and the economy. Substantial investments in
education must be made by the people, the private and the public sectors and the development partners to
build quality human capital in Rwanda.
The key lessons from the First Education Sector Project are:
(a) Project objectives need to be scaled to take account of the local implementation capacity. In case
complex project activities need to be included in the project, they should only be scheduled to commence
once the technical and implementation capacity has reached the required level.
(b) In post-conflict situations where the conditions under which a project is implemented change
substantially, it is necessary to: formally restructure the project; agree with the Government on the
new/restructured objectives; assess ownership and commitment; assess whether implementation capacity
matches the new objectives; redefine the project performance indicators to measure progress and
achievements; and agree on a reasonable period for implementing the restructured project.
(c) In post-conflict situations where the Bank supervision missions determine that Borrower capacity and
commitment to maintain minimum quality standards is faltering, the issue of Borrower capacity and
commitment should be discussed at the level of the country director and Borrower counterparts to come up
with a solution for restoring standards.
(d) Even in post-conflict environments an important lesson from the implementation of this Project is that
it is not cost-effective or educationally sound to focus exclusively on expanding access at the expense of
maintaining or establishing minimum quality standards and minimum sector management capacity.
(e) Implementation capacity suffered from the conflict and was only gradually restored in the post-conflict
period with serious delays in the area of project accounting and financial management. Bank supervision
missions should have attempted to remedy the problem in a shorter more reasonable time frame.
(f) School maintenance arrangements in post-conflict environments where communities coping with
restoring basic needs are responsible for maintenance need to be reassessed to determine if the communities
can take on this responsibilities. In Rwanda the pervasive poverty of rural communities suggest that
Government or donor funds must be allocated to ensure that adequate maintenance of the schools is done to
ensure the physical sustainability of the assets created.
(g) A lesson from the Second Education Project could have been taken into account in launching the
emergency civil works program, namely that school construction programs may require the use of a system
of prequalifying contractors and the provision of trained site inspectors for quality control of civil works
program.
(h) In view of the fragile political situation in the region, the fiscal capacity of the Government, and the
experience with the four Bank-assisted education projects, future projects should be designed to accomplish
one or two clear, simple and feasible objectives formulated and owned by the Government, the stakeholders
and the development partners, that can be implemented in a short - two to three year - period and are part
of a long-term program of building quality human capital.
9. Partner Comments
- 13 -



(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
REPUBLIQUE RWANDAISE
Ministere des Finances
et de la Planification Economique
Bureau Central des Projets et de la
Coordination du Financement Exterieur
(CEPEX)
PREMIER PROJET SECTORIEL DE L' EDUCATION
RAPPORT D'EVALUATION
1. Introduction
Dans le souci de l'amdlioration de l'enseignement dans le pays, et plus particulierement de 1'enseignement
primaire, le Rwanda a negocie un financement aupres de la Banque Mondiale et un accord de credit y relatif
fut signe entre le Gouvernement Rwandais et l'IDA en date du 27 juin 1991.
Montant du credit:                        23 300 000 USD (16 200 000 DTS)
Date de signature:                        27. 06. 1991
Date de mise en vigueur:                  24. 06. 1992
Date prevue d'achevement:                 30. 09. 1996
Debut des activites:                      septembre 1993
Reprise des activites apres la guerre:    01. 06. 1995
L'etat chaotique des structures administratives qui regnait avant avril 1994 et la destruction des capacites
du pays pendant la guerre et le g6nocide ont chaque fois retarde la date de d6marrage des activites du Projet.
Le delai du Projet a dui etre prolonger 3 fois, et il a et clos le 30. 09. 1999.
2. Obiectifs du Projett:
Les objectifs de depart du Projet etaient definis comme suit:
. Consolider et developper 1'enseignement primaire en ameliorant l'acces et 1'equite d'acces a I'
enseignement primaire;
. Ameliorer la qualite de 1'enseignement et Renforcer la capacite de gestion du secteur de 1'education;
Pour que le Projet puisse atteindre ces objectifs, il devait financer l'execution des activites contribuant a la
realisation des resultats ci-apres, qui sont les composantes du Projet:
1.     Construction et equipement des ecoles primaires;
2.     Formation initiale et continue des enseignants;
3.     Recherche pedagogique appliquee;
4.     Renforcement des services centraux du Minist&e de l'Education;
5.     Renforcement des services decentralises;
6.     Amelioration de gestion de l'Universite Nationale du Rwanda.
Ces objectifs etaient trop complexes des le depart, meme avant les evenements de 1994.
- 14 -



Par rapport aux objectifs initiaux, des changements sont intervenus pour repondre aux bouleversements
socio-politico-economiques intervenus au Rwanda duis a la guerre et au genocide.
En effet, eu egard A la situation du pays pendant la pdriode de l'apres-guerre, il paraissait peu probable de
pouvoir atteindre avec satisfaction les objectifs principaux de depart assignes au Projet, et les activites du
Projet se sont d'abord concentres sur la rdhabilitation.
Apres les evenements de 1994, 1'Etat aurait dfu revoir avec la Banque Mondiale les objectifs de depart et les
adapter aux conditions du moment.
La non-reformulation des objectifs a eu comme consequence que la composante 'qualite de l'education' a
ete peu prise en consideration, et cela se fait remarquer au niveau des dernieres annees de l'ecole primaire
dans lesquelles le nombre des elves qui ont redouble une ou plusieurs fois est eleve, ainsi qu'au grand
nombre d'abandons generalise au niveau national.
3. Execution du Proiet
Apres les tristes evenements de 1994 qui ont endeuille et tourmente le pays, La Banque Mondiale et le
Gouvernement Rwandais se sont mis d'accord d'executer un programme d'urgence. Ce programme devait
servir A combler la grande partie des besoins prioritaires dans le secteur de l'education.
3.1. Phase d'ureence
Le programme devait ddmarrer A la reprise des activites en septembre 1995. II a ete convenu qu'au cours de
ce programme il soit procede A la rehabilitation de 3000 salles de classes, A la fourniture de 30 000
pupitres, 3000 armoires, 3000 chaises pour les maitres, 3000 tables et 3000 tableaux noirs, ce qui fait que
chaque salle de classe rehabilitee devait &re equipe de 10 pupitres, I armoire, I chaise, 1 table et 1 tableau
noir.
II a ete en outre convenu d'executer ce programme en deux phases: pendant la premiere phase 1000 salles
de classes devaient etre rehabilitees et 10 000 pupitres devaient etre fournis et 2000 salles de classes/20 000
pupitres lors de la deuxieme phase.
Le programme s'est deroule comme suit:
.Sur les 1000 salles de classes qui devaient etre rehabilitees lors de la premiere phase, seulement 755 l'ont
ete et 915 ont recu l'equipement prevu.En plus, le programme a demarre en janvier 1996 au lieu de
demarrer en septembre 1995 comme prevu. Au cours de la seconde phase il y a eu rehabilitation de 2223
salles de classes et 2157 ont recu l'equipement.
.11 etait en outre prevu de recycler 30% des enseignants du primaire non qualifies, ce qui fait 5600
enseignants de l'ecole primaire. Le recyclage a eu lieu en 4 etapes entre le 31 juillet et le 04 novembre 1995.
Quant A la formation des formateurs, 30 enseignants du secondaire ont et choisis et ont ete formes a cet
effet pendant 4 semaines en juillet 1995 et octobre 1995. De plus, 112 enseignants non qualifies de l'e&ole
secondaire ont suivi un cours de recyclage en octobre/novembre 1995.
.Pendant la phase d'urgence, Il y a eu egalement distribution de manuels scolaires : 480 985 livres (maitre et
eleves) ont ete distribues.
.De plus, different materiel a ete fourni au Ministere, a l'UNR ainsi qu'a l'Unite d'execution du Projet. Le
batiment abritant l'Unite d'execution du Projet, qui avait et endommage par la guerre, a ete egalement
rehabilite.
3.2.    Proeramme initial
- 15 -



3.2.1. Composante I : Construction et eguipement mobilier
3.2.1.1. Convention avec 76 communes
Au mois de juin 1996 ont debute les travaux qui etaient initialement prevus dans le cadre du Premier Projet
Sectoriel de l'Education, A savoir la construction, rehabilitation, equipement en mobilier dans les communes
ayant signe les conventions avec le Ministere de l'Enseignement Primaire et Secondaire. Le nombre de
communes avait et reduit a 76 puisqu'il a fallu mettre des fonds non prevus au depart a la realisation du
Programme d'urgence dui A la guerre.
Au cours de cette phase, 968 salles de classes ont ete construites, 1353 ont ete rehabilitees, 138 ont ete
remplacees et 3346 ont et equipees en mobilier.
3.2.1.2. Convention avec 21 communes
Au cours de cette phase, 414 salles de classes et 346 latrines ont ete construites, et 1058 ont ete equipees en
mobilier.
3.2.1.3. Rehabilitation des bfitiments du Ministere de l'Education et de ses services
Cette rehabilitation consistait A la remise en etat des infrastructures des bitiments suivants:
Bitiment central du Ministere de l'Education a Kacyiru, arnenagement et construction de la cl6ture ainsi
que du parking;
Cl6ture des bftiments du Ministere A Remera
Rehabilitation des bftiments de la Division des Programmes de l'Enseignement Primaire, de la Division
des Programmes de l'Enseignement Secondaires, du Centre National de Recyclage des Enseignants ainsi
que du Centre National de Developpement des Programmes.
3.2.1.4 Rdhabilitation des Ecoles Secondaires
31 salles de classe dans 7 des 17 ecoles secondaires retenues ont e rehabilitees dans le cadre du Projet
3.2.1.5. Problemes rencontrees et defaillances constatees
* II a et constate qu'il y a eu du mobilier commande pour des centres scolaires en construction, ce mobilier
a di etre livre A d'autres centres qui apparemment en avait egalement besoin - I'attribution du marche pour
les constructions et pour le mobilier avait effectivement eu lieu en meme temps;
- II y a en outre des constructions qui sont restees incompletes A la cl6ture du Projet dont les travaux
restants sont evalues A 55 130 907 FRW (voir annexe 9);
* II est prevu que le batiment de l'Institut Superieur Pedagogique (ISP/KIE), dont la construction a
commence tardivement, soit acheve en mars 2000, donc 6 mois apres la date de cl6ture du Projet;
-II a et en outre constate que lors de la phase III (Convention avec 76 communes) les constructions de
salles de classes ont e  effectuees sans penser aux latrines et aux bureaux des directeurs des centres, et lors
de la phase IV (Convention avec 21 communes) sans bureaux des directeurs;
- A plusieurs endroits, la qualite des constructions laisse A desirer : utilisation de trop peu de ciment,
mauvaise fermeture des portes et fenetres, etc.
3.2.2. Composante 2: Formation initiale et continue
Cette composante a connu des difficultes de mise en execution car certains prealables etaient necessaires, en
l'occurrence l'harmonisation et revision des programmes de l'enseignement primaire et secondaire. Le
Ministere et la Banque Mondiale se sont mis d'accord que des structures de base soient mises en place
- 16 -



devant permettre d'effectuer un systeme de formation permanente. C'est dans ce cadre que les travaux
ci-dessous ont et6 r6alises:
* 156 animateurs pedagogiques, 12 adjoints pedagogiques, 121 professeurs d'Ecoles Normales pour
Primaires (ENP) ont recu une formation de 5 jours;
R6habilitation du Centre de formation pedagogique de Butare
Rehabilitation de l'Institut Superieur Pedagogique (ISP/KIE)
Extension de l'Institut Superieur Pedagogique (ISP/KIE)
3.2.3. Composante 3 . Recherche p'dakogigue
Cette composante a du attendre l'harmonisation et la revision des programmes d'enseignement primaire et
secondaire. C'est dans ce cadre qu'ont eu lieu des ateliers de formation sur les nouveaux programmes.
Egalement ont eu lieu des formations A
l'6tranger pour differents cadres du Ministere et du Projet et des ateliers de formation pour les comptables
des ecoles secondaires. Avec le reliquat des fonds destines A cette composante, il a ete convenu d'acheter
des manuels anglais pour
l'Enseignement A l'ecole primaire.
3.2.4. Composante 4 : Renforcement des services centraux
Cette composante renferme beaucoup d'activites relatives au renforcement des services du Ministere:
* Etablir la liste du personnel et creer les fichiers
* Informatiser le departement et former le personnel
* Achat d'equipement necessaire
* Elaboration de la carte scolaire
* Etude sur le diagnostic/financement du secteur educatif
A part la derniere activit6, toutes les autres ont 6t6 menees A bien ou sont toujours en cours d'execution.
Le materiel enumer6 ci-dessous a ete achete:
* Equipement en informatique
* 8 v6hicules
* 13 photocopieuses, 38 machines A ecrire, 9 stencileuses et 2 graveurs de stencils electroniques, ainsi que
different mat6riel pour la Division Constructions.
3.2.5.  Composante 5: Renforcement des Services decentralises
Cette composante comprend deux grandes activites, A savoir:
* Les formations des enseignants, des directeurs de centre, des inspecteurs de secteur, des inspecteurs d'
arrondissement, des gerants, des prefets des etudes, et des professeurs des 6coles secondaires.
* L'achat d' equipements (dont 155 motocyclettes).
Seulement deux inspecteurs d'arrondissement ont pu beneficier d'une formation a l'etranger et des sessions
de formation pour les directeurs des centres scolaires ont pu etre menees dans les prefectures et les motos
ont ete achetees comme prevu.
- 17 -



3.2.6.  Comnposante 6: Renforcement des capacites de gestion de l 'Universite Nationale du
Rwanda(lNR)
Cette composante prevoyait:
* L'achat des 6quipements informatiques et des logiciels appropries A la gestion de l'UNR ainsi que l'achat
de vehicules
* La formation en informatique du personnel de I'UNR sur les logiciels commandes
* La formation en gestion des institutions universitaires et en informatique.
La formation en informatique du personnel de l'UNR sur les logiciels commandes. L'equipement
informatique et les vehicules ont ete livres. En outre, le Projet a finance l'installation de deux sites de 1'
Universite Virtuelle Africaine (au KIST-Kigali Institute of Science, Technology and Management- et a
Butare).
3.3. Faiblesses et contraintes rencontrees au cours de I'execution du Proiet
* Au niveau des autorites locales:
La mauvaise comprehension des intervenants des procedures et des attributions des marches a fait que
beaucoup d'entreprises n'aient pas pu honorer leur engagement et certaines ont dui interrompre les
travaux.
*Au niveau de Administration Centrale
- Lenteur de procedure pour donner des avis et signatures des differents dossiers a envoyer chez le Bailleur
de fonds alors que le Projet travaille sur une echeance determinee;
- Le r6le des responsables des composantes ne se joue pas comme il faut car ils sont trop pris par leur
travail au niveau du Departement;
- La gestion du compte special n'est pas efficace car les procedures font que l'on mette trop de temps A
honorer les engagements des creanciers;
- Le suivi n'a pas ete correctement assure, de facon qu'il ete souvent necessaire de resilier certains contrats
et de remplacer certaines entreprises par d'autres.
* Au niveau de l 'Unite de Gestion du Projet
- La disparite regionale des prix et les montant des marches. En effet, les couits de base des constructions
sont relativement bas par rapport A ce qu'offrent les ONG;
- Les disparites dont ont souffert certaines regions dues A l'accessibilite difficile de plusieurs centres
scolaires et au probleme d'insecurite qui a ete ressenti dans certaines regions ont ete un obstacle pour les
ingenieurs et les Bureaux de surveillance. II y a en outre des regions qui souffrent du probleme d'
approvisionnement en eau et en produits manufactures. Certaines entreprises n'ont pas pris cela en
consideration lors de leur soumission et n'ont pas pu executer les travaux correctement;
- Rarete de la main d'ceuvre eu egard au volume des constructions des differents bailleurs de fonds.
* Au niveau du pays
II etait difficile de realiser les differentes sessions de formation et de recyclage comme prevu car les
formateurs qualifies n'etaient pas disponibles en nombre sufflisant;
* Au niveau de la Banque Mondiale
II arrive que la Banque Mondiale mette trop de temps pour donner sa non-objection aux differentes
demandes qui lui sont envoyees.
- 18-



4. Financement
Le Projet a ete finance sur un pret de la Banque Mondiale de 16 200 000 DTS (23 300 000 USD). Selon I'
Accord de credit 2227 signe le 27 juin 1991, le Gouvernement rwandais devait contribuer au financement
du Projet avec un fonds de contrepartie equivalent A 1 600 000 USD.
Jusqu'A date, les decaissements se sont effectues comme suit:
* Annee 1994: USD 1 256 408.22
* Annee 1995: USD  881 820.31
* Annee 1995: USD 5 697 100.41
* Annee 1997: USD 7 619 812.37
* Annee 1998: USD 4 664 151.46
* Annee 1999: USD 2 090 721.32
* Total:      USD 22 210 014.09
Le Gouvernement rwandais a deja paye une tranche de sa contrepartie equivalente A 78 400 897 FRW ( 237
578 USD).
5. Performance de I'Emprunteur
La performance de l'emprunteur a e entachee de plusieurs interruptions dans P'execution du projet dfu A la
situation socio-polico-economique du pays et au manque de ressources humaines qualifiees pendant 1'
aprbs-guerre. Egalement les differents changements intervenus au niveau des structures du Ministere de I'
Education ont perturbe la gestion du Projet.
* Au regard des actions convenues lors des differentes missions de supervision de la Banque Mondiale, le
volet formation initiale et continue des enseignants n'a pas connu de realisation notable. Depuis le debut du
Projet, le Minist&re de l'Education a prete une attention limitee A cette composante et tres peu a et6
accompli quant A la restructuration de la formation initiale des enseignants;
* Le choix des entreprises de construction n'a pas ete fait correctement, ce qui a gravement entrave I'
execution des travaux;
* Les prestations des bureaux de surveillance ont ete insuffisantes, ils ont en effet sous-estime la consistance
de la mission de supervision. Le suivi de plusieurs chantiers a ete abandonne;
* Le paiement du fonds de contrepartie a constitue un probleme majeur pendant toute la duree du Projet;
Le Gouvernement a mis en place une structure de suivi regulier et d'evaluation de projets, A savoir le
Bureau Central des Projets et de la Coordination du Financement Exterieur (CEPEX);
- Le Gouvemement et le Parlement rwandais ont 6t6 sensibles aux erreurs commises pendant l'execution du
Projet, et des mesures politiques et judiciaires ont ete prises. Une investigation financi&e fut menee par le
CEPEX et des commissions parlementaires d'enquete furent creees. Cela a entra6ne entre autres la
demission d'un membre du Gouvemement.
6. Performance de la Bancue
* La Banque a regulierement envoye des missions de supervision qui ont effectue des visites de terrain, mend
des discussions avec les autorites du pays et differents concern6s, se sont rendu compte de l'etat d'
avancement des activites du Projet, et ont donne leurs observations A travers differents aide-memoire.
Pourtant ces visites de terrain, qui sont souvent de tres courte duree, semblent insuffisantes pour pouvoir
realiser la vraie situation du programme.
- 19-



* Apres la guerre de 1994, la Banque aurait dfi voir la necessite de reformuler les objectifs de depart afin de
les adapter A la nouvelle situation du pays;
- La Banque n'a pas pu veiller a ce que les employes de la comptabilite de l'Unite d'execution du Projet
recoivent une formation appropriee.
7. Indicateurs de performance
(voir annexe 10)
8. Lecons tirees et recommandations
* Un environnement socio-politique stable est indispensable A la reussite de tous les projets et programmes.
II faudrait donc tenir compte de 1'environnement socio-politique et economique du pays dans la preparation
et 1'execution d'un projet. En effet, I'Accord de Credit a et6 signe en juin 1991 alors que le pays etait dejA
en guerre depuis octobre 1990
* La maitrise des procedures de la Banque est indispensable A la bonne execution du projet afin d'eviter des
lenteurs dans le traitement des dossiers. Pour ce faire, des formations liees A la preparation et A l'execution
des projets sont indispensables aux cadres et techniciens impliques dans la mise en azuvre du projet;
- Les projets devraient etre concus avec une certaine flexibilite afin qu'ils puissent facilement s'adapter aux
changements socio-politiques et economiques;
- La population (par exemple les representants des conseils des parents et les enseignants) beneficiaire des
activites d'un projet d'une telle envergure que le Premier Projet Sectoriel de I'Education devrait &re
suffisamment informee des differentes activites du Projet;
* Au niveau des constructions des centres scolaires, un certain minimum d'amenagements devrait etre
respecte incluant les toilettes (latrines) et bureaux des responsables des ecoles;
* Un accent particulier devrait etre mis sur l'aspect 'qualite de l'enseignement', plus specialement de 1'
enseignement primaire
- Le choix d'entreprises de construction (et bureaux de surveillance) dans le cadre de grands projets devrait
_tre suffisamment rigoureux et les travaux devraient etre attribuees seulement aux entreprises prT-qualifiees
* Une evaluation approfondie devrait etre entreprise dans l'intention de relever tous les degats qui ont ete
commis et d'y trouver une solution durable.
* L'Etat devrait prevoir les moyens necessaires A la maintenance et entretien des ouvrages pour assurer la
durabilite de leur utilite. La population beneficiaire devrait eire sensibilisee y apporter sa contribution.
* Les projets trop complexes devraient etre evitees tant qu'ils ne correspondent pas aux capacites reelles d'
exdcution dont dispose le pays.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
Beneficiary Assessment Results
A limited beneficiary assessment has been conducted by researchers of the University of
Rwanda, under the direction of Professor Deo Kambanda in December 1999/January 2000. The
-20 -



survey was financed in a large part from a Grant received from the World Bank - Social Capital Action
Fund FY2000. A questionnaire was prepared and a team of senior students selected and trained to
conduct conversational interviews in the twelve prefectures of the country. In each prefecture a school
which had received assistance under the Project was selected, including three schools in urban areas
and nine schools in rural areas. The team conducted 288 conversational interviews with school staff
and students, including school directors, teachers, students (good and poor) and dropouts, and with
members of the communities, including parents, leaders, and NGO representation.
The themes discussed during these conversational interviews included: access to school;
reasons for sending children to school; quality of services provided by the school; affordability of
schools; role of schools in the community, requirements for a good school in order of priority;
assessment of improvements made under the project; and, suggestions for improving schooling.
The preliminary conclusions of the beneficiary survey indicate a strong demand for schooling.
However, parents and communities have low expectations from the education system. Urban children
have a better access to school than their counterparts in rural areas. Schools are too few in rural areas
and their location does not seem to respond to objective criteria of school mapping. Poverty and
ignorance are the major factors for not sending children to school. The second factor being more
pervasive is rural areas. A significant number of families are too poor to pay even the token annual fee
of FRW 300. Parents want to send their children to school, mostly because they expect education to
help them have a better life. They do not make any difference between boys and girls.
Expectations for the education system are low. In rural areas, parents are generally satisfied
with the services received, as long as they see that a few more children in the community go to
secondary schools than in previous periods, or that a child can assist in reading a text or filling-out a
form. In urban areas, parents are more demanding, and make contributions through the PTA system to
remedy serious deficiencies encountered in schools. Lack of teaching materials and, low qualifications
of teachers are considered as major constraints.
The perception of what a school is and should be is most traditional. Respondents did not see
what the school could do for the community besides educating children. The requirements for a good
school are in order of priority: a building, a good director, qualified teachers, and adequate teaching
materials. The building is by far the most important ingredient, because communities expect that when
the building is available, the other inputs for appropriate education may eventually be secured.
To improve schooling in the community, respondents suggested that parents participate in the
management of schools, double shift be eliminated, adequate teaching materials and books be provided,
and teachers' incentives be improved.
The full report is in Annex I 1.
-21 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Im act Indicators:
(a) Consolidate and expand primary   The project continues to make progress in  The achievement of the objective to expand
education: establishment of a Primary  achieving its main objective of expanding    access and improve equity of primary
Education Fund while improving equity of   access to primary education. Over 1500    education has been satisfactory. The
accesstenrollment rates between prefectures classrooms have been constructed and  construction and rehabilitation of schools
and within.                          fumished and an additionnal 4200     helped to bring primary enrollment in 1998/90
rehabilitated. Seven secondary schools and  back up to 67 percent, close to the 1989/90
two teacher training institutes have been    pre-war level of 71 percent, despite the
rehabilitated; work is currently underway to  destruction caused by the war and a 21
extend another teacher training institute in   percent increase of school-aged children
Kgali.                               between 1989-98. Equity among regions
has also improved except in the Gisenyi
prefecture because of persistent security
problems in this area neighboring Congo.
(b) Improve the quality of education: (i)  The Ministry of Education is undertaking a   The achievement of the objective to improve
pre-service Primary Teachers Training; (ii)  major effort to improve the quality of  the quality of education has been
professional development and in-service    education. This effort includes a curriculum  unsatisfactory. Quality indicators for primary
training of primary education supervisors and development activity which has been  school completion (22 percent), number of
teachers and (iii) reinforcing of applied  completed and an integrated teacher  qualified teachers (about 40 percent),
pedagogical research.                development program (TDP) which is   number of teachers provided with teaching
underway. Under the pre-service training    materials (40 percent), number of books per
aspects of the TDP program, a teacher  pupil (20 percent) have either stagnated or
training institute is currently being  deteriorated. The exception is the transition
constructed in Kigali. The in-service training to secondary rate, which increased to 21
aspects of the program are progressing  percent in 1997/98 from 11 percent in
smoothly.                            1998/90. The destruction of schools and
supplies and the displacement of teachers
during the war have been largely responsible
for this situation. However, the Govemment'
s strong commitment to access came at the
cost of attenbon to quality. Poor quality
education does not equip youngsters with the
capacity and competencies needed for
reconciliation and rebuilding the economy
and the society. Poor education represents a
cost to society without a clear benefit.
(c) Strengthen the education sector's  The Govemment's education policy for the   The objective of strengthening management
management capacity while reducing the    country has been defined. Education is  has not been achieved. At the central level,
length of primary education and better  considered a major pniority for national  capacity for policy analysis, planning, and
allocating resources: (i) reinforcing of  reconciliation, reconstruction, development  public finance management remains weak.
planning, budgeting, financial control, human and Govemment commitment is high. A  Administrative and pedagogical capacity
resources and examination management; (ii) Social Sector Expenditure Framework Study improved little. Only two prefectoral
fostering inspectorate administration; (iii)   has recently been undertaken and will lay the inspectors have been trained and an
improving secondary school accounting and foundation for future support to the education insufficient number of sector inspectors and
use of resources and (iv)            sector.                             school directors have been appointed.
rationalizing/improving the university's                                  Sector inspectors and directors have not
management information system.                                            been trained and their capacity to provide
pedagogical support and allocate resources
efficiently remains weak. On the other hand,
the management information system at the
University is functioning and helping with the
better allocation of resources.
- 22 -



Output Indicators:
Construction, rehabilitation and fumishing                                  The outputs achieved under this component
classrooms.                                                                 meet and in some cases exceed the original
targets. About 1560 of the 2,000 new
classrooms envisaged have been
constructed. About 3,000 classrooms have
been rehabilitated durng the emergency
program compared to 400 targeted at
appraisal. The Govemment found however
that the quality of construction of some 100
new and 150 rehabilitated classrooms is
below standard due to poor contractor
performance and supervision. Also,
allocations for maintenance remain
inadequate across the sector and many new
and rehabilitated classrooms are in need of
repair. Fumiture has been provided for
4,455 classrooms close to the appraisal
target. Ninety-four of the 140 communities
signed the protocol and contributed the
equivalent of ten percent of the construction
and rehabilitation cost, mostly in kind. In
addition, seven secondary schools, the
Ministry of Education, and the Butare Center
for Pedagogical Training have been
rehabilitated and re-equipped under the
emergency program.
Improvements of Pre-Service Teacher                                         The qualifications of only two of the 60
Training.                                                                   planned teacher training college professors
have been upgraded. Documentation
centers have been constructed and supplied
with textbooks at only two of the ten regional
teacher training colleges. Similarly,
observation classrooms have been
constructed, equipped and fumished in the
attached teaching practice schools at only
two teacher training colleges. During the
emergency program 5,600 new primary
teachers have been recruited and trained.
However, many new teachers had not
completed much more than primary
education and the five-day training was
seriously inadequate. An integrated teacher
development program commenced only in
March 1998 because the Ministry of
Education decided to resume teacher
training only after completion of the revision
of the curriculum. Only xxxx teachers have
benefited from the program and about 60
percent of the primary school teachers
remain not qualified. Also, only about 4,500
teacher manuals have been procured and
distributed during the emergency program
leaving most teachers without such manuals,
which are essential, particularly those who
are poorly prepared.
-23 -



Professional development and in-service                                    The training of 150 sector inspectors and
training of supervisors and primary teachers.                              660 primary school directors has not been
accomplished. As a matter of fact, the
employment statute for the inspector service
has not been finalized and the role of the
inspectors to provide pedagogical leadership
has not been formalized. The upgrading of
3,500 unqualified teachers and recycling of
3,000 under-qualified teachers will be done
under the new integrated teacher
development program, but this program only
commenced in March 1998.
Strengthening applied pedagogical research.                                The technical capacity of DPEPERAI has
been strengthened through staff training and
the provision of equipment and books. The
department completed the revision of the
primary curriculum in 1998 and is currently
working on the revision of textbooks. The
primary examination has also been revised
and is now giving parents and employers a
better picture of student's achievements and
study and career options.
Strengthening the pedagogical leadership of                                Only two of the ten prefectoral inspectors
the prefectoral inspectors and their capacity                              have been trained. Their capacity to effect
to use resources efficiently at secondary                                  better distribution of funds and control of
level.                                                                    resource use at the regional and school
levels, provide pedagogical support to
teachers, and monitoring the quality of
instruction remains weak. The inventory of
the profiles of teachers has not been
prepared hampering the efficient use of
teachers. The envisaged study to analyze
the objectives, processes and schedules for
decentralization las not been done.
Strengthening the analytical, planning and                                 The capacity of the Directorate of Studies
management capacity of the central                                         and Evaluation to undertake studies has
Govemment institutions.                                                    been improved somewhat through staff
training. The directorate's capacity for policy
analysis, review of investment projects, and
monitoring remains weak, however. The
capacity of the Education Planning
Directorate has not improved. The
Directorate has not yet produced plans and
budgets for primary and secondary
education, nor is capable to monitor
expenditures or decide on resource
allocations for expansion and quality
improvements. Budget preparation and
implementation capacity of the Ministry of
Education remains weak despite the
preparation of a public expenditure review by
the Bank and sector finance studies by other
donors.
Establish a management information system                                  A management information system has been
at the University of Rwanda (UoR).                                         developed at the UoR and is now being used
to improve policy analysis and decision
making. The equipment, local and overseas
training and technical assistance provided by
the Project have been put to good use.
End of project
- 24 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)-,-,
p ~ ~ A~uU~.   Prcntage
---e~tc~t .y .-Com,omp pnenent *                         Es~o Appraisal
Consolidation/Expansion of Primary Education              5.98            6.00          100
Improvement of the Quality of Primary Education           7.56            7.60          100
Strengthening the Sector Management Capacity              3.05            3.70          100
Studies and Preparation of future investments             1.00            0.20           20
Total Baseline Cost                                      17.59           17.50
Total Project Costs                 17.59           17.50
Total Financing Required                 17.59           17.50
Proect Costs bY Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
-xp.ndIture Catgoty                                                 tICB       TOt Cost
1. Works                      0.00          7.14          1.69          0.00          8.83
(0.00)        (6.43)       (1.52)        (0.00)        (7.95)
2. Goods                      4.01          2.97          0.00          0.00          6.98
(4.01)        (2.68)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (6.69)
3. Services                   0.00          0.00          3.13          5.43          8.56
Technical Assistance and      (0.00)        (0.00)       (1.12)        (5.18)        (6.30)
training abroad and locally
4. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00          0.00          1.28          1.28
Incremental operation        (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)        (1.08)        (1.08)
costs
5. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00          1.28          0.00          1.28
Studies and preparation of    (0.00)        (0.00)       (1.28)        (0.00)        (1.28)
future investments
6. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                      4.01          10.11         6.10          6.71          26.93
(4.01)        (9.11)       (3.92)        (6.26)        (23.30)
Category 1: Civil Works: (a) primary education and (b) other parts of the project.
Category 2: Goods: (a) fumiture and (b) equipment, vehicles and teaching materials
- 25 -



Project Costs b Procurement Arran ements (Actual/Latest Estimate  US$ million equivalent)
ifdiw  Gat.goiy
1. Works                       0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00           0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                       0.00          0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
3. Services                    0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00           0.00
Technical Assistance and      (0.00)         (0 00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
training abroad and locally
4. Miscellaneous               0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
Incremental operation         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
costs
5. Miscellaneous               0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00           0.00
Studies and preparation of    (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
future investments
6. Miscellaneous               0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00           0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                       0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Not available
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Latest estimate of Project Financing by component is not yet available. An audit report will be conducted in
March 2000. The final report will be available in June 2000. The following figures are the results of an
audit conducted for the Year ended December 31, 1998.
Category                              Amount in FRW
Civil Engineering Works                      4,431,514,916
Training, surveys and seminars                340,696,011
Consultants' Services                          195,534,768
Operating Costs                               382,801,942
Equipment                                     245,171,906
Motor Vehicles                                  94,644,990
Furniture and Fittings                           2,743,507
- 26 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable.
- 27 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project(Cycle         : No. of Persons and Specialty               Performa nce Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)  Implementation      Development
Month/Year    Count       Specialty                       Progress         Objective
Identification/Preparation        2   - Djamalddine Rouag, Task
From May 22 to              Manager
June 12, 1990               - Peter Ngomba, Economist
Appraisal/Negotiation
From April 23 to        5   - Djamalddine Rouag, Task
May 10, 1991                Manager
- Peter Ngomba, Economist
- Olivier de Messieres,
Consultant, Architect
- Michel Bourgeois,
Consultant, Educator
- Louis Vandevelde,
Consultant, Measurement
and Evaluation Specialist
Supervision
From April 11 to        2  - Abdelwahed Zhiri, Task             S                 HS
April 24, 1993              Manager
- Peter Ngomba, Economist
and Education Planner
From September 14       2  - Abdelwahed Zhiri, Task             U                 S
to September 24,            Manager
1993                        - Peter Ngomba, Economist and
Education Planner
From January 11 to      2  - Abdelwahed Zhiri, Task             U                 S
January 18, 1994            Manager
- Olivier de Messieres, Architect
From November 27        4  - Eileen Murray, Mission Leader
to December 8,              - Francois Munyantwali,
1994*                       Operations Officer
- M. Van Imschoot, Consultant
- H. Van Dam, Consultant
From April 22 to        2  - Abdelwahed Zhiri, Task            iiU                HU
April 29, 1995              Manager
- Andre Komenan, Education
Economist
-28 -



From September 22       2  - Abdelwahed Zhiri, Task            HU                HU
to November 7,              Manager
1995                        - Raynald Guy, Consultant
From March 22 to        2  - Abdelwahed Zhiri, Task             S                 S
March 30, 1996              Manager
- Andre Komenan, Education
Economist
From October 6 to       4  - Linda English, Task Manager        S                 S
October 21, 1996            - Rudy Chizungu, Consultant,
Education & Public Sector
Management Specialist
- Abdelwahed Zhiri, Consultant,
Education Specialist
- E. Dib, Consultant,
Implementation Specialist
From May 17 to          3  - Souleymane Zerbo, Mission          S                 S
June 2, 1997                Leader
- Francois Kanimba, Economist
- Prosper Nindorera, Training
Specialist
From September 24       5  - Peter Ngomba, Task Manager         S                 S
to October 4, 1997          - Abdelwahed Zhiri, Consultant,
Education Specialist
- Toni Kayonga Ntaganda,
Operations Officer
- Souleymane Zerbo, Consultant,
Engineer/Civil Works
- Prosper Nindorera, Training
Specialist
From February 16        2  - Souleymane Zerbo, Mission          S                 S
to March 2, 1998            Leader
- Toni Kayonga Ntaganda,
Operations Officer
From May 4, 1998        2  - Dieneba Diarra-Kambou,             S                 S
to May 8, 1998              Mission Leader
- Toni Kayonga Ntaganda,
Operations Officer
From October 21 to      4  - Peter Ngomba, Task Manager         S                 S
November 5, 1998            - Abdelwahed Zhiri, Consultant,
Education Specialist
- Toni Kayonga Ntaganda,
Operations Officer
- Souleymane Zerbo, Consultant,
Engineer/Civil Works
- 29 -



From September 12       7  - Peter Ngomba, Task Manager         S                 S
to September 28,            - Abdelwahed Zhiri, Consultant,
1999                        Education Specialist
- Toni Kayonga Ntaganda,
Social Sector Specialist
- Souleymane Zerbo, Consultant,
Engineer/Civil Works
- Francois Kanimba, Economist
- Prosper Nindorera, Operations
Officer Procurement
- David Bruns, Economist
ICR
From January 14         3   - Joseph Bredie, Mission
to January 21,               Leader
2000                         - Jerome Chevallier,
Consultant
- Anne Anglio, Assistant
*Project was in the process of being restructured to finance additional urgent interventions in the sector for
1996-1998. Implementation Progress and Development Objective not rated.
(b) Staff:
Identification/Preparation              94.5                       236.2
Appraisal/Negotiation                   56.3                        85.4
Supervision                            158.5                       466.8
ICR                                    20.59                        39.7
Total                                  329.9                       828.1
*Totals include FY2000 SWs & expenses; report does not separate SPN from ICR
- 30 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies
I Sector Policies
O Physical
D Financial
D Institutional Development
CI Environmental
Social
CI Poverty Reduction
I Gender
Li Other (Please specify)
C Private sector development
C] Public sector management
C1 Other (Please specify)
Not Applicable
- 31 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=fHighly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
F Lending                                           OHS OS *U OHU
I Supervision                                       OHS OS  OU   OHU
FZ Overall                                          OHS OS  O U  O HU
Overall Bank Performance is rated Partially Satisfactory.
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
 Preparation                                       OHS OS  O U  O HU
Z Government implementation performance             O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
 Implementation agency performance                 O HS OS   0 U  0 HU
2 Overall                                           OHS OS O U O HU
- 32 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Staff Appraisal Document No. 9136-RW, Dated March 1, 1991
Development Credit Agreement dated June 27, 1991
Aide-Memoires from April 1993 to September 1999
Public Expenditure Review for the Education Sector, Dated November 1998
Education Sector Policy, Ministry of Education, Dated March 1998
Project Completion Report, Third Education Project (Credit 1683-RW), Dated October 27, 1994
- 33 -



Annex 8
Rwanda - Education Sector Project
(IDA Credit No.2227-RW)
Aide-Memoire
Implementation Completion Report Mission
January 14-20, 2000
World Bank Mission Members
Joseph Bredie (Team Leader); Jerome Chevallier (Consultant); Anne Anglio (Team
Assistant); support from Toni Kayonga from the Bank resident mission in Rwanda.
1.  A World Bank mission visited Rwanda from January 14 to January 20, 2000, to
prepare the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Education Sector Project.
The Credit was approved on April 9, 1991 and closed on September 30, 1999, three years
after the initial closing date. The ICR exercise provides an opportunity for the
Government and the Bank to assess the outcomes of the project, review its sustainability,
and draw lessons from the experience.
2.   The mission met with key staff in the ministries overseeing institutions responsible
for the implementation of the project. The mission also visited schools in the Kigali and
Ruhengeri prefectures that received inputs under this Project. The mission also met with
the team from the University of Rwanda, who prepared a beneficiary assessment for the
project. H.E Emmanuel Mudidi, Minister of Education, chaired a wrap up meeting on
Wednesday January 19, 2000. A full list of those met in connection with the ICR for the
Education Sector Project is included in Annex 1 to this Aide-Memoire. The team
members would like to thank all those who gave generously of their time and provided
access to relevant information for this exercise.
3.  Implementation experience. Credit effectiveness was much delayed for a number
of reasons. By end-1993, less than US$1 million had been disbursed. In 1995, the project
was adjusted to support the Government emergency program aimed at putting students
back in school as rapidly as possible following the genocide. An ambitious rehabilitation
and building program was launched. But, implementation ran into difficulties, as a
number of contractors did not complete civil works. The September 30, 1996 Credit
closing date was extended twice to September 30, 1999.
Achievements and sustainable outcomes
4.   The physical achievements of the project are discussed in Annex 2 to this Aide-
Memoire. After the end of the civil war, the Government was strongly committed to get
the children back to school as quickly as possible. An emergency rehabilitation and
construction program was implemented. Overall, most of the civil works program was
achieved, despite difficulties with some unqualified contractors. Thanks to the
emergency program, the Government was able to bring back the enrollment rate in
primary education to close to its pre-war level.
34



5.   On the other hand the objectives of improving the quality of education and
strengthening capacity in the sector were not, or only partially achieved. Dropout and
repetition rates are excessively high, which indicate a low efficiency in the use of scarce
resources in the sector and cast doubts on the sustainability of learning. An education
sector policy has been formulated to address these problems, but there remains a gap
between stated priorities and actual budget allocations.
Lessons Learned
11. The key lessons from the First Education Sector Project are:
(a) Project objectives need to be scaled to take account of the local implementation
capacity.
(b) If the conditions under which a project is implemented change substantially then it is
necessary to formally restructure the project.
(c) In case Borrower commitment for project objectives is faltering, then this must be
discussed at the level of the Country Director and his Borrower counterparts.
(d) It is not cost-effective or educationally sound to focus exclusively on expanding
access.
(e) Implementation capacity in project accounting and financial management has been
neglected and supervision missions should have assisted the project unit to remedy the
problem.
(f) Projects with large school building components need to ensure that adequate
maintenance of the schools is put in place.
(g) As had already been recommended under the first education project, a system of pre-
qualification of contractors should have been used.
Next Steps
12. On the basis of the information gathered during the mission, as well as a study of
World Bank documents and supervision reports, the Bank team will prepare a draft ICR.
This will be presented to Government in draft by the middle of February 2000, to obtain
factual corrections before the report is finalized. The Government's own contribution to
the ICR, which will be submitted to the Bank on January 25, 2000, will be appended as
an annex to the ICR. The final ICR will be submitted officially to Government and to the
Board of the Bank by the end of March 2000.
Kigali, Rwanda, January 20, 2000
35



Rwanda - Education Sector Project
Aide-Memoire
Implementation Completion Report Mission
January 14-20, 2000
List of Persons Met
Ministry of Education
Mr. Emmanuel Mudidi, Minister
Dr. J. Damascene Ntawukuriryayo, Minister of State
Mr. Yisa Claver, Director of Research and Planning
Mr. Deo Mfashingabo, Inspector in Ruhengeri
Ministry of Finance and Economy
Mr. Emmanuel Ndahimana, Minister of State for Planning
CEPEX
Mr. John Ruzibuka, Executive Secretary
Mr. Faustin Rwigema, Head of Audit and Evaluation Department CEPEX
Mr. Emmanuel Nkurunziza, Evaluation, CEPEX
Mr. Bertin Akingeneye, Accounting Specialist, CEPEX
Project Implementation Unit
Mr. Joseph Matsiko, Project Manager
Mr. Ben Kagarama, Accountant
National Assembly of the Republic of Rwanda
Hon. Major Rose Kabuye, President of Committee on National Security and Integrity
World Bank Resident Mission in Kigali, Rwanda
Mr. Edward K. Brown, Resident Representative
Mr. Toni Kayonga Ntaganda, Operations Officer
Rugeshi Primary School
Mr. Jean-Leonard Mwandimwe, Director
Mrs. Ancille Mukandutiye, Teacher
Mrs. Habamungu Mukashyaka, Teacher
Mr. Jean de Dieu Ngaruye, Teacher
36



Maya Primary School
Mr. Philippe Gahutu, Teacher
Mme. Liberata Manaraguha, Teacher
Mme. Candide Mujawayezu, Teacher
Mr. Elisee Nyiringabo, Pedagogical Team
Kimironko Primary School
Mr. Cyprien Ngarambe, Director
Mrs. Josee Mutambarungu, Teacher
Mr. Seth Ryivuze, Teacher
Mme. Anne Uwilingiyeimana, Secretary of the Parents Committee
37



Rwanda - Education Sector Project
Aide-Memoire
Implementation Completion Report Mission
January 14-20, 2000
Assessment of achievements and sustainable outcomes in terms of
Project objectives
1.  Consolidating and expanding primary education (US$6,000,000.00). To
expand access and improve equity, 2,000 new classrooms would be constructed, 400
more rehabilitated and an additional 300 reconstructed. In addition, 2,000 new and 2,600
existing classrooms would be furnished. Emergency program. To restore education
provision after the genocide, primary schools in ten regions would be rehabilitated, 3,000
classrooms furnished, 6,000 teachers trained and 450,000 textbooks procured. Twenty
secondary schools would be rehabilitated and re-equipped. In addition, the Ministry of
Primary and Secondary Education, the Butare Center for Pedagogical Training, and the
Teacher Training College in Remera would be rehabilitated and re-equipped, and a
national examination center constructed.
2.  The outputs achieved under this objective meet and in some cases exceed the
original targets. About 1,560 new classrooms have been constructed. About 3,000
classrooms have been rehabilitated during the emergency program. The quality of
construction of some 100 new and 150 rehabilitated classrooms is below standard due to
poor contractor performance and supervision. Furniture has been provided for 4,455
classrooms. In addition, seven secondary schools, the Ministry of Education, and the
Butare Center for Pedagogical Training have been rehabilitated.
3.  Improve the quality of primary education (US$7,6 million). Quality
improvements included: (a) Improvements of Pre-Service Teacher Training. (b)
Professional development and in-service training of supervisors. (c) In-Service training
of primary teachers. (d) Strengthening applied pedagogical research.
4.  Improvements of Pre-Service Teacher Training. Only two teacher training
college professors have been upgraded. One teacher training institution has been
expanded. During the emergency program, 5,600 new primary teachers have been
recruited and trained. About 4,500 teacher manuals have been procured and distributed
during the emergency program. Professional development and in-service training of
supervisors and primary teachers. One hundred forty-five sector inspectors have been
trained. But, the employment statute for the inspector service has not been finalized.
Strengthening applied pedagogical research. DPEPERAI's capacity has been
strengthened. The department revised the primary curriculum in 1998 and is currently
revising textbooks. The primary school examination has also been revised.
5.  Strengthening educational management. Management would be strengthened
by: (a) strengthening the analytical, planning and management capacity of the central
38



Government institutions; (b) Strengthening the pedagogical leadership of the prefectoral
inspectors and their capacity to use resources efficiently at secondary level
(US$600,000); (c) Establish a management information system at the University of
Rwanda (UoR) (US$200,000).
6.   Strengthening the analytical, planning and management capacity of the
central Government institutions. The capacity of the Directorate of Studies and
Evaluation has been improved somewhat. The capacity of the Education Planning
Directorate has not improved much. Budget preparation remains weak. Strengthening
the pedagogical leadership of the prefectoral inspectors and their capacity to use
resources efficiently at secondary level. Two prefectoral inspectors have been trained.
The inventory of the profiles of teachers has not been completed. The decentralization
study has not been done. Establish a management information system at the University
of Rwanda (UoR). The MIS has been developed at the UoR.
39



ANNEX 9  Uncompleted contracts of the First Education Sector Project as of 25/1/1999
Prefecture    Commune         School        Enterprise    Number of Nature of and level     Value estimated          Observations
rooms       of work done      and lot D, as dec.99
GIKONGORO NSHILI          Gakarange        ECOBATRAP            8     Contruction at _75 %  Lot 1 = 12,672,875 FRW  Contract terminated due
Umusebeya       ECOPATRAP            4     Contruction at 40 %                        to poor performance and
not re-attributed
CYANGUGU  GISUMA          Isha             EMCO                 4     Contruction at 25 % Lot 2 = 8,692,580 FRW   Contract terminated due
to poor performance and
not re-attributed
KIBUYE       RUTSIRO    Byimana            SOCAI                9     Contruction at 70 % LOT 3 = 14,421,970 FRW Contract suspended due to
conflit of interest and
Bwiza           SOCAI                2     Contruction at 90 %                        not re-attributed
BYtlMBA      NGARAMA  Gakirage             HABITEN              4     Contruction at 20 % LOT 4  8,851,148 FRW  Contract terminated due
RUHONDO   Ruhondo            KABATSI              5     Contruction at 50 % LOT 5 = 10,492,384 FRW to poor performance and
KIBALI       Rusasa          BTP                  4     Contruction at 70 %                        not re-attributed
Contract terminated due
SUB-TOTAL                                                                                 55,130,907 RWF         to poor performance and
not re-attributed
PVK          KACYIRU    Kigali Institute of ECOPADE                   Construction = 70 %  194.696.401 FRW of    Expected to be completed
Education                                                      which World Bank will  in March 2000
pay 174.498.231 FRW
and GOR 20.198.170
FRW.
40



ANNEX 10: First Education Sector Project: Evaluation of Achievement
Project Parameters                             Indicators                                        Comments
General objective                              * Increased number of primary schools constructed    . Achieved at a satisfactory level despite poor quality of
To increase access and equity of access to primary  and rehabilited, with the new constructions in the  contruction in some cases;
education and improve its quality.                same proposition as unenrolled pupils for the  . Criteria for allocation of new schools not always
prefectures.                                      followed.
*  Improved quality of education and education   * Unsatisfactory.
management capacity.
I. Objective 1: Consolidation and Expansion of
Primary Education.
* Component 1: Construction, Rehabilitation,   . New classrooms built, damaged classrooms
Reconstruction and equiping         rehabilitated or reconstructed and done according to
primary schools.                   required standards.
* equiped classrooms
. Outputs
1.1 Construction of new primary schools        * 2000 new classrooms (cir) built                 as amended in 1.6
1.2 Rehabilitation of classrooms               * 400 classrooms rehabilitated                    as amended in 1.7
1.3 Reconstruction of classrooms               .  300 classrooms reconstructed                   as amended in 1.8
1.4 Furnished classrooms                       * 2000 classrooms furnished                       as amended in 1.9
1.5 30 % of the 8700 existing classrooms not   . 2610 classrooms furnished                       as amended in 1.9
furnished are furnished
* Risks
a. War intensifies and destruction of classrooms                                                 True
increased
b. Communes fail to contribue their 10 % share                                                   True. War made communes incapable and Government paid
5 % counterpart fund instead.
Amended objectives and outputs
1.6 Output  1.1: New Primary Schools constructed   .  1422 clr built of which 1008 are in Phase III and 414 *  1382 clr built of which 968 were in Phase III and 414 in
in Phase IV.                                     Phase IV. Quantity achievement = 97 %. Quality of
* 343 latrines built in Phase IV                    work was poor in some schools.
*  346 latrines bulit, but poorly; 100 % achieved.
1.7 a. Output 1.2: Rehabilitation of classrooms  *  1000 clr reh. in phase I revised to 755      *  2978 rehabilitated of which 755 were rehabilitated in
under emmergency phase.        * 2000 clr reh. in phase II revised to 2209         phase I and 2223 rehabilitated in phase II.
Total 3000 clr rehabilitated
41



Project Parameters                               Indicators                                          Comments
1.7 b. Output 1.2 :Rehabilitation of clr continued in   1714 clr rehabilitated in phase 111.         1353 clr rehabilitated in phase III
Phase III.
Subtotal rehabilitated         Total 4714 clr rehabiltated in Ph. I - Ph. IV       Total 4331 clr. Quantity achievement = 92 %
1.8 Output 1.3: Reconstructed classrooms         143 classrooms reconstructed in phase III           138 in phase III completed, 5 classrooms at Ruhondo, c
Buyoga commune, Byumba not completed.
l _______________________________________ _                                                          Quantity  achiement  =   97  %
1.9 Output 1.4: Classrooms furnished             7638 clr furnished of whic 905 clr are in ph I, 2157 in   7466 clr furnished of which 915 clr are in ph.I, 2157 in
ph II, 3359 in ph. III and 1217 in ph. IV.         ph.11 3346 in ph.111 and 1058 in ph.IV.
Quantity achievemet =98 %.
Objective 1 b. Improvement of Secondary
education
Component I b: Rehabilitation of secondary schools   *  31 classrooms of 7 secondary schools rehabilitated   done.
1.10 Secondary schools rehabilitated
II. Objective 2: Improvement of Quality of
Primary Education
Component 2: Initial and Continuous Training
Outputs
2.1 Improved Pre-service Teacher Training        *  60 professors of teacher training colleges (ecole  .  121 professors trained for 5 days only in 1998.
normales- e.n) trained
*  10 observation classrooms (ecoles d'application)  *  idea abandoned
constructed and equiped
l  10 documentation centres built at the e.n. with the    *  idea abandoned
highest enrollements in each of the prefectures and
books (about 1500) supplied
2.2 Professional Development and in-service      .  10 prefectoral inspectors trained for I week for @ of 12 assistant prefectoral inspectors trained for 5 days in
Training of Supervisors Completed               the 5 years                                       1998.
*  150 sector inspectors trained for 3 weeks for @ of    156 assistant sector inspectors trained for 5 days in 1998
the 4 years
*  660 primary school directors trained for 7 weeks  not done
42



Project parameters                          Indicators                                      Comments
2.3 Primaty School teachers undergo in-service  * 3500 unqualified teachers trained for 8 weeks in the  not done
training                                    2nd and 3rd years .
* 3000 (or 30 % of the total ) underqualified teachers  . 5600 underqualified primary school teachers trained for
trained for 8 weeks in the 4th and 5th years.  only 5 days in Emmergency Phase..
* Trainign of 4 teachers (2 trainers who would in turn  done
train 2 teachers) per school in English subject over a
10 day period
Amended output:
2.4 Establishment two Institutes of Education  * Butare Institute of Education built        * done
l  Kigali Institute of Education (KIE) rehabilitated and  . done
equiped
* KIE extended                                 * Expected to be completed in March 2000
Amendment ot objective 2: add
Improvement of Secondary education           . 450 newly recruited (50 % of total) teachers are  a 112 secondary school teachers trained in october-
2.5 : Secondary schools teachers               trained in 2 groups each for 3 weeks in science and  November 1995.
arts subjects in July (I week) and December 1995
(2 weeks)
Components 3: Strengthening Applied Pedagogical   * DPEPERAI supplied with teaching Materials and    . Replaced by NCDC
Research                                       staff trained.
Output.                                      Amended to:
2.6 Strengthened applied pedagogical research.  NCDC (National curriculum Development Centre)  * done
established, rehabilitated and equiped.
* Pl-P6 School curriculum produced             * completed in 1996
* Textbooks and teachers guides adapted to the new    Only buying of existing books for:
curriculum produced and used in in-service training  * p I -p6 Maths texbooks for teachers & pupils amounting
to 204,899 produced.
* p1 -p6 Kinyarwanda books for Teachers and pupils
amounting to 204,002 produced
* pl-p6 french books for teachers & pupils amounting to
68,083 produced
* pl-p6 science books for teachers amounting to 4,001
produced.
This was done in 1996 but these copies have not been used
in in-service training of teachers.
* Teachers trained abroad                      not done
43



Project parameters                           Indicators                                      Comments
III. Objective 3: Improvement of Education
Management
Component 4: Strengthening Central Services of
MINEDUC                                                                                                                            I
Outputs:
1. The capacity of the Division of Studies and  * A system for monitoring indicators of MINEDUC'S
Evaluation is Strengthened                   programmes is produced by the division        not done
* Policy analysis reports and review of investments   still weak
l_____________________________________________    produced d
2. Education planning                        * Plans and budgets of Primary and Secondary    Plans and budgets not made, & a cost-financing study for
Division strengthened                         Education and monitoring of expenditures     post-primary education TORS prepared. UNESCO carried
effectively done                             out the study.
* School mapping completed                      Not completed yet
3. Personnel Management improved             * Computerised records of Primary Education     Not completed yet
Personnel.
4. Examinations effectively managed to improve  * A National Examinations Council established  Done
quality of Education
Amendements for Strengthening Central Services
Components 4.b : Rehabilitation of MINEDUC'S
buildings
Outputs
1. Buildings to house new departments rehabilitated   * MINEDUC'S fence built                done
* Building holding the National Curriculum
Development Centre (NCDC), the Division of
Primary Education Program (DPEP), the DPES
(Division for Secondary Education Program),
CNRE (Centre Nationale pour Recyclage des
Enseignants) rehabilitated.                  done
* Repair and Construction of a fence for MINEDUC'S done
REMERA plot completed                        __
* MINEDUC'S Parking constructed                 done
44



Project parameters                                Indicators                                            Comments
Component 5: Strengthened Decentralised
Services
Outputl: Trained prefectoral inspectors and       *  Prefectoral inspectors trained                     Only 2 trained
secondary school administrators
l  Secondary Schools Administrators trained          Not done
Output 2: A study on Decentralisation of Education  *  Report of study on decentralisation              Not done
Services
Component 6: Strengthening Universitd Nationale
du Rwanda (UNR) management
capacity
Output: A management Information System (MIS)   *  Timeliness of MIS implementation and quality of    *  Implemented including the African Virtual University at
established at UNR                                   reports                                               UNR and Kigali Institute of Science, Technology and
l_________________________________________              M anagement (KIST)
*  Sustainability of the MIS                         *  Sustainable
Objective 4: Project Execution, Unit (PEU) well
managed
Component 7: PEU established to ensure
transparency, accountability and efficient
management of the project
Outputs:
1. PEU properly equiped, staffed and buildings    *  Timeliness of project implementation              *  Delays resulting into 3 extensions and constructions still
rehabilitated                                                                                            going on.
Monitoring team well staffed.                        Technical team too small for effective monitoring
*  Quality and regular reports, reliability of statistics    *  Accounting program not mastered
*  Poor quality reports especially in early stages of the
l__________________________________________________     project.
2. Monitoring and MIS operational                 *  Sustainability of MIS                              *  Weak MIS in place
N.B. Ph: Phase; clr : classrooms
Phase I & Phase II: Emergency phase
Phase III: Convention with 76 communes
Phase IV: Convention with 21 communes.
45



Annex 11
RESULTATS DE L'ENQUETE SUR LE PROJET SECTORIEL
D'EDUCATION: EVALUATION DES PERCEPTIONS DES
BENEFICIAIRES
Par
Professeur Dr. Deo KAMBANDA
Monsieur Jean MUTABARUKA Charge de Cours Associe
Monsieur Jean Pierre DUSINGIZEMUNGU Charge de Cours Associe.
1. INTRODUCTION:
I.I.Contexte:
Apres la guerre et le genocide qui ont affecte divers secteurs de la vie nationale
rwandaise, la Banque mondiale a repris le fmancement du << Projet Sectoriel
d'Education >>. Ce nouveau financement concemait les travaux de genie civil
(construction + mobilier) en quatre phases et notamment deux phases d'urgence, une
phase de 76 communes et une phase de 21 communes.
La presente etude s'inscrit dans le cadre d'une evaluation partielle de ce projet. Cette
evaluation est limitee aux beneficiaires.
1.2. Termes de reference
L'evaluation limitee aux beneficiaires dont il s'agit ici devait determiner si le projet
a et capable d'atteindre ses objectifs dans les conditions difficiles de l'apres guerre et du
genocide. Il s'agit d'obtenir la mesure de la qualite des services tels qu'ils sont percus par
les beneficiaires, de detenminer si le projet a ete rentable et efficace, comment les
interventions sont distribuees et dans quelle mesure elles sont appropriees. La recherche
devait mettre au clair comment les beneficiaires connaissent et utilisent les services
disponibles, comment ils estiment la qualite des services et ce qu'ils pensent des
methodes utilisees et du cofit des services qui leur sont destines.
2. METHODOLOGIE: La technique utilisee est 1'entretien a visee de recherche avec un
materiel de support: le questionnaire.
Une equipe d'enqueteurs a e choisie , enseignee et entrainee a cet effet.
L'echantillon a porte sur 12 ecoles soit une ecole par prefecture, choisie suivant des
criteres precis. I1 s'agit de 3 ecoles urbaines et 9 ecoles rurales. Ces 12 ecoles representent
les 4 phases du projet A savoir: deux phases d'urgence, une phase des 76 communes et
une phase des 21 communes.
46



A l'interieur de ces criteres, le choix proprement dit a et aleatoire.
Les ecoles suivantes ont constitue le champ d'investigation.
ECOLE                    PREFECTURE               PHASE
1.  Murambi                  Kibungo                  1ere phase
2.  Ngoma                    Butare                   2ieme phase
3.  Shara                    Cyangugu                1lre phase
4.  Mukama                   Umutara                  4ieme phase
5.  Kinyinya                 Kigali rurale            3ieme phase
6.  Mbuga                    Gikongoro                2ieme phase
7.  Kibali                   Byumba                   3ieme phase
8.  Muhima                   Kigali-ville             4ieme phase
9.  Kibangu                  Gitarama                 1lre phase
10. Bemba                    Kibuye                   3ieme phase
11. Muhoza                   Ruhengeri                3ieme phase
13. Rubavu                   Gisenyi                  2ieme phase
En outre, ont ete echantillonnees les personnes a interviewer.
Au niveau de chaque ecole, 1'enquete a portee sur les personnes suivantes:
- Le Directeur
- Deux enseignants
- Trois bons eleves
- Trois mauvais eleves
- Trois e1lves ayant abandonne les etudes
- Trois parents des eleves qui etudient encore
- Trois parents des e&ves ayant abandonne les etudes
- Deux adultes
- Deux leaders dans la communaute
- Deux representants des ONG et /ou des Eglises
En tout, 288 interviews ont ete faites. Les donnees ont ete presentees sous forme de
tableaux, analysees et interpretees a la lumniere des termes de reference. L'analyse a ete
faite par la methode de comparaison selon les categories des interviewes et les themes
proposes.
(Ces themes sont contenus dans I'annexe n 1).
47



2. Resultats de la recherche
Theme 1: Acces a l'ecole
1.1. Suffisance ou insuffisance des ecoles (Annexe 2)
Les donnees recueillies sur ce theme montrent qu'il y a insuffisance d'ecoles
primaires surtout en milieu rural. Ceci est affirme par la concordance des reponses
fournies separement par les directeurs d'ecole, les adultes et les leaders. Ces trois
opinions convergent a 77,8%.
La meme opinion est supportee par 74,1% des parents d'eleves qui ont abandonne des
etudes, 72,2% des representants des ONG et/ou des eglises, 70,4% des eleves qui ont
abandonne l'ecole , et 61,1% des enseignants. Les principales raisons avancees sont les
suivantes:
l'implantation des ecoles n'aurait obei a aucun plan directeur historiquement, meme
celles qui ont ete construites sont inegalement reparties. Cette situation a eu pour
consequences le surpeuplement des salles de classe qui s'observe encore et de longs
trajets parcourus chaque jour par les eleves entre leurs domiciles et les ecoles.
Cependant, cette opinion n'a pas ete partagee par les << mauvais eleves >> qui
estiment A 63% que les ecoles sont suffisantes et tout enfant qui le veut peut aller A
l'ecole. Cette opinion peut suggerer que les preoccupations majeures des << mauvais
eleves >> pourraient etre des difficultes scolaires qu'ils rencontrent plut6t que les
infrastructures d'accueil.
Les interviewes du milieu urbain trouvent, majoritairement, que le nombre d'ecoles
primaires est relativement suffisant comme l'affirment respectivement 100% de
<< mauvais eleves >>, 88,9% de << bons lelves >>, 66,7% des directeurs, des parents des
eleves qui etudient et des leaders, 55,6% des e1eves qui ont abandonne l'6cole, des
parents d'eleves qui ont abandonne et 50% des adultes et des enseignants.
Cependant, 66,7% des representants des ONG etlou des eglises deplorent le
surpeuplement des salles de classes et de longs trajets effectues par les enfants pour aller
a et revenir de l'ecole.
Les donnees recueillies permettent donc de conclure qu'il y a insuffisance d'ecoles
primaires tant en milieu rural qu'urbain mais que le probleme est ressenti de maniere
plus aigue en milieu rural.
1.2. Volonte des parents d'envoyer tous les enfants a 1'ecole (Annexe 3)
Les resultats de la recherche revelent, en g6neral, que les parents du milieu urbain
envoient plus massivement leurs enfants A l'ecoles que ceux du milieu rural.
En effet, en milieu urbain, 88,9% des parents d'eleves qui ont abandonne, 66,7% des
directeurs, des enseignants, des bons eleves, des mauvais eleves, des eleves qui ont
abandonne et des leaders, 55,6% des parents d'el&ves qui etudient et 50% des
48



representants des ONG et/ou des eglises affirment que les familles envoient tous leurs
enfants A l'ecole.
Neanmoins, la << categorie adulte> du milieu urbain d6clare a 83,3% que les
familles n'envoient pas tous leurs enfants A l'ecole et avance la pauvrete et l'ignorance
des avantages de la scolarisation comme facteurs explicatifs.
En milieu rural, les m8mes facteurs sont invoqu6s mais les opinions insistent surtout sur
l'ignorance par les parents de tous les aspects des avantages de la scolarisation. Cette
ignorance est affirmee par 100% des directeurs, 77,8% des enseignants, des representants
des ONG et ou des 6glises, 66,7% de < bons eleves )>, des << mauvais el&ves )),des eleves
qui ont abandonnd l'ecole et des leaders.
En conclusion, les donnees permettent de penser que meme si les obstacles
majeurs de la scolarisation sont la pauvrete et l'ignorance, le premier est plus explicatif
en milieu urbain, tandis que le deuxieme 1'est en milieu rural.
1.3. Preference par les parents pour garcons/filles en matiere de scolarisation
(Annexe 4)
Les donnees obtenues montrent que les parents ne font pas de difference entre les
filles et les garcons en matiere de scolarisation quel que soit le milieu. En effet, en milieu
urbain, ce constat est affirme par 100% des directeurs, 88,9% des parents d'elves qui
etudient, 83,3% des enseignants, des representants des ONG et/ou des eglises, 66,7% des
parents des delves qui ont abandonne l'ecole, 55,6% des bons eleves et 50% des adultes
et des leaders. Le meme constat est observe en milieu rural car il est affirme par 88,9%
des leaders, 83,3% des adultes, 81,5% des parents d'eleves qui etudient, 77,8% des
enseignants, des eleves qui ont abandonne, des parents d'eleves qui ont abandonne,74,1%
des mauvais eleves, 70,4% des bons eleves et 66,7% des directeurs et des representants
des ONG et /ou des eglises.
Cependant, 66,7% des e1lves qui ont abandonne, 55,6% des mauvais eleves et 50%
des leaders, du milieu urbain, soulignent qu'en cas de difficult6s financieres les parents
preferent envoyer plut6t les gargons que les filles A l'ecole.
Dans ce dernier cas, les opinions pourraient exprimer une realite personnellement
vecue.
Theme 2. Raisons majeures de scolarisation des enfants (Annexe 5)
Les raisons majeures de scolarisation avancees par tous les interviwes aussi bien A
la ville qu'A la campagne sont les suivantes:
1. Preparer l'avenir des enfants
2. Acquerir des connaissance utiles
3. Aider A la promotion socio-economique de la famille A la fin des etudes
4. Developper le pays
49



5. Acquerir une bonne education
Ces raisons sont classees par ordre de priorite si l'on considere les frequences
des reponses fournies. Ainsi les deux premieres raisons sont partagees par les directeurs
des ecoles urbaines et rurales respectivement A raison de 37,5 % et 37,5% contre 25% et
32,2% et ces pourcentages representent les records des choix emis par cette categorie.
Chez les bons elves la tendance est la meme aussi bien dans le monde urbain que dans
monde rural c'est a dire respectivement 27,6% et 27,6% contre 29,8% et 27,4%.
Les eleves qui ont abandonne mettent l'emphase sur le premier point avec 69,2% en
monde urbain tandis qu'a la campagne << acquerir des connaissances utiles >> prend le
dessus avec 32,5%, < preparer l'avenir des enfants >> vient en deuxieme lieu avec 28,9%.
Cet aveu pourait exprimer un dechirement apres coup entre les raisons A la base de
I'abandon et les aspirations non atteintes. Les enseignants de la ville placent A meme
egalite et en premier lieu, << Aider A la promotion socio-economique de la famille A la fin
des etudes >> et << preparer l'avenir des enfants >> soit 30% et 30%, alors que ceux de la
campagne retiennent les raisons de preparer I'avenir des enfants et d 'acquerir des
connaissances utiles avec respectivement 28,1% et 23,4%.
Les mauvais e1lves de la ville, quant a eux, retiennent le classement des trois premieres
raisons avec respectiement 39,1%, 26,1% et 26,1% alors que ceux de la campagne
< Aider a la promotion socio-economique de la famille A la fin des etudes >>, vient en
deuxieme lieu (25,7%), apres << preparer l'avenir des enfants >> (29,9%), << acquerir des
connaissances utiles >> venant en troixieme lieu (24,1%).
Pour les adultes urbains les deux premieres raisons dominent A egalite avec 35,7%
chacune, il en est de meme chez les ruraux avec 28,6% et 27% mais les ruraux se
differencient des urbains en mettant plus d'accent au fait d'aider A la promotion socio-
economique de la famille a la fin des etudes 23,8% contre 14,3%. Ce phenomene peut
etre expliqu6 par le fait que l'enfant scolarise du monde rural constitue un espoir de
mobilit6 socio-economique ascendante. Les leaders, les representants des ONG et /ou des
eglises, les parents des 61eves qui etudient encore et les parents des eleves qui ont
abandonne respectent le classement.
Au vue des pourcentages d'opinions, les repondants ne maitriseraient pas ce que
l'ecole pourrait et devrait faire pour eux.
Ainsi le pourcentage eleve, chez les eleves ayant abandonne (69,2%) en monde urbain,
exprimerait le regret de ne pas avoir ete prepare A leur avenir dans un milieu si exigeant.
I1 en est de meme pour les eleves de la campagne qui ont abandonne l'ecole qui mettent
l'accent sur l'acquisition des connaissances utiles (32,5%), ils regretteraient le fait que
l'ecole ne les ait pas prepares utilement A affronter la vie de leur milieu; ce qui les
obligent A quitter le milieu rural pour devenir des enfants de la rue en ville, caressant un
espoir de satisfaire leurs besoins.
En conclusion, 1'ecole devrait changer son optique traditionnelle d'acquisition
passive des connaissances par l'6leve et adopter une vision de creativite, d'innovation, de
dynamisme et d'adaptabilite. Pour ce faire , la formation des enseignants devrait insister
sur leur caractere de facilitateurs et d'encadreurs dans une ecole concue comme un centre
50



d'informations utiles oi l'eleve vient puiser ce dont il a besoin pour acquerir des
competences de base necessaires dans sa vie.
Theme 3. Appreciation du travail de l'eole (Annexe 6:6.1;6.2)
L'education et l'enseignement dispenses par les ecoles sont juges de bonne
qualite aussi bien en milieu rural qu'en milieu urbain. Ceci est exprime par 100% des
directeurs, 95,8% des leaders, des representants des ONG et/ ou des eglises, 91,7% des
adultes, 88,9% des parents d'eleves qui ont abandonne, 83,3% des bons eleves, 79,2%
des enseignants, 77,8% des e1lves qui ont abandonne les etudes, 75% des mauvais eleves
et 72,2% des parents d'eleves qui etudient encore. Seuls 20,8% des enseignants, 19,4%
des mauvais e1lves et des eleves qui ont abandonne, 16,7% des parents des eleves qui
etudient encore, 13,9% des bons eleves, 11,1% des parents d'elves qui ont abandonne et
8,3 % des adultes les jugent de qualite excellente.
Quelques exceptions seulement les qualifient de mediocres. C'est le cas de 5,6 % des
leaders du milieu rural, 3,7% des bons eleves et des eleves qui ont bandonne l'etude.
La concentration des reponses sur le niveau bon de la qualite de 1'enseignement pourrait
s'expliquer par:
- La sous-qualification elevee des enseignants
- Les conditions de l'enseignant dans sa carriere
- Les equipements didactiques quasi-inexistants.
Toutes ces conditions et biens d'autres expliqueraient le manque d'excellence du systeme
d'education.
En outre, la qualite des enseignements et de 1'education n'est pas jugee de mediocre
parce que certains efforts sont fournis.
Par ailleurs, l'echelle de jugement (mediocre, bon, excellent) n'a pas permis aux
repondants d'exprimer toutes les nuances possibles
De plus, les repondants ne connaissant que la conception traditionnelle de l'ecole, encore
actuellement en vigueur dans le pays, ne possedent pas les criteres de definition du
concept qualite de l'education au sens de la pedagogie modeme
En fait, dans la presente conception des repondants, le terme << bon >x pourrait signifier
<< plus que rien >>.
Par ailleurs, la recherche a constate que l'cole est toujours embrigadee dans son optique
traditionnelle de transmission passive des connaissances et devrait evoluer comme un
centre d'informations utiles et de rayonnement du milieu local.
L'utilite de 1'ecole serait traduite entre autres dans l'acquisition par les eleves de
nouvelles attitudes appropriees dans differents contextes de la vie et dans le r6le
dynamique de 1'ecole dans le developpement societale du milieu oui elle est implantee. Il
est a constater en outre qu'il y a un desequilibre entre le coft de 1'ecole, sa qualite et sa
rentabilit6.
51



Theme 4. Capacite de payer les etudes des enfants
4.1. Capacite des families de payer les etudes de leurs enfants
(Annexe7,7.1,1.2)
Les resultats obtenus montrent que toutes les familles des milieux urbain et rural
ne sont pas capables de payer les etudes de leurs enfants. Ceci est illustre par les reponses
de 100% des directeurs et des leaders, de 97,2% des parents d'eleves qui ont abandonne,
95,8% des enseignants, 94,4% des bons eleves, 91,7% des adultes et des representants des
ONG et/ ou des eglises, 86,1% des parents d'eleves qui etudient et des elves qui ont
abandonne les etudes. Les explications fournies a ce propos sont la pauvrete de la grande
masse des parents surtout dans le monde rural ainsi que les consequences de la guerre et
du genocide de 1994. Seuls 22,2% des parents d'eleves qui etudient du milieu urbain et
1 1,1% du milieu rural, des representants des ONG et/ ou des eglises du milieu rural,
pensent que toutes les familles sont capables de payer les etudes de leurs enfants. Ces
proportions pourraient peut etre refleter la capacite economique de ces milieux.
4.2. Ce que peuvent supporter toutes les familles (Annexe 8)
Les reponses observees indiquent que la plupart des familles ne peuvent A
peine supporter que les frais de scolarite de 300Frs. Cet effort possible, dans le milieu
urbain, est exprime par 100% des representants des ONG et /ou des eglises, 75% des
parents des 6leves qui etudient, 66,7% des enseignants et des leaders, 62,5% des adultes
et 58,3% des parents d'eleves qui ont abandonne les etudes.
Dans le milieu rural, la capacite de payer les frais de scolarite (300Frs) est encore
moindre. Ceci est montre par la faible proportion en milieu rural, par rapport au milieu
urbain, de ceux qui l'affirment. Seuls par exemple 50% des enseignants et 45,5% des
parents d'eleves qui etudient trouvent que les familles peuvent supporter les frais de
scolarite.
En general, les resultats montrent que toutes les familles aussi bien du milieu
urbain que du milieu rural ne sont pas en mesure de supporter l'achat des livres,
d'uniforne et les frais de transport.
4.3. Prise en charge des enfants necessiteux en matiere de scolarisation par
la commune (Annexe 9)
La majorite des interviewes affirment que la commune prend en charge les
enfants necessiteux en matiere de scolarisation. En effet, d'une part, en milieu urbain
cette prise en charge est reconnue par 100% des directeurs et de bons eleves, 8 8,9% des
mauvais eleves, 83,3% des enseignants, 50% des adultes, des leaders et des representants
des ONG et/ ou des eglises.
52



D'autre part, dans le milieu rural, cela est percu par77,8% des mauvais eleves,
70,4% des bons eleves, 66,7% des directeurs et des representants des ONG et /ou des
eglises, 63% des eleves qui ont abandonnd des etudes, 61,1% des enseignants et 50% des
leaders.
Par contre, il y en a qui trouvent que la commune ne prend pas en charge les enfants
necessiteux en matiere de scolarisation. Il s'agit notamment des parents d'eleves des
milieux urbain et rural qui etudient encore et qui l'expriment respectivement a 88,9% et a
51,9%. Il en est de meme pour les parents des eleves qui ont abandonn6 leurs etudes des
milieux urbain et rural. (77,8% et 37%), des adultes du milieu urbain et rural (50 % et
66,7%), des leaders (50% et 50%), des representants des ONG et /ou des eglises (50% et
33,3%).
Cette contradiction entre la prise en charge et la non prise en charge des enfants
necessiteux par la commune pourrait etre expliquee par les criteres en vigueur et qui ne
seraient pas connus par le grand public d'une part, et par le fait que certains affirment que
cette prise en charge se limite A l'octroi des attestations d'indigence et a la distribution
des cahiers, d'autre part.
4.4. Envoi a l'ecole des enfants par tous les parents capables de supporter les
couts de scolarisation (Annexe 10)
Dans le milieu urbain, 100% des directeurs, des enseignants, des leaders,des
adultes et des eleves qui ont abandonne , 8 8,9% des << mauvais elves >> des parents
d'eleves qui etudient, des parents d'eleves qui ont abandonne, 83,3% des representants
des ONG et/ou des eglises et 66,7% des < bons eleves >> trouvent que tous les parents
capables de supporter les cofits de scolarisation envoient leurs enfants A l'ecole.
Ceci est egalement affirme dans le milieu rural par 96,3% des << bons eleves >,
94,4% des adultes, 83,3% des enseignants et des representants des ONG etlou des 6glises,
81,5% des mauvais eleves, 77,8% des parents d'eleves qui etudient et des leaders, 70,4%
des parents d'eleves qui ont abandonne et 66,7% des directeurs et des dleves qui ont
abandonne.
4.5. Sensibilisation des parents qui n'envoient pas leurs enfants a l'ecole par
les autorites communales (Annexe 11).
La sensibilisation des parents qui n'envoient pas leurs enfants a l'ecole par les
autorites communales est afflrmee par les interviewes tant du milieu urbain que du milieu
rural.
En effet, dans le milieu urbain, l'intervention des autorites communales pour reveiller les
parents qui n'envoient pas leurs enfants A l'ecole est reconnue par 100% des directeurs,
des leaders, des representants des ONG etVou des eglises, 88,9% des parents d'eleves qui
etudient, des << mauvais eleves >>, 83,3% des enseignants et des adultes, 66,7% des << bons
eleves >> et 55,6% des parents d'eleves qui ont abandonne.
53



Cela est egalement affirm6 dans le milieu rural par 96,3% des '( bons eleves,
94,4% des leaders, 88,9% des directeurs et des enseignants, 85,2% des parents des eleves
qui etudient encore, 77,8% des <( mauvais dleves )>, des adultes, des eleves qui ont
abandonne, 70,4% des parents d'eleves qui ont abandonn6 et 66,7% des representants des
ONG etlou des eglises.
Ladite intervention est faite sous forme de sensibilisation par le biais des autorites de
base elues dont celle chargee de 1' education.
Mais cette sensiblisation est niee seulemet par 88,9% des eleves du milieu
urbain qui ont abandonne l'ecole. Ce phenomene peut etre mis en relation avec les regrets
et les causes de I'abandon et avec le fait que les parents n'aient pas dte sensibilisds pour
renvoyer leurs enfants A l'dcole et surtout avec le fait que la sensibilisation est plus
efficace et rentable en milieu rural qu'en milieu urbain.
Meme si les interviewes pensent que tous les parents capables de supporter les
couats de la scolarisation envoient leurs enfants A l'ecole et que les autorites locales
sensibilisent les parents en matiere de scolarisation, l'ecole connait beaucoup de
deperditions et d'abandons. Une etude publide en 1985 1 par le Ministere de l'education
avec I'appui de l'UNESCO et du PNUD, citant le MINEPRISEC, presente l'importance
du phenomene de redoublement et d'abandon A l'ecole primaire comme l'indique le
tableau suivant:
<< Drop-out and repetition rates in primary education (1990/91) >>
YEAR          1st         2nd        3rd        4th         5th        6th
Promotion rate 59,6       65,8       68,5       79,8        68,5       68
Repetition rate  17,6     14,1       12,7       10,6        10,1       10
Drop-out rate  22,8       20,1       18,8       9,6         21,4       12
Cette etude mentionne aussi qu'une enquete effectuee entre le 19 et le 21
octobre 1993, en commune Kabarondo en prefecture de Kibungo attribuait au
redoublement et A l'abandon les principales causes suivantes:
- L'ignorance par les parents des problemes d'education due A l'absence d'informations et
au manque de communication.
- L'absence de suivi par les parents des enfants quand ils sont A l'dcole.
- L'etat nutritionnel ddficient et les conditions d'hygiene pauvres des eleves.
'Ministry of Education. Study of Education Sector in Rwanda.
Edition rdvisee, Kigali, 198, p.67
54



- Le niveau bas d'education des parents
- Le taux bas d'acces a 1'ecole secondaire.
- L'absence du materiel didactique et des manuels scolaires.
- Le relachement et le manque de motivation chez les enseignants.
- L'utilisation des enfants, en particulier les filles, qui constituent une source
suppldmentaire de revenu familial, pour les travaux domestiques et l'encouragement de
ces enfants a developper de petites affaires.
- Le niveau bas de connaissances des enseignants.
- L'incompetence de certaines associations proprietaires d'ecoles et qui preferent le profit
a la qualite de l'enseignement.
D'autres recherches abondent en general dans le meme sens au sujet des causes
de l'echec scolaire. C'est le cas de celle que Jean Baptiste HAKIZIMANA (1985) 2 a
effectue dans le cadre de son memoire de Licence ofi il souligne l'absence d'une
pedagogie de l'echange et de l'identite. I1 semble que cela est valable aussi pour
1'enseignement primaire.
Emmanuel HABARUGIRA (1990) 3 souligne le r6le joue par les elements
principaux suivants dans l'echec scolaire:
- La qualite de la relation pedagogique caracterisee par un manque de comprehension et
de cooperation mutuelles.
- Les locaux qui ne remplissent pas les conditions minimales exigees (hygieniques et les
dimensions tres reduites).
- Le ratio maitre -eleves ouj le rapport numerique qui entrave la vigilance de l'enseignant
et l'individualisation de l'enseignement.
- La separation des disciplines ofi l'enseignement devient un proccessus disperse et non
integre.
- L'autorite absolu du maitre oui l'initiative ne vient que de lui.
Ces constatations observees a l'ecole secondaire semblent aussi valables a
l'ecole secondaire.
L'etude d6ja mentionnee effectuee en commune Kabarondo propose aussi des
solutions aux problemes souleves dans le contexte general du pays.
I1 s'agit de:
- Augmenter le nombre d'inspections scolaires.
- Assurer le meilleur suivi des eleves a 1'6cole par les parents.
- Distribuer et echanger le materiel dans et entre les Arrondissements scolaires.
- Creer des Associations des parents pour aider les enfants pauvres (frais scolaires,
materiel, uniformes).
2 HAKIZIMANA J.B., Les causes de la deperdition dans les premibres annees du Secondaire reformd au
Rwanda (1981-1984). Butare, 1985
3 HABARUGIRA E., Les echecs scolaires comme facteurs d'inadaptation comprbtementale a I'ecole
secondaire. Ruhengeri, 1990.
55



- Augmenter les occasions de rencontres entre parents, eleves et enseignants.
- Assurer un environnement interieur et exterieur de 1'ecole favorable au soutien et a la
supervison.
- Construire dans chaque secteur administratif au moins une ecole complete.
- Construire une ecole secondaire des parents dans chaque commune.
- Augmenter le nombre d'enseignants qualifies et multiplier les recyclages.
- Inculquer aux enseignants durant les cours de recyclages les notions de conscience
professionnelle et les 6l6ments du code de conduite professionnel.
Theme 5: R6le de l'ecole dans la communaute.
Au cours de la recherche il a ete constate que les interviewes ne trouvent pas ce
que 1'ecole peut faire d'autre pour le developpement de la communaute en plus de
l'education donnee a l'ecole. Ceci peut etre explique par la force de l'habitude que les
agents charges de l'education pourraient corriger en redefinissant la vision et les
missions de l'ecole.
Cependarnt, certains repondants donnent des propositions selon lesquelles
l'ecole peut egalement contribuer a savoir:
-L'alphabetisation des adultes;
-la sensibilisation de la population aux activites de developpement economique, social et
culturel;
-L'encadrement des jeunes a travers des activites sportives et de loisirs.
Mais 1'ecole vue comme un centre de rayonnement et de developpement ne
semble pas clairement percu.
Theme 6: Elements prioritaires dont une bonne ecole doit etre dotee (Annexe 12)
Le theme 6 recense les preferences des repondants en matiere d' elements
prioritaires dont une bonne ecole doit etre dotee (batiments, equipement et mobiliers, bon
directeur et bons enseignants, matieres et manuels bien elabores).
En examinant les donnees du theme 6, on trouve que les batiments sont consideres
comme premier element prioritaire dont une bonne ecole doit etre dotee. Dans le milieu
urbain, cela est exprime par 83,3% des adultes, 66,7% des directeurs, des parents d'
eleves qui ont abandonn6, des representants des ONG et /ou des eglises, 55,6% des
parents d'eleves qui etudient et 50% des leaders.
Ce choix est partage dans le milieu rural par 100% des directeurs,83,3% des adultes,
72,2% des representants des ONG et /ou des eglises, 66,7% des parents d'eleves qui ont
abandonne et des mauvais eleves, 59,3% des parents d'eleves qui etudient, 55,6% des
leaders et 51,9% des eleves qui ont abandonne.
Le deuxieme choix qui apparait est << bon directeur et bons enseignants >> avec, dans le
milieu urbain, 33,3% des directeurs, 33,4% des enseignants, 33,3% des bons eleves, 33,3
des eleves qui ont abandonne,22,2% des parents d'6leves qui ont abandonne leurs etudes
56



et 33,3% des leaders. En milieu rural, ce choix est exprime par 33,3% des enseignants,
33,3% des bons eleves, 33,3% des eleves qui ont abandonne et 22,2% des leaders.
Il semblerait que chez les interviewes, les batiments doivent etre necessairement
6quipes et que d'autres e1lments seraient difficilement operants sans l'existence des
batiments.
En outre aux yeux des interviewes, la disponibilite des batiments, de bons directeurs et de
bons enseignants serait une condition presque necessaire et suffisante pour une ecole de
bonne reputation.
Thbme 7: Points de vue sur P'etat des &coles rehabilitees par le gouvernement
(Annexe 13)
Les repondants des milieux urbain et rural reconnaissent etre au courant des
ecoles rehabilitees.
En effet, dans le milieu urbain, 100% des directeurs, des enseignants et des leaders,
83,3% des representants des ONG et/ou des eglises, 66,7% des << bons eleves >>, des
< mauvais eleves >>, des parents d'eleves qui etudient, des parents d'eleves qui ont
abandonne, 55,6% des eleves qui ont abandonne et 50% des adultes affirment qu'ils
connaissent des ecoles rehabilitees par le gouvernement.
Egalement, dans le milieu rural, cela est affirme par 100% des directeurs, des
<< bons eleves >>, des leaders, 94,4% des enseignants, des adultes, 92,6% des mauvais
eleves, des parents d'eleves qui etudient, 77,8% des eleves qui ont abandonne,74,1% des
parents d'elves qui ont abandonne et 72,2% des representants des ONG et/ou des
eglises.
Cependant, tous les repondants jugent qu'en general, les rehabilitations effectuees sont
mal faites et inachevees. Ils declarent meme qu'il y a des salles de classes construites qui
n'ont ni porte , ni fenetre, ni pavement, ni equipement,........
Dans certaines ecoles, les constructions et rehabilitations ont ete deteriorees avant meme
leur utilisation effective (salles de classe, toilettes,....).
Theme 8: Impact des ameliorations apportees par la rehabilitation (Annexe 14)
Le theme 8 inventorie les ameliorations jugdes utiles pour les beneficiaires
(enseignants mieux formes, matieres d'enseignement plus interessantes et plus
pertinentes, de nouveaux manuels et des batiments).
L'impact des ameliorations apportees par la r6habilitation n'est pas directement per,u par
les interviewes, compte tenu des resultats parlants obtenus au theme 7. Ceci se justifie par
le fait que les rehabilitations des ecoles sont jugees de malfaites et d'inachev6es. Les
interviewes ont eprouve beaucoup de difficultes a evaluer des rehabilitations ainsi jugees.
57



Theme 9: Suggestions
9.1. Pour amnliorer la scolarisation, les interviewes suggerent ce qui suit:
9.1.1. Faire participer les parents a la gestion de l'ecole;
9.1.2. Supprimer la double vocation par I'augmentation des salles de classe et des
enseignants;
9.1.3. Doter les ecoles des equipements et mobiliers necessaires;
9.1.4. Fournir assez de materiel didactique et des manuels scolaires pour
enseignants et elves;
9.1.5. Ameliorer les conditions de vie de 1'enseignant par l'octroi de primes
d'encouragement, logement, transport etc .....;
9.1.6. Aider tous les enfants necessiteux en matiere de scolarisation;
9.1.7. Rendre les batiments scolaires plus commodes (mesures standard et dtat
acceptable);
9.1.8. Avoir une carte scolaire bien elaboree et veiller a son application effective;
9.1.9. Former et recycler les enseignants;
9.1.10. Collaborer activement avec tous les partenaires de 1'education;
9.1.11. Interesser davantage les parents a la scolarisation des enfants;
9.1.12. Prevoir des sanctions a 1'endroit des parents qui privent leurs enfants de la
scolarisation.
9.2. En vue d'accroitre l'impact et les acquis de la scolarisation, les interviewes
proposent ce qui suit:
9.2.1. Creer des bibliotheques publiques dans differents secteurs scolaires;
9.2.2. Creer des centres de metiers pour les enfants qui n'ont pas acces a
1'enseignement secondaire;
9.2.3. Accroltre l'acces a 1'enseignement secondaire;
9.2.4. Assurer le suivi de 1'enfant par les parents au cours de ses etudes;
9.2.5. Favoriser des contacts entre parents et ecoles afin de creer des comites de
devdloppement des localites.
CONCLUSION
Cette recherche est une etude limitee aux perceptions des beneficiaires. Elle a
constate que les faiblesses du systeme educatif et les taux subsequents d'echec et
d'abandon eleves sont entre autres des indices de la mauvaise qualite de l'enseignement
et de l'education. Les corrections pour une amelioration de la qualite entrainerait une
augmentation du cofit et si cette amelioration n'est pas sous-tendue par une politique
appropriee et coherente executee par des administrateurs competents et operationnalis6e
par des techniciens rompus a leur tache, la balance cofit- benefice resterait deficitaire.
58



I1 est a souligner aussi que cette etude devait etre suivie par d'autres relatives
aux differents elements de l'intervention de la Banque Mondiale et a titre d'exemples, on
peut citer:
-L'utilisation des fonds et des budgets;
-L'etat actuel des constructions et des rehabilitations;
-L'etude exhaustive de l'implantation des ecoles et de leur distribution par commune et
par secteurs administratifs et scolaires;
-La determination du seuil de pauvrete des parents;
-Le r6le de 1'ecole dans la dynamique developpementale du milieu;
-Les raisons reelles de la non scolarisation et de l'abandon de l'ecole.
Sur le plan methodologique, la methodologie a e  imposee par les termes de
references, ce qui a limite le champ d'investigation et n'a pas permis de poser le
probleme sous ses differentes facettes, d'en e1aborer une problematique, un modele
d'analyse et un cadre interpretatif.
Des etudes systdmatiquement et methodiquement bien menees permettraient notamment
de realiser des etudes pilotes prealables pour affiner les instruments de mesure.
Annexe 1: Questionnaire
Lieu d'interview  --------------------------------------------Nde l'interview :---------------------
Niveau d'etudes de la personne interviewee :------------------------------------------------------
Theme 1: Acces a l'ecole:
1.1. Y'a-t-il suffisamment d'ecoles pour tous les enfants de votre localite ?
Oui---
Non--------
Expliquez votre reponse:
59



1.2. Les familles envoient-elles tous les enfants A l'ecole ?
Oui------
Non--------
Si non, pourquoi ?
1.3. Les parents font-ils des differences entre filles et gar,ons en matiere de
scolarisation ?
En cas de difficultes financieres, les parents preferent envoyer A l'ecole:
*      Les filles :---------
*      Les gar,ons :----------
Expliquez votre reponse:
1.4. Combien de kilometres font en moyenne les enfants pour aller A 1'ecole ?----------
Kms
1.5. Si les ecoles n'etaient pas eloignees des domiciles des enfants, pensez-vous que ces
derniers frequenteraient tous l'ecole ?
Oui---------     Non---------
Expliquez votre reponse:
60



Theme 2: Raisons majeures de scolarisation des enfants:
2.1. Pourquoi les parents envoient-ils leurs enfants a 1'ecole ?
Theme 3: Appreciation du travail de l'ecole:
3.1. L'ecole de votre localite donne une education et un enseignement de quelle qualite ?
Appreciez selon 1'echelle suivante :Excellente :---------Bonne---------Mediocre---------
3.2. Comment 1'ecole de votre localite se classe-t-elle par rapport aux autres
-      du secteur :---------------
de I'arrondissement :-------------
3.3. Si cette ecole est complete, quelles proportions d'eleves ont-ils r6ussi a l'examen
d'etat pendant ces deux demieres annees ?
Theme 4: Capacite de payer les etudes des enfants:
4.1. Toutes les familles de votre localite sont-elles capables de payer les etudes de leurs
enfants ? Oui :-----------Non --------------
Expliquez votre reponse:
61



4.2. Que peuvent supporter toutes les familles de votre localite ?
-      Achat des livres :-----------
-      Achat d'uniformes :-----------
-      Frais de transport :------------
-      Frais de scolarite -------------
-      Tout cela a la fois :------------
4.3. Est-ce que la commune peut prendre en charge les enfants necessiteux en matiere de
scolarisation ? Oui :---------------Non-------------
Si oui dans quel cas, si non pourquoi ?
4.4. Tous les parents capables de supporter les couits de scolarisation envoient-ils leurs
enfants
a l'ecole? Oui------------Non-------------
Si non pourquoi ?
4.5. Les autorites communales interviennent-elles pour reveiller les parents qui
n'envoient pas leurs enfants a l'ecole ? Oui-----------Non-------------
Theme 5 : R8le de l'ecole dans la communaute:
5.1. En plus de l'education donnee a 1'ecole, donnez des exemples de ce qu'elle peut faire
d'autre pour le developpement de la communaute ofi elle est installee.
62



Theme 6: Elements prioritaires dont une bonne ecole doit etre dotee:
6.1. Classez par ordre de priorites de 1 a 4 les e1lments suivants dont une bonne ecole
doit etre dotee:
----------B atiments
----------Equipements et mobiliers
-B-----Bon directeur et bons enseignants
-----------Matieres et manuels bien e1abores
Theme 7: Points de vue sur la rehabilitation des ecoles r6alisee par le
Gouvernement.
7.1. Connaissez-vous des ecoles qui ont e  rehabilitees ? Oui----------- Non------------
7.2. Que pensez-vous de la qualite de la rehabilitation effectuee ? (Justifiez votre reponse)
7.3. Si vous ne connaissez pas d'ecoles rehabilitees, quels seraient les besoins
d'amelioration des 6coles de votre localite ?
63



Theme 8 : Impact des ameiorations apportees par la rehabilitation:
8.1. Si vous ou vos eleves ou vos enfants en avez ete beneficiaires, quelles ont ete, pour
vous les plus utiles ?
-      Les enseignants mieux formes--------------
-      Des matieres d'enseignement plus interessantes et plus pertinentes-------------
-      De nouveaux manuels---------------
-      Des batiments----
-      Des equipements---------------
Justifiez votre reponse:
8.2. Si vous n'en avez pas beneficiees, a votre avis quel domaine parmi les suivants
devraient retenir le plus d'attention ?
-      Enseignants------------
-      Programmes d'etudes--------------
-      Manuels--------------
-      BifBtiments-----------
-      Equipements-------------
Theme 9: Suggestions
9.1. Quelles suggestions pourriez-vous donner pour ameliorer la scolarisation dans votre
localite ?
64



9.2. Quelles suggestions pourriez-vous donner pour accroitre l' impact et les acquis de la
scolarisation dans votre localite ?
ANNEXE 2: Suffisance (oui) ou insuffisance (Non) des ecoles
Categories des      Categories des            Urbains             Ruraux
interviewis        r6ponses                    en %
1. Directeurs       Oui                 66,7                22,2
Non                 33,3                77,8
2. Enseignants      Oui                 50                  38,9
Non                 50                  61,1
3. Bons e1lves      Oui                 88,9                48,1
Non                 11,1                51,9
4. Mauvais eleves   Oui                 100                 63
Non                 0                   37
5. Eleves ayant     Oui                 55,6                29,6
abandonne les     Non                 44,4                 70,4
etudes
6. Parents des e1lves  Oui              66,7                48,1
qui etudient encore Non               33,3                51,9
7. Parents des elves  Oui              55,6                25,9
ayant abandonne les Non               44,4                 74,1
etudes
8. Adultes          Oui                 50                  22,2
Non                 50                  77,8
65



9. Leaders dans la  Oui                66,7                22,2
communaute        Non                 33,3                77,8
10. Representants des Oui              33,3                27,8
ONG et/ ou des    Non
Eglises                              66,7                72,2
AANNEXE 3: Volonte des parents d'envoyer tous les enfants a l'ecole
Catigories des      Categories des            Urbains             Ruraux
interviewis        riponses                    en %                 %
1. Directeurs      Oui                 66,7                0
Non                 33,3                100
2. Enseignants      Oui                 66,7                22,2
Non                 33,3                77,8
3. Bons e1lves      Oui                 66,7                33,3
Non                 33,3                66,7
4. Mauvais eleves    Oui                66,7                33,3
Non                 33,3                66,7
5. Eleves ayant     Oui                 66,7                33,3
abandonne les                                             66,7
etudes            Non                 33,3
6. Parents des elves  Oui               55,6                55,6
qui etudient encore Non              44,4                 44,4
7. Parents des elves  Oui               88,9                55,6
ayant abandonne les Non               11,1                44,4
etudes
66



8. Adultes          Oui                 16,7                 55,6
Non                 83,3                44,4
9. Leaders dans la  Oui                 66,7                 33,3
communaute        Non                  33,3                66,7
10. Representants des Oui               50                   22,2
ONG et/ ou des    Non
Eglises                               50                  77,8
ANVEXE 4: Preference des parents pour les garVons /filles en matiere de
scolarisation
Categories des      Categories des            Urbains              Ruraux
interviewis         reponses                    en %                  %
1. Directeurs       F                   0                    0
G                   0                   33,3
F+G                 100                 66,7
2. Enseignants      F                   0                    5,6
G                   16,7                 16,6
F+G                 83,3                77,8
3. Bons eleves      F                   22,2                 3,7
G                   22,2                25,9
F+G                 55,5                70,4
4. Mauvais eleves   F                   0                    14,8
G                   55,6                 11,1
F+G                 44,4                74,1
5. Elves ayant      F                    11,1                7,4
abandonne les     G                    66,7                14,8
etudes            F+G                  22,2                77,8
6. Parents des elves  F                 0                    3,7
qui etudient encore  G                11,1                 14,8
F+G                 88,9                81,5
7. Parents des elves  F                0                    11,1
ayant abandonne les G                  33,3                11,1
etudes            F+G                 66,7                 77,8
8. Adultes          F                   0                    0
67



G                   50                  16,7
F+G                 50                  83,3
9. Leaders dans la    F                0                   0
communaute        G                   50                  11,1
F+G                 50                  88,9
10. Representants des F                0                   0
ONG et/ ou des    G                  16,7                33,3
Eglises          F+G                 83,3                66,7
ANNEXE 5: Raisons majeures de scolarisation des enfants
Categories des      Categories des reponses         Urbains        Ruraux
interviewe's                                         en %             %
1. Directeurs      1. Preparer I'avenir des enfants  37,5      25
2. Acquerir des connaissances   37,5       32,2
3. Aider A la promotion socio-
economique de la famille  0             21,4
4. Developper le pays        0             10,7
5. Acquerir une bonne education 25         10,7
2. Enseignants      6. Preparer I'avenir des enfants  30       28,1
7. Acquerir des connaissances   25         23,4
8. Aider a la promotion socio-
economique de la famille  30            17,2
9. Developper le pays        0             17,2
10. Acquerir une bonne education 15        14,1
3. Bons e1lves      11. Preparer I'avenir des enfants  27,6    29,8
12. Acquerir des connaissances   27,6      27,4
13. Aider a la promotion socio-
economique de la famille  17,2          20,2
14. Developper le pays       10,4          20,2
15. Acquerir une bonne education 17,2      2,4
4. Mauvais e1lves    16. Preparer l'avenir des enfants  39,1   29,9
17. Acquerir des connaissances   26,1      24,1
18. Aider A la promotion socio-
economique de la famille  26,1          25,4
1. Developper le pays        0             14,9
2. Acquerir une bonne education 8,7        5,7
5. Eleves ayant     3. Preparer I'avenir des enfants  69,2     28,9
abandonne les     4. Acquerir des connaissances   15,4        32,5
68



etudes            5. Aider A la promotion socio-
economique de la famille  0             20,5
6. Developper le pays        0             13,3
7. Acquerir une bonne education 15,4       4,8
6. Parents des eleves  8. Preparer I'avenir des enfants  56,3  31,6
qui etudient encore 9. Acquerir des connaissances   31,3     30,3
10. Aider A la promotion socio-
economique de la famille  12,4          22,4
11. Developper le pays       0             11,8
12. Acquerir une bonne education 0         3,9
7. Parents des ekves  13. Preparer I'avenir des enfants  36    33,3
ayant abandonne les 14. Acquerir des connaissances   24      32,1
etudes            15. Aider A la promotion socio-
economique de la famille  24            18,5
16. Developper le pays       8             11,2
_  17. Acquerir une bonne education 8       4,9
Catfgories des      Catigories des riponses         Urbains        Ruraux
interviewies                                         en %             %
8. Adultes          1. Preparer 1'avenir des enfants  35,7     28,6
2. Acquerir des connaissances   35,7       27
3. Aider A la promotion socio-
economique de la famille  14,3          23,8
4. Developper le pays         14,3         17,5
5. Acquerir une bonne education 0          3,1
9. Leaders dans la    6. Preparer l'avenir des enfants  33,3   33,3
communaute        7. Acquerir des connaissances   33,3       31,5
8. Aider A la promotion socio-
economique de la famille  33,4          18,5
9. Developper le pays        0             13
10. Acquerir une bonne education 0         3,7
10. Representants des 11. Preparer l'avenir des enfants  37,5  42,9
ONG et/ ou des    12. Acquerir des connaissances   25       26,2
Eglises          13. Aider A la promotion socio-
economique de la famille  12,5          19
14. Developper le pays       12,5          9,5
15. Acquerir une bonne education 12,5      2,4
69



ANNEXE 6. 1  Appriciation du travail de l'6cole( urbains + ruraux)
Categories des      Cate'gories des     Urbains + Ruraux
interviewe's       reponses                en %
1. Directeurs      Excellent           0
Bonne               100
Mediocre            0
2. Enseignants      Excellent           20,8
Bonne               79,2
Mediocre            0
3. Bons eleves      Excellent           13,9
Bonne               83,3
Mediocre           2,8
4. Mauvais eleves    Excellent          19,4
Bonne               75
Mediocre            5,6
5. Eleves ayant     Excellent           19,4
abandonne les     Bonne               77,8
etudes            Mediocre            2,8
6. Parents des eleves  Excellent        16,7
qui etudient encore Bonne             72,2
Mediocre            11,1
7. Parents des e1lves  Excellent        11,1
ayant abandonne les Bonne             88,9
etudes           Mediocre            0
8. Adultes         Excellent            8,3
Bonne               91,7
Mediocre            0
9. Leaders dans la    Excellent         0
communaute        Bonne               95,8
Mediocre           4,2
10. Representants des Excellent        0
ONG et/ ou des    Bonne              95,8
Eglises          Mediocre            4,2
70



ANNEXE 6. 2: Appre'ciation du travail de l'icole
Categories des      Categories des            Urbains             Ruraux
interviewe's        riponses                   en %                  %
1. Directeurs       Excellent           0                   0
Bonne               100                 100
Mediocre            0                   0
2. Enseignants      Excellent           50                  11,1
Bonne               50                  88,9
Mediocre            0                   0
3. Bons eleves      Excellent           44,4                3,7
Bonne               55,6                92,6
Mediocre            0                   3,7
4. Mauvais eleves    Excellent          44,4                11,1
Bonne               55,6                81,5
Mediocre            0                   7,4
5. Eleves ayant     Excellent           44,4                11,1
abandonne les     Bonne               55,6                 85,2
etudes            Mediocre            0                    3,7
6. Parents des eleves  Excellent        11,1                18,5
qui etudient encore Bonne             88,9                66,7
M6diocre            0                   14,8
7. Parents des elves  Excellent         11,1                11,1
ayant abandonne les Bonne             88,9                 88,9
etudes            Mediocre            0                   0
8. Adultes          Excellent           16,7                5,6
Bonne               83,3                94,4
Mediocre            0                   0
9. Leaders dans la    Excellent         0                   0
communaute        Bonne                100                 94,4
Mediocre            0                   5,6
10. Representants des Excellent         0                   0
ONG et/ ou des    Bonne               100                 94,6
Eglises          Mediocre            0                    5,6
71



ANNEXE 7. 1: Capacite des familles de payer les etudes de leurs enfants
(urbains + ruraux)
Categories des      Categories des       Urbains + ruraux
interviewes         rnponses                     en %
1. Directeurs       Oui                  0
Non                  100
2. Enseignants      Oui                  4,2
Non                 95,8
3. Bons el&ves      Oui                  5,6
Non                  94,4
4. Mauvais eleves   Oui                  8,3
Non                 91,7
5. E1lves ayant     Oui                  13,9
abandonne les
etudes             Non                  86,1
6. Parents des e1lves  Oui                13,9
qui etudient encore Non                86,1
7. Parents des elves  Oui               2,8
ayant abandonne les
etudes            Non                  97,2
8. Adultes          Oui                  8,3
Non                 91,7
9. Leaders dans la  Oui                  0
communaute         Non                  100
10. Representants des Oui                8,3
ONG et/ ou des
Eglises           Non                  91,7
72



ANNEXE 7. 2: Capaciti des familles de payer les itudes de leurs enfants
Catigories des      Categories des       Urbains              Ruraux
interviewis         riponses                 en %                 %
1. Directeurs       Oui                  0                    0
Non                  100                  100
2. Enseignants      Oui                  16,7                 0
Non                  83,3                100
3. Bons elves      Oui                  22,2                 0
Non                  77,8                 100
4. Mauvais elves   Oui                  22,2                 3,7
Non                  77,8                96,3
5. Eleves ayant     Oui                  44,4                 3,7
abandonne les
etudes             Non                  55,6                 96,3
6. Parents des 6elves  Oui               22,2                 11,1
qui etudient encore Non                77,8                 88,9
7. Parents des 6elves  Oui               11,1                 0
ayant abandonne les
etudes            Non                  88,9                 100
8. Adultes          Oui                  16,7                 5,6
Non                  83,3                94,4
9. Leaders dans la  Oui                  0                    0
communaute         Non                  100                  100
10. Representants des Oui                0                    11,1
ONG et/ ou des
Eglises           Non                  100                  88,9
73



ANNEXE 8: Ce que peuvent supporter toutes les familles
Catigories des       Catigories des reponses       Urbains           Ruraux
interviewis                                          en %               %
1. Directeurs        1. Achat des livres        0              50
2. Achat d'uniformes       0              0
3. Frais de transport      0              0
4. Frais de scolarite      0              33,3
5. Tout cela a la fois     0              16,7
2. Enseignants       6. Achat des livres         11,1          20
7. Achat d'uniformes       22,2           10
8. Frais de transport      0              0
9. Frais de scolarite      66,7           50
10. Tout cela a la fois    0              20
3. Bons e1lves       11. Achat des livres       0              55
12. Achat d'uniformes      22,2           10
13. Frais de transport     0              0
14. Frais de scolarite     55,6           30
15. Tout cela a la fois    22,2           15
4. Mauvais e1lves    16. Achat des livres       25             22,2
17. Achat d'uniformes      37,5           11,1
18. Frais de transport     0              0
19. Frais de scolarite     37,5           50
20. Tout cela a la fois    0              16,7
5. Eleves ayant      21. Achat des livres       30             19
abandonne les      22. Achat d'uniformes       30             19
etudes             23. Frais de transport      0              14,3
24. Frais de scolarite     40             33,4
25. Tout celaa la fois     0              14,3
6. Parents des eleves  26. Achat des livres     0              18,2
qui etudient encore  27. Achat d'unifornes    12,5           22,7
28. Frais de transport     0              0
29. Frais de scolarite     75             45,5
30. Tout cela A la fois    12,5           13,6
7. Parents des 61lves  31. Achat des livres     16,7           20
ayant abandonne les 32. Achat d'uniformes      25             13,3
etudes             33. Frais de transport     0              0
34. Frais de scolarite     58,3           46,7
35. Tout cela A la fois    0              20
74



Cate'gories des      Catigories des riponses      Urbains       Ruraux
interviewis                                          en %           %
8. Adultes           1. Achat des livres          12,5          28,6
2. Achat d'uniformes        25             21,4
3. Frais de transport       0              0
4. Frais de scolarite       62,5           28,6
5. Tout cela A la fois      0              21,4
9. Leaders dans la   6. Achat des livres          11,1           30,8
communaute          7. Achat d'uniformes        22,2           23
8. Frais de transport       0              0
9. Frais de scolarite       66,7           30,8
10. Tout cela a la fois     0              15,4
10. Representants des  11. Achat des livres      0              38,5
ONG et/ ou des    12. Achat d'uniformes        0              7,7
Eglises            13. Frais de transport      0              0
14. Frais de scolarite      100            30,8
15. Tout cela a la fois     0              23
75



ANNEXE 9: Prise en charge (oui) des enfants nicessiteux en matkre de scolarisation
par la commune
Catigories des      Catigories des             Urbains             Ruraux
interviewis         riponses                    en %                  %
1. Directeurs       Oui                 100                  66,7
Non                 0                   33,3
2. Enseignants      Oui                 83,3                 61,1
Non                 16,7                38,9
3. Bons eleves      Oui                  100                 70,4
Non                 0                   29,6
4. Mauvais elves   Oui                 88,9                 77,8
Non                 11,1                22,2
5. Eleves ayant     Oui                 33,3                 63
abandonne les
etudes            Non                  66,7                37
6. Parents des e1lves  Oui               11,1                48,1
qui _ tudient encore Non              88,9                 51,9
7. Parents des eleves  Oui              22,2                 63
ayant abandonne les Non                77,8                37
etudes
8. Adultes          Oui                 50                   33,3
Non                 50                   66,7
9. Leaders dans la  Oui                 50                   50
communaute        Non                  50                  50
10. Representants des Oui               50                   66,7
ONG et/ ou des    Non                 50                  33,3
Eglises
76



ANNEXE 10: Envoi a l'ecole des enfants (oui) par tous les parents capables de
supporter les coults de scolarisation
Categories des      Catigories des            Urbains              Ruraux
interviewis         riponses                    en %
1. Directeurs       Oui                 100                  66,7
Non                 0                   33,3
2. Enseignants      Oui                  100                 83,3
Non                 0                    16,7
3. Bons eleves      Oui                 66,7                 96,3
Non                 33,3                 3,7
4. Mauvais elves   Oui                 88,9                 81,5
Non                 11,1                 18,5
5. E1lves ayant     Oui                  100                 66,7
abandonne les     Non                  0                   33,3
etudes
6. Parents des e1lves  Oui              88,9                 77,8
qui etudient encore Non               11,1                 22,2
7. Parents des elves  Oui              88,9                 70,4
ayant abandonne les Non                11,1                29,6
etudes
8. Adultes          Oui                  100                 94,4
Non                 0                    5,6
9. Leaders dans la  Oui                  100                 77,8
communaute        Non                  0                   22,2
10. Representants des Oui               83,3                 83,3
ONG et/ ou des    Non                 16,7                16,7
Eglises
77



ANNEXE 11: Sensibilisation des parents (oui) qui n 'envoientpas leurs enfants a
l'icole par les autorite's
Cateigories des     Catfgories des            Urbains             Ruraux
interviewis        reponses                    en %                 %
1. Directeurs      Oui                  100                88,9
Non                 0                   11,1
2. Enseignants      Oui                 83,3                88,9
Non                 16,7                11,1
3. Bons eleves      Oui                 66,7                96,3
Non                 33,3                3,7
4. Mauvais elves    Oui                88,9                77,8
Non                 11,1                22,2
5. E1lves ayant     Oui                 11,1                77,8
abandonne les     Non                 88,9                22,2
etudes
6. Parents des elves  Oui              88,9                85,2
qui etudient encore Non               11,1                14,8
7. Parents des eleves  Oui              55,6                70,4
ayant abandonne les Non               44,4                29,6
etudes
8. Adultes          Oui                 83,3                77,8
Non                 16,7                22,2
9. Leaders dans la    Oui               100                 94,4
communaute        Non                 0                   5,6
10. Representants des Oui               100                66,7
ONG et/ ou des    Non                0                   33,3
Eglises
78



ANNEXE 12: Eleiments prioritaires dont une bonne ecole a besoin
Categories des      Categories des riponses          Urbains          Ruraux
interviewis                                           en %               %
1. Directeurs       1. Batiments                83,3              83,3
2. Equipements et mobiliers   0               0
3. Bon directeur et bons
enseignants              0                 11,1
4. Matieres et manuels bien
elabores                 16,7             5,6
2. Enseignants      5. Batiments                 66,7             100
6. Equipements et mobiliers  0                0
7. Bon directeur et bons
enseignants              33,3             0
8. Matieres et manuels bien
elabores                 0                0
3. Bons e1lves      9. Batiments                66,7              66,6
10. Equipements et mobiliers  11,1            14,8
11. Bon directeur et bons
enseignants              22,2              14,8
12. Matieres et manuels bien
_  e1abores                 0                 3,7
4. Mauvais eleves   13. Batiments                66,7             72,2
14. Equipements et mobiliers  16,7            22,2
15. Bon directeur et bons
enseignants              16,7              5,6
16. Matieres et manuels bien
e1abores                 0                0
5. E1lves ayant     17. Batiments               55,6              59,3
abandonne les      18. Equipements et mobiliers  22,2            18,5
etudes             19. Bon directeur et bons
enseignants              11,1              14,8
20. Matieres et manuels bien                  7,4
l1abores                 11,1
6. Parents des e1lves  21. Batiments             50               55,6
qui etudient encore  22. Equipements et mobiliers  16,7         16,7
23. Bon directeur et bons
enseignants              33,3              22,2
24. Matieres et manuels bien
el 1abores                   0                5,5
79



7. Parents des eleves  25. Batiments            66,7              66,7
ayant abandonne les 26. Equipements et mobiliers  11,1           11,1
etudes            27. Bon directeur et bons
enseignants              11,1             14,8
28. Matieres et manuels bien
el dabores                   11,1             7,4
Catigories des      Catigories des riponses      Urbains     Ruraux
interviewis                                         en %         %
8. Adultes          1. Batiments                44,5          51,9
2. Equipements et mobiliers
3. Bon directeur et bons      ,            ,
enseignants              33,3         33,3
4. Matieres et manuels bien
dlabor6s
11,1        3,7
9. Leaders dans la    5. Batiments               33,3         41,7
communaute         6. Equipements et mobiliers  33,3        25
7. Bon directeur et bons
enseignants              33,4         33,3
8. Matieres et manuels bien
e1abores                 0            0
10. Representants des 9. Batiments              33,3         33,3
ONG et/ ou des    10. Equipements et mobiliers  22,8       22,3
11. Bon directeur et bons
Eglises              enseignants              33,3         33,3
12. Matibres et manuels bien   33,2      11,1
___ _  abor6s__80
80



ANNEXE 13: Points de vue sur l'itat des ecoles rehabilitees par le gouvernement
Connaissance (Oui) ou ignorance (Non) des icoles rehabilitees
Cate'gories des     Categories des            Urbains              Ruraux
interviewis         riponses                    en %
1. Directeurs       Oui                 100                  100
Non                 0                   0
2. Enseignants      Oui                 100                  94,4
Non                 0                    5,6
3. Bons eleves      Oui                 66,7                 100
Non                 33,3                 0
4. Mauvais e1lves   Oui                 66,7                 92,6
Non                 33,3                7,4
5. Eleves ayant     Oui                 55,6                 77,8
abandonne les     Non                  44,4                22,2
etudes
6. Parents des elves  Oui               66,7                 92,6
qui etudient encore Non               33,3                 7,4
7. Parents des eleves  Oui              66,7                 74,1
ayant abandonne les Non                33,3                25,9
etudes
8. Adultes          Oui                 50                   94,4
Non                 50                   5,6
9. Leaders dans la  Oui                  100                 100
communaute        Non                  0                   0
10. Representants des Oui               83,3                 72,2
ONG et/ ou des    Non                 16,7                27,8
Eglises______________________
81



ANNEXE 14: Impacts des ameliorations apportees par la rehabilitation
Catigories des      Categories des reponses              Urbains      Ruraux
interviewis                                               en %           %
1. Directeurs       1. Les enseignants mieux formes   60            0
2. Des matieres d'enseignement plus
interessantes et plus pertinentes    40      0
3. Des nouveaux manuels          0              23
4. Des batiments                 0              38,5
5. Des equipements               0              38,5
2. Enseignants      6. Les enseignants mieux formes    25            0
7. Des matieres d'enseignement plus
interessantes et plus pertinentes    50      0
8. Des nouveaux manuels          0              18,8
9. Des batiments                 0              50
10. Des equipements              25             31,2
3. Bons eleves      11. Les enseignants mieux formes  26,7           0
12. Des matieres d'enseignement plus
Interessantes et plus pertinentes   0        2,9
13. Des nouveaux manuels         6,6            11,4
14. Des batiments                26,7           57,1
15. Des equipements              40             28,6
4. Mauvais el&ves    16. Les enseignants mieux formes  42,9          0
17. Des matieres d'enseignement plus
interessantes et plus pertinentes    0       0
18. Des nouveaux manuels         0              18,2
19. Des batiments                57,1           45,5
20. Des 6quipements              0              36,3
5. Eleves ayant     21. Les enseignants mieux formes  16,7           0
abandonne les     22. Des matieres d'enseignement plus
etudes               interessantes et plus pertinentes    66,6     0
23. Des nouveaux manuels          0              0
24. Des batiments                 16,7          73,7
25. Des equipements              0              26,3
6. Parents des eleves  26. Les enseignants mieux formes  42,9        0
qui etudient encore  27. Des matieres d'enseignement plus
interessantes et plus pertinentes   57,1     29,4
28. Des nouveaux manuels         0              5,9
29. Des batiments                0              47,1
130. Des equipements              0              17,6
7. Parents des elves  31. Les enseignants mieux formes  42,9         5,9
82



ayant abandonne les 32. Des matieres d'enseignement plus
etudes               interessantes et plus pertinentes    42,9    29,4
33. Des nouveaux manuels         0              5,9
34. Des batiments                 14,3          29,4
35. Des equipements              0              29,4
Categories des      Categories des riponses             Urbains       Ruraux
interviewes                                               en %           %
8. Adultes          1. Les enseignants mieux formes   50           0
2. Des matieres d'enseignement plus
interessantes et plus pertinentes    0      6,7
3. Des nouveaux manuels          0             0
4. Des batiments                 50            60
5. Des equipements               0             33,3
9. Leaders dans la    6. Les enseignants mieux formes  37,5        0
communaute        7. Des matieres d'enseignement plus
interessantes et plus pertinentes    37,5   22,2
8. Des nouveaux manuels          0             11,1
9. Des batiments                  12,5         55,6
10. Des equipements              12,5          11,1
10. Representants des 11. Les enseignants mieux formes  0          0
ONG et/ ou des    12. Des matieres d'enseignement plus
Eglises             interessantes et plus pertinentes    20      10
13. Des nouveaux manuels         0             20
14. Des batiments                60            60
15. Des equipements              20            10
83






MAP SECTION






-  00'          ~~~~~2930'                                       ioooo                                          29030'       (300                                                                               300o
UGANDA 
.7 ~ TANZANIA
RWANDA
DEM. REP                           Lr>                                           ..j)'
*NATIONAL CAPITAL                                               OF CONGO   /                                                                  /YAKAGERA
0  PREFECTURE CAPITALS                                                                  . Ruegroo01NTOA
BIRUJNGA                                                  'o  yoba                                     A-
COMMUNE BOUNDARIES                                                      (          NATIONAL                                                     Byumba
PARK' 00,00
MoAIN ROADS                                                            ......100                                   0000 .                                             090 
-- INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                 GisenyLf0            oGSWT  ,001                                             00000"
OfOO   FRET-5 0-0 I                                 0300,0 090I300
00000000 00  00000   001 00,0  00~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~wc-o                      G
G,I111   IAII1111000              1,000
000C00000  ,    l~~~~~~~~~'                 030,013~ I
000                                              03000190 0  91000 0000          -    "000                     'IPIG  GkOMER
I,      - 101,000                            01,009  >9E000ORO
/   1 ow 000900   010009          0*00~~~~II00090  0000ON0 
0009',!                       0 
2100'                                                                                           BULINGA                     ru_~~~~~~~~~~~~~,900)     ,               0,00            0
K-b ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                               0,OO'
Gi30ram0 Musi03  00010 00000 -0000                         000000
'0                    00000.0,000!                                               00 -~~~WIIU,   Al         Kiung
23O<j~~   0   ,~~ ooeo     NYUNGWE ."                     00,00000      00UKO00US0 G     ">ll-    (         I                                          (                    ,',                203,
0   BURUNDI                            '!roo  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                        000'uz00G B0 Ufa0       000 
2                  10                                0   o,003000                                                             1o'0'                             B          U N D
DE~~~~3.  TANZANIA    ~~~~~~~~~~~G
REPOPO,  ,oo~~~~~                   0,                                                                     000,0, >0000   00MMEK,
FOREST  -  .....~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.0
DE        TAN~MZANIA       U                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 '
L     0k ,  .O.. . 
"0  00~~~~~~~~~~~                2000                                               30     0                                     3000                                            3030    hooodo,ooo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I(IITR   0 I      5   0   1W    5   0455
00         ZAMBIA__OFCONGO_____                                                                                 __I______                   ____I____T____-d___                                          __c__i-__d_ _o-_,-s



