Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2227 RW
                    (Education Sector Project)
                              between
                         RWANDESE REPUBLIC
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated June 27, 1991
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2227 RW
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 27, 1991, between RWANDESE REPUBLIC (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
      (B)   the Association has received a letter from the Borrower
describing a program of policies, goals and actions designed to
achieve adjustment of the Borrower's education sector (the Program)
and declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the
Program;
      (C)   the Borrower intends to contract from the United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP) a contribution (the UNDP Contribution)
in an amount equivalent to approximately $2,000,000 to assist in
financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (the UNDP Contribution Agreement) to be entered into
between the Borrower and UNDP; and
Page  2
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, wherever
used in this Agreement, the several terms defined in the General
Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
      (a)   "MINEPRISEC" means Ministcre de l'Enseignement Primaire
et Secondaire, the Borrower's Ministry of Primary and Secondary
Education;
      (b)   "MINESUPRES" means Ministcre de l'Enseignement Superieur
et de la Recherche Scientifique, the Borrower's Ministry of Higher
Education and Scientific Research;
      (c)   "MININTER" means Ministcre de l'Interieur et du
Developpement Communal, the Borrower's Ministry of the Interior and
of Communal Developent;
      (d)   "MINIFIN" means Ministcre des Finances the Borrower's
Ministry of Finance;
      (e)   "DEPEPERAI" means Direction de Programme de
l'Enseignement Primaire et de l'Enseignement Rural et Artisanal
Integre, the Directorate of Primary and Rural education in
MINEPRISEC;
      (f)   "DFCS" means Direction du Financement et des
Constructions Scolaires, the Directorate of Financing and School
Construction in MINIPRISEC;
      (g)   "Program" means the program of policies, goals and
actions referred to in Recital (B) in the preamble to this
Agreement;
      (h)   "Primary Education Funds" means the proceeds of the
Credit to be disbursed under Categories (1) (a) and (2) in the table
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (i)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to sixteen million two hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 16,200,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Page  3
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in its
Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1996 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable on each February 15 and August 15
commencing August 15, 2001 and ending February 15, 2031. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on February 15,
2011 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due con-
sideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
Page  4
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through DFCS
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
economic, financial, administrative, technical and educational
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5
to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants'
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, in order to monitor the
execution of Part A of the Project, establish and thereafter
maintain for the duration of the Project, an interministerial
commission presided over by the Minister in charge of Primary and
Secondary Education or his nominee, and composed of the Director
General in charge of Primary and Rural Education in MINEPRISEC, the
Director General of Communal Development in MININTER, the Director
in charge of the Budget in MINIFIN, and the Director in charge of
Financing and School Construction who shall be the Secretary of such
commission.
      Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall, from
time to time and in any case not later than October 31 in each year
during Project implementation, starting in 1991, exchange views on
the progress achieved in carrying out the Project and the Program.
      (b)   Prior to each such exchange of views as specified in
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Association a draft three-year rolling public investment and
expenditure program for its education sector for the period
commencing on the following January 1.
      (c)   The Borrower shall furnish to the Association as soon as
practicable after the exchange of views referred to in paragraph (a)
above, but in any event before January 15 in the year following such
exchange of views, the following documentation in form and substance
satisfactory to the Association, that is, the three-year rolling
public investment and expenditure program for its education sector
for the period commencing January 1 in the year following such
exchange of views.
      Section 3.05. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions, the Borrower and the
Association shall, not later than April 30, 1993, jointly undertake
a mid-term review of the progress achieved in carrying out the
Project.
Page  5
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Association;
           (ii)    furnish to the Association, as soon as
                   available, but in any case not later than six
                   months after the end of each such year, a
                   certified copy of the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Association shall have reasonably
                   requested; and
          (iii)    furnish to the Association such other
                   information concerning said records, accounts
                   and the audit thereof as the Association shall
                   from time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the
                   Association has received the audit report for
                   the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
                   from the Credit Account or payment out of the
                   Special Account was made, all records
                   (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                   and other documents) evidencing such
                   expenditures;
          (iii)    enable the Association's representatives to
                   examine such records; and
           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
Page  6
      (a)   The implementation of the Program shall have been
suspended or terminated or shall have materially deviated from such
Program as defined in Section 1.02 (g) of this Agreement.
      (b)   Subject to paragraph (c) of this Section:
            (i)    the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                   proceeds of any loan or grant made to the
                   Borrower for the financing of the Project shall
                   have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in
                   whole or in part, pursuant to the terms thereof,
                   or
           (ii)    any such loan shall have become due and payable
                   prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
      (c)   Paragraph (b) of this Section shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:
(i) such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely that
the event specified in Section 5.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement shall
occur, subject to the proviso of Section 5.01 (c) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of this Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely
that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the UNDP
Contribution Agreement have been fulfilled, other than those related
to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for
primary and secondary education is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministcre de l'Enseignement
              Primaire et Secondaire
            B.P. 622
            Kigali, Republique Rwandaise
                                           Telex:
                                             967 22502 MINAFFET
      For the Association:
            International Development
             Association
Page  7
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                   RWANDESE REPUBLIC
                   By /s/ Aloys Uwimana
                                         Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                   By /s/ Callisto Madavo
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                           SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                    SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Civil works:
     (a) under                 4,870,000        90%
         Part A of the
         Project
     (b) other                   210,000        90%
(2)  Furniture                 1,390,000        100% of foreign
     under Part A                               expenditures
     of the Project                             and 90% of local
                                                expenditures
(3)  Furniture under           2,510,000        100% of foreign
     Part B of the                              expenditures and
     Project and equip-                         90% of local
     ment, vehicles,                            expenditures
     and teaching
     materials under
     Parts A, B and
     C of the Project
                             Amount of the
Page  8
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(4)  Consultants'              4,170,000        100% of foreign
     services and                               expenditures and
     training                                   95% of local
                                                expenditures
(5)  Incremental                 560,000        90%
     operating costs
(6)  Studies                     420,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                90% of local
                                                expenditures
(7)  Unallocated               2,070,000
                              __________
         TOTAL                16,200,000
                              ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
      (c)   the term "incremental operating costs" means the
incremental operating costs of DFCS related to the Project and in
respect of vehicle maintenance and fuel, field travel, equipment
maintenance, supplies and payments to contract employees (but
excluding salaries of staff); and the incremental operating costs
related to Parts B.1 (a), B.3, B.4, C.1-C.4, C.6 and C.7 of the
Project and in respect of vehicle maintenance and fuel, field travel
and equipment maintenance.
3.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
      (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
      (b)   payments made under Categories (1) (a) and (2) unless
and until the Borrower has: (i) established the interministerial
commission referred to in Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement; and
(ii) issued a ministerial circular acceptable to the Association
providing information to the communes on the procedures for the
allocation of the Primary Education Funds, including the conditions
prerequisite to financing through such Funds and the standard form
of the Protocol to be prepared by each Commune as provided for in
paragraphs 3 and 6 of Part A of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   payments made under Categories (1) (a) and (2) in
respect of a prefecture, unless and until the Association has
reviewed and approved the documentation in respect of at least one
construction and one furniture contract each from at least two
communes in such prefecture.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are: (a) to consolidate and
expand primary education throughout the territory of the Borrower by
increasing access, and equity of access, to such education; (b) to
Page  9
improve the quality of education throughout the territory of the
Borrower; and (c) to strengthen the management capacity of the
Borrower's education sector.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Consolidation/Expansion of Primary Education
1.    Construction of new, and rehabilitation and reconstruction of
existing, classrooms.
2.    Acquisition of furniture for selected classrooms.
Part B:     Improvement of Quality of Primary Education
1.    Improvement of Pre-Service Teacher Training through:
      (a)   training of professors of teacher training colleges;
      (b)   construction of observation classrooms in the ccoles
d'Application and of documentation centers; and
      (c)   acquisition of furniture and equipment for the
observation and documentation centers and of reference books for the
documentation centers.
2.    Professional development and in-service training of
prefectoral inspectors, sector inspectors and primary school
directors.
3.    In-service training of primary school teachers.
4.    Strengthening DEPEPERAI's applied pedagogical research
capacity, acquisition of related materials and supplies (including
collective teaching materials for primarily schools) and staff
training.
Part C:     Improvement of Education Management
1.    Strengthening MINEPRISEC's Directorate of Studies and
Evaluation's capacity for policy analysis, acquisition of
appropriate equipment and staff training.
2.    Strengthening of MINIPRISEC's Directorate of Education
Planning capacity to plan for primary and secondary education and
related finances, acquisition of appropriate equipment and staff
training.
3.    Strengthening MINEPRISEC's Directorate of Financial Services'
technical capacity for budget-preparation and implementation,
acquisition of appropriate equipment and materials, and staff
training.
4.    Strengthening MINEPRISEC's Division of Personnel Management,
acquisition of appropriate equipment and materials, and staff
training.
5.    Improving the effectiveness of the Borrower's primary school
examinations through:
      (a)   reorganizing the national examination taken upon the
completion of primary education so as to enable such examination to
assess the educational attainment of students taking it;
      (b)   studying the functions, content and number of current
examinations in order to formulate relevant changes; and
      (c)   improving the system for organizing, financing and
correcting examinations.
6.    Strengthening the management capabilities of prefectoral
Page  10
inspectorates and secondary school administrators, acquisition of
appropriate equipment and materials, and training of prefectoral
inspectors and secondary school administrators.
7.    Improving the information base for policy analysis and
development and for decision-making of the Universite Nationale du
Rwanda and increasing the efficiency of its allocation and use of
resources through rationalization of data collection system, and its
expansion into an integrated management information system,
acquisition of equipment and materials, and related training of
staff of the Universite du Rwanda.
8.    Studies, experiments and preparation of future investments.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1996.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Rwanda may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Rehabilitation and reconstruction works may be carried out by
force account.
2.    Construction works and contracts for furniture may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to
the Association.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract for furniture, equipment,
vehicles and teaching materials estimated to cost the equivalent of
$75,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to
said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to
the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in
respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
Page  11
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) to
(6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                  requests for deposits into the Special Account at
                  such intervals as the Association shall specify.
           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                  documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                  paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                  withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
Page  12
                  the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                  shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                  by said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures.
      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to
the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
Page  13
                            SCHEDULE 5
                      Implementation Program
A.    Part A of the Project
1.    The Interministerial Commission referred to in Section 3.03 of
      this Agreement shall, each year, prepare an allocation plan to
      divide the proceeds of the Credit allocated to Categories (1)
      (a) and (2) in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
      Agreement (the Primary Education Funds) among the Prefectures
      and shall monitor the implementation of Part A of the Project.
2.    The Prefectoral Council for Education in each Prefecture shall
      prepare an allocation plan to divide among its constituent
      communes the portion of the Primary Education Funds allocated
      to such Prefecture.
3.    The Communal Council for Education in each commune shall:
            (a)   prepare an allocation plan to divide the part of
      the Primary Education Funds allocated to such commune among
      primary schools in the commune;
            (b)   prepare a Protocol for submission to the DFCS as
      provided for in paragraph 6 hereunder; and
            (c)   execute Part A of the Project in respect of such
      Commune under the supervision of the DFCS, and in accordance
      with the terms of the Protocol.
4.    The allocation plans referred to in the preceding three
      paragraphs shall be made using the allocation models agreed
      upon between the Borrower and the Association.
5.    When used for new construction under Part A.1 of the Project,
      the Primary Education Funds shall be used only in order to:
            (a)   complete existing primary schools so as to enable
      such schools to operate on six academic years divided into two
      cycles; and
            (b)   create new schools based on the school mapping
      exercise referred to in paragraph 2 (c) of Part B of this
      Schedule.
6.    No payments shall be made or authorized by the DFCS out of the
      expenditures in any commune until such commune has furnished
      to the DFCS a protocol acceptable to DFCS, conforming to the
      standard form referred to in Paragraph 3 (b) (ii) of Schedule
      1 to this Agreement, and containing, inter alia:
            (a)   a justification for the proposed school or
      classroom construction or the rationale for proposed
      rehabilitation and/or reconstruction or acquisition of
      furniture and the proposed budget and timetable for such
      construction, reconstruction or rehabilitation as the case may
      be;
            (b)   the number of the bank account opened for the
      purpose by the commune and the names of two authorized
      signatories;
            (c)   evidence of the deposit in such account of 10% of
      the estimated cost of the construction and/or furniture
      described in the protocol;
            (d)   the construction plans, including a description of
      the available land and the dimensions of the proposed
      classrooms, and the proposed procurement procedures;
Page  14
            (e)   a description of the bookkeeping and monitoring
      system of the Communal Council for Education; and
            (f)   the expected disbursement schedule for the
      construction, reconstruction or rehabilitation and for the
      acquisition of furniture; and
            (g)   an undertaking by the Communal Council for
      Education to maintain the buildings and furniture financed
      under the Credit and a strategy for such maintenance.
B.   Other Matters
      The Borrower shall:
1.    by December 31, 1991: (a) organize in DFCS, in a manner
acceptable to the Association, three sections dealing respectively
with administration and accounting, civil works, furniture and
equipment; and (b) appoint an accountant, an administrator and two
drivers to assist DFCS in the execution of the Project, all with
qualifications and experience and terms and conditions of service
acceptable to the Association;
2.    by June 30, 1992: (a) establish rules and procedures satis-
factory to the Association governing the functioning of the Ecoles
d'Application and the selection of their staff; (b) establish rules
and procedures satisfactory to the Association governing education
sector inspectors and primary school directors; and (c) complete a
census of teaching staff and a school mapping exercise for primary
education;
3.    by December 31, 1992, reorganize the national examination
taken upon the completion of primary education in a manner
acceptable to the Association and so as to enable such examination
to assess the educational attainment of students taking it;
4.    by June 30, 1993: (a) complete a census of teaching staff and
a school mapping exercise for secondary education; and (b) complete
the computerization of primary education personnel records;
5.    by October 31, 1993, complete the reduction of the duration of
primary education from eight years to six years; and (b) by June 30,
1994, complete the computerization of secondary education personnel
records; and
6.    by June 30, 1994, complete the computerization of secondary
education personnel records.
