C-~~ c{  / l(,e    - 7                     / -    
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
F:.-Jp': "1)1.  1. I',1   . . '  :;.1.  ;WIJ.  E         ReportNo. 10442-GUI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
POWER II PROJECT
JULY 7, 1992
Industry and Energy Division
Occidental and Central Africa Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit            -           Franc Guinea (GF) I/
US$ 1                                GF 800
GF I                                 US$0.00125
GF 1,000                             US$1.25
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONIMS
ASP         Agence de Services de P6trol3
AfDB        African Development Bank
BCRG        Banque centrale Republique de Guin6e
CIDA        Canadian International Development Agency
EIB         European Investment Bank
CCCE        Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
EDF         Commission of European Community/European Development Fund
GTZ         Deutsche Gesellschaft fuer Technische Zusammenarbeit
KfW         Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau
USAID       United States Agency for International Development
ENELGUI     Entreprise Nationale d'Electricite de Guin6e
SNE         Societ6 Nationale d'Electricite (Predecessor to ENELGUI)
NPP         The National Power Plan for the period 1986-2000
JV          .oint Venture managing ENELGUI
MRNEE       Ministry of Natural Resources, Energy and the Environment
NICG        Net Internal Cash Generation
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
LCB         Local Competitive Bidding
LIB         Limited International Bidding
LRMC        Long-Run Marginal Costs
ONAH        Office National des Hydrocarbures
MEASURES AND EOUIVALENTS
One kilovolt (kV)                    1,000 volts
One Megawatt (MW)                    1,000 kilowatts (kW)
One Gigawatt hour (GWh)              1,000,000 kilowatt hours (kWh)
One barrel (bbl)                     0.16 cubic meter
One ton of oil equivalent (toe)      about 7 bbl. of crude oil
One kgoe                             kilogram of oil equivalent
ENELGUI Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
.1/    Annual Average, Guinean Francs per US Dollar:
1987 GF 428
1988 GF 474
1989 GF 591
1990 GF 661
1991 GF 792
SAR-17.GUI



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
- il -
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
POWER II PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Paae Nos
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY  . ......   ..           .     . ...      .    iv-vi
I.   ENERGY SECTOR AND POWER SUB-SECTOR . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  1
Enerav Sector . . . . . . . . . . . . .    . . . . . . .            . . .   .  1
A.    Energy Resources, Production and Consumption . . . . . . .  1
B.    Institutional. Setting  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2
Power Sector  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3
C.    Existing Power Supply Facilities . . . . . . . . .  . .  .  3
D.    Existing Power Market  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    . .  4
E.    Forecast Demand For Electricity  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4
F.    Power Strategy and Investment Planning . . . . . . . . . .  5
G.    The Power Utility (ENELGUI)  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  7
H.    Bank Group Experience with Past Lending  . . . . . - .   .  8
r.    Bank Group Strategy and Rationale for Involvement  . . . .  9
II.   THE PROJECT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
A.    Background .. . . . . . . . . . . .   . 10
B.    Project Objectives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
C. Project Description   ..11
D.    Project Costs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
E.    Project Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
- Disposition Fund   ..13
F.  Project Implementation    ..14
G.    Monitoring and Reporting Requirements  . ... . . . . . . . 15
H.    Procurement ...................... . 16
I.    Disbursements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
J.    Environmental Aspects  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Ill.   FINANCIAL ANALYSIS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
A.    Past Operating Results and Present Financial
Position of ENELGUI .19
B.    Results of the 1990-1991 Management Reforns  .20
C.    Proposed Recapitalization of ENELGUI . . . . . . . . . . . 23
D.  Billing and Collection .24
E.    Tariffs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
F.    Accounting, Audit and Insurance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
G. Financing Plan .26
H.    Financial Outlook  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
IV.   ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
A.    Introduction .                              . . . . . .  . . . . 28
B.    Economic Rate of Return  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
C.    Risks  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
V.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- j1.1 -
T A B L E S
1.1   Consumption of Commercial Energy by Sector (in %)  . . . .
2.1   Summary of Program Cost Estimate . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
2.2   Financing Plans  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
2.3   Procurement Arrangements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1'
3.1   ENELGUI - Key Financial Performance Indicators
1988-1991 ...................... . 19
3.2   Summary of ENELGUI's Sources and Application of Funds
1988-1991 ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 22
3.3   ENELGUI Capitalization at end-1991 . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
3.4   Summary of ENELGUI Financing Plan 1992-1997  . . . . . . . 27
3.5   ENELGUI: Forecasted Financial Perforn.ance 1992-1997
Key Indicators  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
A N N E X E S
1.1   Energy Balance - 1990
1.2   ENELGUI - Present Organization Chart
1.3   Self-Producers in the Conakry-Kindia Service Area
1.4   Power Facilities in the Conakry-Kindia System
1.5   Sales and Generation Forecast (GWh)
1.6   Least-Cost Generation Expansion Program
Most Likely Scenario
1.7   Letter of Sector Development Policy and Action Matrix
1.8   ENELGUI - Management Contract Objectives for 1992
2.1   Project Description
2.2   Petroleum Component
2.3   Detail Project Costs
2.4   Project Financing Plan
2.5   Project Implementation Schedule
2.6   Disbursement Schedule
3.1   ENELGUI Generation 198&-1997
3.2   ENELGUI Revenues 1988-1997
3.3   ENELGUI Income Statements 1988-1997
3.4   ENELGUI Balance Sheets 1988-1997
3.5   ENELGUI Sources and Applications of Funds 1988-1997
3.6   ENELGUI Financial Projections
3.7   ENELGUI Debt Tables
3.8   Proposed Financial Objectives for Power Sector
4.1   Economic Analysis
5.1   Documents Contained in the Project File
MAP   IBRD No. 23585.
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission consisting of Messra. Ranu Skelton (Cask Manager/Scnlor Project
Ofricer), DmiDa Ba (Opeations Officer) (AFI E), T. Mpoy-Kamulayi. Sr. Counsel (LEGAF) and Gregory Fazzari (eonsultan),
who visited (Ouinea in ebruary 1992. Mr. Said Mikhail, Senior Power Engineer, (AFIE) and Mr. Hari Bhat (consutant
AFT) conAbtited to the analysis and drafting of the report. Mr. Gutetr Schrunm tlENDR) was lead adviser. Mc. Luis
Conza tSenior Power Engineer) (AFTIE) was peer reviewer. Secrarial esaiatance was provided by Me. Nadia Gouhier and
Eisa Torre. Mecs. fain T. Christie (AFIIE) and Michael J. Giliette (APIDR) are the managing Division Chief ud Department
Ditetor, respectively.
SAR.1?7.UI



- iv -
REPUELIC OF GUINEA
POWER II PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:        Republic of Guinea (GOG)
Beneficiaries:   Entreprise Nationale d'Electricit6 de Guin6e (ENELGUI) and
GOG
Amount:          SDR 36.5 million (US$50.0 million equivalent)
Terms:           Standard IDA, with 40 years maturity
Relending Terms: GOG would relend to ENELGUI US$40.0 million equivalent of
the Credit at the prevailing Bank interest rate for 20 years
including 5 years of grace; ENELGUI would bear the foreign
exchange risk. This amount would also refinance PPF
advances of US$1.5 million. The credit balance of US$10.0
million remains with GOG to finance the reorganization and
strengthening of the Energy Department of the MRNEE, and the
petroleum component.
Co-financiers:   African Deve'opment Bank (AfDB)
Caisse Centrale de Coop6ration Economique (CCCE)
Canadian international Development Agency (CIDA)
European Investment Bank (EIB)
Commission of European Community (European Development Fund)
Deutsche Gesellschaft fuer Technische Zusammenarbeit (GTZ)
Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau (KfW)
United States Agency for International Development (USAID)
Project Obiectives. The project aims at ensuring sustainability in the
electricity sector through a program of reform to: (a) create an appropriate
policy framework; (b) assist the Government to disengage from power operations
and strengthen its regulatory and policy functions; (c) attract private
operators and investors progressively to the sector, as a first step, by
turning management of the utility over to a qualified operator on a long-term,
incentive basis; and (d) finance the costs of the transition to private
management. The project also aims to improve the regulatory framework in the
petroleum products sector to oversee the enterprises which replaced ONAH, the
state-owned monopoly formerly responsible for petroleum distribution.
Proiect Descrintion. IDA appraised a priority investment program of US$155
million, agreed by the Government and the donor community as essential to
support privatization. Within the program, IDA will finance the following
components: (a) technical assistance to implement the privatization of
ENELGUI's management; extension of the current management contract to ensure
smooth transfer to the eventual operators; technical assistance to implement
the power and petroleum regulatory framework and training (US$20.6 million);
(b) the foreign cost portion of essential services and materials to improve
operation and maintenance (US$10 million); and (c) modular diesel units up to
30 MW (to be financed jointly with EIB) (US$38.7 million). In addition, the
program includes components which will be financed in parallel by the other
donors, including: (i) rehabilitation of the transmission network (US$ll
million); (ii) rehabilitation and expansion of the distribution network (US$27
million); (iii) rehabilitation and expansion of the Tombo I and Tombo II
stations (US$12.2 million); and (iv) communication equipment, tools and spares
(US$5 million). The balance includes interest during construction and
contingencies.
Benefits. The project would help to produce electricity more efficiently
which would improve living conditions for consumers in the capital area and
provide a more favorable business climate. Subsidies to the power sector
would be minimized and fuel import bills reduced as diesel fuel is replaced by
SAR-17.GW



- v -
heavy fuel oil, and small private generators are replaced by utillty supplLed
power,
Risks. The risks are LnstitutLonal and managerial. G00 i committed to
privatLzatLon, regulatory reform and an agreed investment program am met out
in its Letter of Sector Development Policy. If the commitment weakens, the
gains made to date will be shirt-llved. Extension of the current (short-term)
management arrangements to December 1992 is desLgned to mLnimize this
eventuality. Although there have been expressions of interest, there is also
the rLsk that no acceptable bld wlll be received ln response to the tunder for
an lncentive based operator to manage the sector. Thls risk is mLtlgated by
the phasing of project components (the credlt would be suspended in th. event
of no satLifactory privatization) as well as the solldarity of support of the
donor communlty for sectoral reform.
Summary of Proaram Cost Estimate
(US$ millions)
i   ,fin .  !w  . . 
Foretan e   Totnl  ..
Genef4tlon Rhabi litation,
R:intorcew;nt & Extmnion    10.9    4.0      54.9      80         43
Network Rehabilit'tlon and
fxtension                 8.9      29.3      38.2     -.:         30.
GenroL Plant              0.5      12.5      13.0      96         1
Onetftutionel Suport    2L0-       18.3    ..20.3      90: 1.
Pe:trQleu Coenent       1.14                  1.5      90          1
. -Total Base Cost     22.4      10S.5     127.9       2
Cont ingenc oi..
*Physical   :    .       2.0       8.0      :10.0  :-60   
.:. Price                          10.10      1.:       83.
.                                              --- -. :   .  :,- .,    -  :f. : . ......... . ... 5- ......  C  fU....... :. . .. . -  :.. . -   : ..'...s:.. ,   .s,
otL ProJt..Ct.       :   26.5 :-123.5 -: 150.0         82-.
Interest During0                 
Cos' trctf on                     ..-  :  ;       -
Total  norw"- *s r .15;
TotL Pnpins Rewuired .14.                           J
a.- Excluding customs duties and taxes.
IAA.l17.0UI



- vi -
Financina Plan
(USS million equivalent)
.  tor.Lgn     Local           Total
ENRLGAUI               O.0                           237   -  -.7
IDA               47.4            2.6      -   50.0
RIB               20.8            4.2            25.0
COFINANCIERS                5--
:TOTASL        ;       23.5::- 
Estimated Disbursements
USS million:
IDA FISCAL YEAR             1953    1994    1995    1996      1997    1998
Annual                         6      11      13      9         8       3
Cumulative                     6      17     30    39          47      50
Program Economic Rate of Return:  approximately 31%.
MAP:   BRD No. 23585
SMRWM7.GM



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
POWER xI PROJECT
I .  ENERGY SECTOR AND POWER SUB-SECTOR
ENEROY SECTOR
A.     Enernv Resources. Production and Consumotion
1.1    Guinea is well-end.'owed in *.iergy, particularly hydro-electric
potentirl and fuelwood resources. Biomass (wood and charcoal) are the most
prevalent forms of energy, and production capability far surpasses
consumption. While it does not posseas identified petroleum reserves as
yet, geological indicators point to some potential for petroleum as well.
However, available geological and geophysical data indicate that any
reservoirs that might exist would probably be small and deep, and unit
costs and risks of development would probably be high, an unfavorable
situation for attracting petroleum companies. There are no known deposits
of coal.
1.2    Guinea's energy sector is significantly under-developed and there
is considerable room for improvement. Energy consumption per capita is
estimated at just under 500 kilograms of petroleum equivalent (kgoe) vs 700
- 1000 in neighboring countries, and if the mining sector is excluded, the
figure drops to below 300 kgoe/capita. Neither electricity noL petroleum
products are wiAAly or easily available across the country. Enercgy supply
bottlenecks ha    sw become one of the major constraints to economic
development, ar     a corollary, a major cause of environmental
degradation.        policy reforms in the energy sector, accompanied by
selective esse I.-  4nvestment, are critical to future economic development
in Guinea.
1.3    The sectoral bree.kdown of commercial energy consumption, excluding
fuelwood and charcoal whic.. ire .-ol.ly consumed by households, is shown in
Table 1.1 below.  Annex 1. 1. shows -he overa.Li energy balance for Guinea in
1990. Two characteristic, are noteworthy: the mining sector is responsible
for over 50% of the petroleum  r, ct and electricity consumption, and
other industrial users account .7or a relatively small share (15%) of
electricity use.
Table 1.1 Consumption of Commercial Enerorv by Sector (in %) 2/
Octer- 0 Petrole        Electricity   Total
-7ndustry.       2.9;  - 151 lS.           0.7
14i*ing ->  - -57.9  ;0    54.3            7.6
Transport      31. 1'      ---             3.3
H&useho.ld-    6.2     -   12.3           72.5
Government/     0.9        .18.3          15.8
fCommerce-
Agriculturef   1.0          ---            0.1
Construction
'50tal          100.0      100.0         100.0
1.4     ionmas.  Fuelwood makes up the preponderant share of energy
consumption, with an estimated 85% of the total, in part because potential
demand by consumers for commercial energy (petroleum products and
electricity) cannot be satisfied. Over nine households out of ten have
2/ Total includes fuelwood and charcoal.



been obliged to turn to biomass for their energy requirements even though
this source may not necessarily correspond to their preference. (Gross
natural fuelwool production, in accessible areas, is estimated at 14
million m3/year, or nearly twice present estimated consumption.) For most
of Guinea. fuelwood production is not of itself a direct cause of
deforestation but rather a byproduct of forest clearance for agricultural
purposes. In the vicinity of some large urban areas, however, notably
Conakry and Kankan, fuelwood resources are being exploited for the sole
purpose of satisfying commercial fuelwood demand. This is leading to over-
exploitation, particularly of the mangrove forests along the coast. Severe
environmental damage and loss of fishery resources, e.g. shrimping, results
from this situation.
1.5    Petroleum.  Hydrocarbon products have been practically unavailable
for most consumers outside Conakry, except for consumers in positions of
authority. There has been a distinct regression in availability of
petroleum products and quality of service in the petroleum subsector since
international companies' operations were nationalized in 1970 and
transferred to a new public enterprise. Supplies reaching the interior tend
to do so through informal distribution channels at prices that bear little
relation to official rates. The insecurity of supply of transport fuels
has a damaging effect on other sectors of the economy. For example,
agricultural produce cannot be taken to market at reasonable cost, and the
transport component in the cost structure of manufactured goods is
unacceptably high. With respect to petroleum product distribution, the
Government placed high priority on the liquidation of Office National des
Hydrocarbures (ONAH), the state-owned monopoly, and its replacement by a
joint private sector/public enterprise company in its structural adjustment
program. After several years of trying to negotiate a consortium with
private oil firms, in April 1990 the Government decided to proceed with
liquidation of the parastatal and obtain private sector distribution under
a competitive framework. This process is expected to result in four
private firms providing service in Guinea in 1992.
1.6    Electric Power.  Power markets are small and separated by hundreds
of kilometers. Although hydro-electric potential has been roughly
estimated at 26,000 Gwh/year (6,000 KW) under average hydrological
conditions 3/, currently only 1%, some 43 MW (200 G -jyear), has been
developed. This meager development of the hydro potential reflects the
small size of the power markets, their isolation, and the seasonal pattern
of rainfall. Due to the six-month long dry spell, large and costly
reservoirs are required to ensure year round operation. Even within the
context of Sub-Saharan Africa, access to electrical utility service is
minimal, with less than 20% of the population -- about 60,000 consumers at
moot -- having some form of service from the public utility. In addition,
private users have installed generating capacity nearly equivalent to that
of the power utility. This capacity consists of a multiplicity of
inefficient small generators which operate at considerable economic cost to
the country and at exorbitant financial cost to owners (para. 1.10). In
addition, the public utility is poorly managed and provides poor quality
service at relatively high cost with wide voltage swings, and prolonged
daily outages for most consumers.
S.     Institutional Settina
1.7    The energy sector in Guinea is the responsibility of the Ministry
of Natural Resources, Mines, and Energy (MRNEE). This Ministry groups a
range of departmental units whose objectives and responsibilities are often
ill-defined and which lack the means to monitor the sector and develop
energy policy. Overlapping of functions and duplication of effort exists
between the power utility and MRNEE staff. This fragmentation has resulted
in no unit having the capability to meet requirements, and it has diluted
accountability. In the hydrocarbons sector, responsibilities are divided
/  Source: Guinea - Water Resources Master Plan (1984).
SR I?7.0UI



- 3-
between the MRNEE through its Service den Hydrocarbures, and the
Secretariat of State for Commerce in the Ministry of Economy and Finance.
The MRNEE also supervises the use of Gui.nea's forest resources through its
Secretariat of State for Water, forests, Wildlife, and Fish Farming.
POWER SECTOR
C.     Existina Power Sunplv Facilities
1.0    Electric power faciiities in Guinea consist of a number of separate
systems, not interconnected with each other, which can be grouped into
three distinct types. A conventional state-owned public utility,
Entreprise Nationale d'Electricit6 de Guin6e (ENELGUI), supplies the
capital, Conakry, and a number of smaller towns within 100 km with an
estimated total of 1.2 million inhabitants. Three mining enterprises
operate as industrial enclaves and supply their employees and some villages
in the vicinity, with an estimated total population of 0.4 million people.
And finally there are 24 small diesel and run-of-the-river hydro stations
in various towns and district capitals of the interior presently under
nominal ENELGUI management; their operation is sporadic, inefficient and
unreliable, due to the lack of a regular supply of spare parts and of fuel,
and to shortage of water for the hydro plants in the dry season. Thus, the
remainder of the country, with an estimated population of 5.0 million
people, does not have access to a functioning supply of electricity from a
public source.
1.9    ENELGUI's facilities in the Conakry area include:
(a) three small hydro generating plants in the Samou River Valley, an
inter-seasonal reservoir at Baneah, with a peak production
capability of 37 MW during the rainy season and a yearly energy
production of approximately 180 GWh; and one diesel generating
plant (Tombo) in the city with a dependable capacity of
approximately 24 MW and a yearly energy production capability of
maximum 160 GWh;
(b) two high-voltage transmission linea approximately 80 km long, one
operating at 66 kV, and one at 110 kV, which connect the Samou
hydro plants with the three main transformer stations in Conakry;
and
(c) a distribution system supplying approximately 40,000 users in the
Conakry and ir the Kindia area. The primary distribution voltage
is generally a: l5kV, and the secondary at 220/380 Voltc.
1.10   In addition to the utility-owned facilities, many privately owned
small and medium-sized diesel generators are installed in the Conakry area.
These have been purchased by industries, enterprises, and government
institutions in an effort to secure for their own use the dependable power
supply that the utility has been unable to deliver since the 1970s. A 1990
survey (Annex 1.3) indicated that over 72,300 KVA (approximately 56 MW) of
such capacity is installed in the Conakry-Kindia area; generation
associated with this capacity is roughly estimated at some 70 GWh/year.
(No statistics are kept of their dependable capacity, load, or production.)
ENELGUI, however, has accepted responsibility for providing manpower, fuel,
and spares to ensure the operation and maintenance of eight diesel plants
belonging to various government entities in the city.
1.11   The condition of the utility-owned facilities is between poor and
tolerable. The three small hydro plants have undergone extensive
renovations during the last four years; the civil works and the generating
plant are now in acceptable condition, but their high voltage equipment has
yet to be improved. The diesel plant at Tombo has also been rehabilitated
during the last four years, but requires additional work. Protection,
measuring and control equipment are generally in poor condition, both in
the generating plants and in the transformer stations, and so are several
MAR-17.GLO



of the high voltage circuit breakers and power transformers. Further
details on the power system in the Conakry-Kindia system appears in Annex
1.4. Due to the absence of reliable measuring equipment in its
substations, ENELGUI's operating statistics must be treated as indicative
only. This affects particularly the calculation of losses. Large parts of
the distribution system are in need of extensive rehabilitation. These
conditions are the result of ineffectual management and neglect of
maintenance. In the past, the utility and its personnel were neither given
targets to meet nor held accountable for performance.
1.12   The power production facilities of the three mining companies are
kept up to international *ndustrial standard;, despite the fact that on
average their equipment is older than ENELGUl's. The service they provide
to their employees is also good. The distribution facilities in othex
towns of the interior are generally in poor condition.
D.     Existing Power Market
1.13   The quality of electric service is poor and consumption has been
constrained by supply limitation rather than by lack of demand.  There is a
considerable amount of unsatisfied demand, and there is also a large
quantity of un-metered consumption. Since the available metering and the
billing records are neither complete nor reliable, they are a poor base for
estimating the ability of yet unserved clients to pay for service, and any
calculation of potential demand is uncertain. This is particularly the
case outside Conakry, where electricity when available has normally not
been metered but charged as a lump sum (forfait). The same practice used
to prevail in parts of Conakry, but is now being corrected with the
installation of meters. The current estimates of demand are therefore
still only baaed on production statistics and on educated guesses as to the
size of system losses.
E.     Forecast Demand for Electricity
1.14   The load of the Conakry area is mainly residential and commercial
(49%); the next largest category is Government buildings (18%), followed by
industrial (including inining) loads, which represents 33% of the total
(Figure 1.1). By 1990, the number of users in Conakry was approximately
40,000, of which 28,000 have electricity meters, and the remainder are
billed on estimated consumption. While seven thousand new electricity
meters were installed in 1990 and 1991, it will be necessary to install an
additional 15,000 over the 1992-1993 period. New users will be mainly
households of moderate means and their consumption would not likely
represent a large percentage increase on in overall system basis.
1.15 Recent investments in rehabilitation and expansion succeeded in
increasing the production of electricity in the Conakry area from 152 GWh
in 1985 to 334 GWh in 1990 (244 GWh z'y ENELGUI and 90 GWh by self-
producers). Unsatisfied demand wa.. -stimated at an additional 40 GWh in
1991. Estimates of the future growth rate vary widely 4/, but in the
absence of a more reliable data base, an average yearly rate of growth in
production of approximately 5% is considered reasonable through year 2000,
including mee:ing the unserved connected load. Until recently, only a
small proportion of users were billed and actually paid for electricity
service. The proportion of kWh consumption billed was 60% of what was
produced in 1989; by the beginning of 1992, this had improved to 75.4%,
reflecting, in part, the improvements in billings (see Figure 3.2) where
the number of customers billed increased from 55% from the beginning of
4/  A detailed load forecast of the Conakry-Kindia system was prepared in
June 1991. Average annual rate of growth of system sales, after
adjusting for elasticity of demand, for the ten-year period 1990-2000
was forecasted for three growth scenarios: low (5.1%); average (7.9%);
and high (9.9%).
SAR-17.GUI



-5-
ENELWI
System SDales by Custorner Class
Total in 1990 (with losses): 290 GV\H
Residential
Comnerclal
4%
Mning sector
Goyerrrrsent
18%
Industrial
25%
Source:    June 1991 Forecast
Figure 1.1
1990 to 97% of total customer count at the end of 1991. Tariffs were
increased by 300% in 1991, more than half related to a new petroleum
products tax. These rate increases will have an immediate dampening effect
on demand growth; but long-run impacts will only become better known as
experience is gained. Further, the present projections of GDP expect a
4.5% increase per year, mainly supported by mining and small industrial
activities in the -aterior. Thus, it would not be realistic to expect a
greater growth of demand in the capital area.
1.16   In contrast to an annual growth rate of 5% in production, ENELGUI
billings are projected to increase by 12%. Improvements under the project,
such as rehabilitation of distribution and connections should lead to
reducing non-technical losses and help ENELGUI meet the bulk of the
currently connected but unserved load. And, as new capacity id installed,
more customers will transfer from self-generation to utility-provided
power.   Figure 1.2 below shows these relationships graphically for the
years 1990 and 2000.
1.17   In summary, production of utility power under the constrained
environment envisaged, and considering a gradual switch-over from the self-
generation capacity to the utility system, is forecast to grow at a rate of
about 5% per annum between years 1990 and 2000. Details are shown in Annex
1.5.
F.     Power Strateov and Investment Plannina
1.18   The environment which has prevailed in the electricity sector
during the last ten years haa been conducive neither to the formulation nor
to the implementation of a coherent power strategy. The inabilJty of
ENELGUI to generate funds for new investment, or even for regular
maintenance needs, has been a major problem. Long-term planning has been
neglected. The fundamental problem, moreover, remains unsolved: addressing
management weakness in the organization and the emergency situation
resulting from under-investment which now exists.
SAR-17.OUI



ENELGUI Load Forecast
Consumption - Billings - Generation
'Likely  Scenario'  1990  - 2000
GWh
600 -                            2000
1990                                    Auto-generation
400 . ................ ..............  .. .......... .  .. ........      Diesel Generation
v  _lCHydro Generation
300 . ..      ..  ............. ..    .......... . .. ........    3  Non-Technical Losses
~ , ETechnical Losses
200. ....   .. .............   .............  ...; ........  Uniserved Load
Billings
100 .... .< ............. ........... .. ............ .. _
0
Consump'n   Gen   Consump'n   Gen
Figure 1.2
1.19   The introduction of competent management in the utility is a
precondition for any improvement and expansion of service, and the success
of the new management in establishing a sus-ainable operation is necessary
to attract investment. GOG has made the policy choice of "privatizing" the
sector in a phased program which will take several years to complete,
starting with privatization of management. The program is designed to
induce private enterprises to invest more in the sector as a regulatory
environment is created and its credibility with investors is established.
1.20   The Conakry-Kindia area is the largest and most developed market
for electricity, which can both absorb a substantial quantity of investment
and pay its real cost. The distribution system must be improved in order
to provide acceptable service and to reduce losses. The production
facilities must be expanded to satisfy suppressed demand. While large by
Guinean standards, the market is small by utility norms; the yearly load
growth will remain of the order of magnitude of 5 MW for the next ten
years*
1.21   As indicated under para. 1.8, a number of small, isolated
electricity systems exist in the country. There is no expectation to
expand or interconnect them in the foreseeable future. Management of these
systems may be decentralized to allow municipalities, cooperatives or
private enterprises to provide the service that ENELGUI has been unable to
furnish. Generation in these systems will continue to rely orn medium-speed
diesel generators, and thus any expansion of electricity service will
depend on the availability of fuel in the interior at an affordable price.
Small hydro plants with seasonal production can also be competitive in some
localities. Rehabi'litation and expansion in the interior will be a slow
process even if foreign donors are willing to lend support. Expansion of
SAR17.Au



- 7 -
the service in the areas surrounding the mining enterprises will become
possible if viable distribution enterprises can be established; production
could be handled in cooperation with these firms.
1.22   The least-cost generation expansion program for the Conakry-Kindia
service area was updated in February 1992. A dietribution master plan for
the Conakry-Kindia area covering the next 15 years was completed in
February 1992. The generation study builds upon the October 1990 hydro-
electric feasibility studies for the Guinea maritime area (see map in
annex), and examined all feasible supply alternatives: hydro (run-of-river;
inter-seasonal reservoir schemes), and thermal (medium-speed diesels; low-
speed diesels; conventional steam units; gas turbines; combined cycle
units). The study concluded for the "likely scenario" that the next
generation additions should be a series of medium-speed diesel units. The
units would utilize heavy fuel (bunker-C), be sized in the 10-15 KW range,
and be installed at the existing Tombo generating station in Conakry (Annex
1.6). A major (50 MW or larger) hydro-electric development may be
considered later if it can be designed to fit the cost constraints of the
system.
1.23   The Government's "vision" of the institutional/policy aspects of
the sector are reflected in its sector strategy in the form of a detailed
Letter of Sector Development Policy (Annex 1.7) which was agreed at
negotiations. Primary policy objectives provide for: the development of
domestic energy resources in the context of least-cost generation and
transmission expansion programs; the reduction of the cost of energy
supplies to the economy through rehabilitation, appropriate maintenance
programs for facilities in the petroleum and electricity sub-sectors, as
well as through regional cooperation; the dieengagement of GOG, in a phased
program, from its role of owner, investor and manager of all facilities of
production and distribution in the sector; the establishment of an
appropriate regulatory framework to permit the private sector to
participate in the development and operation of the sector; and access of
the population to energy throughout the national territorv. These policies
are supported by a set of actions (see Action Matrix, Letter of Development
Policy under Annex 1.7).
G.     The Power Utility JENELGUI)
1.24   Status and Oraanization.  Enabling legislation and corporate
statutes for a new parastatal enterprise were promulgated in August 1987.
This legislation replaced the Societe Nationale d'Electricit6 (SNE) with
ENELGUI, a financially autonomous public corporation with a board of
directors whose members came from the public, the employee union, and the
private sectors of the economy. ENELGUI owns all electric assets
previously held by SNE, has monopoly rights for electric utility service
throughout Guinea except in the mining enclaves, and nominally has full
autonomy for day-to-day operations. Notably, it also has broad latitude
for the planning and execution of its own investment program. Under the
same legislation, the role of the MRNEE was defined: its previous full
planning and day-to-day operational control of the sector was changed to
one more focussed to sector policy formulation and regulatory oversight.
1.25   Performanc-.  ENELGUI, however, did not perform better than its
predecessor at first. It failed to master commercial operations, from
billing to revenue collection, and was unable to manage its operations
well. In spite of its statutes, ENELGUI's recruitment remained encumbered
by heavy-handed Government intervention. ENELGUI, which has not serviced
its long-term debt since its formation in 1988, is a burden on the
Government's budget, which remains a serious cause for concern. Cash flows
were inadequate in past years; less than 50% of the electricity supplied
was paid for. Over 50% of registered consumers did not have meters, and a
large number of consumers utilized illegal connections. Faced with this
serious situation, the Government, in consultation with IDA, took drastic
action to rectify the situation (paras. 1.29-1.31).
SAR-17.GUI



- 8 -
1.26   Staffing.  At the beginning of 1992, ENELGUI had a staff of about
1,362, of which 170 are university-educated professionals (including 13
expatriate managers) and 535 are technicians. The number of professionals
and supervisory staff is relatively low, ind several positions at the level
of section or subsection head are vacant. At the working level, however,
there is excess staff. In 1991, ENELGUI laid off some 175 staff as part of
a program to streamline operations. ENELGUI is in the process of further
reducing its complement by reduction-in-force plans and natural attrition.
The capabilities of the remaining personnel are being upgraded through in-
house training (especially on-the-job training, short courses and
seminars), as well as speciali:ed training at ENELGUI's training center.
Reforms in the human resources area are closely linked to the privatization
program to be implemented under the proposed project.
H.     Bank Group Experience with Past Lending
1.27   The First Power Proiect (Power I. Cr. 1085-GUI).  This project
became effective in 1982 and was fully disbursed and closed by October
1986.  The original project was intended to: rehabilitate, reinforce, and
extend SNE's distribution facilities in the Conakry II area; establish and
staff a training center and program; provide 36 staff-years of TA; provide
consultant services for organizational and feasibility studies for a second
project; and provide refinancing of a PPF used in project identification.
Although the project attained its physical objeztives, management provided
poor direction and supervision of operations, and there was limited
managerial autonomy, excessive staff, poor training and poorly motivated
personnel. The Project Completion Report (PCR No. 7235) concluded that in
the absence of radical reform there was little prospect for a turnaround.
1.28   The Second Power Fngineering and TA Proiect {Cr. 1595-GUI}.  This
project also put heavy emphasis on technical assistance. However, there
was a reluctance to confront the systemic issues of fraud, patronage, and
corruption in the utility. In retrospect, it is clear that GOG was then
unwilling to confront real institutional reform whic,, might have allowed
the utility to redress the situation. A major institutional study was
completed in mid-1986, recommending a complete overhaul of the power
sector. A new management team was put in place as a result, but little
substantive change in SNE occurred. In July 1987, in the absence of
specific improvements, the project was suspended. In response, the
Government agreed to take a first major step toward reforming the sector,
including the liquidation of SNE and the creation of a new utility,
separate from MRNEE. The new utility (ENELGUI) was to have operational
autonomy under an independent Board of Directors; it was structured as a
traditional state-owned power authority.
1.29   Mid-term Review.  By early 1989, the need to change the approach
taken in Power I and Cr. 1595 had become fully accepted. ENELGUI had been
created but with little substance, due to a lack of forceful direction and
unwillingness of MRNEE to let the new utility act independently. A
concerted donor and consultant proposal to the Government, led by IDA and
endorsed by several ministers, argued that a radical change in "approach,
form, substance, program design, as well as management of the TA program be
made to better take into account lessons learned over the past 10 years."
As a result, a "plan de d6blocage/d6marrage d'ENELGUI" was introduced that
identified key impediments and offered specific remedies.
1.30   By early 1990, agreement on all parts of the plan was achieved and
invitations to independent firms to tender for the management of ENELGUI
were issued. The contract was awarded to a joint venture (JV) of
consultants and power operators following Bank procedures. A diagnostic
report on short-term needs was then conducted, and an emergency action
program was agreed. By the end of 1990, management and operational control
was transferred to the JV. To ensure freedom of action, ENELGUI's Director
General was replaced and its Board of Directors was temporarily suspended.
The JV reports formally to the Ad-hoc Committee of the Council of Ministers
(Comit6 de Slivi). The 5-member committee is comprised of the Minister of



- 9 -
the Planning, the Minister of MRNEE, the Minister of Finance and of the
Economy, the Governor of the Central Bank, and the Secretary of State for
Energy.
1.31   Results of the Reforms 1990-1991.  After more than a year in place,
initial actions to change the "management culture" seem to have taken hold
and results have been encouraging. Key performance indicators are
discussed in paras. 3.4 - 3.9 below, and among recent actions, the
following merit particular attention:
(a)  Operating management.  Department managers have been replaced by
expatriate managers each working with a Guinean deputy, and
competent Guineans have been promoted;
(b)  Personnel Policy.  New, more responsive personnel policies (wage
scales, performance reviews, discipline, etc.) have been put in
place, along with a program to reduce the labor force. Salaries
were increased more than 200% and paid for by improvements in
efficiency and layoffs;
(c)  Financial Credibilitv.  Treasury operations were taken out of the
hands of Government and credible internal financial controls put in
place in ENELGUI for the first time, with a dramatic reduction in
fuel theft and other losses of goods and services that the
organization had routinely incurred; and
(d) Commercialization. A new commercial department and a new materials
management department were organized and staffed:
(i)  collections to billing ratios have improved markedly: from 40%
in 1989 to over 84% by end-1991. Average collection arrears and
numbers of non-payments were reduced by 30% and 60%
respectively;
(ii)   technical and non-technical losses were reduced from more than
40% of production to 26.8% at end-1991; and
(iii)   a new billing system has been put in place.
I.     Bank Grout Strateov and Rationale for Involvement
1.32   IDA's strategy for the energy sector in Guinea is to support
expanding energy sources as a catalyst to development, with a target of 5%
growth, in line with regional strategy. This would be achieved by: (a)
encouraging GOG to emphasize efficiency in the regulatory, planning and
policy environment; (b) supporting a commercial approach to utility
operation and privatizaticn; and (c) seeking greater efficiency in the
supply and distribution of petroleum products. In the electricity sector,
we seek to improve tha supply, transmission and distribution of electricity
utility service with due regard to efficiency as well as equity. This
requires improved institutional relationships; greater operation efficiency
and better financial management; and tariffs which, while establishing
utilities financial viability, encourage reduction in factor costs and thus
improve competitiveness. In practice, this requires: (a) an appropriate
regulatory, pricing and policy framework; (b) commercial operating
practices; (c) least-cost investment planning taking into account
environmental issues; (d) better utilization of existing assets; and (e)
regional integration where appropriate (e.g., through interconnection of
power grids). Within this framework, we encourage association of the
private sector through contracting for limited services (billing and
collections) to full management of utilities' operations, and possibly
private ownership of generation, transport and distribution assets
(including BOTs).
1.33   Donor coordination.  IDA has been a leading donor in the sector
since the late 1970s along with CCCE, KfW/GTZ, CIDA, Italy, Japan and
USAID. IDA has helped GOG to develop a long-term policy on privatization
and a regulatory framework appropriate for the power sector. This project
SAR.I7.GUI



- 10 -
is designed to continue IDA'u sectoral support to GOG and help it implement
the new sector policies in a coherent, cost effective manner that avoids
the pitfalls GOG experienced during its 1986-89 privatization program of
public enterprises. IDA's continued support is essential to help
Government manage the current process for ENELGUI, to attract private
investment and to assure the sustainability of the programs put in place.
Apart from the need to complete the institution-building effort, IDA's
involvement in the sector is important support for the ongoing public
enterprise reform being undertaken in the framework of structural
adjustment. Finally, continued IDA support in establishing an appropriate
regulatory framework in the power sector of Guinea is key to implementing
the strategy of attracting the private sector into the electric utility
sector.
II. THE PROJECT
A.     Background
2.1    The adjustment program supported by the Bank and the IMF requires
privatization and restructuring of PEs, with specific reference to ENELGUI.
IDA is thus supporting GOG in its commitment to progressive privatization
of the power sector. In its letter of Sector Development Policy (para.
1.23), GOG sets out its plan to progressively privatize the sector. The
first phase of privatization started in 1990 under the Second Power and TA
project, as discussed above (para. 1.29). This has been very successful,
but as it is a time-based contract, it cannot be maintained indefinitely.
The contract has been extended until December 1992 to provide a bridge
until a new operator can be brought in. The second chase of GOG's
privatization program, supported by the proposed project, involves the
transfer of management of ENELGUI to qualified operators under more
permanent, incentive-based arrangements, which would principally involve a
management contract or leasing arrangement for the main generating and
distribution systems in Conakry/Kindia. This phase will also include
arrangements for selected systems in the interior. In the future, under a
third phase, further privatization is envisaged toward a goal of complete
privatization of the sector (e.g., sale of assets) by the end of the
decade.
2.2    The project grew out of the management reforms under Cr. 1595 and
the need to provide extended support to the sector. Two PPFs for a total
of US$1.5 million were used to develop the priority investment program and
to fund the engineering and technical studies under the project. In
addition, other studies funded by various donors provided inputs for the
design of the project, including technical and managerial audits, master
plans and feasibility studies. There was close coordination with the
public sector reform program, through studies on the financial
relationships between Government and a national approach to regulation of
the various public enterprises. These studies are available in the Project
File.
B.     Proiect Obiectives
2.3    The project aims at ensuring sustainability in the electricity
sector through a program of reform to: (a) create an appropriate policy
framework; (b) assist the Government to disengage from power operations and
strengthen its regulatory ard policy functions; (c) attract private
operators and investors progressively to the sector, as a first step, by
turning management of the utility over to a qualified operator on a long-
term, incentive basis; and (d) finance the costs of the transition to
private management. The project also aims at improving the regulatory
framework in the petroleum products sector by establishing a regulatory
framework to oversee the enterprises which replaced ONAH, the state-owned
monopoly formerly responsible for petroleum distribution.
SAR-17.GUI



- 11 -
C.     Prolect Description
2.4     The proposed program would consist of the following componentu
which are detailed in Annexes 2.1 and 2.2:
(a' an Institutional Reform Program of the Sector which will
include: (i) consulting services to plan and implement the
transfer of operation and management of ENELGUI to private
partners and define and implement a regulatory framework and
functions; (ii) reorganization and strengthening of the energy
department of the MRNEE to develop a capacity for policy
formulation; (iii) management of ENELGUI during the transition
period by the JV; and (iv) a set of studies to prepare future
projects and identify alternative strategies and plans for
supply of electricity to the interior of the country;
(b) an Investment Program comprising the priority investment program
over the period 1992-1996 identified to raise service standards
to ensure a succesful privatization, including: (i) generation
rehabilitatio-n and expansion; (ii) transmission and distribution
rehabilitation, reinforcement and extension; (iii)
telecommunications equipment and works; and (iv) vehicles and
working capital in the form of tools, materials, apare parts,
and office equipment;
(c) a Technical Assistance Proaram for the Petroleum Sector to
assist GOG in establishing the framework and capacity to
regulate private sector operations in the distribution of
petroleum products; and
(d) Essential Goods and Services to improve maintenance and
operation of ENELGUI. Funding of this component will assist
ENELGUI in fulfilling its obligation to create and fund a
disposition fund (see discussion in para. 2.9).
2.5    The priority investment program was established jointly by the
donor appraisal teams, the ENELGUI JV management team, the Bank, and the
MRNEE on the basis of detailed studies. It is limited to those project
components which meet high pay-back criteria, which were judged to be
absolutely essential to meet the service quality obligations, and which
were deemed necessary to create a viable environment to attract qualified
operators. It will not meet all load demand. Overall sector needs were
assessed at US$250-300 million for the period 1991-1996, but a reduced
program of US$155 million has been retained under the proposed project.
Unserved load and load shedding will continue in the near-term as
commercial viability is established. Capacity additions in both generation
and distribution were selected so as not to compromise least-cost planning
principles. Cutbacks from an "optimum" investment program were made as
indicated above to provide the necessary time to meet the institutional
development objectives of the project.
D.     Proiect Costs
2.6    The total program is estimated at US$154.8 million equivalent,
including interest during construction (IDC), of which the foreign exchange
component is US$123.5 million (82% of total cost). The base project cost
is in January 1992 prices and is as estimated in the two feasibility
studies carried out by consultants for the generation, and the transmission
and distribution components. These estimates were reviewed by IDA's
appraisal mission and are considered to be reasonable for this type of
project. Physical contingencies of 10% for goods and works and 5% for
etudies and technical assistance and price escalation based on the Unit
A 17.GUI



- 12 -
Value Index of Manufactured Exports (MUV index) inflation index from the G-
S industrial countries (3.9% for 1993 and 1994, and 3.8% thereafter until
1997) were added. The detailed program cost estimate is shown in Annex 2.3
and is summarized in Table 2.1 below. It is estimated that 400 man-months
of consultant services are required at an average cost of US$17,000 per
month for expatriates and US$4,000 for local staff. These include the
privatization component and cover studies, technical assistance and
management support (details are shown in Annex 2.1).
Table 2.1  Summary of Proaram Cost Estimate
(US$ millions - January 1992 prices)
Foreign as  Total as
Local of  Forefgn   Total bl X of Total  X of Total
Generat!on Rehabilitation,
Reinforcement & Extension    10.9  44.0   54.9     80         43
Transmission & Distribution
Rehab., Reinf. & Extension    8.9  29.3   38.2     77         30
General Plant           0.5      12.5     13.0     96         10
Institutional Support   2.0      18.3     20.3     90         16
Petroleum Component     0.1       1.4      1.5     90          1
Total Base Cost      22.4    105.5    127.9      82       700
Contingencies
Physical              2.0       8.0     10.0     80
Price                 2.1      10.1              83
Totat Project Cost     26.5     123.5    150.0     82
Interest During Construction   .8  0       4.8      0
Totat Finwacing Required  31.3           154.8     80
a/ Excludes customs, duties, and taxes.
b/ Totals may not foot as figures rounded.
E.     Proiect Financin@
2.7    A project financing plan is summarized in Table 2.2, with details
given in Annex 2.4. An IDA Credit of US$50 million equivalent is proposed
to the Republic of Guinea. Of the IDA Credit, US$40.0 million will be on-
lent by GOG to ENELGUI for 20 years including 5 years grace at IBRD's
interest rate. ENELGUI will bear the foreign exchange risk on this amount.
The credit balance of US$10.0 million remains with the Government to
finance the reorganization and strengthening of the Energy Department of
the MRNEE and the petroleum component. Signature of an on-lending
agreement between GOG and ENELGUI that is satisfactory to IDA is a
condition of Credit effectiveness. IDA would finance 100% of the foreign
exchange cost of training, privatization studies, management support,
studies to prepare the next investment program, the construction
supervision for all works under the project, studies in the petroleum
subsector and essential goods and spares necessary to improve ENELGUI's
operations, and miscellaneous equipment. In addition, the IDA Credit would
also finance 50% of the foreign exchange component of the Tombo III diesel
plant expansion and a service contract, jointly with EIB. ENELGUI would
finance about 75% of the local cost of the project (US$23.7 equivalent)
SAR.17.GW



- 13-
from internally generated funds and equity contributions from Government
equivalent to import duties (US$16.1 million equivalent).
Table 2.2 Financing Plan
(US$ million equivalent)
Foreign         Local            Total
ENELGUI                 0.0           23.7            23.7
IDA               47.4             2.6           50.0
SIB               20.8             4.2           25.0
COFINANCIERS                55.3        . 0.8              56.1
TOTAL              123.5            31.3           154.8
2.8    Cofinancine.  A cofinancing plan is shown in Annex 2.4.  The key
contract is that for Tombo III, which IDA is financing jointly with EIB.
Fulfillment of all conditions of effectiveness of a loan between GOG and
EIB is a condition of credit effectiveness. It should also be noted that
neither IDA nor EIB would disburse against the Tombo extension until the
new management contract to operate ENELGUI is implemented (para. 2.14).
The cofinanciers are expected to arrange parallel financing in direct
negotiation with GOG within the framework of the overall program. Loan
Agreements have already been signed between GOG and the following donors:
CCCE; EDF; GTZ; and USAID. These loans are effective and are being
disbursed. The remaining donors (AfDB, CIDA, and KfW) are expected to
proceed with their loans using the same conditionality package as IDA. In
the event that loan agreements with one of these cofinanciers does not
materialize according to schedule, then alternative cofinancing would be
mobilized from other donors who are ready to increase their contribution.
Therefore, cross-effectiveness with these cofinanciers is not warranted.
The financing plan was discussed at appraisal and was confirmed at
negotiations.
2.9    Disposition Fund.  In the current political environment and the new
policy framework in Guinea, private operators will be willing to submit
bids to operate the utility provided they are given suitable guarantees --
inter alia, that they do not have excessive cash flow risk in the normal
course of business. Experience in the sector in Guinea and elsewhere has
demonstrated that there are inevitably problems in finding counterpart
funding, delays in timely implementation of contractual obligations,
particularly when dealing with the public sector. To offset this
likelihood, third party guarantees are often arranged through mechanisms
such as performance bonds or escrow accounts. In the proposed project, GOG
has agreed to provide such coverage through a disposition fund to be
constituted from Guinean funds. ENELGUI would make regular payments into
this fund up to a ceiling of US$10.0 million. To assist ENELGUI in
fulfilling its obligation to create and fund the disposition fund, IDA
would finance essential spares, parts and services under the project. The
fund would be established in an offshore bank acceptable to IDA, would be
jointly managed by the Central Bank and ENELGUI, and would remain in effect
for the duration of the management contract (up to 10 years). Specific
modalities were discussed at negotiations and adoption of terms and
conditions for the constitution and management of the fund are a condition
of effectiveness.
SAR-17.GUI



- 14 -
F.     Proiect Implementation
2.10   The investment component of the proposed project would be carried
out by ENELGUI, while the institutional building component would be
executed by the Ministry of Natural Resources, Energy and the Environment
(MR1EE). The principle role of the MRNEE under the project would be to
sup'irvise the selection of the utility operator and to strengthen its
capacity to regulate both the power and petroleum sectors. To ensure that
this is done effectively, the Department of Energy and the Department of
Hydrocarbons will be strengthened by the addition of advisors in key
positions on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. Counterpart staff
will also be appointbd and given appropriate training (Annex 2.2).
2.11   ENELGUI, or its successor, will report to the Ad Hoc Committee of
the Council of Ministers, chaired by the Minister of Energy (see para.
1.30). For implementation of the project, ENELGUI will rely on its
Directorate of Programs and Planning (DPP), which was set up under earlier
projects and which has performed well in the implementation of physical
works. Under the project, MRNEE would delegate responsibility for
implementation of IDA-financed investment components to ENELGUI. In
addition, it was agreed during appraisal with the cofinanciers that the
responsibilities for execution of the investment component by IDA and the
other donors would be assumed by ENELGUI. To assure coordination amongst
donors and to lessen the administrative burden on ENELGUI, at appraisal the
donors asked and IDA agreed to fund project management consultants to
strengthen DPP. Agreement was reached at negotiations that project
management consultants whose qualifications, experience and who would be
retained on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, will assist in the
implementation of part "B" of the project; i.e., the rehabilitation and
expansion of the Tombo power plant, and of the distribution network.
Signature of such an agreement is a condition of disbursement.
2.12   ENELGUI has engaged an engineering consulting firm under termn
acceptable to IDA (competitive bidding) to complete detailed engineering
(through bid evaluation stage) of the Tombo III diesel plant. ENELGUI also
plans to use the same consultant to assist in construction supervision at
the Tombo station should their performance continue to be of a satisfactory
quality, provided they reach agreement on terms and conditions satisfactory
to IDA. This is reasonable considering the risk of delay as well as the
risk that a new consu'.tant may wish to reexamine all engineering aspects of
the new plant.
2.13   The project implementation schedule, reporting requirements and
supervision plan, is provided as Annex 2.5. The schedule provides adequate
time to recruit a private operator prior to letting of the turn-key
contract for the Tombo III station. IDA is satisfied that ENELGUI, with
the help of consultants (paras. 2.11 and 2.12) can complete the project
according to the proposed schedule.
2.14   Selection of Overators.  The overall objective of the project is to
turn management of ENELGUI over to private hands on an incentive-based
contract. Irreversible steps toward that end are considered essential for
its success. Thus, implementation of the institutional component, and also
of the conversion of Tombo I to heavy fuel (which permits immediate cost
saving benefits), are most important. GOG agrees with this assessment and
agreement was reached at negotiations that, although preparation of all
components would be started, their implementation (including award of
contract) would be contingent upon conclusion of contractual arrangements,
satisfactory to IDA, for the transfer of ENELGUI management to a private
operator. To measure progress, a detailed monitorable program of critical
milestones was agreed at negotiations. Disbursements for components, other
than the conversion of Tombo and the institutional component, would only be
made upon submission of acceptable evidence of the following:
SAR-17.0UM



- 15 -
(a) a new regulatory framework and program for its implementation has
been enacted and agreement reached on an arrangement for holding
sector assets (GOG and utility); and
(b) contractual arrangements satisfactory to IDA aimed at tranoferring
the management of ENELGUI to a private operator have been
concluded.
The cofinanciers under the program will be consulted regularly and are
expected to adopt the same phasing and prioritization. At negotiations, it
was agreed that the launching of tenders for the selection of operators and
a regulatory framework would be a condition of effectiveness.
2.15   To ensure that there is competition among operators for the
management contract under the project, GOG has retained a consulting firm
to review options and to make recommendations on appropriate arrangements.
This work also includes draft bidding documents; contract arrangements and
the definition of a regulatory framework; and pre-qualification of possible
bidders. The consultants will use background work already done as direct
inputs to their work, including among other studies, those related to the
privatization of the petroleum distribution companies, power sector and PE
studies; management and financial audits of ENELGUI for the past two years;
and the national Policy and System of Regulation Study for PEs, completed
in October 1991 (see Project File). The consultants are expected to submit
the recommendations and draft documents in late July 1992.
2.16   The exact terms of the performance contract are being defined by
the consultant, building on the current JV contract and will be designed so
as to permit a smooth integration with the new management structures being
put in place at ENELGUI. Additional models include contract documents for
the water utility in Conakry and the electricity utility in Cote d'Ivoire,
which was privatized successfully about a year ago. Key elements of the
draft contract include: (a) detailed agreement on the split of revenues
between the operator and Government; (b) the freedom to operate
independently of civil service personnel and procurement policies, as well
as of political interference; (c) timely payment of bills by government
agencies; and (d) audited baseline performance measures achieved under the
JV. The new contractor would agree to further improve performance on the
basis of a set of monitorable criteria, e.g., production plant availability
factors, employees per MW, and losses due to technical and non-technical
factors. The draft documents will detail allocation of revenues between
the parties, treatment of fuel and other operating costs, debt service
burden, taxation and insurance arrangements. Additional matters to be
covered in the documents include clear statement of objectives for
management control and the rights and obligations of the parties; a
personnel policy including local and expatriate staff and training of
Guainean staff. As it will take a number of years to develop an independent
regulatory capacity, the main tool for regulating operators will be the
management contracts, with partial automaticity for the primary regulatory
variable, tariff setting. The operators would also be consulted concerning
investment programs for the sector.
G.     Monitorina and Reporting Reauirements
2.17   The proposed project would require careful coordination and
frequent IDA supervision, particularly in the initial years of the project
(see Annex 2.5). Monitoring the institutional performance would involve
the MRNEE.  The Interministerial Committee (CIS) (para. 1.30) has been
established for this purpose and it would be assisted bjy management
consultants financed under the project. Overall coordination and report
preparation would be carried out by DPP. Quarterly progress reports would
be made to ENELGUI's Board, the CIS, MRNEE, IDA and other cofinanciers.
Detailed reporting requirements were discussed during appraisal and
SAR-17.GUI



- 16 -
finalized during negotiations. An annual review of the implementation of
all aspects of the proposed project, including achievement of agreed
performance targets would be undertaken by ENELGUI, GOG, and IDA, as well
as a mid-term review of the project, the latter to be conducted no later
than June 30, 1995. Representatives of the co-financiers will be invited
to participate in the reviews. At the end of the project, the MRNEE will
present a Project Completion Report no later than 6 months after the
closing date of the Credit.
H.     Procurement
2.18   The project procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 2.3
below.
2.19   The supply and erection of Tombo III diesel plant (3xlOMW) along
with a five-year service contract will be procured in a single supply and
erection contract following an open pre-qualification of potential
contractors from eligible countries. Pre-qualification documents are now
under preparation and will be advertised to the international community
through the proper channels. The service contract will be bid as an
option. It will provide for supervision of overhauls and all spares
required for a given period of operation. As this component is being
cofinanced with EIB, the possibility exists that a successful bidder from
an IDA eligible country would not be included in EIB's own list of eligible
countries. The appraisal team determined that this eventuality is remote
given the limited number of known manufactures of medium-speed diesel
engines in the 10 to 20 MW range. However, should the bidding turn out
differently at the pre-qualification stage, then bid packages could be
split into discrete components (engines/powerhouse/switchyard) and a
parallel financing arrangement with EIB would be entered into. General
plant equipment up to an aggregate of US$3.2 million to purchase spare
parts, software, miscellaneous equipment and proprietary original equipment
manufacturers spare parts will be procured in a combination of: (a) limited
international bidding following receipt of at least three quotations from
different geographical areas; and (b) sole sources. Procurement under
international bidding will be packaged in lots of over US$200,000.
Consultants will be employed on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA.
All IDA-financed contracts for amounts of US$150,000 equivalent or more, as
well as all consultant contracts, will be subject to prior review. Other
contracts will be subject to selective post-award review.
2.20   All procurement for items not financed by IDA will be carried out
according to the guidelines of the respective financing agency.
2.21   Advance procurement and retroactive financing.  Out of the proposed
credit, GOG has proposed to use up to US$4.1 million (or 8.6% of the total
credit) for advance procurement and retroacL4ve financing of essential
consulting services for the management and restructuring of ENELGUI and for
the privatization of ONAH. Such advance procurement is considered
necessary by GOG to continue the restructuring of the utility in
anticipation of its privatization and would continue the momentum achieved
during the implementation of the Second Power and Technical Assistance
Project (para. 1.31). It would also avoid the creation of a gap between
the restructuring efforts initiated under the former project and the
proposed project. Alternative sources of finance are not available. The
JV was selected under competition following IDA guidelines (para. 1.30) is
therefore being continued for assistance to ENELGUI. Further, all
retroactive financing is expected to be within the maximum period of twelve
months prior to the expected date of credit agreement signature.
SAR-17.GUI



- 17 -
Table 2.3 Procurement Arranaements
(USS million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Project Components                 ICa         Direct   Other        NBF        Total
Cost
I.  GOODS AND WORKS
1.1 Rehabilitation of                                                  7.79a       7.79
Tombo I diesel                                                                (--)
plant
1.2 Expansion of                                                       6.46a       6.46
Tombo II plant                                                                (--)
1.3 Construction of                 42.75b                                       42.75
Tombo III                      (17.10)                                      (17.10)
1.4 Fuel Storage and                  3.56k                                        3.56
Piping                           (--)                                         (-)
1.5 Transmission                                                     11.10a    11.10
System                                                                        (--)
Rehabilitation
1.6 Distribution                                                     33.90a    33.90
System                                                                        (--)
Rehabilitation
and Extension
1.7 General Plant                     4.20      3.35c                  7.25a    14.80
(spares)                     (4.00)    (3.21)                             (7.21)
II. CONSULTANCIES
2.1 Privatization                                           1.05d                  1.05
Cons.                                                 (0.95)                 (0.95)
2.2 Training                                                3.60d                  3.60
(3.24)                (3.24)
2.3 Construction                                            4.71d                  4.71
Supervision                                           (4.25)                 (4.25)
2.4 Utility Management              11.64                                        11.64
Contract                       (10.00)                                      (10.00)
- Advance Procurement                                  4.8d                   4.8
(4.8)                 (4.8)
2.5 Prep. of next                                           2.17d                  2.17
Investment                                            (0.95)                 (0.95)
2.6 Technical Assistance                                    1.67d                  1.67
Petroleum Distribution                                (1.50)                 (1.50)
TOTAL                               62.15       3.35       18.00    66.50    150.00
(31.10)   t 3.21)      15.69)                (50.00)
Note: Figures in parenthees are the amounts ftnanced by IDA.
N.B.F.: Not Bank Funanced.
 Cofinancing is pamalel by the French, German, Canadian, Iapanee, and United States Governments, AfDB and the European
Community. Procuement is in accordance with their respective guidelines.
b Cofinanced jointly with EIB; procured in accordance with World Bank guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits (Washington, D.C. May 1985).
c Includes direct procurement of proprietaty spares direct from originsl equipmeat manufactures (US$3.2 million) and shopping.
d Services should be procured in accordance with World Bank guidelines: Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by
World Bank as Executing Agency (Washington, D.C. August 1981).
SAR 17.GUI



- 18 -
I.     Disbursements
2.22   The proposed IDA credit would be disbursed as follows:
Categorv                 Amount      Percent of Exoendituroe  to
(SDR Millions)  be financed by IDA Credit
1.  Supply and erection of         13.20       50% of foreign
Tombo III diesel plant                     expenditures
and a five-year service
contract
2.  General equipment &             5.00       100% of foreign
spares                                     expenditures
3.  Consulting services for        11.70       100% of foreign
the institutional                          expenditures; 90% of total
development component                      for consultants domiciled
of the project                             in Guinea
4.  Training                        2.10        100% of fore3.gn
expenditures
5.  Technical assistance            1.10       100% of expenditures; 90%
petroleum distribution                     of total if procured
locally
6.  Refunding of PPF                1.10
7.  Unallocated                     2.30
Total                   36.50
2.23   The proposed IDA credit would be fully disbursed by December 31,
1997 in accordance with the schedule shown in Annex 2.6. This corresponds
closely to the standard Disbursement Profiles for Africa Region, Power
Sector. ENELGUI should be expected to bear any cost overruns, including
any extra costs associated with a lengthened implementation schedule. To
facilitate project implementation, it is proposed that a Special Account of
US$0.5 million be established in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA and
replenished periodically to finance eligible expenditures financed by IDA.
Disbursement of the IDA Credit would be fully documented, except for
expenditures against contracts of less than US$50,000 equivalent, which
would be disbursed against Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). All
documentary evidence supporting expenditures made through SOEs will be kept
by ENELGUI and be made available for review by IDA supervision missions.
Durina neaotiations, agreement was reached that the Special Account and the
SOEs would be audited annually by an independent auditors (para. 3.18).
SOEs will be reviewed by IDA on a regular basis.
J.     Environhental Asoects
2.24   For environmental planning purposes, the project has been
categorized as a Class B project, requiring a limited environmental
assessment. The project is not expected to raise any significant
environmental issue. The possible environmental impact of the expansion of
the Tombo Diesel Plant has been reviewed by the design engineers, and any
undesirable effects will be countered by appropriate abatement measures.
This refers specifically to gaseous emissions; excessive emissions of
sulphur oxides will be avoided principally by selecting fuels with low
sulphur percentages. Oversight of this aspect will be part of the
regulatory framework. Incinerators will be included as part of the
rehabilitation of the Tombo I plant to dispose of solid matter (carbon
residues), of sludge and of spent lubricating oil, which at presert is
SAR-17.0W



- 19 -
dumped in the harbor. Tanks will ba provided to collect and separate those
liquid effluents that have not been recycled. The abatement measures
included in the proposed project will result in an improvement of the
environment as concerns effluent. At present, sludge and some spent
lubricating oil are allowed to leak into the harbor of Conakry. As long as
Tombo is competently managed, a major objective of this project, the
environment can be protected from effluents of the plant. Agreement on the
action plan resulting from the environmental impact assessment was reached
at negotiations, and its proper implementation will be accomplished no
later than December 31, 1993.
III. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A.     Past Ooeratina Results and Present Financial Position of ENELGUI
3.1    ENELGUI's Income Statements, Funds Flow Statements and Balance
Sheets for 1988 to 1997 are given in Annexes 3.2 to 3.6 and are summarized,
for 1988-1991 in Table 3.1 below. The analysis that follows for ENELGUI
has been based on audited accounts of Fiscal Years 1988-1990. As a result
of the project, a reallocation of assets/liabilities during the forecast
period may occur, and the preparation of several sets of financLal
statements will become necessary. The financial projections for ENELGUI
which follow below should be viewed as aggregates for the power utility
sector in Guinea and are judged to be a satisfactory basis to evaluate the
overall financial performance of the sector.
3.2    While the transfer of its management to a joint venture in 1990
contributed significantly to slowing dowr the deterioration of its
financial situation, ENELGUI's financial performance during the past four
years (1988-1991) has not been satisfactory, as shown in Table 3.1 below.
Table 3.1 ENELGuI - Key Financial Ferformance Indicators 1988-1991
(Revenues and Costs in USS millions)
-.____________________________          1 9U8  1989  1990    1991
Sales (GWh) 1                        135.7      160.4     168.9      182.1
.:Average Tariff (US$/kWh)             0.18       0.12      0.11  .   0.13
::Total Rventieus-                   -.25.4       19.5.'    18.7   :23.7
-O'perating coste...                  26-.5      30.3      34.2        33.7
Operating Profit(loss)                -1.1      -10.7     -15.5      -10o.0.
Non  pe rating Income. 0. -80.                              -0.'.       0 
Interest                    ~~~~~~~~             ~~~~0.0  Z0.0  3.  36
Foreign.' Exchange Loss                0.0       .0.0      41.8       16.' 2
:ITncomhe 0:Tax     -      -     .    0.0         0.    0   0.         0.0
.Net Income' (Loss)                -1.0      -10.9      -60.8     _-29.3..
Operating "Ratlo                       1.04       1 .55     1.83 '- -.1.42
Rate cf' Return on-Revalued Net
Fixed Assets-                                   -14.9%    -22.3%     -16.0%
Average Collection Period
(days)                               184.1.    217.0      132.1      116.6
Debt .Service Coverage (times)                 -210.1      -1.6     . -0.6
Debt/Equity Ratio        .            44/56      60/40   146/-46  228/-128
1/-Net of technical & non-technical losses 
2/ Av. Exchange Rate (GF/US$)        474.0      592.0     660.0      .792.0
SAR-17.GUI



- 20 -
3.3    ENELGUI has operated at a loss throughout its short existence (1988
to 1991). This reflects bad management, compounded by the unwillingness of
GOG to grant regular tariff adjustments (see para. 3.16). The fact that
sales of electricity grew at an average rate of 14% annually during this
period did not help as marginal revenues collected represented less than a
third of marginal operating costs of thermal generation. Thus, increases
in sales compounded financial losses. ENELGUI's accumulated deficit during
the period was US$111.4 million and the company stopped servicing its long-
term debt. This unsatisfactory performance was coupled with slow
collection rates (average age of accounts receivables of 217 days in 1989,
132 days in 1990), and high levels of bad debts which persisted until the
JV management team took control of operations in late 1990. The low
collection rate was in part due to the perception of consumers in the
recent past that all public utility services -- water, electricity,
telephone -- were, de facto, being provided free of charge. No need was
seen for metering consumption. Poor collections were further hampered by
the fact that more than 50% of consumers were not metered, while being
required to pay a monthly flat rate during periods of daily load shedding.
B.     Results of the 1990-1991 Mana*ement Reforms
3.4    Starting in 1991 with the first phase of the privatization program,
ENELGUI's financial situation started to turn around due to implementation
of the restructuring program. The priority objective of the program was to
establish viable commercial practices in the areas of billing and
collections. A new commercial department was set up with emphasis on: (a)
separation of duties and responsibilities, improving significantly the
degree of control over transactions, principally those over all commercial
cash handling; (b) creation of specialized control units (investigation,
inspection, fraud control); (c) reallocation of human resources according
to skills; and (d) formal training for all technical employees (metering,
security, computerized billing). These measures, coupled with aggressive
cut-offs of delinquent customers (Figure 3.1), had a significant impact on
ENELGUI's cash collections. The monthly collection average increased from
the level of 60 million GF in 1990 to '38 million GF in 1991 (low voltage
private sector only). Also, the average age of accounts receivables
decreased from 217 days in 1989 to 120 days at end-1991. A new
computerized billing system was put in place at the end of 1991, allowing
ENELGUI to generate reliable monthly reports for sales, accounts
receivables, and collections. Non-technical losses were brought down by a
systematic program to identify and then cut off illegal connections. To
reduce the high level of bad-debt write-offs, an audit/reconciliation of
customer records was made. This latter operation resulted in the
identification of over 27,600 registered (and served) but non-paying
consumers. The number of paying customers in the Conakry area and the
interior increased from 32,600 in 1989 to 60,230 at the beginning of 1992.
3.5    Improvements made in customer accounting and metering includes:
7,000 new meters installed; all large commercial/industrial meters
calibrated and customers billed on a monthly basis by end-1991. Prior to
the management reforms, most industrial consumers were not being billed by
ENELGUI as these customer records had been illegally altered. Large
commercial/industrial billings therefore increased six-fold, i.e., from
5,000 MWh/yr in 1989 to over 33,400 MWh/yr in 1991. The budget for 1992
projects a further 37% increase in industrial sales to a level of 45,700
MWh, as a full year of normalized operation will then exist. Industrial
revenues, at GF 288 million in 1989 increased to GF 2,934 million in 1991,
are now budgeted at GF 7,316 million for 1992, a 25-fold increase from the
1989 levels.
3.6    Human resource management improvement measures under implementation
include adoption of a Personnel Manual, salary increases averaging 200%,
and a manpower reduction plan (200 lay-offs by end-1992) (see Annex 1.8).
3.7    In 1991, net income improved, mainly because of the rate increases,
improvements in billing and collections, and the dramatic decrease in fraud
SAR-17.GUI



- 21 -
ENELGUI
Consumer Service Cuts
(Non-Payment and/or Clandestine)
Thousands
40
20..1
0   
I 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 101 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 1112
1        1990        1        1991        1
Cummulative Number of Cutoffs
Clandestine  1  Commercial     Total
Figure 3.1
(para. 3.6 above) resulting from improved internal financial controls
instituted at all levels of the organization. At the beginning of 1990,
45% of registered clients in the Conakry region were not billed, whereas by
end 1991 this figure decreased to 3% (see Figure 3.2 below). Collection
efforts were multiplied considerably (para. 3.5) during 1991: e.g.
disconnection of delinquent clienta (20,506); and elimination of illegal
connections (12,503).  The establishment of a coherent system of intern.i
financial controls resulted in major reducticn of internal fraud. In mid-
1991, Government's hidden subsidies on fuel supplies were withdrawn. The
new fuel supplier, ASP, demanded cash payment for fuel deliveries --
something that neither ENELGUI's rate structure nor its treasury balances
permitted it to do. ENELGUI therefore severely rationed diesel fuel use
(para. 4.2) 5/. It limited production to the Tombo II units which use
untaxed heavy-fuel; and to daily allotments of hydro generation, limiting
draw-downs from the Baneah reservoir to conserve production until the rainy
season starts end-May 1992.
5/   ENELGUI did not have enough liquidity to face the increase in fuel
cost due to institution of a tax (186% of CIF) on petroleum prices
(TSPP - Taxe Sp6ciale pour lee Produits P6troliers).
SAR-17.GUI



- 22 -
ENELGUI
Consumers -- Billed vs Total Count
(Thousands]
Customer Count
40
30  .    ..............................................
rO              - 3 %  Not Billed
20. _.....     ........................................................................................
F45%   Not Billed
10 ._.........................................................................................................................
I 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 0 9 IO 111I2
1      ~~~~1990           I            119911
'fear
-9n  Books    i4   Billed
Figutre 3.2 Improvements in Customer Billing in the Conakry Region.
3.8       Financial  Performance.   Contribution  from  internal  sources  of  cash
to the investment program of the four year period 1988-1991 was nil (see
Table 3.2 below). Financial covenants under the Second Power Engineering
and Technical Assistance Credit 1595-GUI were not met. The investment
program was financed by foreign borrowings, accumulation of arrears on long
term debt, and delayed payments to suppliers.
Table 3.2  Summary of ENELGUI's Sources and Application of Funds
(Period 1988 - 1991)
GF   US$ Equivalent                 Percent
(Millions)         % of total
Cat   ead1wi~.                                19.713                     24.9            -2030%
[M.iiei Workiiqg Copwia1                        (20,684)                   (26.1)     .      2130%
T*a Requihnamm                                    (971)                       (1)              100%
WnA1Cae O3irndou                                (21,936)                   (26.4)            4007%
B lowln                                          20,307                     25.6             -3887%
Ewity
cowtt  Coatihbuto                                 1,152                      i.S             -220%
.TWI~e1 $ou*,epf,Fwia             @(971)                                      (        1)    .100%
AVx.  ErWhn 'Rhw ( ); US$1 -OF 7
SAR-17.GUI



- 23 -
3.9    ENELGUI's permanent capitalization as of end-1991 was negative with
a debt/equity ratio of 228/-128 (see Table 3.3 below). The firm faces a
liquidity crisis -- the current ratio is 0.4. In addition, about 10% of
current assets consist of accounts receivable, mainly from public sector
agencies, where delays in collections may still be expected. Arrears due
to ENELGUI's inability to service it. long-term debt had mounted to some GF
11 billion. Agreement was reached between ENELGUI and GOG on a cross-debt
compensation program which had been partially Implemented by end-1991.
Table 3.3 ENELWUI Capitalization at end-1591s
OF US$ Equivalent
(Billions)       (Millions)
Net fixed Assets in Operation                48.9             61.8
Work in Progress                              0.1            001
49.0             61.9
Current Assets                                8.8             11.2
less Current Liabilities                     25.3             31.9
-16.4            -20.7
Net Assets                                   32.6             41.2
Represented by:
Equity                                      -43.4            -54.8
Long Term Debt                               75.4             95.2
Consumers, Contribution &                     0.6              0.8
Deposits
Total                                        32.6
Debt service coverage (times)                 0.2
Debt/Equity Ratio                        228/-128
Current Ratio                                 0.4
C.     Proposed Recanitalization of ENELGUI
3.10   While the JV management team succeeded in slowing down the
deterioration of ENELGUI's financial position during 1990-1991, it was
understood and agreed with GOG and ENELGUI that restructuring the utility
required capital restructuring, as well as tariff adjustments to
automatically track fuel price changes. A debt conversion plan was
prepared by the JV on the basis of financial projections which assumed a
large construction program later in the decade. Debt write-off was
supported by the fact that a large portion of the existing LTD (GF 56.8
billion) reflected for the most part, expenditures covering technical
assistance, which should not have been capitalized.  Some of the debt was
for assets, which had either deteriorated due to lack of maintenance, were
fully depreciated and/or the debt was to be rescheduled at the Paris Club.
The debt restructuring plan called for: (a) conversion to equity of current
liabilities owed to GOG for debt service accumulated prior to 1987
(estimated at GF 11.6 billion) and the completion of the cross-debt
compensation in 1991 (estimated at GF 6.1 oillion); and (b) conversion to
equity of all long-term debt owed to GOG at end-1991.
3.11   During appraisal, the above recapitalization plan was modified to
reflect the less capital intensive investment program being supported under
the proposed project. The revised recapitalization provides for: (a) the
SAR.17.GUI



- 24 -
conversion of LTD estimated at GF 56.8 6/ billion; and (b) conversion to
equity of 1991 reserves estimated at GF 7.4 billion. In addition, the plan
requires rescheduling the balance of ENELGUI's long-term debt to the same
terms given by the lenders to GOG: (a) a US$5.1 million loan from
Yugoslavia for the construction of Baneah reservoir and generation plant to
5.9% interest and 13 years maturity; (b) DM 27.9 million loan from Italy
for the construction of Tombo II at an interest rate of 1.5% and 26 years
repayment period including 8 years grace. These terms are GOG's borrowing
terms and ENELGUI will assume the debt service but not the foreign exchange
risk associated with these loans. Annex 3.7 gives a detailed breakdown of
the planned debt conversion program. Conclusion of the capital
restructuring of ENELGUI, satisfactory to IDA, will be a condition of
effectiveness.
3.12   Starting in 1992, all new debt to the sector (Power II) will be
subject to an on-lending agreement between GOG and ENELGUI. The terms of
IDA on-lending (7.5%, 20 years maturity including 5 years grace) was agreed
at negotiations. ENELGUI would bear the foreign exchange risk.
3.13   In addition to the capital restructuring, ENELGUI's financial
recovery plan will continue during 1992 under the JV management contract.
The 1992 program focuses on continued improvements in commercial
operations. Among the key actions to be implemented are: (a) continuing
the distribution system loss reduction program, with the goal of reducing
technical and non-technical losses, from 40% at year-end 1990, to below 30%
at end-1992; and (b) application of a deposit policy, to cover two months
billings for new consumers and for reconnecting consumers who have been
cut-off for late payment or other irregularity. Details of the performance
targets included in the 1992 management contract appear under Annex 3.8.
3.14   Financial Obiectives.  The debt restructuring plan and financial
recovery program are designed to achieve the following financial
objectives, which were agreed with GOG during negotiations:
(a) a target rate of return on net revalued fixed assets of at least 7%
in 1995 and thereafter; and
(b) cover all cash operating expenditures (including taxes) starting in
calendar year 1995 and as of end-1995 maintain a NICG ratio of at
least 26%.
Meeting these objectives should enable ENELGUI to manage its operations
without recourse to Government subsidies. Investments in power networks in
provincial cities may be undertaken only if economically, technically and
financially justified. Should GOG decide otherwise, it will provide the
resources to cover costs. A more detailed outline of the proposed
financial objectives for the power sector appears in Annex 3.8.
D.     Billino and Collection
3.15   ENELGUI's bills are issued monthly for medium voltage consumers and
bi-monthly for low voltage consumers. Efforts are underway to establish
monthly billings for major low voltage consumers as well as those billed on
a lump sum basis; receivables as of end 1991 represented about 3 months'
revenues, mostly from private consumers. This is a marked improvement over
1989, when receivables represented 7.9 months' revenue. The performance in
the settlement of bills by government and public entities to ENELGUI has
substantially improved, in fact government made advance payments on its
consumption in 1991. To achieve the objectives mentioned in para. 3.14
above, during neaotiations GOG agreed to implement measures satisfactory to
IDA to maintain receivables to no more than the equivalent of 90 days'
billings. To this effect, a dated covenant requiring annual reviews of
6/   This amount includes GF 14 billion in debt which has been converted to
a grant by France.
SAR-t7.G



- 25 -
this payment plan has been incorporated in the Credit Agreement. Agreement
was reached at negotiations that: (a) the annual budgets of Government
departments and public entities shall include sufficient provision to cover
the cost of their annual consumption of electricity and charges for
operation and maintenance of state-owned emergency power units; (b) all
future public sector customer electricity bills are paid within a maximum
of three months from presentation; (c) in the absence of payment within
this time frame, ENELGUI will be entitled to cut service to individual
Government departments; and (d) ENELGUI will ensure that the grace period
to its private customers not exceed two months' billings, and will continue
reducing the number of un-metered consumers.
E.     Tariffs
Present Arranaements
3.16   Tariffs were increaeed in 1986 (condition of effectiveness of Cr.
1595-GUI) to an average rate level of US18/kWh, representing the then best
estimate of the long run marginal costs (LRMC) of the utility. Except for
the annual revision of the GOG flat fee contract, no other adjustment to
rates was made until the spring of 1991, when a 100% increase was put into
effect. Because of the 166% devaluation of the GF over the period 1986-
1991, this latter increase only succeeded in bringing rates to an average
level of US013/kWh (GF 100/kwh), significantiy below costs of operation.
In December 1991, an additional increase of 50% was introduced, bringing
average rate levels to GF 147/kWh (US16/kWh). Except for the attempt in
1986, tariffs in Guinea have not been computed on the basis of long run
marginal costs. The December 1991 tariff increase, designed to recover
full budgeted costs of operation, was approved by decree. For low voltage
users, a fixed charge of GF 1000/month for sinale Phase consumers and GF
3000/month for three phase consumers was instituted, while rates were also
adjusted to OF 60/kWh for the first 150 kWh, GF 135/kWh for utilization
between 151 kWh and 600 kWh, and GF 200/kWh for utilization above 601 kWh.
In addition, a minimum billing of GF 50 kWh/month was instituted. For
medium/high voltage users, a fixed charge for capacity of GF 1800/KVA/month
was set along with a penalty for any excess demand take.  Rates were set at
GF 190/kWh for the first 90 hours of use of demand, with GF 135/kWh for any
additional use. In an effort to reduce late payments and illegal
connections, the tariff policy stipulates that: (a) an interest charge
equivalent to the Central Bank Refinancing rate will be applied on late
payments of over 60 days; (b) penalties equivalent to one year estimated
utilization charged to any identified illegal connection; and (c) all users
in arrears and cut-off, will pay a refundable deposit equivalent to two
months' consumption before being reconnected.
Tariff studies and Future Tariffs
3.17   Tariff increases approved in 1991 result in an average rate level
of US16/kWh for 1992, compared to US011/kWh in 1990. This and the
projected rate levels are considered satisfactory as these approach the
current LRMC of the sector, estimated in the range of US*15/kWh (reflecting
the projected medium speed diesel expansion program in the least-cost
generation expansion program). The targeted rate of return of 5% for 1993
and 7% thereafter on revalued assets will be the prime drive for rate
setting purposes. Checks will be made that internal cash generation will
be sufficient to cover interest and depreciation and provide a contribution
to investment. To achieve these objectives, the following agreements were
reached during negotiations:
MAfMG7.OUI



- 26 -
(a) ENELGUI will be permitted to automatically adjust its electricity
tariffs to take into account: (i) changes in fuel prices 7/t (ii)
GOG to adopt a new tax rate, acceptable to IDA, for the heavy fuel
used (establishment of such a rate is a condition of Credit
effectiveness; and (iii) the fuel tax rate will not be modified
thereafter without prior consultation with IDA; and
(b) ENELGUI will maintain tariffs at levels which provide revenues
necessary to meet the rate of return on net revalued fixed assets
in operation set out in para. 3.14.
F.     Accounting. Audit and Insurance
3.18   The MRNEE and ENELGUI would establish and maintain separate
accounts to record all expenditures made under the credit. These accounts
would be audited annually (including SOEs) by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA within 4 months of the end of the fiscal year. The 1990
accounts have been audited by an external auditor. The audit report is
qualified, as were those for years 1987-1989, with deficiencies mainly in
regard to the inability of the auditors to reconcile accounts receivable
from the State, liquidated state-owned enterprises, and the provision for
bad debts. This situation has, however, improved during 1991, and the
accounting and internal control deficiencies identified in the 1990 audit
are to be resolved so that ENELGUI's 1991 accounts can be certified.
Durina negotiations agreement was reached that ENELGUI will implement by
December 31, 1992 all measures recommended in the 1990 audit to improve its
accounting, bookkeeping and records maintenance systems. In addition,
ENELGUI is to forward to IDA annual audited accounts (including project
accounts) within 4 months of the end of the fiscal year.
3.19   Insurance.  At present, only ENELGUI's office equipment and
vehicles are insured against common risks with a local insurance company.
None of the existing major power generation (plants, dams), transport and
distribution assets are insured for machinery breakdown, fire or explosion
or other normal industrial risks. Nor is insurance for public liability
carried. Durina anoraisal it was agreed that ENELGUI will determine the
cost of insuring its assets with local and foreign insurance companies.
Durina neootiations agreement was reached that GOG will carry insurance
policies with appropriate coverage and with reasonable deductible levels
based on an &cnual updating value of its assets. These policies should
permit claims in foreign exchange.
G.      Financing Plan
3.20   ENELGUI's estimated investment requirements and sources of funds
through 1997, roughly the period covered by the proposed project, are
summarized under Table 3.4 below, with details given in the Funds Flow
Statements in Annex 3.5. Agreement was reached at neaotiations that the
investment plan will be subject to annual review with IDA.
7/ Fuel expenses represent 40% of total operating cost of ENELGUI. This
is mainly due to the heavy tax levied on diesel fuel. ENELGUI has
obtained Government's adoption of a tariff structure with a lower tax
level, for a heavier fuel (marine diesel oil -- MDO) which can be
readily imported from C8te d'Ivoire, Nigeria or Cameroon.
SAR-17.GUI



- 27 
Table 3.4 ummarv of ENULrUX Financino Plan 1992-1997
CapJ.t.'-:',endit~ . 14,4.....:'....
m .'G    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m
Znoea~ ~  o~$.* g 28 126 ,Z.111
r > *
32 Th  fa iah .l quirementsf  the 987   21921   inu    U2
million equivalentttfa' to cv    t    cash flowh 49 'it l te r Ba    o
the  orecst  orenewatgenerto.(h   es-otgnrto   xaso
f   qaity              23rbt7sU 6 8 m
contriutions(USt54.bt mlion).
3.21   The financial requirements for the period 1992-1997 include US$22.5
tillion equivalent to cover the cash flows refired in the latter year. of
the forecast for new gene:at ion. (The least-cost generation expansion
program in the "most likely Gcenario" calls for 30MW in additional capacity
to be installed in 1999 )  Total borrowing for the 1992-1997 period wse
ectimated to be US$126.7 million, and internal generation of fund. at
US$55.2 million or 26% of requirements   The balance of requirements would
be from GOC equity contributions (US$26.8 million) 8/ and consumer
contributions (US$5.4 million)
3.22   LeWislation has been  enacted recently eliminating all exoneration
from payment of import duties on equipment and goods financed under
projects.  Given ENELGUI'e fragile financial condition, agreement was
reached durina ne3otiations that the Government will:t (a) credit fNELGU
the tax equivalent or contribute to project financing (in the form of
equity contributions to ENELGUI) the import duty obligations (estimated to
be GF 16 billion) for the equipment and goods procured under the proposed
projecth  and (b) negotiate and agree with ENELGUl the te   ofethe on-
lending agreement for the IDA credit which will be signed and forwarded to
IDA before credit-effectiveness
H.     Financial Outlook
3.23   With the above measures, ENELGUI would show a satisfactory
financial position and performance in line with the financial objectives
indicated in para 3.14 during the period 1993 to 1997. ENELGUI's forecast
Income Statements and Balance Sheets for 1992 to 1997 are given in Annexei
3 3 mnd 34, with the detailed assumptions given in Annex 3 6 Salient
aspects of ENELGUI's future financial outlook appear in Table 3.5 below.
1/   00'. equity contribution reflectsl the CCCE grant for the tranindision
rehabilitation component of Power II, as well as the conversion of old
CCCE debt to equity.
IAE17.OVI



- 28 -
Table 3.5 ENELUI: Forecasted Financial Performance l1992-19971
Key Indicator.
(USS million unless otherwise noted)
-    -       1-4   1995~ .99  1,9:.
Sales in owh     Z11.7  23i.0 :2 5.0 :73   m7J.3   0.6
Avg. Tarift(USC/kWh)    16.00 . 12X   18C0   .00  16.00  14.00
Totalo  venue    :35.7  4.    4-.2     49 -- 8     59.8
4   ( aUng-o'     36.9.  " ' 349:.9   41f,'9  421  44.3 : 41,9:
OPertlng Profit oas)  -1.2  0.'9.. - '.'.-' 4.4-    -.  7.0  M1S5  18.0
nt1e                .2    1.6  4.6.     .9 -.2-  11.9
Foreign Excbaie La"  .0.0  0.0  .0     0.0   0.0 -.0.9.
Bad Debts          3.6    3.9  4.7    2.5   2.9   3.0
come Tax           0.0    0.2  0.4.   01   2.5   3,0
Net lnconm  do")  O.1    0.4   0.8    0.1.  4.6  .   5.7
Opodating Ratio    1.03    0.98  0.91   0.86  0.74 -0.70
ROR onNetAsmu It    -2.2%    .3X: 58S%   .3%  11.2%  11.9%
Average Collection Perod.
(days)            916    91.    91.5  91.4:  91.4  -91.4
Debt Service Coverage  2.8  341   2-- .13  1.8  2.3  1.6
Dabd(Debt + Equ') %    39/61   $1/49  66134  72128  74M  74/26
Avg. Exchange Rate  892    960  .997   1097  1206K  1327
[GFtUSS)
1/ Rate of return is computed on average net fixed assets in operation (revalucd each year).
3.24   The assumptions underlying the above forecasts for both the
growth of sales and the reduction of technical and non-technical losses
are conservative. The switch-over to use of an industrial fuel (MDO)
will have a considerable impact on financial performance, and will
lessen the need for rate relief by lowering the average cost of
production. Key indicators - operating ratio, debt/equity ratio, debt
service coverage and current ratio - are all satisfactory during the
forecast period. All expenditures including debt service are projected
to be covered by revenues starting from 1993.
IV. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
A.     Introduction
4.1    The project will make electricity available to the general
public in the capital and in the adjoining Kindia area.  During the
period covered by the project, service quality will still be restricted,
but continuity of supply will be assured better than in the past. As to
quantity, power will be made available to prospective users that are
prepared to pay for it. The availability of power will facilitate
economic development of those industrial and commercial activitieo that
have not had the resources to set up their own power plants. The
benefits to residential users will include not only productive
activities, but an increased standard of living and security. The
national economy will gain directly as the supply of electricity will
produce economies of scale and make unnecessary the purchase and
operation of private power plants. It will gain indirectly by the
increased prosperity that electricity will promote. The project will
seek an initial improvement in electricity service, and next phases will
increase the capacity of supply, so that installed plant includes an
adequate operating and standby reserve margin; this in turn will permit
further improvement in the quality, as measured by mainter.ance of
voltage, frequency and continuity of supply. As management and
operation of the utility improve, it will be possible to reduce the cost
of production and the price of electricity from the present high levels,
thus making it affordable to users of lesser means, and widening the
number of people who benefit.
SAR-17.GUI



- 29 -
4.2    Least-cost analysis.  A least-cost generation expansion plan was
prepared in February 1992 for the Conakry-Kindia system to verify that
the additions to facilities included in this project indeed represent
the least-cost solution at the threshold discount rate of 10 percent and
with the Bank's assumptions of petroleum price development. Three
alternative demand scenarios were checked: the most likely scenario,
upon which this project is based, and two scenarios with greater demand
growth, as proposed in the June 1991 demand study (para. 2.2). For all
three scenarios, the diesel plant alternative was the least-cost
solution as compared with the two hydro-electric development options,
Garafiri and Kaleta, and as compared with a coal fired plant. The
alternative of importing power from one of the mining enclaves was
considered but was not pursued due to lack of interest both from the
potential supplier and from the Government. The diesel alternative
includes a complete rehabilitation of the existing plant, conversion of
the existing units to use a heavier fuel (marine diesel) to replace the
automotive diesel fuel used at present, and addition of new generating
units specifically designed to operate on residual fuel (bunker C). The
difference between the three load growth scenarios modelled was that
while the most likely scenario called for a 30 MW addition by 1997, the
other two called for 60 MW and 80 MW additions respectively. The
analysis showed that the more rapid growth did not alter the conclusion
that diesel generation is the least-cost solution for the next series of
plant additions. A master plan for the Conakry distribution was
prepared in December 1991 under the PPF. The distribution system is in
very poor condition and requires refurbishment, loss reduction measures,
and the maintenance work that has been neglected for years. At present,
however, the limits to supply are dictated by the generation facilities.
The option of retaining 110 kV, use of bulk power transformers in the
30/40/50 MVA range and the use of three substations (Matoto, Sonfonia,
Tombo) was found to be the least-cost option.
S.     Economic Rate of Return (Anneax 4.1f
4.3    Distribution.  For the distribution components, the calculation
of a rate of return has not been attempted because the work will consist
of a large number of small sub-projects, each intended to improve
service to a limited number of customers. Instead, criteria have been
set up to ensure that each sub-project is the least cost solution for
supplying the prospective users, that it includes a realistic evaluation
of losses and of maintenance costs, and that the full cost of the
investment can be recovered over a 10 year period. This is likewise a
conservative assumption, but is justified since it may not be possible
to satisfy the suppressed demand with this project; therefore it is
reasonable to choose first the sub-projects showing the best economic
return for the utility. As the distribution component will be financed
under para"Lel arrangements, three tests were applied to examine whether
its justification meets Bank guidelines: (a) after the inclusion of the
component, does the overall project IERR still meet Bank guidelines; (b)
if so, are there any unusual additional revenue requirements (rate
increases) needed to support the viability of the non-Bank financed
project component; and (c) will the project component be implemented in
a way to complement the Bank-financed components. In the case of the
proposed distribution component included in the proposed Power II, all
three of the above criteria should be met. Further, the distribution
component in the investment program included in the proposed project was
found to be justified by the donor appraisal teams (AfDB, CCCE, and
CIDA).
4.4    generation CoMonaent.  The equalizing discount rate (EDR) was
computed for the project versus the next best alternative to meet system
power requirements in the context of the least-cost generation expansion
program that was prepared for the Conakry-Kindia area (para. 4.2). The
results show that the comparative hyJro generation program, with the
earliest practical in-service date for the hydro-electric development --
currently 1999, is approximately twenty to thirty percent more costly on
SMR17.UI



- 30 -
Conakry Generation Expansion
Hydro vs Medium-Speed Diesels
Capilal and O&M Costs 1991 - 2010
Net Present Value [US $ MillIons)
250      ......I.................................................................................
200  .....................................................................
150 :..
100 . .....................................................................................I...................
50 . .........................................................................................................
0              I    I    I         I
2   4    6    8    t0   12   14  16
Discount Rate RI)
Garafirl ISD 1999 * Medium-Speed Diesels
Source:    February 1992 Study
Scenario: 'Probable'
Figure 4.1 Effect of Discount Rate on Least-Cost Generation Expansion
Decision
a net present value basis than the diesel expansion program using
discount rates of 8, 10 and 12% (see Figure 4.1). The EDR for the hydro
option is below 4%. As the opportunity cost of capital for power sector
investments in Guinea has been estimated at about 12%, the hydro
expansion option is not the economic choice for the next generation
expansion.
4.5    The choice of the medium speed diesel expansion program as the
least-cost option remains valid over a range of values for the key
economic parameters: investment costs, fuel costs, and load growth.
This is not surprising as the next best or competing technology to meet
growth in demand would involve use of hydro units costing US$ 3400/kw
and having levelized cost of energy in the range of US12-14/kWh. This
compares to the levelized cost for medium-speed diesel cost of
approximately US8/kWh. The sensitivity of project economics to
variations in fuel price is judged to be low. The engineering
consultants estimated that fuel price would have to increase by
approximately 180% from the US$133/ton value used in their study 9/
before the medium-speed diesel option breaks even with the hydro
alternative.
4.6    Internal Economic Rate of Return (IERR).  The main benefits of
the proposed project are to improve reliability of power supplies, meet
the existing and some of the growing demand for electricity, and improve
the operating efficiency of ENELGUI.  The proposed investment program
9/  Current (March 1992) price paid by CBG for bunker C fuel imports
delivered to Kamsar, Guinea is approximately US$90/ton.
SAR.17.0UI



- 31 -
would meet demand through 1997, which is expected to double the current
(1991) load level. The incremental demand served is valued by
consumers' willingness to pay for electricity. The most conservative
estimate of consumers' willingness to pay are the tariffs which
consumers are currently paying for electricity, including the fuel tax
(TSPP) which represents about 20% of the 1992 rate levels. In addition,
due to the change-over at the Tombo power station, the fuel used after
1994 would be mostly heavy residual (bunker C) fuel instead of the more
costly No. 2 diesel fuel currently being used. The estimated Internal
Economic Rate of Return (IERR) based on an average tariff level of GF
160/kWh (about US018/kWh) for the project is about 31%, which is well in
excess of the 12% opportunity cost of capital in Guinea (see para. 4.4).
In the calculation, no attempt has been made to quantify the benefits
derived from a more reliable power supply or of the surplus arising from
customers' willingness to pay over and above ENELGUI'S average tariffs.
However, consumer willingness to pay could be easily as high as
US030/kWh, the mid point between the current average tariff and the cost
of auto-generation. Using US30/kwh to capture more of the consumer
surplus produces very high IERRs. The impact on the IERR of a lower
growth in demand (half of the growth rate) is small and the project is
still justified (IERR for half the growth rate in demand is 26%), thus
indicating that the proposed investment is economically justified.
Benefits as measured above are conservative for a number of reasons:
(a) without the project, continuing deterioration of the existing
power system facilities would lead to a progressive loss of
supply, leading to system collapse in the near future;
(b) self-generation is widespread, reflecting poor system
reliability and service quality, along with daily blackouts due
to generation and distribution supply constraints. Large
customers and others able to afford it have installed their own
generators at extremely high cost. The additional costs of such
self-generation facilities would be largely avoided as a result
of the project, but were not reflected in the computation of the
IERR;
(c) existing rates were used to determine benefits of the project
instead of the proposed adjusted rates needed for the financial
rehabilitation of the utility. Had such higher rates been used,
the benefits of the increased sales would correspond to
increases in the IERR; and
(d) no quantitative allowance was made for the substantial External
economic benefits to be derived from urban electrification, and
specifically of its positive effects on small enterprises and on
urban employment.
4.7    For electric users in general, and the public at large, the
improvement in the quality and quantity of service received will be
reflected in the gradual elimination-of self-generation, and through
expanded public use. Less directly, it will also be reflected in
reduced cost of damages to electrical equipment and appliances which
result from the existing erratic quality of service. Industrial and
commercial users will benefit from reduced production losses which have
often accompanied the prolonged service curtailments.
4.8    For the Government, benefits will not only accrue in the context
of its overall policy of revitalizing and restructuring the public
enterprise sector. It will also directly benefit as both an electric
user as well as in its role as owner of the utility. The drainage of
funds to ENELGUI should be reversed, thus permitting the Government to
reduce the burden on the national budget.
SAR-17.GUI



- 32 -
C.     Risks
4.9    The risks are mainly of a managerial and of an institutional
nature. Although there have been dramatic improvements in performance
in a relatively short period at ENELGUI, clearly due to the changed
management culture, they may be short lived unless the project is
implemented effectively. The approach taken is high profile and
inherently risky, and indeed the current level of cost-based consultant
support cannot be maintained indefinitely. The challenge is to
consolidate the recent short-term gains into a long-term, stable
corporate culture. Adherence to the institutional arrangements is the
main risk of the project. To ensure that this happens, the
institutional component has been designed to provide limited
continuation of the current joint venture management arrangement, with
maximum effort and resources to prepare the path for privatization of
the utility and improvement of the regulatory framework.
4.10   There are risks related to project complexity, including the
possibility of GOG's reluctance to disengage itself from direct
management of the sector. This risk is mitigated by the phasing of the
project and the requirement to achieve measurable progress on
privatization before disbursement of most project components (see para.
2.14), as well as from the solidarity of support of the donor community
for the institutional reforms encompassed in this project.
4.11   The task of managins the utility will include converting the
work force to a modern corporate culture, which will involve adjustment
problems. None of these difficulties or risks pan be avoided, as they
are an integral part of the modernization process. To reduce the risk
to acceptable proportions, it is expected that the agreements which the
government will enter into with the new entrepreneurs will have to be
backed by guarantees (see Disposition Fund, para. 2.9). Last but not
least is the risk of delays and cost increases caused by slowness in
approving contracts and disbursements.   As several international
institutions will participate in the financing of this project, each
with their own set of rules, a certain amount of difficulty in
coordination must be anticipated. To mitigate this risk, the
implementation plan, as agreed with the donors, foresees the retention
of a professional project/construction engineering firm, acceptable to
IDA, to support ENELGUI in implementing the project (para. 2.11).
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.1    During negotiations, the following assurances and agreements
were confirmed:
(a) no investment higher than the equivalent of US$1,000,000 will be
undertaken by ENELGUI without prior approval by IDA.
Investments to expand power networks in provincial cities will
be undertaken only if economically, technically and financially
justified (para. 3.14);
(b) GOG and ENELGUI will consult annually with IDA on ENELGUI's
investment plan (para. 3.20);
(c) key milestone dates were agreed for the implementation of the
privatization of ENELGUI (para. 2.14). Key milestones are: (i)
launch bids to select operator -- September 1, 1992; (ii) begin
negotiations with successful bidder -- January 2, 1993; and
(iii) conclude negotiations -- before March 1, 1993;
(d) an automatic adjustment clause is to be introduced in the
electricity tariff to track fuel cost changes (para. 3.17);
SAR-17.GW



- 33 -
(e) audit reports of ENELGUI'e financial accounts will be furnished
in accordance with Bank covenants within four months of the end
of the fiscal year (para. 3.18). In addition, the scope of the
auditor's annual reports will be extended to cover the Special
Account and the Disposition Fund;
(f) detailed reporting requirements including the submission of
quarterly progress reports were agreed (para. 2.17);
(g) ENELGUI shall take all necessary actions required to: (i)
maintain its overall accounts receivable to no more than three
months of billings (para. 3.15); (ii) generate, from fiscal year
1994 onwards, a minimum from internal sources of 26% of its
average investments; and (iii) achieve a minimum rate of return
of 7% on ite investment in fixed assets in 1995 and thereafter
(para. 3.14);
(h)  the annual budgets of government departments and public entities
shall include sufficient provision to cover the cost of their
electricity consumption; and all future bills shall be paid
within three months from presentation in accordance with agreed
administrative procedures (para. 3.15);
(i) implementation of the environmental action program (para. 2.24);
and
(j) terms of reference for the mid-term review of the project, to be
condt-wted no later than June 30 1995, were agreed (para. 2.17).
5.2    Conditions of Credit Effectiveness:
(a) adoption of terms and conditions of operation of a Disposition
Fund acceptable to IDA (para. 2.9);
(b) execution of a relending agreement between GOG and ENELGUI
satisfactory to IDA (para. 2.7);
(c) substantive progress satisfactory to the Association has been
accomplished in the execution of the program; i.e.: (i) issuance
of invitations to bid for the private management of ENELGUI
(para. 2.14); (ii) adoption of an action program to prepare the
new power sector regulatory and institutional framework; and
(iii) evidence that 200 employees have been removed from
ENELGUI's payroll;
(d) effectiveness conditions for an EIB loan agreement have been
fulfilled (para. 2.8); and
(e) conclusion of the capital restructuring of ENELGUI (para. 3.11).
5.3    It was further agreed at negotiations that the undisbursed
balance of the Credit would be cancelled if no acceptable operator is
found within the stipulated time and that physical components would not
be implemented until this condition was satisfied. To this end, with
the exception of the institutional and conversion program at Tombo, the
foilowing would be conditions of disbursement:
(a) retention of a project management team to support the ENELGUI
project implementation unit (para. 2.11);



- 34 -
(b)  a now regulatory framework and program for its Implementation
has been enacted and agreement reached on an arrangement for
holding sector asset. (GOG and utillty); and
(c) contractual arrangements satisfactory to IDA aimed at
transferring the management of ENELGUI to a private operator
have been concluded.
RBCOMMENDATION
5.4    On the basls of the project justification and the above
agreements, the proposed Project io suitable for an IDA Credlt of SDR
36.5 million (US$50 million equivalent).
1*X, 1992
AFImW44.a



S H X a N N V
.,



PEEFUlIC OF IIMEA
raiina 11 PmoJEc
1990 ENERGY DALAUCE ('000 TOE)
Primiy Ensrgy                                                    Petrolcuo Pro&cxts
..............                                                   ....................... . . . . .
Fireood    Udro *I   Charcoat  Electricity                       Jet Fuul/
Ga oline   Kerosone      as Oll     fust Oil    lotal         Total
GROSS 5s'PL
. .. .......
Protuction               2,545 146    65O000                                                                                               2,610.146
Iqiorte                                                                       77.532       16.626      101.012     215.700     410.870       410.670
Not Available               2.SS.146   6S.000                                      .532      16.626      101.012     21S.700     410,870    3.021.01S
CUVEES ION
..........
Charcoel Pro&xtion         (79.34)                  79,3s4
ElectricitV Generation                (65,000)                160.M93                                  c43,630)dV  (51.963)d/
Conversion Losses         (162,"2)                           (105.766)                                                                      (268.228)
TransmissiorVoistributiol
lo ss(7.5)                                                                                                                                 (7.5s8)
net S   ly Available       2.303.350                  79.354     47.216          17.532      16.626      T5.32      163,737     315.2T7    2,745199
Bunker Sales                                                                               (12.470)e/                                        (12.470)
net Domestic Consa tion   2.303.350                   79,354     47.218           7.532        4,156     57,382      163.737     302.807    2.732.729
(64.31)                 (2.92)     (1.72)          (2.81)       (0.21)     (2.11)       (6.02)      (11.1t)     (10O.OX)            uw
COISUNPlIOU my SECTORS
......................
N rheld                  1.879,735                  79.3s4      S.053                                  17.637                   17.637     1.981.7n9  (72.S2%)
Nining                                                         28,992                                  13.493      163.737     177.230       206.222   (7.SS)
Trnport                                                                       73.340        4,156      13793                    91.235        91,235   (3.34X)
Industry cJ                                                     6,027          4.192                    7.tS4                   11.346        19.373   (0.7M)
Ccarceil/Aibfnistretion  423.15                     5.14                                              2.662                    2.662       431,423  (1S.79X)
Agriculture                                                                                               S26                      528           528   (0.021)
Conrtruction                                                                                            2.169                    2.169         2.169   (0.06X)
V Converted at 4.000 lrih * too.
bi ElectricitY fiures *sum  that therma  geeration prdaminetes. as In 1964.
c/ Percentae  used  re the  _ *s found In 19J4 because of inconsistoncifs In date presented.
Vl Thermal genration breekdoem:
Producers            oh                GeM Ol   (toe)          Fuel Ol ( toe)
.........            --                .............     . ..............
Autoprod.             a
SWE                   25                   6,126B
CBG/FRIGUIA          35W**                33.825                   S1.983
Aredr                 15                   3.677
Total                390                  (1,630                   51.963
*    Converted at 860 Kcal at 34.4X efficiency.
A ssueed zero being replace Lb  irwoved Interconnected system.
A ssumed CBG accounted for 36.41 of totel electricity production (127 GWh), produced entirely from ga oil.
Assumed 51 of frigule electricity prodiction from as oil (11 GUh). reminder (212 Gb) from fuel oil.
e/ EstIloted of totol jet fuel/kerosene exports. Exact fiwures not awbilable.
fi/ Includes EELWUI consawt Ion.



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
POWER II PROJECT
ENELCU - PRESI?1r ORGANIZATION CIhRT
0
Director  |
General
0
Deputy.
Dir,ector
.Internal                          S
Auditor
.   Legal
Counselor
Dir. of        Commercial   Informatic   Dir. of    Director          D r. of      Dir. of    Dir. of
lluman          Director     Director    Finance    Procurement    Planning    Prod. &    Dlstrib.
Resources                                 & Admin.                                Trans.
I.-
.                                                                                                       .



- 37 -
Annex 1.3
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
POWER II PRuJECT
Self-Producers in the Conakrv/Rindia Service Area
(August 1990)
Installed                 Energy
Capacity                 Consumption
By Sector                kVA                      IMWh)
Users of 100 kVA or more
Domestic a/               4,578                    4,679
General                   4,913                    5,017
Business                  5,090                    4,774
Government                9,840                    9,929
Industrial b/           25,288                   27,337
Mining                   15,100                    5.247
Sub-total         64,809                   56,982
Users of less than 100 kVA
Domestic                  3,000                    2,628
General                   1,500                    1,314
Industrial PME            3.000                    2.628
Sub-total          7,500                    6,570
All Users
Domestic                  7,578                    7,307
General                   6,413                    6,;'5
Business                  5,090                    4,774
Government                9,840                    9,929
Industrial              28,288                    29,965
Mining                   15.100                    5,247
Grand Total       72,309                   63,552
a/    Several of these customers have their own generators but wait for
more than an hour after a main network breakdown before starting
them up.
b/    The hours of operation of these industries were obtained from the
Ministry of Industry and CEGIR.
Sources ENELGUI
C: Anx-1.3



- 38 -                   ANNEX 1.4
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
pOWER II PROJECT
POWR FACILITIES IN THE CONARPY-KINDIA SYSTEM
PLANT:                  UNIS/RATING        MbNUFACTURE        DEPENDABL
lMW            AND YEA           OUTPUT (MWI
Hydroelectric Plants
on the Samou River
Grandes Chutes              2x5               1951                 }23
2.8.5             1951                 1
rehab. 1985
Donklca
2x7.5             1978                  13
Baneah                      2x2.5             1988
Diesel Plant at Tombo
Tombo I powerhouse          4xS            D*utz                    16.8
ix5            Niigata                   4.2
Tombo IZ powerhouse
2xS.2          GMT                       8.6
Total Plants Supplying
the Public System
Noto Baneah operates only for 6 months/year when reservoir is full.
Power transmitted from Samou plants to Conakry limited to 32 NW by
llne losses.
Private      lPlants
Sellino Power to En2l_uu System
Soguiplast              Tot.1784 kW        2 Deutz/l Cummins       1500 kW
Sanoyah                  Tot 3000 kW       3 Deutz                 2400 kW
Private Diesel Plants
operated by En-loui for owners.
Palais de Nations        4*400 kW          SKW                      380 kW
Cite doe  Nations        4*576 kW          Cummins             1800 kW
Casem belle-Vue          Tot.720 kW         lCummins/1Baudoin        240 kW
C.E. Kipe                1*480 kW          Poyaud                   outage
Villa Coleah             1*44 kW            Foutz                    30 kW



Annex-1. 
- 39 -
Table 1-2
alWe  Asd Generation forecast (GWh)
W--     - ---- ------------
log0    1995    2000   Growth Rate %
90/9S 95/00
1- SA.LES
(a) billed energy            12 274           478    11.6   11.8
(b) load shedding             41       20       0
(c) autoproducers             90       63       0
Total                         269     357     478      4.3    6.0
2- LOSSES
(a) technical losses          36       48      53
(b) nontechnical loses        S0       43       0
Total losses                   16      91       53
3- GENERA-ION
(a) ENELGUI hydro            181      180     180
(b) ENELGUI thermal           63      18S     351
subtotal                 244      365     531      8.4    7.8
(c) load shedding             41       20       0
(d) autoproducers             00       63       0
Total                         375     448      531     3.6    3.5
4- PEAK DE4MND (MW)
(a) existing system           so
(k) load shedding             14
(c) autoproducers               5
Total                          69      82      101     3.5    4.3
5- LOAD FACTOR (%)                63      62       60



DEVELOPPEMENT DES CENTRALES THERMIQUES
AVEC GARAFIRI
Igo                                                                  ---- -!::- t--:--   s---      ---:---S-: E
o                                                             -     -                                            ----  ---- --
521**-....-                   .~~~~~~~~~~~~~7             ...
40,   X[-                      I                                              I    -.-             . E,
6.a~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~m
tgo                                                             da..b                       -
100 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~xa .
20-
somILLi go$10   1111    m $16I                                ii a    M  o0   3 EI n  u    al * 
5*5   *2   *1  0045991599  5*    Wa5009200  208  202  002  004200  200  20?  200   0A0205



DEVELOPPEMENT DES CENTRALES THERMIOUES AVEC GARAFIRI
DEVELOPPEMENT DE LA DEMANDE: SCENARIO PROBABLE
DEVELOPPEMENT DU PRIX DU CARBURANT: SCENARIO aANQUE MONDIALE
NOUVEAUX GROUPES DIESEL A QUATRE TEMPS. DE MOYENNE VITESSE
PUISSACE EN MW                                            PROoUCT    ANNUEUE OWNERGIE EN GWh
Ceniraish   dlecliques   C0t1aissdiesel                          Ca _alsales hbdso.iedciques   Ceiralediese
Ann   Puissanc   Samou      Garald    TaniboI Taime  Nouvelle  Total Puissance   Samou    Gaolalu          Tombs I Tafbo | Nouvel"   Tolal        Tail   Demand,
de pdns                                          ceAniaes         aswue                                               ceniral.s cehabs prwdUn d'dnergle
PAS                                             dlese                                                                des       diese    C6awsg. (GWhia)
1990     63.9       23.0                 20.5    8.5              52,0     44.0      173.6                   49.4    13.6       0,0      63.0    236,6    335.9
1991     63.9       23.01                20,5    8.5              52.0     44.0      180.0            _      42.0    24.0       0.0      66.0    246.0    335.9
1992     63.9       23.01                20.5    8.5              52.0     44.0      190.0                   95.0    51.0       0.0     146.0    336.0    335.9
1993     63.9       23.0                 20.5    8.5              52.0     44.0      190.0                  115,0    55.0       0.0     170.0    360.0    335.9
1994     63.9       23.0                 20,5    8.5              52.0     44.0      190.0        _115.0    55.0                0.0     170.0    360.0    335.9
1995     67.1       23.0                 20.5    8.5    30.0   82.0        72.0      190.0    -              79.2    41,2      42.3     162.?    352,7    352.7
1996     70.s       23.0                 205,    8.5      30.0   82.0      72.0      190.0                   17.8    13.3    149.2      180.3    370.3    370.3
1997     72.6       23.0                 20.5    0.5    30.0   82.0        72,0      190.0                   17.9    13,5    160.0    191.4    381.4    3811.4
1998      74.7      23.0            _    20.5    8.5    30.0   82.0        72.0      190.0                       1_ 18.1  13.6    171.2  202.9    392.9    392.9
1999      7.o       23.0         50.0    20.5    8.5    30.0  132.0    122.0         190.0      60.0         10.3      8,)    136.3     154.7    404.7    404.7
2000     79.3       23.0         50.0    20.5    8.5      30.0  132.0    122.0       190.0     172.0          1.1      0.7     53.0      54.8    416.8    416.8
2001      81.7      23.0         50.0    20.5    8.5    30.0  132.0    122.0         190.0     198.1          1.2      0.8     39.2      41.2    429.3    429.3
2002      84.1      23.0         50.0    12.5    8.5    30.0  124.0    114.0         190.0     206.2          0.8      1.0     44.2      46.0    442.2    442,2
2003      86.7      23.0         50.0    12.5    8.5    30.0  124.0    114.0         190.0     221.1          0.9      1.1     42.4      44.4    455.5    455.5
2004      89,3      23.0         50.0      8.5    8.5    30.0  120.0    110.0        190.0     230.0          0.4      1.2     47.5      49.1    469.1    469.1
2005      91.0      23.0         50.0      8.5    8.5    30.0  120,0    110.0        190,0     230.0          0.5      1.4     61.3      63.2    483.2    483.2
2006      94.7      23,0         50.0      8.5    8s   -30.0  120.0    110.0         190.0     230.0          0.8      1.5     75.6      77.7    497.7    497.7
2007      97.5      23.          50.0      85      .5   - 30.0  120.0    110.0       190.0     230.0          0.8      1.6     90.2      92.6    512.61   512.6
20       100.5_s 23.0            50.0      4,5    8.s    30.0  116.0    106.0        190.0     230.0          0.4      1.8    105.8    108.0    528.0    528.0
2009   103.5        23.0         50.0    0,0      8.5   o3.0  111.t    101.5         190,0     230.0          0.0       ,     1219       123.8    543,8    5438
2010     106.6      23.0         50.       0.0   8.5   .30    1111.5      11.5       190.0     230.0          0.0      2.I 1    136.1    10,2    560,2    560.2
.                                                                     "~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E
o 
'S.



COUTS D'INVESTISSEMENT ET D'EXPLOITATION
_ _____                               COUTS ANNUELS EN M10 US-S
Co(ats de i nouvel             CofAs des nouvoils ceonales hyd*o-dlecaiique           Coails des catbutants
cwmajo desel
Gataliti
Codls do      C           coca C.  idei            Cdl             CoOts        Czfis          Tn Ton" I      11   Iuvoe    Sous         Tai
Ann6_iubMiiWion rk4 b     siusa  d's_laua         pwshameI  d'w.ate-    d'upbioaton    poewnol           (Gasod)  (FO L.) C,ta bso TOTOM
Tagl.1 * I      mm _         f ream"_               monI        a. dffurl,                                          (Fua L)
1990                                                                        -                            2.745    0.522        0.000     3.266    3,266
_991                                      _                                                              2.020    0.809        0.000    2.829    2829
-  1992        0.671       10.00  __                                                                        4.359     1.649       0.000     6.007   17.478
1993        2.066       1o.0        __                                                                   5.399    1.817        o.o00     7.217   20.083
1994        0.50o       14, _400                               6.400                                     5.523    1.856        0.000     7.379   28.679
199 _    0.500                        1.440    0.720          46.400                                     3.837     .403        1.323    6.562   55.622
n 1996      0.50so                    1.440    0.720          61.300                                     0.901    0.472        4.862     6.235    70195
1997        0.5                       1.440    0.720           WM700                                     0.946    0.498        5.421     6.B65   68.225
1998                                  1.440    0.720          19.300                                     0.996    0.52*        6.022     7.540   29.O00
1999                                  1.440    0.720                            1.921       1.921        0.590    0.322        4.971    5.882    11.884
2000                                  1.440    0.720                            1.921       1.921        0.065    0.029        2.002     2.096    8.098
2001            .                     1.440    0.720                            1.921       1.921        0.071    0.033        1.477     1.581    7.583
2002                                  1.440    0.720                            1.921       1.92'        0.047    0.041        1.657     1.744    7.746
2003                                  1.44U    0.720.                           1.921       1.921        0.063    0.045        1.680     1.6J8    7.680
2004 _                                1.440    0.720 _1_ 1.921                              1.921        0.023    0.049        1.765     1.837    7.839                  p
2005__  =_______  ________            1.440    0.720                            1.921       1.921        0.029    0.0e66       2.266    2.351    8,353                  1 
2006                                  1.440    0.720                            1.921       1.921        0.035    0.062        2.860     2.951    8,959
2007                                  1,440    0.720                            1.921       1.921        0.048    0.067        *.490     3.606   9.606                   o
2008                                  1.440    0.720                           * 1.921      1.921       0.025 0.078            4,189    4.292   *0.294
2009                                  1.440    0.720                            1,921       1.921        0.000    0.084        4.938    5.022   11.024
2010                                  1.440    0.720                            1.9211      1.921        0.000    0.096        5.723    5.818    *1.820
Vaie                      -7.200                              - 145.996
t4s4d                     _        ____                                                            ____



VALEURS ACTUALISEES ET COUT
MARGINAL MOYEN
______                            Cas de'-'     isimuim         aaIhIuan Mb US-S
Come dalI nobvus                   Coadi GNaid                              Coes de caabwan                                coas
Tawn  fte    m   CO"d           ~a .    ul            _Psaw"
twl1  4             im"eft _ sa    co"       Cair      Coi.di        Co"         Cdi        Co(l"s"        band  Tafo I TNuwdo           a        " -  T    mruu
Tam"6.5   dWisau.  d~im prsumm                  diwo       croooa6Nis   Smsma          basoul) (Fuit..) moods" To
.A~L  1j                     _____ adwUit4tb _____ ______  * d ma                                          -  -            (Fudt4   -   -
2   616.2          4.5.      29.1         164         9.2         15.1        17.          17.7       23.6     9.3         4356   76.38   240.64        35.63
4       513           4.2       29.9         14.9        7.5         90.2    -    3.7         13.7       22.3     .7          35.2   66.22   240.28        41.47
*       466            4.0       29*          12.2        6.1         96.6        10.7         10.7       21.2     6.2         26.9    5.22   226.26        46.71
*       4161.1         3.4       29.1         10.1        5.1        97.0          0.4          6.4      20.2    t7.           24.0   51.63   214.69        51.35
so      3621           3.a        20,5         as         4.2         6.9          6.           0         19.2     1.3         20.1   46.63   200.70        5S.31
12      3164.1         3.5        21.6         .1.        3.6         92.2         5.4          5.4       16.4     1.0         11.0   42.35    6.21l        68.60
14    2.7!             3.3        21.0         6.'        3 o71.                   4.3          4.3       11.      6.6          4.    36.16   114.36        61.65
O       2 .            32                      5.2                   tl2           3.           3 .       1a.      6           12.6 3i.786  :62.4           63.90
l va mas   p              A k pxoon          [Caid de                            I no usnb  Smw                                                      aS
T    PNI_             ~~~~~~COZ   |   Codil4    CGdo                               -oAf |               |       |  e-       |_          Tdal        o
feud.                       alb  .  |ltpIImI0 S O  d                                 | |                             5W|   TMW
U___                           ___ SS,SI S_    ____  ITt -                            1   2.1 20.10 61.   106.67
C) Vt ls    soZ fap u    Abi prax nsdA     "awm    ww_a  "0 4   E
_ I~aesaiI I_I_I                                                                               l'CoisGuam  I
T ~ ~ __                                     .s1|  |2L___ |a |z    -   ____-_-_  l                                 ll                           1Ci 
Tax  PI    m                                                                               c o olsla s 1cool 1          1
db60 i    iIWS                I                                    diawull.  ~eia*aIm   pasasiada
I  SO61A6   ____.                                                10    95.91           6.1         6.7   |                 _             -t
D ~ ~ ~  ~ ~  _   _   _ I _   _   _   _  _  _       _   _      _   _  _   _   _  _      _   _   _                       _   _  _     -       -       _  ____ _ _   _ _ _ _ I _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _       U - U h



- 44 -
Annex I .6
Page 5 of 8
PREVISION DE LA DEMANDE (1)
RESEAU CONAKRY - KINDIA
SCENARIO PROBABLE
Annee   Taux de    Demande   Puissance de
croissance   d'nergle    points (2)
(%/a)     (GWha)        (MW)
1   1990l      L      335,9         63,9
1991       0o0        335.9         63,9
1992       -0.0       335,9         63.9
1993        0,0       335,9         63,9
1994        0.0       335.9         63,9
1995        5.0       352,7         67,1
1996        5,0       370,3         70.5
1997        3,0       381,4         72,6
1998        3.0   *   392,9         74.7
1999        3,0       404,7         77,0
2000        3,0        416,8        79,3
2001        3,0       429,3         81,7
2002        3,0       442,2         84,1
2003        3,0       455,5         86,7
2004        3,0       469,1         89,3
2005        3,0        483,2        91,9
2006-       3,0        497,7        94,7
2007        3,0        512,6        97,5
2008        3,0        528,0        100,5
2009        3,0        543,8        103,5
2010        3,0        560,2        106,6
(1) Propositon DECON
(2) En supposant un facteur de charge de 0.6



- 45 -
Annax i.6
Page 6 of a
DEVELOPPEMENT DU COUT
POUR GASOIL ET FUEL LOURD
CoOt du gasoil                C CoOt du fuel lourd_
CoOt du   Coot ex    CoOt de    CoOt A la  CoOt ex    CoOt de    Coot A la
petrole  raffinerle  transport et   centrale  raffinerie  transport et   centrale
Annee    brut              emmagasinage thermique          emmagasinage thermique
(US-S/bbl)  (US-St)   (US-SIt)   (US-Sit)  (US-SIt)   (US-Sit)   (US-St)
. . 9 -:    .... 21,2S     . 183,2 .    34*0  22.   R 5 it  .P.:    3'  :.15s,7
1991       17,8     15 ,0         34,3     192,4    100.2          37,8      137,9
1992       16,8     148,8         34,7     183,5    94,3           38,2      132,5
1993    '17,2       152,8         35,0     187,8     96,8          38,5      135,4
1994       17,7    156,7          35,4    192,1      99,3          38,9      138,2
1996i.9 :    t7,3. ;'   158,0    : 35.w:   ;<.>   :: .... 193,8s  -: .... 100  : .i': :.; 'P '''';. 3f'  1395.
1996       18,8     166,5         36,1     202,6    105,5          39,7      145,2
1997       19,7    174,9          36,5     211,4    110,9          40,1      151,0
1998       20,7     183,4         36,8     220,2    116,2          40,5      156,7
1999       21,6     191,8         37,2     229,0    121,6          40,9      162,5
200;~  22,6 ''    s2Qi Rf        376      2378 j1 9 '    f4.1,43            J68.2
2001       22,4     198,8         37,9     236,7    126,0          41,7      167,7
2002       22,2     197,0         38,3     235,3    124,8          42,1      167,0
2003       22,0     195,1         38,7    233,8    123,6           42,6      166,2
2004       21,8     193,2         39,1     232,3    122,5          43,0      165,5
200s    e *    - 1 0 t   -*     ..... f zff 3G,  S   f f' .^f' 2309 i12f13  434.... f f', '' -V .  164,7
2006       22,2     196,7         39,9      236,6    124,7         43,9      168,5
2007       22,8     202,1         40,3      242,3    128,1         44,3      172.4
2008       23,4     207,7         40,7      248,4    131,6         44,7      176,4
2009       24,0     213,3         41,1      254,4    135,2         45,2      180,4
;:f20.1S24,i9 ..Z9 3:.: iSs :1;4-17'    2V:s;13,W-  184,6



Analyse de sensitivite concernant la
variation des coiuts d'investissement
Comparaison avec/sans GARAFIRI/KALETA
220               -     _
.2           rJ
Q  160
120
-80      -70      -0       -50      -0       -30       -20      -10       0       10
Variation des couts d'investissement en %
D6veloppement de la demande: Scenario probable  (par rappot ax couts consld6r6s dans l'etudet
Groupos diesel: A quatro temps                                 tu
,Tau crint6ift 10%                                                         



Analyse de sensitivit6 concernant la
variation des coG4ts des combustibles
Comparaison avec/sans GARAFIRI/KALETA
320
280 -
|260            /
* 240            246811106                                                              10
220upz -bsill: a q0 1-ps                                                                                  _
ISO
160
0       20       40       60      80       100      120      140     160      180      200
Variation des coia"ts des combustibles en %
D6velop demn dla demands: Scnarlo pfobable    (par rapport aux coOits consld6r6s dans I'elude)
Gxroup.s cMss.: A qualte Ronps
Taux dru6r6t: 10 %                                                                                          *



- 48 -
Annex 1.7
Page 1 of 12
DRAFT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
POWER II PROJECT
THE GOVERNMIENT' S LETTER OF ENERGY POLICY
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA                               Conakry, May 22, 1992
Work - Justice - Solidarity
MINISTRY OF ECONOMY AND FINANCE                  THE MINISTER
To: Mr. Lewis T. Preston
President, The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington D.C 20433
Subject:    Enerey Sector Development Policy
1.   As part of the economic and financial development program adopted
by the Government of Guinea and supported by the donor community, a
sweeping reorganization of the energy sector was decided upon to improve
sector management and operating structures, and to establish an
environment favorable to private investment. Although Guinea has
considerable natural energy resources consisting in particular of its
hydroelectric potential and substantial fuelwood reserves, per capita
energy consumption, estimated at 50 Kgoe (kilograms of oil equivalent),
is one of the lowest in the Sub-Saharan region.
2.    At present, fuelwood accounts for 85% of the country's total
energy consumption. This is due in large measure to the fact that a
large portion of actual demand for commercial energy (petroleum products
and electricity) remains unsatisfied. This situation is, moreover, one
of the major constraints on the country's economic development, as well
as a serious threat to the environment. In this Letter, I seek to set
forth the Government's position on developing the energy sector over the
next several years.
Biomass Subsector
3.    As regards biomass, the Government plans to formulate a national
strategy for residential energy conservation. We have started to build
a residential energy consumption information and monitoring system and
are adopting a four-point action plan, as follows:
(a)   inventory of forestry resources;
(b)   establishment of a reliable database on household energy
consumption;
(c)   determination of a regulatory framework favorable to the
introduction of new technology; and
(d)   use of renewable energy sources (solar energy, biogas,
etc.).
In June 1990, with the support of the World Bank (ESMAP), the
Government began energy consumption surveys among a sample of households
in the capital city and started to analyze the fuelwood and charcoal
supply subsector.



- 49 -
Annex 1.7
Page 2 of 12
Hydrocarbon Subsector
4.    The institutional framework of the hydrocarbon subsector has been
revamped, resulting in a transfer of the storage, transportation and
distribution of petroleum products to private operators in a competitive
environment. Regulations of the downstream petroleum sector are to be
introduced to ensure technical control of the oil companies operating in
Guinea. To that end, the Government requires technical support for the
introduction of the regulatory framework and control and safety systems
in the area of petroleum product distribution.
Electricity Subsector
5.    ENELGUI, which replaced SNE in 1987, is a public enterprise that
holds a monopoly on the generation, transmission, distribution and
marketing of electric energy throughout the national territory. Since
1979, electricity distribution has been highly imbalanced because demand
has outpaced supply, particularly in mining and industry. Thus, for
1990, self-generators in the Conakry-Kindia area, with installed
capacity of 56 MW of thermal origin, produced 63.5 GWh; CBG and FRIGUIA,
respectively, produced 116 GWh and 112 GWh for their own needs. This
situation clearly reflects the weakness of the country's electric
utility sector. Lack of reliable supplies are also curbing development
in the productive sectors of the economy. Despite a usable hydro
potential estimated at 26,000 GWh/yr, at present only 200 GWh/yr are
produced by the Samou, Kinkon and Tinkisso power plants, which together
form the backbone of the existing electric utility network.
6.    Thus, at a time when Guinea is determinedly implementing a vast
economic recovery program, rehabilitation and expansion of the
electricity sector is becoming a national priority. Only the
development of new generating capacity will enable that subsector to
fully play its role in supporting the other sectors of the economy,
while simultaneously improving living conditions.
Development Obiectives in the Electricity Subsector
7.    The Government's main objective in the development of the sector
is to ensure overall coverage of the energy requirements in the country.
The Government plans to achieve this objective through a five-point
action plan:
(a)   ensure adequate service levels and access to service for all
consumers capable of paying its full cost;
(b)   assure, over the near-term, the self-financing of the sector
through correction of existing distortions, adoption of an
appropriate tariff policy and commercial marketing practices
that will ensure: (i) full recovery of the cost of providing
the service; (ii) an adequate rate of return on capital
investments; (iii) a financial surplus to help meet the
needs for new capital to expand the sector. The Government
is taking responsibility for the direct and transparent
financing of social-based programs in the power sector that
are not economically nor financially justified on a self-
standing basis;
(C)   encourage the participation of private operators in
electricity generation, transmission and distribution within
a regulatory framework that guarantees fair and equitable
treatment to all participants;



- 50 -
Annex 1. 7
Page 3 of 12
(d)   in management matters, limit the role of the State in the
sector to that of providing a regulatory function and to the
determination of sectoral strategy and policy;
(e)   develop the country's hydro potential with a view to
strengthening energy independence.
Institutional and Regulatory Framework
8.    To attain these objectives, the Government, under its economic and
financial reform program, plans to liberalize the sector and restrict
the role of the State to the determination of sectoral policy,
establishing a regulatory framework and ensuring compliance with
regulations.
Thus, in conjunction with the donors, in March 1990 it contracted
with an international consortium for the operational management of the
sector. In September 1990, the Government, by decree of the President
of the Republic, entrusted that consortium with full authority for the
management and administration of ENELGUI. Signlficant improvements in
sector management resulted. The consortium's technical assistance
contract, and the decree by the President of the Republic granting it
full authority, have been extended to end 1992, while a search for a new
operator under more permanent performance/incentLve-based contracting is
underway. The extension of the consortium contract will make it
possible to consolidate the achievements of the first rehabilitation
phase of ENELGUI and to continue reforms within the enterprise.
9.    The Government has decided to withdraw by no later than March 1993
from the operational management of the sector and will do so through
competitive bidding. The existing assets of the sector will initially
remain the property of the State and new investments will be made by the
Government and/or the private sector. Nevertheless, the Government may
entrust implementation of the investment program to lts private
partners. To that end, an international consultlng firm has been
engaged to assist the Government in implementlng lts divestiture
strategy.  Implementation will follow the timetable shown in the
attached matrix of actions that cover the followlng milestonest
Launching of competitive bidding to sele@t
the new operator   .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . .  August 1, 1992
Start of negotiations with partner
selected  . . . .  . . . . . . .  . .  .  . . . . December 1, 1992
Contract signature  .....          . . .    .   . . . by March 1993
10.   In addition to the above sectoral policy objectLves, the following
elements will be included in the contracts concluded wlth the private
partner:
1.    commitment of the partner to satisfy the performance
criteria for the sector established by the Government (see
attached matrix);
2.    remuneration of the operator;
3.    the rate indexing formula;
4.    investment program;
5.    commitment of the Government to pay its electricity invoices
on time;



Annex 1.7
Page 4 of 12
6.    management autonomy.
Electricity Subsector Investment Program
11.   The _.nvestment program will be formulated with input from all
parties and will be updated on an annual basis taking into consideration
the macroeconomic framework, demand for electricity, prices for
petroleum products and technological options. By virtue of the
financial support of the donors, several sites for hydro development
have been identified throughout the country and among them more than
some 10 of them have been studied up to the detailed engineering and bid
document stage. In addition, from 1987-89, an optimal development plan
for electricity generation and transmission was developed with joint
World Bank (IDA), CCCE (Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique) and
CIDA (Canadian International Development Agency) financing. The first
part of the plan involves the development of the Garafiri-Kaleta complex
on the Konkour6 River. In February 1992, the plan was updated and a
master distribution plan was completed for the city of Conakry.
12.   The update of the least-cost development plan enabled the
Government to identify a series of measures to be undertaken in the
near-term under a program cofinanced by the donors, entitled the Power
II Proiect. Power II will be focused primarily around strengthening of
the institutional framework and the rehabilitation and expansion of the
electricity networks in the capital city. It will provide, in
particular, for a new thermal plant equipped with three medium-speed
diesel units, each having a nominal capacity of 10 MW and will use heavy
fuel (bunker-c).
13.   Given Guinea's hydro potential, the Government nevertheless plans
to pursue the optimal development of this resource following least-cost
generation expansion programming principles. Construction of the
Garafiri-Kaleta hydroelectric complex and the Kogbedou and Nongoa
facilities would represent significant strides in the country's
electrification program.
Rural Electrification
14.   As part of a policy reflecting the Government's desire to improve
rural living conditions, the rural electrification program is an
integral part of the development plan for the electricity sector. The
program will include the following components:
(a)   construction of mini hydro plants for the electrification of
certain rural centers;
(b)   the use of new technology (solar, biogas, etc.) to meet
rural energy problems.
15.   The above set of policies bear witness to the Government's
unshakable and irreversible resolve, dating back to the start of the
Second Republic in 1984, to restructure the energy sector and encourage
more active participation by the national and international private
sector in its development.
/s/Dr. Toumany Dakoun Sakho
Minister of Natural Resources,
Energy and the Environment
Attachment: Matrix of Measures



REPUIBLIC OF GUINEA
SECOND POWER PROJECT
LETTER OF ENERGY SECTOR DEVELOPMENT POLICY
Matrix of Measures
OBJECTIVE       -                  ACTION ALREADY TAIEM           --      ACTION TO 6E TAKEN                 - -COIENTS
A. Strengthening of the capability of    -  Request for the recruitment of    -  Training plan                          The planned actions could be
the National Energy Directorate in        a senior expert in energy                                                 financed under the Second
formulating sector investment             planning                            -  Establishment of an energy         Power Project
plaming and monitoring policy                                                    information system
- Purchase of hardware, software
and means of transportation
_  Preparation of energy balances
S. Hydrocarbon subsector
u'
Safety of petroleum facilities and    -  Signature of the decree              -  Recruitment of a consultant        The planred actions are is
environmental protection                  regulating the downstream                                                 financed under the Second          I
activities In the petroleum        -  Preparation of enabling             Power Project.
sector                                 legislation
.  Training plan
-  Purchase of equipment                                               l
C. Study and preparation of the Third        Updating the optimal                Feasibility study on development
Power Project                             development plan for generation   of Kaleta with a review of the
expansion                          optimal sequence of development of
the Konkour6 River
-  Study of the rehabilitation and
expansion of the generating and
distribution networks for the
cities of Kankan, Labe, Kindia
and N'Zerekor6
-  Feasibility study on Nongoa
development
to
u' :
F'F 



OBJECTIVE                |        ACTION ALREADY TAKEN W                  ACTION TO BE TAKEN                      COMMENTS
D.  Biomass subsector
Design and construction of            -  Adjustment of prototypes and        -  Program to promote the
improved wood- and charcoal-             performance test among 20              replacement of charcoal and
burning stoves                            households                            fuelwood by products such as
gas, petroleum, etc.
Dissemination of 16,000 stoves
among 8,000 households in
Conakry
-  Study on the residential energy   -  Large-scale dissemination of
strategy                              improved stoves
Inventory of forestry resources
tn
IQD
_0 



E. Institution building, improvement
of the regulatory framework for the
electricity sector and support for
ENELGUI management
(a) ENELGUI RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM
(Interim phase)
1.  Human resources and                                                       -  Staff redeployment (skill mix       February-March 1992
organization                                                                and staffing levels)
-  Reduction in force (200            June 1992
Layoffs)
-  Publication of the executive       June 1992
order ending civiL service
status (defonctiomnarisation)
2.  Financial Management                                                      -  Reconciliation and compensation   January 1992                        ul
of cross-debts between the
State and public enterprises
Issuance of financial statements                                              -  Adoption of the                     June 1992
apt of being audited by an outside                                               recapitalization program
auditor at the close of fiscal
1991 and 1992
-  Issuance of monthly financial      September 1992
statements
3.   Rates and commercial practices                                           -  Reduction in technical and non-   December 1992
technical 10 GWh losses
-  Shortening of the billing cycle   December 1992
to 45 days
-  Reduction in the average age of   December 1992
client accounts (non-
governmental) to 70 days
-  Introduction of rate setting       June 1992                           lb
l ________________________                 _______________________                    indexed_to_indexed     to     the     cost    of    fuel  a_              a
o x
iIij



*  ;  CTIVE .<... :   :   :[ i    ACTtON AATEADY tANEN'  TO BE TAKEN
(b) Formulation ard impLementation   -  Signature of the contract with    -  Submission to the Government of
of privatization of ENELGWI          Ernst & Young International           various divestiture scenarios
mangement
-   "ob-lization of project team      -  Adoption by the Governrent of a
and start-up of studies to            divestiture scenario
prepare icplentation program
*  Preparation of bid docutants       New operator to be in place
with pre-qutlification of         before end rrch 1993
bidders
Selection of a private operator
- Usgotiation with the scceissful
bidder
- Contract uigwatswetranmfer of
actvities 
Cc) lprovement of the regulatory    -  Electricity code                     -  Revision of existing               1st phase of Ernst & Young         in
framework of the electricity                                               legislation                        assistance                         4l
sector
-  Project to reorganize public       -  EstabLishment of new
enterprises                           legislation alloiing the direct
participation of certain
sectors within a joint and
controtled framework
(electricity law, technical
specifications, program or
performance contract)
-  Support to the Government in       2nd phase of Ernst & Young
establishing the conditions       assistance
necessary for the introduction
I ___________ ___________  ___________    ______  ______ ______  ______ ____ _of_the        new_le islatinof   the   new   Legis(ation
O X
F.4
ii 



08j"fE'ivE e                                     '            'AAK2t IAC           0 I : BE ;AK    ! 
F. Second Power Project Investment                                                                                    I
Program
1.  Tombo I rehabilitation                                                    -Major overhaul of set 1              October 1993
-  Major overhaul of set 2            October 1992
-  Major overhaul of set 3            October 1995
-  Major overhaul of set 4            October 1995
2.  Tombo II rehabilitation                                                   -  Cooling system repairs             September 1992
-  Storage tanks, separators,         October 1993
auxiliary equipment
3.  Dispatch/Communications Center                                            -  Launching of bidding; selection   July 1992
of consultant
l  Detailed study                     December 1992
-  signature of works contract        June 1993                          cn
-  Start-up                           June 1994
4.  Conversion                                                                -  Detailed analysis of options        September 1992
4(a)   Marine diesel fuel                                                     -  Signature of contract               January 1993
alternative
-  Start-up                           June 1993
4(b)   Bunker-c alternative                                                   *  Detal led study                     October 1992
6.  Tombo II expansion                                                        -  Signature of contract              August 1992
-  Installation (start)               September 1993
-  Start-up                           March 19941
c) x
* 



;[ ;  . : O CTlVE    ;: ;ACTION AL                          :rEADY                   ACTK E        TAKE            _0___E _TS
7.  Tombo III addition                                                           Pre-qualification                   July 1992
-  Start of bidding                   August 1992
-  Signature of contract              March 1993
-  Installation (start)               ApriL 1994
-  Start-up                           February 1995
8.   Fuel storage and                                                         -  Feasibility                         August 1992
transportation
-  Start of competitive bidding       September 1992
-  Signature of contract              March 1993
-  Installation (start)               March 1993
-  Start-up                           November 1993
9.  Rehabilitation of distribution                                            -  Detailed study                      April 1993                          -
-  Start of competitive bidding       June 1993
for supplies
-  Signature of supply contracts      November 1993
-  Installation (start)               January 1994
10. Training                                                                  -  Needs assessment                   December 1992
-  Training plan                      April 1993
-  External training                  July 1993
-  In-country training                December 1993
-  Refitting of the training          November 1993
center
11. Project management                                                        -  Pre-quaLification                  October 1992
(recruitment of a consultant)
-  Start of bidding                   January 1993
-  Signature of contract              March 1993                            Pi
4Q
(D
I-D
o 



C. ENELGUI performance criteria for                                                                                  (See table page 12 of 12 of
the project execution period                                                                                      this matrix
(1993-97)                              _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ ___                                           _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _  _  _ _ _
RI. Rural etectrification                                                      -  Study of the mini hydro plant
master plan
-  Construction of mini hydro
plants
- Establishment of decentralized
structures for extension of new
l___________________________       _ .sand  renewable  energy  technology   _
W
0



ENELGUI
Performance Criteria
INDICATORS                            1993                  1 1994                1995                  1996                  1997
Net production (GWh)                                         340                   340                   365                    470                  512
Tombo specific consumption of fuel (g/kWh)                    230                  230                   230                    230                  230
Tomdbo specific consumption -  Lubricants                      4.0                   3.5                   3.0                    2.5                  2.5
I(g/kWh)
Power available for sale (GWh)                               231                   255                   274                    371                  410
Billing (percent of power available for                       68                    75                    75                     79                   80
sale)                                                                                                                                                            t
Client a-counts expressed in days of sales                    83                    83                    83                     83                   83
(non-government)
No. of clients per employee                                   50                    60                    70                     80                   80
Net operating coefficient                                     90                    87                    84                     81                   82
General liquidity ratio                                         2.0                  2.3                   2.7                    2.3                   1.0
Self-financing ratio                                           -5                    5                    40                    58                    34
Metered clients                                           35,000               50,000                   100%                   100%                 100X
(D
F x
IX
O tj



- 60 -
Annex 1.8
Page 1 of 7
PROGRAMME DE REDRESS1EMENT DE ENELGUI
CALENDRIER DES ENGAGEMENTS
Pour la pdriode se terminant le 31 decembre 1992
(Annexe A I'Avenant no 2 du contrat d'assistance technique)
MODULE DES RESSOLJRCES HUMAINES
1.    Rationalisation de la main d'oeuvre - Finalisation de l'organigramme et du plan des
effectifs:
1.1   Plan des effectifs et ddtermination des besoins en main d'oeuvre pour chacune des
directions de 1'entreprise. (fdvrier 1 992)
1.2   8valuation sommaire des competences et expertises disponibles au sein de
chacune des directions (f6vrier et mars 1 992)
1.3    Dotation des postes avez les ressources disponibles correspondan.. aux besoins des
postes a pourvoir. (Mars Avril 1 992)
1.4   Finalisation de la liste des surplus de personnel, calcul des primes de separation et
preparation des dcssiers de licenciement et gestion du processus de compression
des effectifs. (Mars 1 992)
1.5    Encadrement et assistance au personnel ddplacd vers de nouvelles fonctions
1.6    Assistance a la Direction Generale et autres Directions en matiere de resolution des
conflits syndicaux, respect des dispositions du code du travail et formation d'un
Directeur de releve.
1.7   Etablissement progressif d'un esprit d'entreprise, repression soutenue de la fraude
et du laxisme et etablissement des dossiers disciplinaires pour les employes
refractaires.
2.    Rationalisation de la maind'oeuvre - Reduction du volume des effectifs pour
I'adapter au plan des effectifs:
2.1    Compression des effectifs pour les premieres 200 personnes deja identifiees.
(d4pOt de l'avis de licenciement au moment de la mise a disposition des fonds
ndcessaires au plan social; licenciements completes dans les 60 jours suivant cette
date.)
Note: La poursuite des compressionrs d'effectifs pour les ajuster aux volumes requis tels
Que definis dans le plan des effectifs se fera apres avoir consulte le MRNEE et le
CIS, sur la base d'une strategie de mise en application tenant compte de l'etat de
la situation sociale.
2.2    Engagement de 50 nouveaux employes pour combler des postes juges essentiels
pour le bon fonctionnement de l'entreprise en remplacement des employes
I;



Annex 1.8
- 61 -                             Page 2of7
inadaptds licencids (echelonnd sur la pdriode janvier 1 991 A juin 1 992).
2.3    Publication d'un ArrdtO nominatif de ddfonctionnarisation pour le 28 fevrier 1992.
Support requis:
-   1 Directeur Ressources Humaines expatrid A plein temps en Guinee jusqu'en Mars
1 992.
*   Mise A la disponibilitd de I'ENELGLjI par l'ttat d'un budget, hors d4penses
d'exploitation de I'ENELGUI, pour le paiement des primes de licenciement
economique, avant le ddclenchement des proc6dures de compression des effectifs
-   Le Gouvernement devra aider I'assistance technique A contrer les tentatives de
r4int4gration au sein de I'ENELG'Ji des employds licencids pour des raisons
disciplinaires ou economique.
MODULE DES ASPECTS FINANCIERS
3.    Etats financiers et budget d'exploitation
3.1    -   Rdconciliation et apuration de la dette A long terme de l'entreprise,
retrocession de ces dettes A l'ttat, (janvier 1 992)
3.2    -   ttablissement d'un programme de recapitalisation de l'entreprise en fonction
de la strategie de developpement A moyen et long terme du secteur
6nerg4tique. (juin 19921
3.3    -   Production d'etats financiers aptes a etre auditAs par un verificateur externe
au terme des exercices 1991 et 1992.
3.4    -   Finalisation de la compensazion des dettes croisdes entre I'ENELGUI, I' tat et
autres societes publiques. (fevrier 1 992)
3.5    -   Prdparation des budgets o'exploitation detaill4s pour l'exercice 1 992 avant le
31 janvier 1992.
4.    Sysuimes administratifs et comptables
4.1    -   Sdlection d'un systeme de gestion integre de 13 comptabi!itd gdnerale, de la
comptabilite budgetaire et de la gestion des immobilisations. (f4vrier 1 992)
Parametrisation et mise en place de ces logiciels avant juillet 92.
4.2    -   Saisie de 1'ensemble des donnees comptabies de l'exercice 1 992 et
production des ttats Financiers mensuels A compter de septembre 1 992.
5.    tquilibre financier d'exploihation,
5.1    -   Atteinte de I'equilibre financier d'exploitation de 1'entreprise au terme de
l'avare,;a I QQ 7 ;mneli,rnt lac rzrraz rv'amtrt?kqrmAnr at leties frnsj financiers.



- 62 -                               Annex 1,8
Page 3 of 7
5.2   -   Proceder a I'analyse mensuelle des coOts de production thermiques et
hydraulique ainsi que l'4volution de l'inflation et proposer les ajustements
tarifaires appropries pour maintenir la performance financiere de 1'entreprise.
Support requis:
-   Un Directeur financier expatrie A plein temps A Conakry.
-   Approbation de la compensation des dettes et creances croisees avec l' tat avant
la fin de janvier 1991.
-   Mise en application avant la fin de decembre 1991 de la proposition
d'augmentation tarifaire proposee par la Direction de I'ENELGUI dans son sixieme
rapport d'avancement.
-   Mise A la disposition de I'ENELGUI d'un fonds de roulement de 2,2 milliards de
francs guineens echelonne sur la p4riode decembre :991 A fevrier 1992 pour
renflouer la tresorerie de l'ENELGUI et permettre d'assurer le minimum de niveau
de service A la clientAle pr&oequis pour atteindre l'objectif prioritaire de I'equilibre
d'exploitation mentionnes en 6.1
MODULE COMMERCIAL
6.    Am6lioration des performances commerciales
6.1    -   Reduction de la perte non technique de 10 GWh d'ici le 31 decembre 1992.
6.2   -   Debranchement des clients en situation d'irregularite au rythme approximatif
moyen de 4000 debranchement par mois, jusqu'A la maitrise raisonnable des
branchements irreguliers. Suivi systematique des clients debranches et mise
en application de penalisations en cas de recidive (s).
6.3    -   Inspection syst4matique du reseau de Conakry pour confirmer le recensement
d'une clientAle totale estimoe A 50 000 branchements (38 000 clients actifs
actuellement enregistres) (31 Decembre 1992)
6.4   -    l6vation progressive de la performance de 1'entreprise au niveau de la
perception des comptes a recevoir pour atteindre un taux de perception
correspondant a 80% des mon,tants factures. (31 decembre 1992)
6.5   -   Abaissement du cycle de facturation moyen a 45 jours au 31 decembre 1992.
6.6   -   Installation de 20 000 compteurs supplementaires d'ici le 31 decembre 1992.
1 00% des compteurs de la client6le industrielle, des gros clients et du
gouvernement devront Atre installes avant la fin de avril 1 992.
6.7   -   Reduction de I'Age moyen des comnptes A recevoir de la clientele commerciale
de 120 jours A 70 jours avant le 31 decembre 1992.
6.8   -   Poursuite de l'effort d'encaissement des depots de Qarantie au rythme
approximatif de 70 A 80 millions de Francs GN par mois.
6.9   -   Verification et recalibration de 5000 compteurs d'ici le 31 decembre 1992.



- 63 -
Annex 1.8
Page 4 of 7
6.10  -   Normalisation des pratiques commerciales relatives a la gestion des comptes
clients saoot 1992)
Support requis:
-   Un Directeur Commercial expatrid a plein temps en Guinee.
-   Un Adjoint expatri6 technico-commercial supplementaire a plein temps en Guinde
en support au Directeur Commercial;
-   Mobil.sation et sensibilisation de l'appareil judiciaire aux questions relatives a la
rEpression de la fraude et de la pdnalisation destfraudeurs.
MODULE PRODUCTION ET TRANSPORT
7.    Utilisation optimale des unitEs thermiques
7.1   Priorite A la rehabilitation et a 1'exploitation des groupes Italiens en mode
d'exploitation au fuel lourd on unites de production de base (mars 1992).
7.2   Amelioration de la disponibilite opdrationnelle moyenne des groupes diesels de
l'usine Tombo II pour atteindre un niveau de disponibilit6 mdcanique de 75% (en
operation au mazout), au 30 juin 1992.
7.3   Amelioration de Ia performance energetique des groupes de TOMBO I et 11.
7.4   Transfert de la responsabilite de Ia suppervision des activites de production
thermique a Ia coopEration Allemande pour Mars 1992.
7.5   Planification des besoins prioritaires de restauration de certains rEseaux de
transport (juin 1992)
7.6   Integration des autres coopdrations dtrangares aux efforts coordonnes de
redressement.
Support requis:
-   Un accord avec les cooperations dtranghres Francaise et Allemande pour qu'elles
acceptent d'affecter un responsable en position hierarchique decisionnelle pour
assumer la responsabilitE de la gestion des activites de production thermique et
hydraulique, sous la supervision du Directeur General de 1'ENELGUI.
-   Conversion prioritaire (si juge Economiquement rentable) des anciens groupes de
TOMBO a un carburant alternatif on conformite avec les recommandations de
DECON. (ete 1992)
-   Utilisation occasionnelle de ressources techniques specialisdes pour des etudes et
appels d'offres requis pour co module.



- 64 -
Annex 1.8
Page 5 of 7
MODULE INGtNIERIE ET CONSTRUCTION
8.1    Mise en marche du plan des mesures d'urgence oour la rehabilitation des r4seaux
'   MT/ST. (Demarrage des travaux de construction en juin 1 992).
8.2   Integration des conclusions des diverses etudes techniques produites en rapport
avec la planification des equipements et support technique au Ministre des
Ressources Naturelles, des 8nergies et de l8Environnement pour la preparation du
plan de developpement energEtique de la Guinds. (fevrie. et mars 1 992).
8.3   Suivi et coordination du lancement des etudes de detail du programme de
rehabilitation et d'extension du reseau MT/BT de Conakry Horizon 1995 (Avril
1992).
8.4   Emission des appels d'offres internationaux pour la rehabilitation complEte (Phase
II) du reseau de distribution MT/8T de Conakry et gestion du processus de
negociation des contrats de services pour la rEhabilitation du reseau (Avril 1992).
8.5   ttude et commentaires du rapport de prefaisabilite relatif a la remise en etat, la
conversion et l'agrandissement de la capacite de production au diesel (Mars 1992).
8.6   Preparation des termes de reference et coordination du lancement des appels
d'offres pour la conversion eventuelle au fuel lourd des unites de production
thermiques de TOMBO I ou la mise en place de nouvelles capacites de production
au diesel.
Support requis:
un Directeur Production et Transport ou Ingdnierie et Construction pour assister
dans les deux modules precedents, expatries a plein temps en Guinee.
Compensation des dettes et creances approuvEs avant le 31 janvier 1992.
Budget de preparation et d'analyse des appels d'offre pour la rehabitation complete
(Phase Il) du reseau MT/ST de Conakry.
MODULE DE L'INFORMATIQUE
9.    Informatisation syst6mes d'informations de gestion
9.1    Mise en marche du syst6me d'informatique de facturation pour le 31 decembre
1991 pour la clientEle gouvernementale, commerciale et industrielle pour le 31
janvier 1 992 pour la clientele basse tension.
9.2   Preparation des cahiers des charges, des appels d'offres, selection du fournisseur,
acquisition des systEmes de gestion simples suivants:
-   comptabilite generale
-   gestion de la solde
9.3   Formation des utilisateurs des nouveaux systemes informatiques installes.
(30 juin 1 992)



- 65 -                           Annex 1.8,
Page 6 of 7
9.4   Support A I'exploitation du centre informatique et formation des operateurs du
systeme. (juin 1992)
9.5   Suivi de la performance de l'ordinateur et ajustements des capacites de mdmoire et
de traitement en fonction de l'augmentation de la charge de traitement,
Support requis:
-   Un Directeur Informatique expatrie A plein temps en Guinde
-   Un Conseiller adjoint junior en informatique A plein temps en Guinee jusqu'en fin de
mandat;
-   Un financement adequat pour I'achat de logiciels de gestion financiere
preprogrammes.
-   Assistance technique ponctuelle de type conceptuelle jusqu'en septembre 1 992;
*   Engagement de deux informaticiens Guineens avec bon potentiel de
developpement.
*   Assistance technique locale, remun4ree sur budget Enelgui, au besoin et jusqu'A
concurrence de 1 personne A temps plein;
MODULE DES APPROVISIONNEMENTS
10.1  Preparation d'une zone d'entreposage pour le materiel commande pour la
rdhabilitation du reseau et des capacites de production.
10.2  ttablissement des procddures de gestion des approvisionnement (AoGt 1992)
10.3  ttablissement des normes d'approbation pour la passation des marches
d'approvisionnement
10.4  lntegration des normes techniques des equipements electriques dans le systeme
des approvisionnements.
10.5  ttablissement d'une liste de fournisseurs accredites (Septembre 1992)
Support requis:
*   Un expert expatrie pendant 2 mois.
-   Des intervention ponctuelles techniques occasionnelles (2 personnes mois)
MODULE DE LA DISTRIBUTION
11.   Amelioration de l'efficacite du mesurage
11.1  Pose d'approximativement 2 000 compteurs de consommations electriques au



- 66 -
Ainex 1 .8
Page 7 of 7
compter du mois d'avril 1 992. (voir module commercial)
11.2  Inspection de 4 000 compteurs de consommations electriques au 30 septembre
1992
11.3  Inspection et mise en ordre ou remplacement de tous les compteurs industriels 30
avril 1 992.
Support requis:
LUn Directeur de la Distribution A plein temps en Guinee.
Un expert en mesurage et r4pression de la fraude A plein temps jusqu'A la fin de
1 992 (voir module commercial).
Un financement approuvd pour I'achat de compteurs et du matdriel logistique
complementaire et livraison du materiel avant le 1 mai 1991.
SUPPORT GiNERAL REQUIS:
Le suppport d'un Associe responsable du projet A 20 % de son temps.
Un Direzteur General A plein temps (agissant comme Directeur resident du projet).
La mise A disposition de I'equipe de redressement de toutes les enveloppes
budgetaires requises pour la mise A execution de tous les programmes d'action
prevus present document.
Los pleins pouvoirs de gestion et d'adm  sistration de r'Enelgui jusqu'A Ia fin 1992.
Engagement de deux (2) adjoints expatrids sur la base de contrats locaux et
supportes financi4rement par Enelgui.



- 67 -
Annex 2.1
Page 1 of 7
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
POWER II PROJECT
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
General
The project includes three distinct components: (a) an
institutional reform program including management support, and studies;
(b) the rehabilitation and expansion of distribution and production
facilities; and (c) technical assistance to GOG in completing the
privatization of the state-owned oil distribution company, and to
establish a regulatory capacity for the distribution of petroleum
products in Guinea. Details of each component are summarized below.
More detail is available for each component in the project files.
I.  Institutional Reforms, Manaaement Support. and Studies
This component will include consulting work and technical
assistance as follows:
1.1 Privatization Consultant. The activities of the
privatizition consultant, selected in March 1992, to assist the
Government of Guinea in implementing its disenaaaement nrogram
from the electricity sector, and the follow-up activities that
will be required during the period 1993-1995 and beyond. The
contract was signed in April 1992. The first phase to prepare
terms of reference, requests for proposals (RFP), and to
prequalify operating entities and management consulting firms, is
expected to be completed by September 1992. 'he second phase is
to assist GOG in the evaluation of the proposals and to conduct
contract negotiations with the best bidder. Phase 3 of the
consultant assignment is to follow-up on behalf of GOG with the
new operator. The professional service from internationally
recognized experts (managers/partners) amounts to approximately 7
man-months for phase 1 and 2, and 8 man-months for phase 3. These
highly qualified experts will be supported by other professional
and non-professional staff. The total cost of phases 1 and 2
amounts to approximately US$350,000 equivalent.
1.2 ENELGUI Manaaement Support. The continuation of the
activities of the joint venture (JV) of consultants and power
utility operators to supply senior managers for the line
management of ENELGUI during the period through end 1992. The
estimated manpower requirement for this component is 170 man-
months. The project provides for another four years for such
support but under new performance-based contract remuneration
conditions, for a total of 680 man-months. The cost for this
service is about US$'6,500 per man-month for the existing contract
and about US$17,000 per man-month for the future contractual
arrangements. Selection of the new operators will be done
following competitive bidding procedures and will include a bidder
prequalification stage.
1.3 ENELGUI Proiect Unit. Under the first Power Project, Cr.
1085-GUI, ENELGUI had set up a Project Implementation Unit named
"Directorate of Programs and Planning (DPP)" which is responsible
for project implementation. This Directorate will supervise all
construction activities under the project and will be supported by



- 68 
Annex 2.1
Page 2 of 7
a team of experts who shall act as the Owner's agent in all
matters of procurement, reporting, project management and
financial management, coordination with financing agencies, to
handle the details of all the obligations that .he Government of
Guinea will have assumed as part of the financing agreements.
This arrangement was discussed and agreed upon during the project
appraisal with GOG and all cofinanciars. The estimated manpower
requirement is 250 man-months, spread over the years 1993-1996.
The estimated cost per man-month is about US$16,000. Selection of
the team of experts will be done following Bank guidelines for the
use of Consultants.
1.4  Preparation of Next Proiect.  The hiring of consulting
engineering firms to carry out the following studies:
(a)   review of the hydroelectric resources of the Samou
river basin and of adjoining basins; with the
objective of determining if an expansion of the
existing production facilities is economically
justified. This is intended to compensate for the
loss of energy due to the diversion of water for the
municipal supply of Conakry, to counteract the loss of
storage capacity at the Baneah reservoir due to
siltation, and to fully utilize the water resources of
the basin. Estimated manpower requirement is 10 man-
months;
(b)   identification of the alternatives available to
improve management and electricity service of the
provincial systems of Fria, of Labe and/or Tinkisso,
under a decentralized (non-ENELGUI) scheme; and
(c)   engineering, including field work, for the next Five
Year construction program.  The total estimate_ man-
mont.hs for these studies is 100 man-months at a cost
of US$16,400 per man-month. Terms of reference for
these studies will be prepared by ENELGUI and reviewed
and accepted by IDA:
1.5   All Terms of Reference, letters of invitations, short list
of consultants, evaluation of the proposals, draft contracts and
any contract modifications, will be subject to prior review by
IDA. A summary of consulting services required and estimated
costs appears below (page 7 of 7)
II.   Rehabilitation and Expansion of Production Facilities
2.1   Rehabilitation of Tombo I and Tombo II Pcwer Stations. This
component provides for the rehabilitation of the Tombo I and Tombo
II plants (financed by KfW and Italian Aid) and includes
improvements to cooling equipment; new fuel treatment equipment;
environmental protection measures; supply of new generator step-up
20 kV switchgear (financed by CCCE and KfW); changeover of Tombo I
from gasoil to marine diesel fuel (financed by KfW); installation
of a third 5 MW heavy-fuel fired diesel unit at Tombo II (financed
by Japanese Aid); and the supply/installation of a communication
center (financed by KfW).
2.2   New Fuel Handlina and Storage Capacities.  All
the facilities required to handle and store the fuels for the
Tombo I (marine diesel), Tombo II (residual oil), and Tombo III



3 9
Annex 2.1
Page 3 of 7
(residual oil) are to be provided. These include:
(a)   unloading facility at the petroleum jetty of Conakry
harbor, a 10"  diameter pipeline between the jetty and
the Tombo plant, valves and traps an required, two
metering stationis, one on the harbor property, and one
at the receiving end. The pipeline would have an
approximate length of 2 km, and would run, in its
first section, above ground, along the three existing
oil pipelines from the jetty to the ONAH tank farm in
the harbor, bypass the ONAH facilities and from there
run underground along the right of way of the railroad
up to the Tombo plant. The pipeline would be used
both for transporting marine diesel fuel, and residual
fuel;
(b)   a tank farm with a storage capacity of approximately
90 days supply for the Tombo diesel plants. The total
storage capacity of the marine diesel tanks would be
approximately 6,000 m3. The total storage capacity of
the residual fuel tanks would be approximately 14,000
m3. The capacity would be divided between several
tanks. These would be located in the vacant area
adjoining the Tombo plant to the west, and would be
adequately protected against leaks, accidents, and
intruders;
(C)   metering facilities for the oil products within the
Tombo plant enclosure, including transfer pumps,
distribution pipes and shut-off valves to the
individual storage and day tanks of the plants; and
(d)   rearrangement of existing station enclosures and
roads, and construction of new enclosures to ensure
that the production facilities at Tombo are secure,
and self-contained. Other El.ELGUI departments who may
retain buildings at the Torabo site will be provided
with separate access.
2.3   New Production Facility. Tombo III  A new base load
production facility with a total rating in the range of 30-40 MW
would be installed at the Tombo site, and would be designated as
Tombo III. It would include:
(a)   a new power house with space and foundations for four
(4) diesel geierating units each with rating in the
range 10-14 hw, and with an erection bay. The power
house will include space for spares and stores, and
for all mechanical and electrical ancillaries,
including a control room with provision for a
dispatching and/or control center for the whole
Conakry-Kindia system. The civil works will include
the necessary access ro..ds, temporary or permanent
storage sheds and enclosures, cooling water intakes or
wells and any other building or construction work;



- 70 -
Annex 2.1
Page 4 of 7
(b)   three medium-speed diesel generating units will be
installed in the new powerhouse under this project.
The supply contract, however, will include an option
to purchase a fourth identical unit at a later point
in time. Each unit will be rated at not less than 10
nor more than 14 MW for continuous operation under the
prevailing conditions, at a speed not exceeding 500
rpm, and shall be capable of operating on the residual
fuel available in West Africa. The generators will be
designed for a power factor of 0.8. The electrical
output of the plant shall be at the voltage of 20 kV,
50 Hz;
(c)   plant auxiliaries will comprise all equipment required
for the satisfactory operation of the plant including
but not limited to: lifting facilities for erection
and for maintenance; fuel and lubricant treatment and
purification facilities; incineration and disposal
equipment for sludges and spent lube oils; any other
installation necessary for the protection of the
environment, main cooling facilities capable of using
seawater or brackish water as a primary coolant;
machine tools for repair and maintenance of the
equipment; and
(d)   the electrical installation shall comprise, besides
the equipment of the Tombo III powerhouse: the
extended new switchyard capable of handling the
outputs of the three Tombo powerhouses, the
interconnection with the rest of the system through
two high voltage transmission lines; operating either
at 60 or at 110 kV; new set-up power transformers and
switching equipment as required; the connection to the
new 20 kV switching facility controlling the
distribution feeders emanating from Tombo. The
control equipment at Tombo III shall include a
supervision feature of the whole system from Tombo,
and at least voice communication to all main
substations; the protection equipment shall include,
besides the standard devices, a frequency and/or power
dependent load shedding protection.
2.4   Service Contract for Tombo III.  The procurement
contract for Tombo III will include, as an option, a maintenance
and service contract for an initial period of five years,
renewable at the purchaser's option for two additional five year
periods. Under this contract, the supplier of the plant (which
will be procured under a modified turnkey contract) will be
committed to supply, and if so agreed, also provide, any and all
spare parts and factory overhaul supervision to ensure the
satisfactory operation of the plant during the life of the
contract.



- 71 -
Annex 2.1
Page 5 of 7
III. Transmission and Distr'.bution Components. Conakrv System.
(Financed by the African Development Bank, the Canadian
International Agency and the Caisse Centrals de Coop6ration
Economique)
3.1   A subtransmission and distribution master plan study was
carried out by consultants financed under the PPF to prepare this
component of the project. The study addressed the following
areast
(a)   diagnostic of the condition of the existing system;
(b)   area load forecast with a time horizon to year 2006;
(c)   definition of the technical criteria for system
planning;
(d)   definition of the areas requiring rehabilitation and
reinforcement on the system; and
(e)   finally, determine the least-cost master plan and the
investment needs year by year for the initial period
covering calendar years 1992-1995.
3.2   Rehabllitation and Reinforcement of the Distribution
and Subtransmission SvstemL
(a) Subtransmission System
(i)   new transformer at Matoto substation (60/20 kV-
50 MVA);
(ii) replacement of the 20 kV switchgear;
The existing switchgear is old and unreliable. The
additional transformer provides the only spare for the
substation. The cost of this component is about
US$2.8 million;
(b)   Medium Voltage Network
Provision of ties between the different 15-20 kV
feeders. This involves the installation of about 15
km of 20 kV cables at a cost of approximately US$1
million;
(i)   rehabilitation of all the getaway cables from
the substation;
(ii)  rehabilitation of the overhead lines including
all accessories (lighting arrestors, reclosers,
isolators, conductors, etc...). The total cost
of 3.2 b (i) and 3.2 (b) (ii) is estimated at
about US$0.75 million equivalent;
(iii) rehabilitation of a subtransmission line
supplying 2 villages (about 6.1 km from Conakry)
including the installation of new substation and
reinforcement of 3 lateral lines. Total cost:
about US$3 million.
3.3   Rehabilitation of MT/LT Substations.
(a)   About 166 substations need rehabilitation.  The major
rehabilitation work includeos



72  -
Annex 2.1
Page 6 of 7
(i)  replacement of the circuit breakers;
(ii)  replacement of the LT panels;
(iii) upgrade the transformers to higher capacity; and
(iv)  rehabilitation of the civil works;
(b)   installation of 4 new prefabricated unit substation
and 6 masonry substations. The total cost of this
reinforcement and rehabilitation is estimated at
US$4.6 million.
3.4   LT System.
This component covers the rehabilitation and reconductoring
of approximately 297 km of the principal feeders and
laterals, using to the extent possible the existing
poles/support structures. It includes the removal of
approximately 10,000 illegal connections. New hookups would
be provided for 8,000 single phase and 2,000 three-phase
customers. The total cost of this component is
approximately US$10 million.
3.5  Emeraency Rehabilitation Program.  Supplementary to the
1992-1995 rehabilitation program described above, an
emergency rehabilitation program covering critical
elements/bottlenecks of the HT and MT transmission system, in
Conakry is currently underway under CCCE financing. The
total cost of this program is approximately US$11 million.
3.6   Distribution Extensions.
Following the rehabilitation of the power system as
described above under item II and III, the project provides
for a limited expansion of the Conakry distribution system
(CIDA and AfDB financing). See table below:
1                                           '  " -',   '  ' '.  '   0 '. ' C ' ''- ,:,-,"'S ........ 0, ' :';' ,'.' ,, .. ... .~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. .   . .   . .   . . .
DESCRIPTlON               QUANnJTFIJ3          CS
Extensions                                            (US$ millions)
1. Overhead - medium voltage            26 Km              0.58
2. Underground - medium voltage         3 Km               0.21
3. Substations - medium voltage          120               2.12
4. Distribution network                 150 km             2.87
5. Customer hook-ups
single phase               16.000              1.82
thre-phase                  4.000             0.78
6. Transmission step-down substations
Transformer 30/40/50 MVA-1 1020 KV      1                1.02
20 KV switchgear                        1                0.65
Total                                       10.05



- 73 -
Annex 2.1
Page 7 of 7
Summary of Consulting Services Recruired and Eatimated Cost IL
.    ...   .,...   .  __   .__   _   .    _  __   .   ... n  ,   ..    ...   ..   .  __  _   _  _ .    ._. .. .   ..........
1. Joint Venture Management Contract                             170          16.5    2,800
(up to 12131/92)
2. Technical Assistance Pnivatization to implement 2/
Phase 1. Up to bid documents
Phase 2. Up to contract signature with                          7            43      300
new operator                                             7            43       300
Phase 3. PoUow-up implementation
8           43       350
3. Construction Supervision                                      250            16    4,000
4. Preparation of next project                                   110          16.4    1,800
5. Management contract 3/                                        680            17   11,600
TOTAL                                                _       1232                  21,150
1/     All consulting services, unless otherwise noted, wiU be obtained foUowing Bank Guidelines for
Use of Consultants (August 1981).
2/     Man-month includes only high level personnel. Cost includes travel and 6.penses.
3/     Management contract to be procured following International Competitive Bidding, and to
include bidder pr-qualifcation stage.
IV,    Technical Assistance to the Petroleum  Sector
Please refer to Annex 2.2 for details.



- 74 -
Annex 2L,
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF oUINEA
POWER IZ PROJECT
MONITORING OF PETROLEUM ACTIVITIES
(STORAGE, TRANSPORTATION, AND DISTRIBUTION)
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO THE GOVERNMENT
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Backaround
1.          The Republic of Guinea is totally dependent on imports to
meet its petroleum requirements, which amount annually to about 600,000
cubic meters. Approximately 50 percent of this amount is in the form of
heavy fuel and is used primarily by the mining sector. The mining
companies have their own jetties and storage tanks. Imports intended
for private consumers are received in Conakry. The white products ,etty
is connected to a storage facility by two pipelines which are each 1,100
meters long and respectively 8 and 10 inches in diameter, one for
gasoline, and one for jet fuel and gas oil. Corrosion in the lines, and
free access to them, result in safety hazards. The Conakry storage
facility has a total capacity of 35,000 cubic meters. Petroleum
products are tranaported by road in 98 tanker trucks, many of which are
in unsafe condition. There are 25 service stations in Conakry, and 125
stations are distributed throughout the rest of the country. The
majority of the stations are in unsafe operating conditions and/or
inoperable owing to insufficient maintenance services and spare parts.
2.          Before the end of 1990, the public agency, ONAH, held the
monopoly on importing and the distribution of petroleum products.
However, the Government's decision to divest itself from most public
enterprises led to the replacement of the ONAH by the Soci6te Guineenne
des P6troles (SGP), a joint venture between the Government (with 49
percent of the share') and a group of three international oil companies
(with the remaining 51 percent of the shares):   TOTAL, SHELL, and AGIP.
The pertinent joint venture agreement was signed on January 20, 1991.
3.          The evolution of negotiations and the situation in the field
have resulted in the following situation:
(a)   The transportation network for petroleum products in
Conakry ani the provinces have been sold to private
carrlers;
(b)   The operable stations have been provisionally leased
to private contractorsJ
(c)   According to Government planning, the final situation
(to be realized on or about July 31, 1992)
encompassest
(i)         Entry of four private foreign companies,
each of which owns about fifteen stations,
into distribution activities;
(ii)        Sale at public auction of 23 stations to
private Guinean companies, which will be
required to sign long-term supply



- 75 -
Annex 2.2
Page 2 of 4
contracts with the international companies
mentioned in paragraph 3. c. (i) above,
which will allow them to display the
colors of their respective companies; and
(iii)       No change in the existing system for
storage facilities, i.e., 51 percent owned
by the Government, and 49 percent owned by
the distributing companies.
4.          The Ministry of Natural Resources, Energy and Environment
(MNREE) oversees the technical aspects of petroleum sector activities.
The Minister has asaigned the Division of Hydrocarbons (DH), which is
under the authority of the National Directorate of Energy Sources, the
task of monitoring activities related to storage, transportation, and
distribution of petroleum products in Guinea. However, the Hydrocarbons
Directorate had hitherto been primarily involved in petroleum
exploration activities, and its staff lack the technical expertise
required to supervise downstream petroleum activities. IDA has agreed
to provide the Guinean Government with a credit, to address the issue of
creating the necessary regulatory capacity. The MNREE will act as the
executing agenicy.
obiectives and scope of the prciect
5.          The main objective of hiring the services of a consulting
firm (the firm) is to provide the Division of Hydrocarbons with the
required capability to monitor petroleum distribution activities carried
out in Guinea. The firm will be required to provide the following
services: (a) proposing the appropriate regulations, with a view toward
the enfc:cement of statutory measures which define this monitoring; (b)
providing technical assistance in the monitoring activities; (c)
training of Guinean staff to perform these activities; and (d) analyzing
the Ministry's irAstitutional capacity with regard to its fulfilling role
of overseeing petroleum operations in Guinea.
A.          P number of regulations for downstream petroleum operations
were enacted in December 1991. The firm will assist the Division of
Hydrocarbons in preparing detailed instructions to enforce these
regulations which deal with all stages in the supply chain, from receipt
of shipments, storage, transportation, and to the distribution of
petroleum products. The firm will also propose terms of reference for
the Division of Hydrocarbons, to define guidelines for managing its
monitoring and reporting function.
B.          Monitoring activities will include the following areas:
(i)         Safety of facilities, in particular
storage, transportation, and distribution:
all aspects of safety, including but not
limiteed to performing safety inspections;
n,onitoring the technical condition of the
facilities and the physical condition of
the trucks; verifying the absence of leaks
in the tanks; keeping the areas
surrounding storage facilities clean?
ensuring that the fire-fighting equipment
is in proper working order, etc.;
(ii)        Environmental protection, in particular
compliance with requirements pertaining to



- 76 -
Annex 2.2
Page 3 of 4
the service station sites, standards for
storage tank insulation, parking areas for
tanker trucks, access roads to the
stations, oil spills, etc.;
(iii)       Product quality control, consisting of
checking to ensure that the real octane
number matches the displayed information;
(iv)        Product quantity control at the different
transfer points: upon receipt of shipment
in Guinea; upon removal from the storage
facility; upon delivery to the service
stations, etc.
C.          The firm will also assist the Ministry in planning product
procurement so as to minimize costs over the medium and the long-terms,
and will train the staff of the Division of Hydrocarbons to perform
these duties in an open and transparent process, with a view toward
assisting the Government in supplying the foreign exchange needed to
purchase hydrocarbons at the appropriate time;
D.          The firm will assist the Division of Hydrocarbons in
establishing an appropriate training program for its staff. The
Government will appoint counterparts to work on the task which the
selected firm is required to perform. The training program will include
an orientation course in Conakry, and a few selected candidates will
attend courses abroad. The curriculum will encompass all areas
mentioned above, and in particular:
General concepts:
(a)   Commercial management, particularly with respect to
petroleum products at the international level, trade,
and the mechanisms which determine petroleum prices on
the domestic market;
(b) Mechanical maintenance for the equipment and machinery
used in oil depots and installations, especially
rotary equipment; and
More specialized concepts:
(c,   Safety rules and practices regarding bulk storagr,
handling, and transportation of petroleum produc_s;
and
(d)   Regulations and practices to mitigate environmental
impacts.
6.          This training program will include a schedule for the
different phases of instruction and the progressive replacement of
expatriates by local staff.
oualifications and Experience
7.          The firm should have a minimum of 15 years of proven
experience in the acquisition, bulk storage, sea and road
transportation, and distribution of petroleum products, as well as in
matters regarding the chomical quality of these products. It chould
possess similar experience in the marketing and retail pricing of



7 7-
Annex 2.2
Page 4 of 4
petroleum products. Experience in developing countries, particularly in
West Africa, would be considered advantageous. The consultants assigned
to the required tasks must have a knowledge of English and French.
Reportina
8.          Within a period of two months after the firm has appointed
the consultants, it shall submit a detailed training program for
Division of Hydrocarbons staff for approval. The firm will submit
quarterly and annual reports which focus particularly on (a) progress
r.ade by the Division of Hydrocarbons engineers in learning about
downstream petroleum activities, a field which is new to them; (b)
progress made in the project undertaken by private companies to
rehabilitate petroleum facilities; and (c) the extent to which the
entities involved in such activities comply with current regulations.
At the end of the assignment (with the exception of item (b) below,
which will cover a one-year period), the firm will submit a final report
which will include (a) an updated description of the petroleum sector in
Guinea; (b) the description of the skills acquired by the Division of
Hydrocarbons staff; and (c) pertinent recommendations which may suggest
that the staff acquire further experience with petroleum company
operations in Guinea. Recommendations concerning the institutional
reform of the MNREE, which is intended to ensure that the petroleum
sector is managed effectively, will be submitted within one year.
Duration of the Services
9.          The services of the consultants assigned by the firm are
expected to represent 28 man-mont..s during a period of 24-36 months from
the date IDA approves the project. One of the consultants will be
assigned to Conakry on a full-time basis for one year. He will occupy a
line position in the organizational structure of the Ministry, and will
work with the Chief of the Division of Hydrocarbons. This consultant
will report directly to the National Director of Energy Sources, and
will be given direct access to the Minister. His specific task will be
to establish the recommendations described in Paragraph 9 (b) above.
.A-c-23mg



REPUBLIC OF GUJINEA
POWJER :I PROJECT
DETAIL PROJECT COSTS
(US S MillIon)
1992      -    ---M -------   M    -------1993--99--.-199--1996 ---- ---19971--------TOTAL----
Loca; for.  TotaL  LocaLfor.  Total  Local For.  Total  LocaL For.  Total  Local For.  Total  Locat For.  Total  Local  For.   TotaL
A. GENERATION
1. Rehab. of Tombo I       0.00  0.00  0.00  0.54  2.14  2.68   0.80  3.22  4.02   0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00   1.34   5.36   6.70
Inc. Phys. Cont.        0.00  0.00  0.00  0.59  2.36  2.95   0.88  3.54  4.42   0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00  0.00  qJ.00   0.00  0.00  0.00   1.47   5.90   7.37
Inc. Price Cont.        0.00  0.00  0.00  0.61  2.45  3.07   0.96  3.83  4.78   0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00   1.57   6.28   7.85
2. Exp.of Tomb~o if        0.00  0.00  0.00  0.55  2,.22  2.77   0.55  2.22  2.77   0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00   1.11   4.43   5.54
Inc. Phys. Contl.       0.00  0.00  0.00  0.61  2.44  3.05   0.61  2.44  3.05   0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00   1.22   4.88   6.09
Inkc. Price Cont.       0.00  0.00  0.00  0.63  2.54  3.17   0.66  2.64  3.30   0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00   1.29   5.17   6.46
3. Constr.of Tcoeb  III   0.00  0.00  0.00  1.96  7.85  9.81   2.62 10.46 13.08   1.64  6.54  8.18   0.33  1.31  1.64   0.00  0.00  0.00   6.54  26.16  32.70
Inc. Phys. Cont.        0.00  0.00  0.00  2.26  9.03 11.28   3.01 12.03 15.04   1.88  7.52  9.40   0.38  1.50  1.88   0.00  0.00  0.00   7.52  30.08  37.61
Inc. Price Cont.        0.00  0.00  0.00  2.35  9.39 11.73   3.25 13.02 16.27   2.12  8.46 10.58   0.44  1.76  2.20   0.00  0.00  0.00   8.16  32.62  40.78 
4. Service Contract        0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00   0.06  0.54  0.60   0.12  1.08  1.20   0.12  1.08  1.20   n.30   2.70   3.00                   .
Inc. phys. Cant.        0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00   0.06  0.57  0.63   0.13  1.13  1.26   0.`13  1.13  1.26   0.32   2.84   3.15
Inc. Price Cant.        0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00   0.07  0.64  0.71   0.15  1.33  1.47   0.15  1.38  1.53   0.37   3.34   3.72
5. Fuel Storg & piping   0.00  0.00  0.00  0.19  0.56  0. 75   0.38  1.13  1.50   0.19  0.56  0.75   0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00   0.75   2.25   3.00
Inc. Phys. Cont.        0.00  0.00  0.00  0.21  0.62  0.83   0.41  1.21.  1.65   0.21  0.62  0.83    MU0L   0.00  0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00   0.83   2.48   3.30
I nc. Price Cont.       0.00  0.00  9.00  0.21  0.64  0.86   0.45  1.34  1.78   0.23  0.70  0.93   0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00   0.89   2.68   3.57
SubtotaL A.                 0.00  0.00  0.00  3.24 12.77 14 01   4.35 17.02 21.37   1.88  7.64  9.53   0.45  2.39  2.84   0.12  1.08  1.20  10.04  40.90  50.94
Inc. Phys. Cant.        0.00  0.00  0.00  3.66 14.44 i.10   4.91 19.25 24.16   2.15  8.71 10.86   0.50  2.64  3.14   0.13  1.13  1.26  11.35  46.17  51.52
inc. Price Cont.        0.00  0.00  0.00  3.81 15.02 18.83   5.32 20.82 26.13   2.42  9.79 12.21   0.59  3.09  3.67   0.15  1.38  1.53  12.28  50.09  62.38
S. TRANS & DISTRIB.
1. Trans. Rehab.            0.10  0.40  6.50  0.89  3.56  4.46   0.99  3.96  4.95   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0    1.9a   7.92   9.90 
Inc. Phys. Cant.        0.10  0.42  0.52  0.94  3.74  4.68   1.04  4.16  5.20   0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00   2.08   8.32  10.40                  cm
Inc. Price Cant.        0.10  0.42  0.52  0.97  3.89  4.86   1.12  4.50  5.62   0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00   2.20   8.80  11.01                  (t::
2. Distib. Rehab.&Exct.   0.34  1.06  1.41  1.36  4.25  5.63   2.07  6.38  8.44   1.72  5.31  7.04   1.38  4.25  5.63   0.00  0.00  0.00   6.90  21.25  28. 15                   0x
Inc. Phys. Cont.        0.38  1.16  1.54  1.51  4.66  6.17   2.27  6.99  9.26   1.89  5.82  7.71   1.51  4.66  6.17   0.00  0.00  0.00   7.56  23.29  30 85
inc. Price Cant.        0.38  1.16  1.54  1.57  4.85  6.42   2.45  7.56 10.01   2.13  6.55  8.68   1.77  5.45  7.22   0.00  0.00  0.00   8.30  25.57  33.87
Subtotal B.                 0.44  1.46  1.90  2.27  7.81 10.C0    3.06 10.34 13.40   1.72  5.31  7.04   1.38  4.25  5.63   0.00  0.00  0.00   8.88  29.17  38.05
Inc. Phys. Cant.        0.48  1.58  2.06  2.45  8.40 10.85   3.31 11.15 14.45   1.89  5.82  7.71   1.51  4.66  6.17   0.00  0.00  0.00   9.64  31.61  41.25
Inc. Price Cant.        0.48  1.58  2.06  2.55  8.74 11.28   3.58 12.06 15.63   2.13  6.55  8.68   1.77  5.45  7.22   0.00  0.00  0.00  10.50  34.37  44.87



REPUMLIC OF WINIA
POWER II PROJECT
DETALR PR0JECT COSTS
CUS S fillion)
I ....-- 1992 ------ ----- 1993 ...-.... 1994 ------ ---- 1995 ...-.. .. 1996 ------ ----- 199? ------ -------TOTAL-----
Locat For. Total LocalFor. Total Local For. Total Local For. Total Local For. Total  Local For. Total  Local For.  Total
.....  ...    .....     ..........  .....     .....  .. .  . .. ... ...  .. .    ....     ...,..   ..   ..   ..   ..    ..     ..
C. INEIRAL PLANT
Niscellenaous        0.09 2.26 2.36 0.06  1.51  1.57  0.13 3.01  3.14  0.03 0.75 0.79  0.00 0.00 0.00   0.00 0.00 0.00  0.31  7.54  7.85
Inc. Phys. Cant.     0.10 2.29 2.39 0.06  1.53  1.59  0.13 3.06 3.19  0.03 0.76 0.80   0.00 0.00 0.00   0.00 0.00 0.00  0.32  7.65   7.97
Inc. Price Cant.     0.10. 2.29 2.39 0.07  1.59  1.66  0.14 3.31  3.45  0.04 0.86 0.90   0.00 0.00 0.00   0.00 0.00 0.00  0.34  8.06  8.39
D. INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT
1- Training              0.00 0.00 0.00 0.03 0.27 0.30  0.03 0.27 0.30  0.03 0.27 0.30  0.03 0.27 0.30  0.03 0.27 0.30  0.15  1.35  1.50
Inc. Phys. Cont.     0.00 0.00 0.00 0.03 0.30 0.33  0.03 0.30 0.33  0.03 0.30 0.33  C.03 0.30 0.33   0.03 0.30 0.33  0.17  1.49   1.65
Inc. Price Cent.     0.00 0.00 0.00  0.03  0.31  0.34  0.04 0.32 0.36  0.04  0.33 0.37  0.04 0.35 0.39  0.04 0.36 0.40  0.19   1.67   1.86
2- Privatization Cons.   0.17  1.49  1.65 0.23 2.08 2.31   0.20 1.78  1.98  0.03 0.30 0.33  0.03  0.30 0.33   0.00 0.00 0.00  0.66  5.94  6.60
Inc. Phys. Cont.     0.18  1.63  1.82 0.25 2.29 2.54  0.22 1.96 2.18  0.04  0.33 0.36  0.04 0.33 0.36  0.00 0.00 0.00  0.73  6.53  7.26
Inc. Price Cent.     0.18  1.63  1.82 0.26 2.38 2.64   0.24 2.12 2.36  0.04 0.37 0.41   0.04 0.38 0.L2   0.00 0.00 0.00  0.76  6.88  7.65
3- HNwagment Support    0.24 2.16 2.40 0.16  1.44  1.60  0.16  1.44  1.60  0.16  1.44  1.60  0.08 0.72 0.80  0.00 0.00 0.00  0.80  7.20  8.00
Inc. Phys. Cant.     0.26 2.38 2.64 0.18  1.58  1.76  0.18  1.58 1.76  0.18  1.58  1.76  0.09 0.79 0.58   0.00 0.00 0.00  0.88  7.92  8.80
Inc. Price Cant.     0.26  2.38 2.64  0.18  1.65  1.83   0.19  1.71  1.90  0.20  1.78  1.98  0.10 0.93  1.03  0.00 0.00  0.00  0.94  8.44  9.38
4- Prep. of next Invt.   0.00 0.00 0.00 0.06 0.54  0.60  0.06 0.54 0.60  0.06 0.54 0.60  0.06 0.54  0.60  0.06 0.54  0.60  0.30  2.70  3.00                      1
Inc. Phys. Cant.     0.00 0.00 0.00 0.07 0.59 0.66  0.07  0.59 0.66  0.07 0.59 0.66  0.07 0.59 0.66  0.07 0.59  0.66  0.33  2.97  3.30                       4
Inc. Price Cant.     0.00 0.00 0.00 0.07 0.62 0.69  0.07 0.64  0.71   0.07 0.67 0.74   0.08 0.69 0.77   0.08 0.72  0.80  0.37  3.35   3.72                   4
5- Essential Serv.UNat.  0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 2.27 2.27  0.00 2.27 2.27   0.00 2.27 2.27  0.00 2.27  2.27  0.00 0.00 0.00  0.00  9.06  9.06
Inc. Phys. Cant.     0.00 0.00 0.00  0.00 2.27 2.27   0.00 2.27 2.27  0.00 2.27 2.27  0.00 2.27 2.27  0.00 0.00 0.00  0.00  9.06  9.06
Inc. Price Cont.     0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 2.36  2.36   0.00 2.45 2.45  0.00 2.55 2.55   0.00 2.65 2.65   0.00 0.00 0.00  0.00  10.00  10.00
.....  .....  .....    ..........  .....    .. .  .. .  ....   .....  .....  .....    .....  .....  .....     .....  .....  ..... ... ... ...
Subtotal 0.             0.41  3.65 4.05 0.48  6.59  7.08  0.45 6.30 6.75  0.28 4.81  5.10  0.20 4.09 4.30   0.09 0.81  0.90  1.91  26.25  28.16
Inc. Phys. Cant.     0.45 4.01  4.46 0.53  7.03  7.56  0.49 6.70 7.19  0.31  5.07 5.38  0.22 4.27 4.50   0.10  0.89 0.99  2.10 27.97 30.07
Inc. Price Cant.     0.45 4.01  4.46 0.55  7.31  7.86  0.53 7.25  7.78  0.35  5.70 6.05  0.26  5.00 5.26  0.12  1.08  1.20  2.26 30.35 32.61
E- PETROLELU  COMPOMENT    0.00 0.00 0.30 0.08 0.68 0.75   0.08 0.68 0.75  0.00 0.00 0.00  0.00 0.00 0.00   0.00 0.Sb  0.00  0.15   1.35   1.50 
Inc. Phys. Cent.     0.00 0.00 0600 0.08 0.74 0.83   0.08 0.74 0.83  0.00 0.00  0.00  0.00 0.00  0.00   0.00  0.05  0.00  0.17  1.49   1.65   lb
Inc. Price Cant.     0.00 0.00 0.00 0.09  0.77 0.86  0.09 0.80 0.89  0.00 0.00 0.00  0.00 0.00  0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00  0.18   1.58   1.75    >
TOTAL BASE COSTS        0.94  7.36 8.31  6.13 29.36 35.49  8.06 37.34 45.40  3.92 18.52 22.44  2.03 10.73 12.76   0.21  1.89 2.10 21.29 105.21 126.50    "'
TOTAL INC. CONT.        1.02  7.88 8.91  7.06 33.43 40.48  9.65 44.23 53.88  4.93 22.90 27.83  2.62 13.54 16.15  0.27 2.46  2.74 25.55 124.45 150.00    0
Total Phys. Cant.      0.08 0.52 0.60 0.66 2.78 3.43  0.87 3.55 4.42  0.46  1.84 2.30  0.21  0.84  1.05   0.02 0.14  0.15  2.29  9.67  11.95
Total Price Cant.      0.00 0.00 0.00 0.27  1.29  1.56  0.73  3.34 4.07  0.55  2.54 3.09  0.38  1.97 2.35   0.05 0.44  0.49   1.98  9.57  11.54
.....   ...., .....    .... ..     .....  ....     ....     .....    .....  ....     .....  --   - -   --  ....     .....  ..... ... .. . . ..
Total Contingencfes    0.08 0.52  0.60  0.93  4.06  4.99   1.60 6.89 8.48   1.01  4.38  5.39   0.59  2.81  3.39   0.06  0.57  0.64   4.26  19.24  23.50
.6 R A N D   T 0 T A L    1.02  7.88 8.91 17.06 33.43 40.48  9.65 44.23 53.88 | 4.93 22.90 27.83 | 2.62 13.54 16.15 | 0.27  2.46  2.74 125.55 124.45 150.00
3_33 3333  333  3=s33  33333             33333 3233 3 in    =S   ==      3== ===== 33 X=3=  ==== =====  ===   ===  ====
07-Apr-92
03:44 PM
FN:GUIUEACO   IVSTENT 11 T I TOTAL 5.9X                 27.0m             35.9X              18.6X             10.8X               1.81                100X
AFIIE:SVLGI.                                         -                                _



Annex 2.4
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
POWER II PROJECT
PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
Adequate cofinancing is available to cover the foreign
exchange coat of the project as indicated below:
(a)   the European Investment Bank (EIB) has agreed to provide a
credit to GOG of up to ECU 20 million (US$26 million
equivalent) to jointly finance with IDA the extension of
Tombo diesel plant (Tombo III) and a service contract; EIB
would also finance an additional heavy fuel storage tank at
Tombo and a pipeline of approximately 2 kilometers in length
from the port of Conakry to the Tombo station;
(b)   the African Development Bank (AfDB) with the Government of
Canada (CIDA) are to provide a credit to GOG of up to
US$25.6 million equivalent to finance 1O0% of the foreign
exchange cost of the distribution system rehabilitation,
reinforcement and extension;
(c)   the Government of Germany is to provide funding through KfW
and GTZ. KfW is providing up to DM 10 million (US$6.7
million equivalent) to finance the foreign exchange
component of the Tombo I diesel plant rehabilitation,
conversion of the plant to operate on marine diesel, the 20
kV switchgear at Tombo I, environmental protection measures,
and a dispatching center. GTZ in financing through the
third quarter of 1993, approximately 26 man-months of
technical assistance at the Tombo generating station;
(d)   the Government of France (CCCE) is to provide the GM FF55
million (US$11 million equivalent) to finance the
rehabilitation and extension of the transmission and sub-
transmission systems and studies for the sector;
(-)   the Government of Japan has proposed to provide GOG a credit
of about US$5.0 million equivalent to finance a 5 NW diesel
unit at Tombo It;
(f)   the US Government has agreed to provide GOG a credit of
about US$1.0 million to finance management support to
ENELGUI during the privatization stage; and
(g)   the Commission of the European Community, through its
European Development Fund, in to provide GOG a credit of
about ECU 6.145 million (US$7.0 million equivalent) to
finance metering and other urgently required materials to
support the 1992-1993 management restructuring program.
Part of the credit (ECU 4.145 million) is to be in
eoncessionary terms, and the remainder (ECU 2 million) in to
be a grant.
The cofinanciers are expected to arrange parallel financing in direct
negotiatlon wLth GOG within the framework of the overall program. An
exception is 313, which will cofinance joLntly the Tombo 11 generation
expansion capacity. A tabulation of the above cofinancing arrangment
li summarized on page 2 of 2.



- bsi -
Annex 2-4
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA                              ---------
------------------                              Page 2 of 2
POWER 11 PROJECT
PROJECT FINANCING PLAN (USS miLLions)
TOTAL
PROJECT COMPONENTS I COST   |ENELGUT AfDB    CCCE    CIDA       EIB     FED     IDA    JAPA4  KFW/GTZ  USAID
I I
Rebab. Tombo I           7.79 j 1.56                                                             6.23
I         I
Exp. Tombo          I   6.46    1.48                                                     4.98
I         I
Constr. Tombo III   I  42.75    3.32                            22.33           17.10
I         I
Fuel Stor.& Piping       3.56 I 0.89                             2.67
I         I
Const. Nanagt & Spn j   4.71    0.46                                             4.25
I         I
Transmission works      11.10 I                 11.10
I   .     I
Distribution works      33.90 I 8.30   16.95             8.65
I         I
General Plant           14.80    0.59                                    7.00    7.21
I 
Training                 3.60    0.36                                            3.24
I         I
Privatization Cons. j   1.05 I 0.10                                              0.95
I         I
Management Support      16.44    1.64                                            14.80
I         I
Prep. of next Investl    2.17 I 0.22                                             0.95.                    1.00
I         I
Petrrteum Component      1.67   0.17.                                            1.50
I         I
IDC                 r   4.84    4.84
I         I
TOTAL        j 154.84 I 23.93   16.95   11.10    8.65   25.00    7.00   50.00    4.98    6.23    1.00
SRM/FINPLAN
10-Jun-92



PtmUPwuc or ouxuu
PO1R II PIOITWZ
Project I-plementation Schedule
L: .: .:cakP.o;j.                          1992.    I'1 1993             1994i  1 995                            Iil
a. oEEaYIoN
*  RehabilitAtion of Tombo I
*  Expansion of Tombo ll (+SiW)
*  Tombo  rinS PrequalificatLon
Bid/contract award
Phase I
Phase II
Service Contract
B. TRANSMISSION!& DISTRIIUTION.
*  Transmission RehabilLtation
*  DistrLbution Rehab/Extension
C. OENERAL PLSNT  ___ __ _O_O_S_S_TO_O_9
D. INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT
*  Training
*  PrivatizatLon Consultants
a  ENELCUI Management Support
|a Preparation of next Investment
a EssentLal Services & Materials
E B. PLTROtI COMPONENT
.



- 83 -
Annex 2.5
Page 2 of 7
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
POWER II PROJECT
A.    Reporting Requirements
Project execution will be monitored to record progress against the
implementation schedule, identifying any corrective action that may be
required in respect of individual components. Reporting is the
responsibility of ENELGUI for the investment components and GOG for the
institutional restructuring component. Reports will be prepared
quarterly and will comprise a financial section recapitulating project
expenditures, a section assessing the progress of each of the programmed
activities by reference to the implementation schedule, and an
evaluation of progress made.
B.    Supervision Plan
Careful coordination and frequent IDA supervision missions
particularly in the early years of the Project will be required.
Subsequent to the fielding of the nrew operational partner for ENELGUI,
supervision frequency may be decreased to twice yearly. Expected skill
requirements would include financial, economics, engineering,
institution building, procurement and training. A mission in 1994 will
perfo.- a mid-term review. The PCR will be prepared in 1997.
Approximate            Activity                   Expc"ted Skill       Staff input
date                                           Rcquircnicnts       (staff
weeks)
8-9/92     Project Launch WVorkshop    P6wer Engineer, Procurement,      11
Disbursement, Economist, Financial
Analyst and Petroleum Specialist
11-:2/92    Supervision mission (Rcvicw  Power Enginecr, Financial Analyst,  4
Project Management)        Economist
4-5/93     Supervision mission (first  Power Engineer, Financial Analyst,  7
meeting with management     Economist, Petroleum Specialist
contractor)
10-11/93    Supervision mission         Powcr Engineer, Financial Analyst,  6
Training Expert
4-5/94     Supervision mission         Power Engineer, Financial Analyst  4
10-11/94    Supcrvision mission         Power Enginecr, Financial Analyst  4
10-11/95    Mid-tcrm review             Power Engineer, Economist,        10
Financial Analyst, Institutional
Petroleum Specialist
4-5/95     Supervision nmission        Power Engineer, Financial Analyst  4
4-5/96     Supervision mission         Power Engineer, Financial Analyst  4
10-11/97    Final supervision mission   Power Engineer, Economist,        8
Financial Analyst, Institutional
Analyst
__L



.
R5PUBlIC or GUINNA
POWBR II PRWBCT
Prolect Imnleaentation Sehedule
b "                                       9                                             . 2  _  _ 9  3            1          *    1        21 5 4              1          S        11 5
,,~~~~        ~~~ ~~~~ I1 of site 11 12 1                                                               10111 1                          7    1I!0 R1 *2  2 3                            1- 1l
B-  Selection of op.ue.d Pon?
9        Isue whoi"g_-P ito lend1l1 ,1
32      - P.epwain  of ontendsen                                         t.
II       Tonder sssesam?nt o  ,.comrTond!don|
12        Approvai of 'tcomnIndollonii
13       Conlract neotain
14       SIgnmture ofcontracl
15       A.cem..1 of Padis
lB       Ov!#I'aul
I?          O roupt1  3690 h
IS          Group?2 - Raprn.r
I     O roup Z  6000 h
20          Group 4 - SW0 h
22     Ovo,theulat oGMT5 groups
23        R.eleFing of Paris.0
28          So[n  .k
30          Modification of auxiWaad..
32 Ntokmanegon,.nt stolon.
33       Props.. pro - qusltficalion TOP
35       APprotaf oIIORI
36       Suborf sefon of shod hoted suppliers
37        Approvaml of shorl holed supphlws
38        aisue InWoftton to londer
39       PrapoosUon of lenders
40        Tend, a.sssom.mni 8   oreomend tone
41        A4preova of recommnendatIon.
42        Conhroc ngotoIation
43        SIgnalure of contract
44        DetaiLfd_aludy &pr"mapar n of TOR
45    pflmfllof of sotullons     
451       Apptovsl all TOR too detailed study  -
I.,ulmtonleto lendr-
Peg* 1                               02- Jun -02



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
POWER II PROJECT
Proiect Implementation Schedule
NFt     - POWER N_   __                                                                                                                                   __.                  _ .=
|~~~~~~~~o Items'                                   1"    9 9                                   1l 9                                                                                  1                ;sc
7il  lvElep  T    -ST   -91    -1 i    I   1-  3   4 1  0   -W if -m  i   inl   ii   I   r  j0j r |0I  I   12   1   2   3 I    8    ? I  I1   09 I!i     1 t
9          A rone lendersand vi.m to
_ S Mf'OCONVERSION
58   - -ois tle stdud e   r|   lion j i a  TOjq!
- .. !paration a1 tend...   ____
_j end., sesessmnent  roconrmnda one
so     Appyov    ec recmmendationo_
el     Contract nagoitlston
02    -Signurutwof contract
coc,lu-clio-n                                                                                                  l
84~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*4
is   CONYEASION4 TO  UEL OIL
"   . ~  !d sIrjr
6?   - OtrIz.ortn of eoutlons
06   ubnh TON for opprovst
69 - Appe~Ovof 1 OR to, d.tefled stu.dy
70     Delsksd technlcst study
71     quymnfl TOR for approvsal
72--Approio ?TOR      .
13   UbTll sho isnt of supplir
74 Ap.v  of hort get of suppNiers
75     Issues trwtton to tander
18  reaislo  ofteonders - 
78 Adprove9sof ,.& tcornmsnndtions
79  .  Contact negobtlelons
80     Slj[fs!TuPI coi cntre 
81 Coneerson    -         -           .
- 4                    iedreesrrnt ! rec?rn.nend.t85s
jj     C o f r?SqTnglstns    __  -.ll. 
Po" 2                                02-.u-92                                                                                                                                                              - '



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
POWER II PROJECT
Proiect Imnplementation Schedule
ESE LOtt   -  POW!AE   Itt_            __  _  _  _  __   _   _  __   _  _ _
JobNme                                9        _ _                           .                                  .9   _                                       
l _IS   SutmhORh epEov                            X_            :    -;|;A 
9- AppnoA___j________
l      o SuAro4e of eulORtr    __________
12 -                              2-- -d.   Je n  - t
too     F oteln.91 a .ulon. e
10   iognurecol ontro
fle'Ipo~sll  tepce               -
Sp     ToIInndo e,sseiiecm*cain
t~      !eblgjmtu!!a!cnvm
15i A- SuvbngO Sof opueevel
_r -- ubllsho.lllfspl;                          
12      Sou - App.oeo etro. l .1spe. 
120  -.PosilmintIeFcfplenc.,
121i    _ Tend.; 'S-olneeeent   comdos
122 - -V-RAppovL oWF U.TomN,NdeltOne
06~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
137     qont;ecl negollteions
138       SIgneuse  of conhieci
125       Appcs vpg   of   TAt qu pn.nI Rcil
Pegm 3                            02sleun-I2
127 - __~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
128  - Pe.Urnlnsryeccepaence ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~
529   - !'i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ecceplence ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~        ~        ~        ~        ~       ~        ~       ~       ~       ~      ~       f



5L10 OF OIi&1    0 
i i -3                                                                                                                                                                     - 1   1- 0 s , l l t r i , , ,   1 3 4 ,li  i   i   i   4
145                                                                      -      -
146  _ _  ~a~BLK            docuo4ije
mihUo   A I n Se.  lo!oaud
141         Pu2m.              -Pemele
150         Tei,eMWe4  ecmmndsoqml
'53 ----s1gbneocoi.esl.upf2                 _____
154    - -_                                _   _   _
'575
iii   R J H                          _      _     _
oSaEcgimwN CuF COHNST
IU1    roum* TOR lot E..ov  Cason_______
66 A.sesoe.rng aebsociln ol lnd...                                                                                                                                                                   c
t"l    loev* TOR- Meow. TulnjLFnye
I5Fe    beum. lm4bone to tend.. - Md.       ___
'7  Cnec1n W  "odlc* wil con~*g
-- A   aqved hIJes!u.?of ci onktc 
1 _6 AWILRTRAAIIo PLAN-                          .-
1ig    A  3JWi    k.mntof
A"-
iii    -_                        02uIU nc!S-edeme __ _ _ _ __ _ -    .  . -  ---                                                                  .  --            .                  2        
~~q  EduceIced delopm.nl   .   - ____-- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~     ~    ~



REPUBL C OP GUTNEA
POWER II PROJECT
Proleet  mDleeltatson Schedule
-H                        ,.W                              ... ________________......                                                         .                                _
-   t.H9 L1.222 4    1719              1 111 1            3    i  9                        234   56 9         319 11
6   7 *  eloll12   1 1   -4--p  - j    -moi--ri2    2T3 irr ?  81911011112   213   15        
13<2   Idmea1Igjumoq
la4    SdEvc gim n d   caItdi
illo fAOLmES                  ________
M T                                 _  _ _  _
20   R !Ls                         _ _ _-.        -         - 
id  -j.m'-.-'          - - *                      ..-     -  .-           . -
217
;20   _-a wt   m      la_- -                                                                                                                                             - -  -   -
so gnew                  02  a



- 89 -
Annex 2.6
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
POWER II PROJECT
Estimated Credfit isbursements
(USS M illon)
IDA Fiscal Year            Durinq                       IBRDIIDA
and Quarter Ending         Quarter /a  Cumulative       Profie %,l/b
93-II  Dec.  92              1.50  /c      1.5              3
III Mar.  93              1.50          3.0              6
IV  June  93              3.00          6.0             12
94-I   Sept. 93              3.00          9.0             18
II  Dec.  93              2.00         11.0             22
III Mar.  94              2.00         13.0             26
IV  June  94              4.00         17.0             34
95-I   Sept. 94              4.00         21.0             42
II  Dec.  94              3.00         24.0             48
III Mar.  95              3.00         27.0             54
IV  June  95              3.00         30.0             60
96-I   Sept. 95              3.00         33.0             66
1I  Dec.  95              2.00         35.0             70
III Mar.  96              2.00         37.0             71
IV  June  96              2.00         39.0             78
-97-I  Sept. 96              2.00         41.0             82
II  Dec.  96              2.00         43.0             86
IIr Mar.  97              2.00         45.0             90
IV  June  97              2.00         47.0             94
98-I   Sept. 97              2.00         49.0             98
II  Dec.  97              1.00         50.0            100
/a  Assumes Credit Effectiveness by September 1992.
/b  IBRD/1DA Loans, Africa Region, Power Sector, adjusted for the
PPF advance.
/c  rncludes refunding of PPF Advance.



- 90 -
PWI.TC W  OMUIA                                           ANNEX   3.1
PaI 11  CECT                                             Page     of 2
E>tLWI FIMCIAL PROJCTIO
........ ............................. 
Nlstoricat 6 fowecast.0enretIin
C-)
A U O I T I D             W810t    8UOG T              f O A I C A $ T
...................            ............................    ......  ................. ......................................................-....* ... ..-
198S      1989       lWO        1991       1992        1993       1994      1995       1996        1997
....      ....       ....       ....    .  ....       ....                  ....   .   ....        ........ ..... ..... ..  .....
Hydra
.Sacu                            163       175        151        171         18O        160        ISO       180        180         180
.Klnkon                                      3          a          3           5
.Tlnklsso                          4                    4          5           I                  -
G Garaffrt                                           .          .          .                      .
. Kaleta                                             - .                
..,......................  ................................................................................................. ................
Totil Hydra                         171        182        193        179        190        180        1O        180         180        180
Thermal
.T obo 1                          68        72          a         3           47        110        110       110         9f          53
.To II It5 a0                                                                            50 s0                7n         100        100
.Smll Towns                        5         5                     6           6 4                -
; Other Interlor                                                               2        -
, Power Purchas                                                               1I
, Tombo  11                                                                                                              95         179
Total ThermaI                     73        77          69         70        106        160        160       16S         290        3!2
TOTAL PROOUCTION                    243       259         262        249        296        340        340       365         470        512
Ill. LOSSES
Technfcal  losses (T.A 0.)           30X        28X        27X        21X        20X        20X         19X       19X        16X         15X
Non Tech al  Losss                    15X       12X        15X        19X        16i         12X         6a        6X         5X         5X
.................................................................................................
Sub-total                          431       40X         42K        40X        36X        32X        25X        252        21X        20X
tdjustments due to
31lIlng Cycle                                              S         131         OX         ZX
TOTAL                             45X       40S         37X        27X        8 X        30a        25X       25X         21X        20X



- 91 -
kEPUStIL OF GUINEA                                       ANNEX   3.1
POWER It PROJECT                                        Page 2  of 2
ENELCUI FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
......... ............................... 
Historical VWd Forecast Fuet Cost  Conwquiptio
A U O I T E D           REVISED      BuDtET          F O R E C A S T
,....................................... .....   . ......  .....   .... ......................................  ............................................,
1988      1989      1990       1991       1992       1993       1994       1995       1996       1997
. .... ..... .. ....... .. .......  ....   .....  ....   .....  ....   .....  ....
Fuel Coiiumptfon (tons)
..............................
Conakry- dfesel                      15,548   16,500    14,490    12,588         2,251
- FueL Btend I/                                                          9,284    25,300    25,300   25,300    21,850    12,190
- Bunker C                                                    3,490    10,529    1,000    11,000   16,500    42,900    61,380
Smil Towns -Diesel                    1,058    1,127       1,380      1,260      2,629
Total Diesel COOOliters)             20,077   21,311    19,187    16,742         5,900
Total Fuel Blend  OOOlfters)                                                    11,224    30,588    30,588   30,588    26,417    14,738
Total Bunker C (O0Oliters)                                            3,769    11,371    11,880    11,880   17,820    46,332    66,290
Total Diesel S.T.( OOliters)                                                    3,175
Total Fuel Cost (OOOOOOGF)              4,910    7,470       7,884      9,406    12,350    14,895    15,142   15,987    17,243    14,16?
ipecific Consumptfon (Q/kWh)
................ .................... ,........_
Conakry- Fuel Blend                      230       230        230        230       230        230        230       230        230        230
-Bunker C                       220       '20       220         220       220        220        220       220        220        220
Small Towns                             230       230        230        230        300        300        300       300        300        300
..... .   .....     .....  .  . .....    .....   .  . .....    .....        .         .. .....  ..... ........... .. ........... ..
Wverag fuel cost (GF/liter)
..................................
Conrkry-Special  Diesel                 245       351        407        544        445        451        458       465        472        480
-Bunker C                                              83         80         as         92         95        99        103        107
Small Towins                            245       351        407        544        700        805        926    1,065       1,224      1,408
lote: 1/ Blend of Re*idual Fusl (Al (API #2)



- 92 -
EP.tIC OF GUINEA                                 ANNEX 3.2
PawmR II PR0JEC:
ENELGUI FINACIAL PROJECTIONS
Print date and tim.
Historical ard Foracat Revene
A U D t T E D        REVISED    UWO?                      FO  R E C A S T
.............. ..................................... ........ ...........    ....  ...... ....................................... .........
1988    1969      1990      1991      1992      1993      1994    1995      1996      1"7
....    ....      ....      ....  .  .. ....    ....  .  .. ....  ....   .  ....      ........ ..... .......... ..... ..........
Sates (IAh)
...........
Conakry
Gov"rrnt                         45,945  46,869   51,000   41,79        5,869   47,520   49,231   51,003    52,839   54,742
Low VoltagS                      61,7   83,007   84,788   85,971   102,992   129,278   139,987 151,901   220,688  246,765
NodifL Vlttage                    3,192   4,999      5,432    33,433   40,052   50,275    54,439   59,073    85,823   9f,964
0oK                              17,690  17,690    16,200    10,638    10,527    10,927    11,342   11,773    11,950    12,129
...... ...... ......  ...... ......  ......  ...... ......  ...... ......
Conakry Total                 128,607  152,565   157,420   171,840   199,440   238,000   255,000  273,750  371,300  409,600
hsll Towna (L.V.)                 7,071    7,862    11,430    10,220   12,240
Tntal Salos                   135,678  160,427   168,850   182,060  211,680   238,000   255,000 273,750  371,300   409,600
Sales (OF ailtfain
......................
Cor.cry
Goverwnt                          6,837   5,500    6,500       7,200    7,889    8,991      9,687   11,039    11,437   11,849
Low Voltage                       2,738   3,900    3,596    6,486   13,464    18,591    20,936  24,989   36,305   40,595
Itedfu Vottage                      454      288       378    2,934    6,406    8,8U        9,96S   11,894    17,280    19,322
CSl                                 991      991     1,102       933     1,6i4    1,923     2,076   2,370    2,406    2,442
...... .............. .............. .........   -----.. .....  .......  .....  .......    .....
Conury Total                   11,020   10,679    11,576    17,554   29,446    38,353    42,664   50,293    67,428    74,208
Small Tows CL.V.)                 674      723       583       707    1,605
Total SaLes                    11,694   11,402    12,159    18,260   31,051    38,353   42,664   50,M       67,428    74,208
rariffs per kWI COF)
...... ........ . ...
Geavnurwit                          149      117       127       172      172       189       197      216       216       216
Low Voltage                          47       47        42        69      131       144       150      165       16S       165
Nedhm Voltage                        56       56        68        88       160      Vs         183     201       201       201
SlL Tows                             96       92        51        69      131
.Average per Kih g81iled              86       71        n        100      147       161       167      184       182       181



-93-
fEPMS.IC OF GUINEA
PO4ER II PROJECT
ENELCUI FINACIAL PROJECTIONS                                    ANNEX 3.3
...........................
Incom Statemnts
(OF Mititon)
A U D I T E D         REVISED     BUOCET         F O R E C A S T
................................................... .......   ..........  ......... ................................................
1988    1989      1990      191       lm        1993      1994      1995     1996      1997
....    ....      .o ....    ....     ....      ....   .  ....      ....  .   ....      ....... .. ..... ..... ..
Revenues
Electricity Sales                 11,694   11,402    12,159    18,260   31,051    38,353    45.125   52,711    70,670    77,776
Servece charges                      131      161       162      417       693       767        902    1,054     1,413     1,556
Other                                222                  9        73        72       72         72       72        72       72
.....   .....   .  .....    .....  .  . .....   .....  .  . ..... .............. ............................
Total Revenues                  12,047   11,563  . 12,329    18,750   31,816    39,192    46,099   53,837   72,155    79,403
Expenses
F     f Incl.taxes                4,910    7,470     7,884     9,406    12,350    14,895    15,142   15,987   17,243    14,167
.Tf   _/I                                           4,607    4,437    7,057    8,717        8,717    8,717    7,529    4,200
Power Purchase                                                              55
Repairs 4 Maintenane               1,307    1,531       963     1,162    2,079     2,507      2,548    2,691     2,902    2,384
Supplies ad services                 734     889      1,725    2,968     2,436     2,230     2,748    3,392     4,691     5,951
Mqanageent Contract& Inst.leform                      1,250     2,692    2,358    2,927      3,322    3,747    3,769      4,092
Tramsport                             67       54       160       149      211       273       337       416      648       822
Salaries ard Befits                  586      704     1,099     2,631    3,601    3,601      4,141    4,762      5,476    6,298
Serance Pay                                                                750       863
Nsesellaneous chorge                 270      434       496       4C6      329       378        435      500      575       662
Indirect Taxes                        15      22       271       196       216       498       573      659      7h7        871
Depreciation                       3,168   3,188    3,689    4,377        5,281    6,423      7,802   11,221    13,866    16,270
Provfsion for bed debts            1,523   3,610      5,018     2,624    3,231     3,735     4,693    2,740      3,529    4,035
.         .....    .....    .....      ..... ....
12,580   17,902    22,555    26,690    32,897    38,329    41,740   46,114    53,457   55,552
3peratIng  incom                     (534) t6,339)  (10,226)   (7,940)   (1,081)       863     4,L59    7,724    18,698   23,851
xon operating Incame                  37      (79)      (53)      424    2,236      1,242     1,488    2,269    3,391      4,777
Interest                                1       15    2,213      2,847     1,067     1,557    4,607    9,789    13,539    15,824
:oreign Exeh. Loe                                     27,622    12,836                                                      1,247
Incmea  Tax                                                                   31       192       434       71     2,993     4,045
Not Incooe (Loss)                   C498) (6,433)  (40,113)  (23,198)        57       356       806      132    5,558      7,512
1perating Ratio                     104.4X   154.08    182.9X    142.32    103.4X     97.82     90.5X    85.72     74.12     70.02
.ate of Return 2)                    *2.5S   *14.9S    -22.3X    *16.0X     -2.2X      1.32      5.8J     7.32     11.22     11.9X
nflation                                                                      15M       15X       15X      152       15X       15S
ariff Increase (2)                                                 3002   0.0        10.02     10.02     9.02      0.02      0.02
.1/ Mom item to reftlect portion ot ti texe CTSPP)



- 94 -
MJeMII OF 0JINEA                                                 ANNEX 3.4
POWER It PROJECT                                             PAGE 1 OF 2
ENELOCI! FINAWCIAL PROJECTIONS
....................
01 -Jun-92                                             8aucleSe shoets
(OF MiLLfon)
A U D I T E D           REVISED      BUWET           F O R E C A S T
............................  ..... ..... .................................................
1988     1989       1990       1991       1992       1993       1994     1995       1996       1997
....     ....       ----       ....   .   .. ....               ....  .  ... ....   ----.      .... ... ....... .......... ..... ..........
A S S E T S
...........
Current Assets
Cash                               5,480    1,063       3,983        958      5,062      3,702        229    1,324      5,402      8,120
Accounts Receivabte
Customers                        2,097    3,236       3,659      5,214      5,982     7,550      6,963   10,567    15,042    16,746
Goverrnent                       3,437    3,437         286      1,266      1,972     2,248      2,561    2,893       2,997      3,105
Advances to staff                     0        0         17         11         10         10         10       10         10         10
Other                              430       202        499        608
Advances to suppliers                 924      569        406        526      1,076    10,085    14,430    8,153        8,167      3,617
repr1yments etc.                       94        0          0          0        309        372       379       400        431        354
Inventories                        1,614    2,089       1,842      1,548      2,619     2,923      4,002    5,785       7,145      8,642
, ....... ........ ........ ........ .......   ......  ........    ......  ........    ......  ........   ......  ........    ......
Subtotat                        14,076   10,597    10,692    10,131    17,030    26,890    30,574   29,131    39,193    40,594
Gross Fixed Assets                   61,383   62,844    75,150    77,626    91,078   101,664   139,188  201,207   243,504   300,578
Acc. Depreciation                    18,022   21,211    24,893    28,661    38,241    47,603    57,234   74,179    95,463   121,279
......... .............. .............    .....  .......  .....  .......  .....  .......    .....  -----. . .....
Net Fixed Assets                  43,361   41,634    50,257    48,965    52,837    54,062    81,953  127,028   153,042   179,299
Work In Progress                        797    9,925        398        524      2,512    23,531    33,670   19,024    19,056         8,440
Dfsposition Furd                                                                           2,507      5,055    7,746    10,648    13,032
Total ASSETS                      58,234   62,155    61,347    59,620    72,379   106,990   151,252  182,929   221,939   241,366
_..        u.       mu.       u..                   u_uu   _uu           _u.   _u us          U..



-95 -
1IMU OPF SIINA                                              ANNEX 3.4
Pam  it pOeCT                                            PANE  Of 2
ELGUI FINANCIAL POECTtONS
.............................
O1-Jun-a92                                         Ilamn  Uuts
(tF Niliaon)
A U O t  t It O       IIVI III        T          F O A C C A S T
.................................................. ..... .........    .....  ....... .................................................
19      1M9        190       1991      19        1993      1994     1995      1996      1907
....     ....      ....      ....  .  .. ....    ....  .   .. ....    .... .  ....      ........ .... ......... .... .........
LIMILITIES Ali ISJITY
......................
Current Lfabititles
Bank overdrafts                             2
Su.ptUers                        *,918    4,740     9,251     3,760    3.028      5,208     6,417    7,923    12,358    15,677
Other Debtors                     tlS        9      1.642     2,.76.    2,101     2,417     2,779    3,196     3,673     4,227
State                                                 32      6,502     1,34      1,580     1,517    2,089     2,403     2,763
Arr. LT ODdts (princfpet)         749      n9      2.60      s.m
Apr. LT Debts (intest)          1,442    1,462     3,472     6,472
Income Txe Pyeblt                361       92         0         0        31        192       434       71     2,993     4,045
Current portion of LTD                              2,174     3,76
.....    .....  .    .....   .....  . . .....    .....      .       . .....   .....  . . ..... .... .. ........... .. ........... ..
Subtottl                       7,605    7.312    19,906    28,151    6.534      9,396    11,446   13,279   21,429    26,712
Lang Tero Debt                     2,072  32,742    a3,75      76,7      25,527    49,252    90,703  120,994   14S,47-   160,668
Lo: Current Portion                                   2,174     3,76        440       79        791      791       791     9,676
,.0..2 3..... .... .                 .. .............. ................    . .....  ..... ...... ..... .......  .....
Net Lon Term Debt               22,07    3,7u    61,564    n,357    25.067    46,461    69,912  120,203   144,688   150,992
Customsr Deposits                                        61     1,152     1,50      1,991     2,453    3,029     4,724     5,93
Customr Contributuem
Eqity
Paid In Capftal                 19,479   19,55    17T55      17,sr  100,704   105,M2   105,792  105,792   105,792   105,792
Retafned EarnleWs                 (496) (6,9313  (47.044)  (70,2U) (70,185)  (69,410)  (69,023) (68,891)  (63,334)  (55,821)
A"erves                          7.45S    7.4,      7,4       7.45
EquIpunt Grants                  2,121    1,973     1,J06     2,191     2,043     1,96     1,749    1,602     1,455     1,308
Revluation Surplus                                                      6,656     9,23      8,M      7,915     7,185     6,390
~~~~~~~~.....                  .....  .  .....               .....  . . .....    ....... .. ........... .. ........... .. ........... ..
Sbtotel                       3.557   2,2041   (20,7)  (43,40)  39,216    47,141    47,439   46,417   51,098    57,668
Total LIAO. & SUITY             ,64   42,156   61,347    59,620    72,39   106,969   151,252 ,1U2,92    221,939  241,366
Cwrrnt Ratio                           1.9      1.4       0.5       0.4       2.6       2.9       2.7      2.2       1.8       1.5
Oebt:Debt & Equity  CS)                 UX       do       141        Z8        391       511       66       72X       74X       74X
Uwitys0obt & Equty (S)                  S56      405      46       -131        611       49X       341      281       26X       261
Acounts Receivable (dyss)              184      2         132       117        92        92        91       91        91        91



- 96 -
KWd(e OF UJINEA                                             ANNEX 3.5
PX1mt II PROJECT
EIELCUI FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
.............................
0l-Junt92                                Sources ad Applicatfons of Funds
(OF Mitlion)
A U D I  T E D        REVISED     SOCGET         F O R E C A S T
.................................................. ..... .........    .....  ....... .................................................
1968     1989      1990      191       1992      lm        1994     1995      1996      197
....     ....      ....      ....  .  . ....     ....  .  .. ....   ....  .   .  ....   .... ........... .............. ..
Source
Operating Inc                       (534)  (6,339)  (10,226)   (7,940)   (1,081)      863     4,359    7,724    18,698    23,851
Depreciation                       3,168    3,188    3,689      4,377     5,281     6,423     7,802   11,221    13,866    16,270
Other                                                     3         3
Gros Int. Cash Cn.               2,634  (3,151)   (6,534)  (3,560)   4,200        7,286    12,161   18,945    32,564    40,121
Lus:
Interest                               1       15    2.213     2,847      1,067     1.557    4,607    9,789    13,539    15,824
Incr. in V/C other than Cash        230      974   (13,206)   (4,576)  21,035      8,358     5,106   (4,370)   (2,165)   (6,601)
Incom  Taxes                          0        0         0         0        31       192       434        71     2,993     4,045
Prfn. Rpyomnt                          0        0     1.858     2,839       440       791       791      791       791     9,676
Deposit to Disposition Fund                                                         2,507     2,548    2,691     2,902     2,384
_ . .. . .. ... .. ......... ..... .....  .......    .... ......   I.....  .......    .....  .......  .....
Sghtotal                           231      989    (9,136)    1,109    22.573    13,404    13,486    8,972    :8.059    25,328
Add: Non-Operating Inca.              (257)    (373)     (200)      277     1,400
fncl.Govt. subidies
Net Intrnal Csh Gneatin              2.146   (4,513)   2,402    C4,193) (16,973)   (6,118)   (1,325)  9,973    14,505    14,793
Investment Program                  3,131   10,589     2,778     3,214      3,796    24,60-    43,755   33,454    27,210    16,608
Financing Gp                           905   15,102       377    7,607    20,769    30,725    45,080   23,481    12,704      1,t:i4
Ffnancd bv:
Eorroufnp  (L.T.)                  1,401   10,686     5,242     2,978     5,657   23,826   41,144   24,001    15,087    3,264
Conwmr Deposits                                          61     1,091       388       451       462      575     1,695     1,269
Equity                                               (2,007)      514    18,829     5,088
Increase (dbcroe) in cash             416  (4,417)   2.919    (3,025)   4,104    (1,360)   (3,474)   1,095         4,077    2,719
Bgirmfng Cash                        5,063    5,480     1,063     3,983       958     5,062     3,702      229     1,324     5,402
Ending Cah                           5,480    1,0a      3,983       958     5,062    3,702        229    1,324     5,402     8,120
Debt Service Coern   Ratio          2124.5  -210.1       -1.6      -0.6       2.8       3.1       2.3      1.8       2.3       1.6
Sltf-Fifncing Ratio (current)           69      -433       86X     -137X    -447X       -25X       -3X      303       53X       893
Self-Financing Ratio (nvins Awn.)       471    -82X        433     -135X     -1613      -25X       -4X      29X       56X       77X



- 97 -
Annefx 3.6
Page 1 of 3
R1PUBLIC OF GUINEP
POWER Ix PROJEC
ENEgkUI FINANCIAL PROJECTXIONS 1992-1997
Notes And Assumotions
introduction
1.    This note summarizes the assumptions prepared and agreed with
ENELGUI  during the appraisal mission,  and were  used  for the
Financial Projections. They r4flect the agreed-on priority programs
to be implemented during the project period 1992-1997.   These
projections do not include the interior system.
Production/Technical and Non-Technical Losses
2.    The projections reflect an increase in capacity of one 5 MW unit in
1995 in Tombo II, and the addition of a 30 MW diesel power plant in
1996 in Tombo III. The substantial increase of production in 1993
is attributed to the full operation of Tombo I.  As a result of
implementation of the rehabilitation program including installation
of meters, it is assumed that non-technical losses will decrease
from 16% in 1992 to 5% in 1996 and stabilize, while technical losses
will decrease by 1% from 1993 to 1995, 3% in 1996, to reach 15% in
1997. Overall total system losses will improve by 16%, down from
40% in 1991 to 20% in 1997 at the end of the project period.
income 8tateknLt
3.    Sales of Elect.lcitv - Projected sales of electricity were developed
by ENELGUI and reviewed by the appraisal mission. Government and
3BK (Office des Bauxites de Kindia) sales reflect the medium growth
scenario of the demand study completed in June 1991; and 72% and 28%
of the residual production, net of technical and non-technical loss
will then be available for low voltage and high/medium voltage
consumers respectively.   It is assumed that over the projected
period, total production capacity will be inferior to demand.
Revenues are calculated under the assumption that the prevailing
tariffs during 1992 will be increased by 10% in 1993, 10% in 1994,
and 9% in 1995. This will correspond to a decrease in real terms
over the period, as local inflation rate is estimated at 15%.
4.    Fuel and Taxes - The cost of fuel starting 1992 is calculated
inclusive of a petroleum product taxes (TSPP) and is based on
specific fuel consumption of approximately 230 gmi  per kWh (Annex
3.L). In addition, the projections reflect the fact that in mid-
1992, ENELGUI will start using, in lieu of highly taxed automotive
diesel fuel (GF 425/liter), a heavier diesel fuel blend. The use of
this blend, for which a price structure with a lower tax (GF
285/liter) has been accepted by GOG, will enable ENELGUI to put
Tombo I into full service. It is also assumed that all fuel prices
will increase by 14% of CIF/year and that the TSPP tax level will
remain constant.
5.    Power  Purchases  -  In  1992  purchased  power  reflects  surplus
production from units owned and operated by public enterprises in
the interior of the country.   The purchase price is 55 GF/kWh,
negotiated by ENELGUI. No additional purchases are envisaged, as no
source is yet identifled, and it is assumed that, starting in 1993,
ENELGUI will no longer servlce the interior as an lntegrated part of
its  operatlons.    Thli  Lsue  will  be  addressed  during  the
implementation of the prlvatizatlon program.



- 98 -
Annex 3. 6
Page 2 of 3
6     Renairs and Kaintenance - Consist malnly of lubricating oil and
spare parts costs estimated at 17% of fuel cost.
7.   ShpIjes  and Services.  Transoort ExoenSes  - These  costs  are
projected to increase at a rate proportional to inflation and the
increase in producti Pn.  Costs of management of ENELGUI by the
private operato. s are pz 6ented as a separate llne item.
8.    Salarios and Benefits - Personnel costs are projacted to increase
15% annually between 1993 and 1997. Gains from the staff reduction
plan will be used to off-set an upward adjustment of the salary
scale being put in place as part of the restructuring program for
ENELGUI.
9.   Deoreciation Acrruals - These are calculated using ENELGUI's rates
by auset type and by using a straight line method.  An overall
composite rate was than developeo and applied to revalued gross
fixed assets in operation each year.
10. Miscellaneous Charaes and Transport Rinensgg - Projected to increase
15% per annum from 1992 to 1997.
11.  Provi      for Bad Debts - Is based on 10% of accounts receivable
balan'    ; the beginning of the period plus ealee'during the period
lese     .nte receivables at yeax end.  Starting 1995, this rate is
answn,%.   rnp to 5% as a result of the new commercial management
practice& J,e,ng put in place.
12.   Intrest - ENEL'I1 ham not serviced its long-term debt since its
creation in 1988. A de -restructuring plan is proposed under the
project (see pa a. 18 talow).  Interest expense for the forecast
period is calculated af 7.5% of the total outstanding loan balance.
Balance Sheet
13.   Accounts Receivable - Were estimated at 3 months of total billings
in 1992 and thereafter, reflecting the improvements from the 1991-
1992 restructuring plan and ENELGUI'o new comercial policy.
14.   Foreian Uxchanae Losses - Are calculated and charged to operating
expenses for all new loans from Power II. Neither the unrealised
losses nor the revaluation surplus created by the revaluation of
assets (see 16. below) are reflected on the income statements but
offsetting values are netted out under Revaluation Surolue in the
balance sheet.
15.  Disposition FuYd - Represent cumulative deposits made by ENELGUI for
the constitution of a Disposition Fund required under the proposed
project.   Annual deposits are estimated at the equivalent of
expenditure on essential parts and services, and will continue until
a tovision of US$10 million is reached in 1997.
16.   Fixed Assets - During the projected period fixed assets increase
according to the new plant being added under the Power II investment
program and reflect the placing of completed work into service. The
projections reflect an estimated revaluation of gross fixed assets
of GF 35.5 billion in 1985 as a result of a study conducted by the
former SNE. For 1992, gross fixed assets are revalued by 15%; for
years 1993 to 1997 asset revaluation is based on the devaluation of
the OF vs the USS.
17.   Current LiabilitLes - To suppllers are projected to increase in
relation to inflation and variation in levels of production.



- 99 -
Annex 3.6
Page 3 of 3
Liabilities to State represent various taxes other than income tax
due, which are paid in the following year.
18.   Lonw  Term Debt -  G00 approved a Debt Restructuring Plan proposed by
ENELGUI, which calls for the conversion into equity of some of its
outstanding long term debt, contracted and guaranteed by the State
prior to 1991. The basis for this reatructuring is discussed ln
para. 3.10 of the SAR. Starting 1992, repayment of princlpal and
interest are calculated on the assumption that a portion of Power SS
loans will be on-lent to ENELGUI by the Government at 7.5% interest
rate,  5 years grace period and 15 year repayment period.   In
addition, US$21.2 million old debt from Italy and Yugoslavia loans
will be rescheduled at 1.5% and 5.9% interest respectively (see Debt
Conversion table, Annex 37). Non-realized foreign exchange loss is
netted out against the revaluation surplus on the balance sheet (see
para 14 above)
19.   Euitv - Paid in capital increases in 1992 by GNF 83.2 corresponding
to conversion of GNP 11.6 billion of arrears on interest and
principal payments; GNP 7.4 billion of reserves reflecting the
positive balance of cross debt compensation of GNF 6.1 billion and,
GNP 56.9 billion of outstanding long-term debt. It also includes
the CC'.Z grant contribution for the emergency program to
rehabilitate the transmission/midium voltage system (GNF 1 billion
in 1992 and GNF 5 billion in 1993).
CM=n3.3



- 100 -
0PE3LIC OF GUINEA                      ANNEX 3.7
POCER II PROJECT
EMELGUI DEBT TABLES
(COF mitlion)
1992     1993     1994      1995      1996       19"9      1998
....     ....  .    ....    ....   .  . ....     ....  .   . .... ...... ... ........
POWER 11 FINANCING C OUF Itilfon
Opening Bltance                         0    4,738   29,662    77,6B6   112,076   139,879   147,200
Doburf eent                         5,380   28,914   41,144    24,001    15,087      3,264      1,617
PrIncfpat                               0        0         0         0         0     9,325      9.325
Closing Blsance                     4,400   28,564   70,806   101,88?   127,163   133,818   138,759
Interest                              165      749    3,903      9,189    13,043    15,433    16,243
Equfty Contribution                   981    5,068         0         0         0         0          0
.1. O Av.Exch.Rste (INF stat.Amx        892      960       997     1,097     1,206     1,327     1,460
1992     19       1994      1995      1996       1997      1998
....     .... ....     ....      .     ...  ....      ....
RESCHEDuLED EXISTING DEBT
OpenIng Balance                    19,528   20,688   19,697    19,106    16,316    17,5'5    17,17S
Ofsbursemmnt                        1,600         0        0         0         0          0         0
PrIncipat                             440      791       791       791       791       351        351
Closfng Baltne                     20,6M 8   19,897   19,106    16,316    17,525    17,7S    16,824
Interest                              902      809       704       600       496       391       371



-101 -
Annex 3.9
Page 1 of 2
FOWl!R TX PZjOJC:2
Proosed FLnancial Obsetkives for Power Sector
1.          The overall goal Ls provis4on of a reasonably reliable A-:
economical electricity supply service across Guinea under. regulatee
private sector operations, and, ultimately privately-owned public
utilities.
2.          in the transition period toward full privatization of the
sector and to ensure the financial autonomy of the current national
power utilLty, ENELGUI, and/or its successor, (hereafter the power
utilities), should be able to mobilize a level of cash resources
sufficient to finance;
(a)   an adequate level of operations and preventive maintenance;
(b)   a level of ataff remuneratlon adequate to recruit and retain
qualified and experienced staff;
(c)   debt eervice obligations;
(d)   reasonable working capital requirements; and
(e)   a large part of the local costs component of a least-cost
capital investment program.
3.          Financial autonomy would: (a) enable the power utilLties to
manage their affairs without recourse to Government subsidies or loans;
and (b) ensure sufflcient creditworthiness to obtain foreign loans (with
Government guarantee) and local loans to meet the balance of its capltal
requiremnts not otherwise funded from internal sources.
4.          Should Government require the power utilities to undertake
any uneconomic investments to meet social or regional policies, both the
capital costs and any resultant operatin.t deficits should be financed by
Government.
S.          Government and its agencies should ensure adequate provision
in annual budgets to meet electricity charges and furthermore, prompt
settlement of accounts. The power tilities, for their part, should
have full authority to disconnect x pply to customers whose accounts are
overdue.
6.          Government should review ENELGUI's present capital structure
so as to convert a part of existing Government loans to equity and to
revise the terms of remaining loan debt in line wlth currently
prevaillng conditions.
7.          In fixing their tariffs, the power utilitles should be
permitted to earn a reasonable rate of return on currently valued net
flxed assets in operation sufficient to meet obligations at para. 2
above. To this end, the power utilities should arrange for a
revaluation of fixed assets and for appropriate indexation thereafter.
8.          Rate setting should have regard to the economic cost (LRMC)
of supply to customers, particularly with regard to the structure of its
tariffs.



- 102 -
Annex 3.8
Page 2 of 2
9.          The power utilities should ensure that, in supplying
electricity economlcally, technlcal and non-technlcal losses are
containid at reasonable levels (specific targets are to be developed).
10.         The power utilltLes should ensure prompt collectlons of
amounts due from Lts customers so that accounts recelvable are
malntalned at not more than the equLvalent of 3 months' bllings. The
utilLties should also collect from customers (!Doth new and those
exlstLng customers who become delLnquent) a securlty deposit equlvalent
to not loss than the est-lmated 3 months billing.
11.         The power utilltles should establlsh measures of performance
to monitor the efflcLency and economy of thelr operatLons and the
productlvlty of thelr employees.



- 103 -
REPUILIC OF GUINEA                   ?Arnex 4.1
pOwn xi P101C?                         --
ZOONOMIC ANALYSIS
(USS millions)
1992   19W   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998            2013
ZNCRUMZNTAL COSTS
Invesatments  /a         3.90  30.50  43.80  22.10  12.80   2.70
O & M Cost  /b           0.00   0.08   0.69   1.56   2.01   2.26   2.32            2.32
Goneration (CWh) t
Wlth the project       328    340    340    365    470    513    513             513
Without the project    320    320    320    320    320    320    320             320
Thermal Gen. /a
Wlth the project       138    160    160    185    290    333    333             333
Wlthout the project    130    140    140    140    140    140    140             140
Fuel Cost /d
Wlth project          4.97   5.75   4.05   4.69   7.33   8.41   8.41            8.41
W'thout project       4.68   5.04   5.04   5.04  S504   5.04   5.04             S.04
Incremntal fuel cost  0.29   0.71  -0.99  -0.3S   2.29   3.37   3.37             3.37
Total Inar. Cost         4.19  31.29  43.50  23.31  17.09   8.33   5.69            5.69
INCREMZNTAL UZN3ZF'TS
Sales (GWh) a
With the project       210    231    255    274    371    410    410             410
Without the project    192    192    192    192    192    192    192             192
Incremental Sales (GN)    18       39     63     82    179    218    218            218
Incr. Revenues /o        3.24   7.02  11.34  14.76  32.22  39.24  39.24           39.24
NIT BENEFITS            -0.95 -24.27 -32.16  -8.55  15.13  30.91  33.55           33.5S
INTERNAL ECONOMIC RASTE Of RTURN        30.9%
ASSUMPTION&:
a/  Znvestments.s EIOLG t   Lin"estment  oWgam 1992-1997 lose  the cost of
the institutlonal reform componet.
b/ 0 & N        a Assumed as 2% of cumulative investmnt cost pew year.
a/  Themal Gen.s aydroleatzLc GseneatLon li  limted to 190 Glb ia 1992 and 180 GWh
theraftee.
d/  Fuel Cost   i At VSS11O/%on and  as-uaolg 230 g/kVh consumption of tho diesel unlts.
statin  1994 wLth tho project, and an average price of
81501*,in for dlesel and mane enine oLl nov used at Tombo.
e/  Revenues    i At current aveage tarlff of M 157/kXf  or 0.16 US S/kWh



- 104 -
Annex 5.1
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
POWER II PROJECT
Selected Documents in Proiect file
1.    Master Plan of electricity network for the city of Conakry, February
1991; diagnostical survey prepared by Shawinigan Lavalin Inc.
2.    Pre-project environment and population resettlement, December 1990;
report by BCEOM.
3.    Delivery of consultant services, July 1991; contract with Shawinigan
Lavalin Inc., prepared by Entreprise Nationale d'Electricite de
Guin6e (ENELGUI).
4.    Study on the rehabilitation, conversion and expansion of thermal
production capacity in Conakry, May 1991; technical and financial
evaluation of bids, prepared by Price Waterhouse/Hydro Quebec
International.
5*   Continuation and strengt-hening of management technical assistance
and reform program for ENELGUI, May 1991; supporting document
prepared by Price Waterhouse.
6.   Delivery of management advisory services, March 1990; Version B of
an annex to an agreement with Price Waterhouse and Hydra Quebec,
International.
7.   Evaluation of management advisory uervice delivery, March 1990;
Version A of an annex to an agreement with Price Waterhouse and
Hydro Quebec International.
8.   The power demand study (June 1991) for the Conakry/Kindia service
area.
9.   Hydro-electric feasibility studies in the Guinea maritime area
financed by the CCCI (October 1990) including related environmental
and population resettlement assessment studies conducted by BZCIP
(IDA financed).
10.  Generation expansion feasibility studies for the Conakry/KindLa
region to update the National Power Plan and determine the least-
cost program for this region (February 1992).
11.  A management audit of SNELGUT and the development of a prioritized
restructuring program for INILGUI (June 1990).
12.  Terms of reference for privatLzatLon action program (consulting
engagement started April 1992).
13. The emergency rehabilLitation program for the Conakry transmissLon
and medLum voltage system (financed by CCCZ) prepared in July 1991.



- 105 -
Annex 5.1
Page 2 of 2
14.   Minutes of donor round-table meetings have been held on Power II --
in March 1991, in November 1991 and again during the joint appraisal
of the project in February 1992.
15.   The AFTIM October 1991 report on lessons learned from the Guinean
Privatization Program (during the 1986 - 1990 period, GOG privatized
28 public enterprises and liquidated 58 others).
16.   The December  1991  study on a National  Policy  and  System  of
Regulation for PE's in Guinea.
17.   The February 1992 study on the financial relations between GOG and
the PE sector.
18.   The February 1992 on cross-debts between the PE sector and GOG.
ANNEX'-



<                                                                                               1                                             ;S                           At .
ENINAGAEE NG        I                     j KoonUara
HYDROELECTRICSITES>- 1992  * @*   J L                                                                                                                                   L     I
sierALON   4      COTE
D.IWIVOIRE                         PLANA   R                                                                                                                                      2
GUINEA~~~GAN
G- U          O kV N E A -                                                                                                                              gNe*>  
I             kV1eA                                     .               PUo
Ths cmp how nSnbpor_- b /h- 41 r ehe Rrl uQ   Dolobo                                         Sir rrn,s
CONAKRR          Cok
GUINEA                               Free,S I ERR A
POWER SYSTEMS
AND POTENTIALK,sduo
HYDROELECTRIC SITES - 1992
EXiSTING 1992    FJIURE
ENELGUI  PRIVATE           POWER PLANTSa
A           q~~~OI FIRED STEAM PLANT              MAAIN ROADS
-                                                4---'---r-YD C)RAiLWAYS
HYDRO STUDIED                   S     REGION CAPITALS
HYDRO IDENTIFIED                     NATIONAL CAPITAL-
TRANSMISSION LINES                                      INTERNATONAL BOUNDARIES                                                  of - 
110 kV
60 IkV                                                                                                  J I         E       I                  NEOrt                      5
30 &v



