Document of the World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19598
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
ENERGY II PROJECT
CREDIT 2416-GUI
August 4, 1999
Energy Unit
Country Department 16
Africa Region
This document has restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit          GNF
At project appraisal
GNF            US$0.0013
US$1            800.00 GNF
At project closing
GNF      =     US$0.0008
US$i    =       1,324.34 GNF
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
One Kilowatt (k0)                 - 1,000 Watts
One Megawatt (MW)                 - 1,000 kilowatts
One Gigawatt (GW)                 - 1,000 MW
One barrel (bbl)                  - 0.16 cubic meter
One ton of oil equivalent (toe)   - about 7 bbl. of crude oil
One toe                           - 1,000 kilograms of oil equivalent (kgoe)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB    African Development Bank
BNP    Banque Nationale de Paris
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy
CFD    Caisse Francaise de Developpement
CIDA    Canadian International Development Agency
CNEE    Conseil National d'Energie Electrique
EDF    Electricite de France
EDF/CEC    Economic Development Fund (Commission of the European Community)
EIB    European Investment Bank
ENELGUI   Entreprise Nationale d'Electricite de Guinee
GOG    Government of Guinee
GTZ    Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
IDA    International Development Association
KfW    Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
LODP   Letter of Sector Development Policy
LRMC    Long-Run Marginal Cost
MRNEE    Ministere des Resources Naturelles, de l'Energie et de l'Environnement
PPF    Project Preparation Facility
SAURI   Societe d'Amenagement Urbain et Rural International
SOGEL    Societe Guineene d'Electricite
SNE    Societe Nationale d'Eiectricite (predecessor to ENELGUI)
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA'S FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
Vice President: Jean-Louis Sarbib, AFRVP
Country Director: Mamadou Dia, CD16
Team Leader:  Kwawu Gaba, AFTGI
Sector Manager Mark Tomlinson, AFTGI



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
ENERGY II PROJECT
CREDIT 2416-GUI
Table of Contents
PREFACE.
EVALUATION SUMMARY.
Introduction.
Objectives.i
Implementation Experience and Results.ii
Summary of Findings Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned .................................................. iii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .
Background.                                                                                                                       I
Statement and Evaluation of Project Objectives ....................................................2
Achievement of Project Objectives ...................................................6
Project Implementation Experience ...................................................                                           11
Major Factors Affecting Implementation ................................................... 12
IDA Performance ...................................................                                                              13
Borrower Performance ...................................................                                                        14
Project Outcome ...................................................                                                             15
Sustainability ...................................................                                                              15
Future Operation ................................................... 16
Lessons Learned ................................................... 17
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES ...................................................1I
Table l: Summary of Assessments ....................................................                                              1
Table 2: Related Credits ...................................................2
Table 3: Project Timetable ....................................................2
Table 4: credit disbursements Cumulative Estimated and Actual ....................................................                3
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation ...............                          .....................................4
Table  6: Key Indicators for Project Implementation ....................................................7
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project ...................................................8
Table 8A: Project Costs ...................................................9
Table 8B: Project Financing ................................................... 10
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits ................................................... 11
Table  10: Status of Legal Covenants ................................................... 12
Table  10: Status of Legal Covenants ................................................... 13
Table 11 Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ...................................................                      14
Table   12 Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ................................................... 14
Table 13  Bank Resources: Missions ................................................... 15
APPENDICES                                  ..................................................... 16
A. Operational Plan
B. Borrower's contribution to the ICR
C. Map
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
SECOND ENERGY PROJECT
CREDIT 2416-GUI
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Energy
Project (Energy II) in the Republic of Guinea, for which Credit 2416-GUI in the amount
of SDR 36.5 million was approved on October 19, 1992 and made effective on June 28,
1993.
2.    The Credit was closed on December 31, 1998 compared with the original closing
date of December 31, 1997. It was fully disbursed and the last disbursement took place
on April 30, 1999.  Co-financing was provided by the African Development
Bank(AfDB), The Caisse Francaise de Developpement (CFD), the Economic
Development Fund of the Commission of the European Community (FED), Deutsche
Gesellsehaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit (GTZ), the Japan International Cooperation
Agency (JICA), the Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW), and the United States
Agency for International Development (USAID).
3.    The ICR was prepared by Matthew Mitchell (Consultant) under the direction of
Kwawu Gaba (Power Engineer), Energy Unit, of the Africa Region. Mamadou Dia,
Country Director, and Mark Tomlinson Sector Manager (AFTG1) reviewed the report.
4.    Preparation of this ICR began during the final full supervision and completion
mission in December 1997. This mission prepared a detailed supervision report,
attached as Appendix A, and a preliminary draft ICR. However, the credit closing date
was extended until December 31, 1998 to complete critical project components. IDA
conducted two more supervision missions in 1998 and one mission in April 1999 to:
review the status of the project, especially the sector reform and the implementation of
the transmission system rehabilitation project; collect further infornation for the
preparation of IDA's part of the ICR; and discuss the amendments to the Borrower's
extensive evaluation of the project. The Borrower contributed data for the preparation of
Part I and its own evaluation of the project is attached as Appendix B.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
SECOND ENERGY PROJECT
CREDIT 2416-GUI
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The Energy II project addressed the Republic of Guinea's combined problems of
limited access to power and inadequate power system operations. Only about 20 percent
of the country's population of 5 million had access to electricity. Electricity supply from
ENELGUI, the public electricity authority, had been insufficient to meet demand; service
was unreliable; and the company's commercial operations were not able to sustain
financial viability. There was evidence that operations had improved with technical
assistance but past experience had shown that improvements would not be sustainable
without a permanent change in management. Prior to Energy II, IDA had financed two
projects to help the Republic of Guinea develop its power sector. The First Power
Project (Credit 1085-GUI), which became effective in 1982, financed rehabilitation
investments and technical assistance to improve the operations of the national utility, the
Societe Nationale d'Electricite (SNE). The second project, the Power Engineering and
Technical Assistance Project (Credit 1595-GUI), produced a study in 1986 that
recommended a complete overhaul of the power sector.
Objectives
2.    The primary project objective was to ensure the sustainability of the electric
power sector through a reform program which would: (a) create an appropriate policy
framework; (b) help the Government of the Republic of Guinea (GOG) disengage from
power sector management and operations while strengthening its regulatory and policy
functions; (c) attract private investors, progressively, to the sector; and (d) finance the
costs of transition to private management, which covered rehabilitation and extension of
power facilities, technical assistance and studies. The project's secondary objective was
to establish a regulatory framework to oversee the operations of enterprises that replaced
the state-owned monopoly formerly responsible for petroleum product distribution (Part
I, paras. 5-6). The objectives addressed the major sector reform issues and were
generally in line with key elements of GOG's energy development policy and
requirements of the macroeconomic adjustment program. They also incorporated some
of the lessons learned from the previous projects. However, there were deficiencies in the
project's design, particularly the arrangements and timing for the establishment of private
sector management and the determination of realistic performance indicators (Part I,
paras. 7-16).



Evaluation Summary                                                Page ii of v
Implementation Experience and Results
3..   The project spanned a period of five and a half years, from its effectiveness in
June 1993 through its closing date of December 31, 1998. There was an eight- month
delay in effectiveness due to difficulties in reaching an agreement between GOG and the
private operator. Total project costs were US$ 135 million compared to an estimated cost
of US$ 154 million. IDA disbursed a total of US$ 47 million or 94 percent of planned
disbursements. There were delays in a number of project components which were
nevertheless completed by the original closing date. The most notable was a 30-month
delay in the start-up of the Tombo III plant, a key project component for improving the
availability of power. However, a one-year extension of the closing date was necessary
to purchase emergency spare parts for the Tombo III power plant and complete urgent
rehabilitation work in the transmission system.
4.    The major factor affecting project implementation not subject to control by the
Borrower (GOG) was a technical problem with the site for the Tombo III power plant,
which neither the Borrower nor IDA had foreseen (Part I, para. 34). Within the
Borrower's control the main factor that had an impact on project implementation was the
lack of clear and strong commitment to power sector restructuring and privatization.
Notably, GOG did not adequately comply with key project covenants to help make the
private management contract effective. The main problem seems to have been a lack of:
(i) consensus within GOG on the details of private management; and (ii) an integrated
realistic restructuring program clearly defining related institutional relationships,
responsibilities, and key actions. Furthenrore, although the project and the LODP had
the same general objectives, the LODP placed primary emphasis on the physical
development of the system while project's focus was more on the institutional framework
to sustain investments.
5.    The implementation of the project's investment components with the support of
consultant experts, and improved financial performance through better commercial
operations were supposed to be factors within the control of ENELGUI, the
implementing agency for the project's investment components. However, following the
establishment of the private operator the Societe Guineeene d'Electricite (SOGEL) in
1994, ENELGUI delegated this control to SOGEL, although in the legal agreements
ENELGUI still retained operational responsibility. ENELGUI's financial performance
depended on the private operator, which in turn had to rely on supportive GOG actions
which were not forthcoming, in key areas such as: the resolution of arrears in payments
owed by govern-ment agencies; the timely payment of government electricity bills; and
measures to reduce the widespread problem of illegal connections and fraud. GOG did
not fully comply with project covenants designed to ensure these actions (Part I, para.
37).
6.    The project substantially achieved most of its physical objectives through
completion of the project's major investment components.  From a low level of
operations prior to the project, often only about two hours of power a day, the project's



Evaluation Summary                                               Page iii of v
investment components have resulted in a 97% power availability factor. It has also
reduced general blackouts by 40 % and has lowered technical losses. In addition, the
project has supported greater access of the population to electricity through studies which
have helped define a rural electrification project. However, the project did not fully
achieve most of its other objectives and the results in critical areas for the sustainability
of physical objectives, such as private sector development and financial performance
were negligible (Part I, paras. 17-30). IDA's re-estimate of the internal economic rate of
return (IERR) on the project's investment components is about 15.8 %, which is higher
than the cost of capital in the Republic of Guinea but lower than the 30 percent IERR
calculated at project appraisal (Table 9, Statistical Annex). The comparatively lower
IERR is due mainly to project delays and lower sales and billing performance
assumptions than estimated at project appraisal (Part I, para. 45).
Summary of Findings Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
7.    Despite some physical improvements in system availability and quality of supply,
the project did not achieve a viable private management arrangement for the power
system or meet key indicators for improvement of the power sector's financial condition
(Statistical Annex, Table 6). In fact, at the end of the project, both ENELGUI and the
private operator SOGEL were almost bankrupt, barely meeting operational expenses with
insufficient funds for maintenance or contribution to future investment. Furthermore, the
overall performance of both IDA and the Borrower in implementing the project was
deficient (Part I, paras. 38-44). Taking all of these factors into account, the ICR has rated
the outcome of the project as unsatisfactory.
8.    The sustainability of the project's original objectives is unlikely unless GOG
makes a major effort to adhere to all the measures in the project's Operational Plan
(Attachment D). IDA's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS ) for the Republic of Guinea
emphasizes continued reform of the electric power sector as one of the five key actions to
allow the Bank to move to the high-case lending scenario for the Republic of Guinea.
IDA is not planning a third energy project at this time and any future such operation will
depend on GOG's achievements in developing sustainable institutions to meet reform
objectives. However, IDA is planning limited assistance in rural energy development
with a grant from the Global Environment Fund (GEF). The Operational Plan for Energy
II focuses on meeting the objectives the project did not achieve and sustaining those
attained. The key features of this plan are clarification of the GOG's vision and support
for private sector management; the establishment of a viable private concession to
manage operations; the creation of sustainable regulatory mechanisms; and the
implementation of recommended measures to ensure adequate technical performance of
the project's investment components. The following are the key lessons learned from the
project.



Evaluation Summary                                                Page iv of v
9.    The key lessons learned from the project are the following:
a) IDA and the Borrower should ensure a clear agreement on sector priorities
and the related investment program in preparing a project. Although the
project's SAR reflected most of the objectives in the Borrower's LODP,
IDA's wording of the objectives in the SAR clearly assigns higher priority to
reform actions, while the LODP appears to emphasize more the physical
extension of the system. These diverging priorities partially explain why the
implementation of the project's physical components was more effective than
that of the institutional components.
b) Before proceeding with any restructuring or privatization operation, it is
important to have internal government consensus on the objectives, detailed
actions required and scheduling of activities. Project files indicate that GOG,
though in general agreement with the principles of restructuring and
privatization, may have felt pressured to agree to certain privatization actions
in an unrealistic time frame when they were not really prepared, in order to
obtain the funds necessary to attain their primary goal of ensuring coverage of
the country's electricity requirements.
c) A permanent private management contract for a utility is not likely to be
effective unless the private operator has full responsibility for the power
system and does not have to depend on government actions to make the utility
comnmercially viable. Also such an arrangement implies that the public sector
management would discontinue operation. In the case of Energy II, it was
nearly impossible for the private operator to make the system technically and
financially viable because it did not have full responsibility for the system and
depended on GOG to take a number of critical actions to eliminate an
enormous financial burden on the utility due to past inadequacies in
commercial operations.
d) When an implementation plan involves a number of critical actions early in a
project, especially in areas where problems have occurred in the past, close
supervision is imperative. Resident mission staff could be effective in
providing this supervision. During the implementation of Energy II,
supervision in the initial years of the project was minimal despite the
emphasis of the project's implementation plan on close supervision. As a
result, there was a major loss in project momentum at the outset and intensive
supervision in the later years could not salvage the project from being
unsatisfactory.
e) The lack of a consolidated donor community adherence to project objectives
and covenants can be detrimental to project performance. During project
implementation, donors provided funding for the Garafiri hydropower project



Evaluation Summary                                             Page v of v
(in the order of US$ 200 million) despite the lack of IDA approval for the
additional investment and a project covenant stating that the Borrower would
not take on any investment over US$1 million without IDA approval.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
SECOND ENERGY PROJECT
CREDIT 2416-GUI
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Background
1.   In the early 1990s, the Government of the Republic of Guinea (GOG) began an
economic adjustment program with support of the World Bank and the International
Monetary Fund (IMF). A key requirement of this program was the restructuring and
privatization of the Republic of Guinea's public enterprises, notably the electric power
authority -- the Enterprise Nationale d'Electricite de Guinee (ENELGUI). In line with
the adjustment program, GOG outlined a plan of actions for restructuring and
privatization of the energy sector in a Letter of Development Policy (LODP) dated May
22, 1992.  This action plan focused on attaining self-financing in the sector by:
establishing appropriate commercial practices; limiting the role of the state to policy,
strategy and regulation; and encouraging the participation of private operators in
electricity generation, transmission and distribution. The Second Energy Project (Energy
II) was to be a key vehicle for implementing this plan.
2.    There were two main problems in the power sector when IDA appraised the
Energy II project (1992): limited access of the population to power supply and serious
deficiencies in the operation of the existing public electricity system. Only about 20
percent of the country's population of 5 million had access to electricity. Available
power facilities consisted of three types of systems not connected to each other:
ENELGUI, the state-owned public utility serving about 1.2 million inhabitants in the
capital, Conakry and surrounding towns; three mining enclaves supplying power for
their own use and domestic use by nearby villages with a population of about 0.4 million;
and about 24 small diesel units and run-of-river hydro stations in the interior of the
country.1 Electricity supply from ENELGUI was insufficient to meet demand; service
was unreliable; and ENELGUI was in poor financial condition due to inadequate
commercial operations.  Short-term  technical assistance had made considerable
improvements in service quality in the year prior to project appraisal . However, past
experience had indicated that these improvements would not continue and that the system
would deteriorate rapidly without a permanent institutional set-up to maintain sustain
service quality
I Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) , Republic of Guinea, Power II Project, Report No. 10442-GUI, July 7,
1992, pages 3-4.



Part I                                                          Page 2of 18
3.   IDA had financed two projects prior to Energy II to help the Republic of Guinea
improve power system operations. The First Power Project (Credit 1085-GUI), which
became effective in 1982, financed rehabilitation investments and technical assistance to
improve the operations of the national utility, the Societe Nationale d'Electricite (SNE),
under the supervision of the Ministry of Natural Resources, Energy and Environment
(MNREE). The second project, the Power Engineering and Technical Assistance Project
(Credit 1595-GUI) produced a study in 1986 that recommended a complete overhaul of
the power sector and led to a first phase of reform . It resulted in the creation of
ENELGUI, in 1987, an autonomous corporation which took over the assets of the former
SNE, which had held monopoly rights for electricity service. The same legislation also
limited the role of MNREE, in theory, to policy formnulation and regulation. ENELGUI
4.    Energy II was to begin a second phase of reform: the transfer of ENELGUI's
management to private operators, under a permanent, incentive-based management
contract or leasing arrangement for the main generating and distribution systems in the
Conakry area. Under a future third phase, IDA and GOG envisioned further private
sector developments culminating with full privatization -- the sale of the GOG's assets in
ENELGUI -- by the end of the 1990s. 2
Statement and Evaluation of Project Objectives
5.    The primary project objective, according to the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR),
was to ensure the sustainability of the electric power sector through a reform program
which would: (a) create an appropriate policy framework; (b) help GOG disengage from
power sector management and operations while strengthening its regulatory and policy
functions; (c) attract private investors, progressively, to the sector; and (d) finance the
costs of transition to private management. The project's secondary objective was to
establish a regulatory framework to oversee the operations of private enterprises that had
replaced the state-owned monopoly formerly responsible for petroleum product
distribution.
6.    The project financed the following four components in support of its objectives:
a) An institutional reform program consisting of: (i) consulting services to plan
and inVplement the transfer of management and operation of the power
company  ENELGUI to  private operators; (ii)  reorganization  and
strengthening of MRNEE's Energy Department to develop a capacity for
policy formulation; (iii) management of ENELGUI through a joint venture
during the transition period; and (iv) studies for future project preparation and
identification of alternative strategies/plans for electricity supply to the
interior of the country.
2SAR, page 10.



Partl                                                         Page 3 of 18
b) A priority investment program to raise service standards and support
successful privatization, including:  (i) rehabilitation and expansion of
generation facilities; (ii) rehabilitation, reinforcement and extension of
distribution facilities; (iii) telecommunications equipment and related works;
and (d) vehicles and working capital such as tools materials, spare parts, and
office equipment.
c) Technical assistance to help GOG develop a framework and capacity for
regulating private sector operation of petroleum product distribution.
d) Essential goods and services for ENELGUI's operations and maintenance.
Funds received under this component would help ENELGUI fulfill its
obligation to create and fund a "Disposition Fund," to serve as a guarantee
mechanism for attracting private investment.
7.    The project addressed the major issues in the power sector and incorporated the
key elements of GOG's energy development policy. These issues concerned the poor
financial and technical condition of ENELGUI, -- inadequate system capacity, frequent
outages, a low level of metering and revenue collection, high levels of illegal connections
and an institutional framework that had not been able to make substantial improvements
in the system. The reform objectives for the power and petroleum sub-sectors were in
line with the requirements which the International Monetary Fund (IMF) had stipulated
for the macroeconomic adjustment program. The project's objectives also were in line
with IDA's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), which emphasized expanding energy
resources as a catalyst for economic growth. IDA was to advance this strategy by:
encouraging GOG to promote efficiency in regulatory, planning and policy environment;
promoting a commercial approach to utility operation followed by eventual privatization;
and supporting increased efficiency in petroleum product supply and distribution. At the
same time the project helped GOG fulfill the economic adjustment program's
restructuring and privatization requirements for the energy sector.
8.    Both IDA in the SAR, and GOG in the LODP, indicated the need to limit the role
of the state to planning and policy making in favor of privatizing the power sector's
management and operations. However, in the wording of project objectives, IDA
attached primary  importance to the sustainability of the energy sector through
institutional reform than to the investment program for physical infrastructure. The
rationale was that without major institutional change any investment would deteriorate
rapidly and the power system would not be sufficiently attractive to private investors. In
contrast, the main sector objective, as stated in the LODP was to ensure adequate
coverage of the energy requirements, without the emphasis on reform contained in the
SAR.
9.    With hindsight, the different emphasis in the objectives of the project and those of
the SAR may have contributed to a lower level of performance for the institutional
components than for the project's physical components. It also may account for the
divergent views on the approach to the expansion of the power sector. Discussions with



Part I                                                           Page 4of 18
IDA staff responsible for the project in its initial years indicate that IDA viewed the
project as a transition arrangement to establish the institutional framework for future
development and meet the immediate needs of the power system with thermal capacity
which provided the least-cost solution to meeting incremental power demand during the
project period. The project also included a covenant that GOG not make any other
investments in the power sector above US$ 1 million without IDA approval. However, in
1994, GOG embarked on the development of the Garafiri hydro project at in estimated
cost of US$ 200 million with donor funding. IDA was involved in the initial discussions
of the project but declined to finance it. IDA's view was that: (i) the project needed
further study and that GOG's focus should be on developing the institutional framework
for power expansion; and (ii) the least-cost solution to meeting incremental demand in
the short-to-medium term was the additional thermal capacity financed under the project.
10.   The project's emphasis on restructuring and privatization  reflected lessons
learned in the past projects. The results of both the First Energy Project and the Power
Engineering and Technical Assistance Project indicated that short-term technical
assistance was ineffective in making the changes required for a sustainable institutional
framework (Table 2, Statistical Annex). Also when ENELGUI took over power system
operations in 1987, it faced the fundamental problems of management weakness, the
inability to raise funds for investment, and an emergency situation resulting from under-
investment in power facilities. IDA and other donors, with the backing of several
Guinean ministers, realized that a new approach was necessary, one that would take
account of the lessons leamed in utility management over the past 10 years. By early
1990, all parties agreed on a second phase of reform: the transfer of operational control to
a joint venture of consultants and operators. During 1990-91, the joint venture achieved
notable results -- higher collections; lower non-technical losses; and a near doubling of
paying customers.' To ensure the sustainability of these results, the next step, which
Energy II was to implement, was the creation of a permanent private management
framework.
11.   The project's investment components had a significant amount of preparatory
work, with funding from several Project Preparation Facilities (PPFs). GOG received
PPFs totaling US$1.5 million to develop the priority investment program for the project
and fund the related engineering and technical studies. Other co-financiers also provided
studies, which assisted in the project's design. Furthermore, the SAR noted close
coordination with the overall public sector reform program through studies on financial
relationships and a national approach to public enterprise regulation.
12.   Given conditions at the time of appraisal, the reform objectives and components
were reasonable. Guinea urgently needed funds to rehabilitate and expand its power
system in the short term. However, IDA had recently established new guidelines for
project lending which required sector reform components focused on improving
efficiency by disengaging the government from enterprise management, limiting its role
to policymaking/regulation and promoting the progressive privatization of state energy
3Ibid., page 20.



Part I                                                          Page 5 of 18
companies. Conversations with IDA staff responsible for project appraisal indicated that
there was considerable risk to achieving all reform objectives during the project period
given that innovative nature of reform components and the fact that the past two IDA
projects had been unsuccessful in institutional development. However, IDA was
encouraged that GOG had expressed commitment to sector reform and felt that the
project would at least serve as an important catalyst to reform. Furthermore the appraisal
also took account of lessons learned from past projects to design measures to address
risks.
13.   The SAR correctly assessed the main project risks. It indicated concern that the
dramatic improvements achieved by ENELGUI in relatively short time (1990-91) were
due mainly to heavy consultant support and could be short-lived without effective
measures to ensure their sustainability.  The SAR pointed to the challenge of
consolidating short-term gains into a long-term, stable, corporate culture. The primary
risk was the scope and complexity of institutional change required and the related
possibility that the GOG would be reluctant to disengage itself from the sector's direct
management. The project was to mitigate this risk by making both credit effectiveness
and disbursements contingent on the measurable progress toward institutional goals.
14.   The project included several required actions to mitigate risks associated with
their reform components. Prior to Credit effectiveness, GOG was to demonstrate
satisfactory progress in: the bidding procedure for the private operator; an action
program to prepare the new power regulatory and institutional framework; evidence of
ENELGUI's staff reduction by 200 persons; and ENELGUI's capital restructuring. In
addition, disbursements for components other than the institutional components and the
conversion of the Tombo units were to be contingent upon satisfactory evidence
indicating the adoption of an action program to prepare a new power sector regulatory
and institutional framework; an agreement between ENELGUI and GOG for the holding
of sector assets; and satisfactory contractual arrangements for transferring the
management of ENELGUI to the private operator.
15.   With hindsight, there were several aspects of the project's design which were not
effective. First the timeline for the conclusion of a management contract with a private
operator was overly optimistic -- only five months after Credit effectiveness. It took an
additional year to establish the private management.  Second, following Credit
effectiveness, the project included dated actions for establishing private sector
management of ENELGUI but none for establishing the regulatory authority. Board
discussions had indicated that the establishment of the regulator should precede private
management, and the project did not ensure this. By the end of the project, a regulatory
authority was not firmly established. Third, the privatization arrangement concluded
during the project did not give the intended result -- ENELGUI as shareholder of
company assets only and SOGEL responsible for all management and operations. Instead
SOGEL was only partially responsible for operations and management ; reportedly
ENELGUI interfered in sector management and was not effective in mobilizing
investment. . Because of the divided responsibilities under project and the dependence
of both ENELGUI and SOGEL on GOG for support to meet key performance indicators,



Part I                                                           Page 6of 18
the private operating arrangement seems to have been little more than a complex
technical assistance contract. It would have been prudent to achieve a consensus on
specific aspects of the contract rather than just suggest a list of elements to be covered. It
also appears that the operator's performance indicators were not based on a realistic
assessment of the utility's financial and operational condition as well as the operating
environment.
16.   The SAR also took account of the risks which the operator faced in managing a
state-owned utility and possible delays in the implementation of contractual obligations.
To mitigate these risks, the project provided a Disposition Fund , an offshore escrow
account serving as a guarantee mechanism for the operator. ENELGUI was to make
regular payments into the fund up to a ceiling of US$ 10 million. To reduce the financial
burden on ENELGUI in fulfilling this obligation, IDA agreed to finance essential spare
parts and services The adoption of terms for this fund and the modalities for its operation
were conditions of effectiveness. However, because of ENELGUI's cash-flow problems,
the fund only reached about US$400,000 which ENELGUI used to finance the
rehabilitation of the distribution system in Conakry rather than for the intended purpose.
The SAR also addressed the issue of whether the project was too demanding for
ENELGUI. In particular, the SAR pointed to the risks of delays and cost increases due to
slowness in the approval of contracts and disbursements, and potential coordination
problems due to the large number of co-financiers expected. To mitigate these risks, the
project included support to ENELGUI from an engineering firm, in the execution of the
investment component and the coordination of donors. The Bank showed responsiveness
to the need for changes in the implementation schedule for meeting physical objectives
and extended the closing date by one year to allow financing of important physical
components that were not completed by the original project closing date.
Achievement of Project Objectives
Overview
17.   The following sections discuss the achievement of project objectives according to
the categories required in Table 1 ( Summary of Assessments) of the Statistical Annex..
The project did not achieve its primary objective-the sustainability of the power reform
program - due to only partial or negligible achievements of sector policy, financial,
public sector policy, and institutional development objectives. In contrast, the project
substantially achieved its physical objectives with satisfactory completion of the major
components of the power sector investment program which the project financed. As a
result there was a major improvement in power system availability but the reduction in
technical losses was lower than originally planned. Although the the project's SAR did
not explicitly state any social objectives, it helped promote a key social objective stated
in the LODP - increasing the access of the rural population to electricity in a cost
effective manner - by assisting in the preparation of a project to implement viable
alternative strategies for rural electrification. The project only partially achieved its



Part I                                                             Page 7of 18
enviromnental objectives due to an inadequate initial assessment of the mitigation work
required and the identification of further environmental measures required too late in the
project's implementation to be eligible for project fumding.
Sector Policy Objectives
18.    The LODP stated the main policy objective was to ensure meeting energy
requirements through: improvements in self-financing; adequate tariff policies; private
sector participation in management and operations; limitation of the State's role in the
sector to energy policy-making and regulation; and GOG support of privatization. The
project partially attained these objectives. GOG contracted with a private operator in the
electric power sector but the arrangement did not result in improved self-financing or a
viable long-term contractual arrangement. Also, despite the passage of an Electricity
Law and some strengthening of energy policy-making and planning capability, the
project did not establish a sustainable framework for these activities. Furthermore, GOG
did not reach an internal consensus on the details of privatization. This lack of consensus
combined with unsatisfactory performance in taking the required actions to improve the
power sector's financial condition severely constrained privatization achievements.
19.   Concerning tariff policy, the SAR indicated that tariff at project appraisal was at
US$.16 per kWh compared to a long-run marginal cost of US$.15 per kWh. However,
in support of the project, GOG had agreed to set the tariff at a level that also would allow
ENELGUI to meet the project's rate-of-return and cash generation covenants. However,
GOG did not make this type of adjustment during the project..
Financial Objectives
20.   The project stipulated two major financial objectives in its covenants: internal
cash generation of 26 percent and a 7 percent rate of return on fixed assets. Also,
according to the management contract agreed to during project implementation, the
project was supposed to result in a major turnaround in financial performance, from a
loss of 57 million FGN in 1992 to a profit of 7 billion FGN in 1997. However, during
1998, the last year of the project, ENELGUI operated at a loss of about 7 billion FGN.
This performance was due in part to lack of sufficient action to improve billing
performance.. Instead of increasing from an actual rate of 55 percent when the private
operator took over the company in 1994 to a level of 80 percent by 1998, the billing rate
actually declined to 43 percent. This low rate is due to high levels of electricity theft and
the lack of sufficient customer metering. Furthermore GOG did not comply with key
project covenants to support ENELGUI in attaining its financial objectives. These
covenants concerned agreed tariff actions, the timely payment of electricity bills, and the
settlement of arrears.
4 Based on medium-speed, diesel-fired thermal plants as the least-cost solution to power development.



Part I                                                           Page 8 of 18
Public Sector Management
21.   The main objective in this category was to provide effective management of
ENELGUI, with outside consultant support, to ensure a smooth transition to management
by a private operator. In this connection, GOG also was to take a number of covenanted
actions to support the financial viability of ENELGUI. The project only partially
achieved these objectives. GOG extended the contract for management support from a
private company until the new private operator assumed management in 1994, but did not
take important steps to prepare the sub-sector for effective private management, such as
actions to reduce the high level of fraud and clear governnent accounts with ENELGUI.
Private Sector Development
22.   There were two private sector development objectives. The first was to tum over
the management of the state electric power company to a private operator to improve
financial and technical performance. The project resulted in a management contract with
a private operator, SOGEL, which began operations in July 1994.5 However, SOGEL did
not take over the entire management of the utility, only the existing distribution lines and
a related small maintenance program. ENELGUI, representing the government's share
in SOGEL, remained in charge of the major rehabilitation and expansion of operational
facilities under the project.  This divided responsibility weakened privatization
performance. By the project's closing date, the private management contract was no
longer sustainable and it appeared that further privatization envisaged (including the sale
of GOG shares) would not take place by the end of the decade. Also the operator was not
able to achieve key performance indicators. Both ENELGUI and SOGEL were almost
bankrupt by the end of the project. The second objective was to attract private investors
to the power sector; however, the project did not result in the conclusion of any private
investment projects with independent power producers.
Institutional Development
23.   The project's main institutional objective was to create a viable capacity for
planning, policy-making and regulation of power sector within the National Directorate
of Energy (DNE) and for the regulation of private petroleum distribution activities within
the National Petroleum Directorate. The project only partially achieved this objective.
While it completed important studies in both sub-sectors and enacted key laws and
regulations, the project did not create a sustainable capacity for regulation.
24.   In support of energy planning and policy-making, the project established a
detailed energy data bank; completed a countrywide energy resource survey; created an
energy efficiency office; and prepared a diagnostic report on the electricity sub-sector.
To strengthen GOG's regulatory authority, the project led to the enactment of the
5 The private operator is a company called SOGEL the Societe Guineene d'Electricite (SOGEL) created by
the following partnership: Hydro Quebec (33%); EDF/France (17%) SAUR/France (17%); and GOG with
the name of ENELGUI (33%).



Part I                                                          Page 9of 18
Electricity Law of 1993. This law established the legal basis for a new power sector
framework in which the GOG's role is limited to policy making and regulation, with the
private sector playing the major role in management and operations. In addition, GOG
enacted a series of decrees governing the power sector, including: the approval of the
regulatory model for hydropower development; specifications for hydropower enterprises
on the use of waterways; and the establishment of the Conseil National de l'Energie
Electrique (CNEE). The only decree that has entered into force is the one establishing
CNEE, which is responsible for preserving and protecting the rights of electricity
consumers. Reportedly this council rarely meets and is not operating as a regulatory
body.
25.   In the petroleum sub-sector, the project took significant steps to establish a
framework for regulating the private distribution of petroleum products. It resulted in:
the creation of inspection forms and standardization lists for service stations, storage
depots, and transport facilities; the establishment of a laboratory for petroleum product
analysis; and a statistical evaluation of petroleum imports over a ten-year period (1985-
95). In addition, GOG enacted decrees governing various aspects of downstream
operations including: petroleum product transport; the establishment of petroleum
installations; the operation of service stations and storage depots; licensing procedures;
and sanctions for non-compliance with procedures. Of a total of nine decrees enacted,
seven were signed and entered into force.
Physical Objectives
26.   The project's principal physical objective was to improve the system's technical
performance through the rehabilitation and extension of generation, transmission and
distribution facilities. The project substantially met this objective By the closing date of
the Credit, the project had completed all physical components (including the addition of
a 30-MW generating plant at Tombo) except for the conversion of the Conakry
distribution from 15 kV to 20 kV and the dispatching system (Table 5, Statistical Annex).
ENELGUI expects to complete the remaining works for the conversion of the distribution
networks by the end of 1999 and consultations are underway for the updating of the
feasibility study and the preparation of related tender documents for the construction of
the dispatching center. As a result of physical components completed, there have been
considerable operational improvements. The power availability has increase at a low of
only two hours per day prior to the project to about 97 percent availability. The project
also reduced technical losses though not by the magnitude originally envisaged. Losses
decreased by 1.8 percent compared to a target of 3.8 percent. Apparently the shortfall
was due to an inadequately defined scope of work.
Environmental Objectives
27.   The SAR evaluated the project's environmental impact as Class B, requiring a
limited environmental assessment. It identified the main environmental issue as the
potential impact of the Tombo diesel-fired power plants on air and water quality. The
SAR noted that design engineers had reviewed the possible environmental impact and



Part I                                                          Page lOof 18
that the main mitigation measure would be the use of low-sulfur fuel to avoid excessive
emissions of sulfur dioxide. It also noted that the project would include incinerators for
the disposal of sold matter (carbon residues) and tanks to collect and separate liquid
effluents. According to project covenants, all pollution abatement measures were to take
place before the end of 1993. However, the implementation of these measures did not
take place by that date.
28.   During project supervision, at the request of a IDA mission, an additional
environmental impact study took place. It focused on the efficacy of enviromnental
protection measures associated with the Tombo III power station. The study found that
supplementary measures were necessary to curb the pollution risks related to sulfur
dioxide emissions, solid waste and effluents from the Tombo diesel-fired power plants.
The study reiterated earlier findings of the need to: reduce sulfur dioxide levels by the
use of low- sulfur fuel ; and install equipment to handle liquid and solid waste, to abate
the leakage of sludge and spent fuel into the harbor at Conakry. Except for the use of
low-sulfur fuel these mitigation measures did not take place by the closing date of the
project, mainly due to a lack of financial resources.
Social Objectives
29.   The project's SAR did not explicitly state any social objectives. However, the
LODP, attached to the SAR clearly implied objectives for provision of electricity to
unserved remote areas and the project's planning studies addressed this objective. The
LODP's objectives focused on extending coverage to all consumers capable of paying the
full cost for service. However, it also stated that GOG would take the responsibility for
the direct, transparent financing of any socially-based programs that would not be
economically or financially justified on a self-standing basis. In this context, the project
was to identify alternative strategies and plans to supply electricity to the interior of the
country.
30.   During the project's implementation period, the joint World Bank-UNDP Energy
Sector Management Assistance Program (ESMAP) assisted GOG in the development of
these strategies and plans. This assistance included several surveys and two workshops
in 1997-1998. These activities clearly showed that it would be possible to meet the low-
level electricity needs of rural consumers with solar home systems, and pico-hydro
systems coupled with mini-grids in areas where distance and cost prohibit electricity
service through grid extension. These solutions/alternatives also have the advantage of
reducing greenhouse gases, making them eligible for GEF financing. Furthermore, in
February 1998, the GOG demonstrated to a strong commitment in the promotion of a de-
regulated decentralized rural electrification approach, using environmentally-friendly
technologies, with the publication of a sub-sector policy letter. A project is currently under
preparation based on this approach.



Part I                                                            Page lIof 18
Project Implementation Experience
The Implementation Record
31.   The project spanned a period of five and a half years, from its effectiveness in
June 1993 through its closing date of December 31, 1998. There was a delay in project
effectiveness(originally scheduled for October 1992) by eight months due to difficulties
in fulfilling the conditions for progress in recruiting a private operator for the power
system. The project's original closing date was December 31, 1997. Although there
were delays in a number of the project's components, the major investment components
were completed by the original closing date. The most notable delay was in the start-up
of the Tombo III power plant which began operation about 30 months behind schedule.
This delay, due mainly to procurement problems, was significant because the plant was
required to meet incremental demand on the system and improve the availability of
power.. Table 5, Statistical Annex, provides a record of the key implementation
indicators by component.
32.   By the original closing date, most of the project's physical components were 100
percent complete while the institutional components were less than 30% complete.
However, IDA extended the closing date by one year in order to allow the purchase of
critical spare parts for Tombo III and the completion of the important emergency
rehabilitation work on the transmission system. By the extended closing date, ENELGUI
had procured all of the priority equipment identified and completed all of the installation
and prioritized works for the rehabilitation of the transmission network. However the
dispatching system, financed by KfW, was not in place. Preparations for it are underway
6
but its completion date is uncertain.
33.   The actual project costs were US$135 million compared to the estimated cost of
US$154 million at project appraisal. The lower overall cost resulted from reduced
expenditures on management support for ENELGUI, training, and transmission works.
Table 8A in the Statistical Annex lists the detailed project costs by project component
and Table 8B shows the project's financing by co-financier. In 1995, there was a
reallocation of funds among the various disbursement categories of the IDA credit to take
account of project management by two different entities - ENELGUI (investment
components) and DNE (institutional components) - mainly the need to specify funds for
training, consultant services and equipment for DNE in the execution of the institutional
components. IDA disbursed a total of US$47. million, which amounted to 94 percent of
the disbursement amount originally planned (Table 4, Statistical Annex). The final
disbursement on the IDA Credit took place on April 30, 1999.
6 Initially, project supervision reports had indicated that KfW had decided not to fund the dispatching
system due to unsatisfactory progress of the project in institutional reform. However, in April 1999, IDA
learned that consultants are about to start updating the feasibility study and the preparation of related
bidding documents.



Part I                                                        Page 12 of 18
Major Factors Affecting Implementation
34.   Factors Not Subject to GOG or Implementing Agency Control. The major
factor not subject to GOG or implementing agency control was a problem with the site
for the Tombo III power plant construction. At the time of project appraisal neither the
Borrower nor IDA foresaw the problem of the plant site foundation. During erection, the
contractor discovered underground caves on the site. As a result, a much deeper
foundation was necessary. The foundation problem , which required about nine months
to resolve, was partially responsible for the delay in the completion of the Tombo III
plant.
35.   Factors Subject to GOG Control. The main factor within GOG's control that
affected project implementation was the lack of sufficient actions to demonstrate its
commitment to sector restructuring and privatization.. The considerable delay in the
conclusion of a management contract was due in part to a lack of consensus within the
government, in advance of the project, on privatization arrangements. Also GOG did not
comply with key covenants necessary to make the privatization arrangement effective.
Furthermore, by entering into the Garafiri project during the implementation of Energy II,
GOG did not comply with the project covenant requiring IDA approval for any
investment over US$ 1 million.
36.   The SAR had emphasized the importance of management contracts indicating that
it could take years before the development of an independent regulatory authority. While
the SAR did not specify the contractual details, it did outline some important elements
that should be included in the contract. One of those elements was the timely payment of
electricity bills by government agencies. As Table 10, Statistical Annex, indicates, GOG
began to fulfill this requirement only towards the end of the project and did not resolve
the arrears owed to ENELGUI by the project's closing date. Another element was the
freedom of the operator to manage the utility independent of personnel, procurement
policies, and political interference. This was not the case in Energy II. The private
operator, SOGEL, shared responsibilities with the ENELGUI, which was in charge of
procurement for the project's investment components. The performance of the utility in
large measure depended on Government actions to help resolve financial problems based
on past actions which did not allow ENELGUI to operate as fully independent utility.
GOG did not sufficiently comply with project covenants designed to resolve these
problems. The private management contract had a built-in performance incentive since
the basis of the operator's compensation was a percentage of funds collected from
electricity service. However, continued dependence on GOG actions for profitability and
an effective disconnection policy for non-payment of electricity bills, ultimately
constrained the private operator's ability to respond to the incentives.
37.   Factors Subject to ENELGUI Control. The implementation of the project's
investment components with the support of consultant experts, along with improved
commercial operations and financial performance were supposed to be factors within the



Part I                                                         Page 13 of 18
scope of ENELGUI control. However, the management arrangements that developed
during the project made this difficult. ENELGUI was in an awkward position throughout
project implementation -- an organization in the process of being dismantled -- with
divided management authority. Also, the performance of ENELGUI and SOGEL
depended on GOG actions in key areas which affected income generation, notably the
resolution of arrears in payments owed by government agencies and measures to reduce
the widespread problem of illegal connections. During the last few years of project
implementation, ENELGUI received a flat monthly fee from SOGEL. This fee was only
sufficient to cover ENELGUI's administrative costs. As a result ENELGUI had to
delegate most of its supervisory functions to SOGEL because of lack of financial
resources. In addition, there was reportedly resistance to the changes taking place within
ENELGUI.
IDA Performance
38.   Bank performance in project identification was satisfactory given that the
project's objectives responded to the power system's main needs. Project preparation
also benefited from a number of studies in technical areas. Given IDA's access to
privatization experience worldwide, there should have been more recognition of the
difficulties that can arise in reaching consensus within the government in privatization
projects, taking more account of the economic, social and political climate. The project's
appraisal was satisfactory considering the conditions surrounding the preparation and the
design of the project in 1992. However, with hindsight there were a number of
deficiencies as previously outlined.
39.  IDA's supervision of the project was clearly deficient. The SAR recognized the
importance of project supervision in its early stages noting specifically that "...Careful
coordination and frequent IDA supervision missions, particularly in the early years, will
be required." The plan indicated a minimum of two supervision missions a year with
more prior to the establishment of private sector management. Based on this assessment,
the project's supervision plan indicated a total of 21 staff-weeks for supervision missions
prior to the mid-term review; 10 staff-weeks for the mid-term review in 1995; and 16
staff-weeks between the mid-term review and the end of the project in 1997. However,
project files indicate a total of 6 staff-weeks of mission time prior to mid-term review
with no missions at all in 1994, 6 staff-weeks for a mid-term review in June 1996 and
about 19 staff-weeks of mission time between the mid-term review and the end of the
project (December 1998). Despite more intensive supervision from the mid-tenn review
in 1996 onwards and IDA management efforts to bring about satisfactory project
performance, by the project closing date its status was still unsatisfactory. Furthermore,
IDA's task manager for the project changed four times during project implementation.
40.   This seems to have resulted in some loss of continuity in project supervision and,
combined with the complexity of the project, made the preparation of the ICR more time
consuming.



Part I                                                        Page 14 of 18
Borrower Performance
41.   GOG, through MNREE, and ENELGUI, respectively, were responsible for the
implementation of institutional and investment components. The preparation of the
project was satisfactory considering that there were a number of innovative features that
were to be worked out during project implementation. With hindsight, however, GOG
could have given more attention to achieving a consensus on the details and a realistic
time frame for implementation.
42.   Project supervision reports suggest that the management of both the institutional
and investment components was deficient due to frequent changes of responsibility and
personnel combined with the lack of strong commitment to privatization. On the
institutional side, GOG made progress in the development of a regulatory framework for
the electric power and petroleum sub-sectors. However, the key factor in project
performance clearly was the type of private management contract negotiated, since it was
expected to bring about substantial improvements in power sector performance. The
contract concluded, however, was deficient in that it did not allow the private operator to
accept full responsibility for operations. Furthermore, the division of responsibilities
between SOGEL and ENELGUI combined with their dependence on GOG to take
actions that were crucial to improvements in financial performance diluted the contract's
potential impact on sector performance.
43.   The implementation of the project's investment components was fragmented
among several divisions within ENELGUI. IDA supervision reports indicate a lack of
overall coordination on the part of the Borrower, noting that none of the operating
divisions was aware of the full scope of implementation, the timetable, or the detailed
cost of components. Also, the impending liquidation of the institution appears to have
been a major concern for ENELGUI's management. Supervision reports indicate that
the resistance to privatization was strong especially after the hiring of the private operator
and a substantial reduction of personnel from 1350 to 65.
44.   The compliance with project covenants by both GOG and ENELGUI on balance
was deficient. For most of the project's implementation period GOG did not comply
with key covenants which were critical for SOGEL and ENELGUI financial
performance: the timely payment of electricity bills; and the settlement of arrears to
ENELGUI; and measures/conditions to help SOGEL to adopt and maintain a satisfactory
collection strategy.   The lack of GOG  action in these areas contributed to
ENELGUI/SOGEL's inability to comply with project covenants specifying targets for
rate of return and internal cash generation. In addition, ENELGUI/SOGEL did not
comply with covenants to improve collections and reduce arrears owed by its private
customers.



Part I                                                          Page lS of 18
Project Outcome
45.   The ICR has rated the overall outcome of the project as unsatisfactory because,
despite the satisfactory completion of most investment components and improvements in
system capacity and availability: (a) it did not achieve the most important objective,
which was to secure a viable private management contract for the power system; (b) it
did not improve the power sector's productivity or financial condition; and (c) the
performance of both IDA and the Borrower in implementing the project was deficient. In
early 1998, IDA re-estimated the project's internal economic rate of return (IERR) as
15.8 percent compared to an IERR of 30.0 percent calculated at appraisal (Table 9,
Statistical Annex). The lower estimate of the IERR in the ICR compared that of the SAR
is due to a three-year delay in the accrual of incremental revenues associated with project
investments and lower actual and expected incremental sales assumptions for the period
1994-2000 because anticipated improvements in billing did not take place as planned.
The actually IERR may be even lower than the 15.8 percent taking into account more
realistic performance indicators. However, following the closing of the project in
December 1998, the Borrower did not provide IDA with updated figures necessary to do
another estimate.
Sustainability
46.   The sustainability of the project's original objectives is unlikely without diligent
adherence to the project's Operational Plan (Attachment D). Despite improvements in
the availability and quality of supply, the project did not complete the institutional reform
of the electric power sector and attain the project's most important operational indicators
(Statistical Annex, Table 6). The management contract that GOG negotiated with the
private operator during project implementation is unsatisfactory because it does not
provide the operator with full authority and incentives for management and operations.
Also, ENELGUI continues to operate alongside the operator and there is some confusion
about certain responsibilities. GOG decided in March 1997 to pursue a full concession
arrangement which would provide a new operator with more authority and performance
incentives. 'However, such an operating arrangement was not in place by the project's
closing date. GOG has enacted a number of decrees for electric power sector regulation
but most of them have not entered into force and the project did not result in assurance of
a permanent regulatory mechanism. In the petroleum sub-sector, most of the decrees
enacted during project implementation have entered into force but there are questions
concerning the sustainability of the regulatory unit.
47.   Regarding project investments, one could note the improvement of the
transmission network reliability. There was a significant reduction (40%) in the number
of blackouts during the first trimester of 1999 but this trend can only be consolidated if a
major rehabilitation of the transmission network is conducted. On the distribution side,
the improvement in systems operations is also noteworthy as the conversion of 15kV to



Part I                                                          Page 16 of 18
20kV yielded the expected results in power flow/transfer capabilities and some loss
reduction.  However, the sustainability of these results is not certain because the
distribution network 's rehabilitation is not complete and there is no operational plan
covering the system as a whole.
48.   Toward the end of the project IDA was concerned that SOGEL did not have the
capability to operate the Tombo III plant adequately. However, SOGEL and the
contractor have signed a technical assistance/support agreement which clearly delineates
maintenance requirements and operating procedures. After a year of operation, this plant
recorded a 97 percent availability ratio, which is very satisfactory. On the contrary, the
commercial performance of SOGEL is much lower than expected primarily because
GOG and SOGEL have not resolved the problem of illegal connections and fraud. As a
result, SOGEL is receiving revenue from less than 40percent of the electricity it
generates. By the end of the project, both ENELGUI and SOGEL were in a financially
precarious position.
Future Operation
49.  IDA's CAS for the Republic of Guinea emphasizes continued reform of the
electric power sector, among other measures, in order for IDA to move to the high-case
lending scenario for the Republic of Guinea. However, the Bank is not planning a third
energy project in the near future because the results of Energy II overall were
unsatisfactory". Any future operation will be contingent upon satisfactory steps to sustain
the institutional framework. The ICR has prepared an Operational Plan to meet
objectives not achieved under the project and sustain the limited objectives attained. In
order to develop viable institutions for energy sector development, the plan proposes:
a) clarification of GOG's commitment to institutional reform based on a
consensus within the government on the scope and pace of reform along with
a realistic timetable for specific achievements;
b) establishment of sustainable institutional mechanisms for energy planning
policy making and regulation, including budgetary allocations, in order to
allow GOG to exercise its role effectively; and
c) continued efforts to establish a private concession for the management of the
electric power sector with clear operational goals and an incentive framework.
50.   The key elements in the operational plan for sustaining investments in electricity
generation, transmission and distribution are:
7 IDA envisages only a limited assistance in rural energy development with a grant from the Global
Environment Fund (GEF)



Part I                                                          Page 17 of 18
a) improvements in the stability of the Conakry-Kindia transmission line, in
coordination with the new production units;
b) development of a comprehensive maintenance plan for the distribution
network; and
c) the creation of an updated system master plan.
Lessons Learned
51.   The key lessons learned from the project are the following:
a) IDA and the Borrower should ensure a clear agreement on sector priorities in
preparing a project. Although the project's SAR reflected most of the objectives in
the Borrower's LODP, IDA's wording of the objectives in the SAR clearly assigns
higher priority to reform actions, while the LODP appears to emphasize more the
physical extension of the system. These diverging priorities partially explain why
the implementation of the project's physical components was more effective than that
of the institutional components.
b) Before proceeding with any restructuring or privatization operation, it is important to
have internal government consensus on the objectives, detailed actions required and
scheduling of activities. Project files indicate that GOG, though in general agreement
with the principles of restructuring and privatization, may have felt pressured to agree
to certain privatization actions in an unrealistic time frame when they were not really
prepared, in order to obtain the funds necessary to attain their primary goal of
ensuring coverage of the country's electricity requirements.
c) A permanent private management contract for a utility is not likely to be effective
unless the private operator has full responsibility for the power system and does not
have to depend on government actions to make the utility commercially viable. Also
such an arrangement implies that the public sector management would discontinue
operation. In the case of Energy II, it was nearly impossible for the private operator
to make the system technically and financially viable because it did not have full
responsibility for the system and depended on GOG to take a number of critical
actions to eliminate an enormous financial burden on the utility due to past
inadequacies in commercial operations.
d) When an implementation plan involves a number of critical actions early in a project,
especially in areas where problems have occurred in the past, close supervision is
imperative. Resident mission staff could be effective in providing this supervision.
During the implementation of Energy IT, supervision in the initial years of the project
was minimal despite the emphasis of the project's implementation plan on close



Part I                                                        Page l8 of 18
supervision. As a result, there was a major loss in project momentum at the outset
and intensive supervision in the later years could not salvage the project from being
unsatisfactory.
e) The lack of a consolidated donor community adherence to project objectives and
covenants can be detrimental to project performance. During project implementation,
donors provided funding for the Garafiri hydropower project (in the order of US$ 200
million) despite the lazk of IDA approval for the additional investment and a project
covenant stating that the Borrower would not take on any investment over US$1
million without IDA approval.



Part II: Statistical Annexes                                                       Page 1 of 17
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement           Substantial          Partial       Negligible    Not Applicable
of Objectives
Macro policies                                                                      X
Sector policies                                                     X
Financial objectives              .                                 X X
Institutional development                                           X         ___
Physical objectives              X
Poverty reduction                                             ______X
Gender issues                                                                       X
Other social objectives                                             X
Environmental objectives                            X
Public sector                                                       x
management                          _   ___
Private sectorX
development
Other                   _      _X                                                   X
B. Project
Sustainability                    Likely                 Unlikely              Uncertain
x
C. Bank Performance         Highly Satisfactory         Satisfactory           Deficient
Identification                                               X
Preparation assistance                                       X
Appraisal                                                                         X
Supervision                                                                       X
D. Borrower                 Highly Satisfactory         Satisfactory           Deficient
Performance
Preparation                                                  X
Implementation                                                                    X
Covenant Compliance                                                               X
Operation               ___                                                       X
E. Assessment of            Highly         Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory         Highly
Outcome                   Satisfactory                                        Unsatisfactory
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                  ~~~x



Part II: Statistical Annexes                                                    Page 2 Of 17
Table 2: Related Credits
Loan/Credit               Purpose               Year                    Status
Title                                         Approval
Preceding        Rehabilitate the Conakry    Dec. 1,      Project closed in 1986. It did not
Operations       power network and strengthen   1980      achieve its main objectives. All
the state power company                  performance indicators were
First Power     through technical assistance              considerably lower than the initial
Project          and training.                            targets. The physical component was
Cr. 1085-GUI                                              completed two years late with
substantial cost overruns.
Second           Continue the technical      April 18,    Project closed in December 1990. It
Engineering. and  assistance begun under Power  1985      did not achieve its main objectives.
TA Project       I and complete engineering               As in the previous projects, the
Cr. 1595-GUI     studies for hydropower                   technical assistance failed to
development.                             strengthen the state-owned power
company. The engineering studies
concluded that there was no hydro
site less costly to develop than the
thermnal alternative.
Source: Project files.
Note: There were no follow-up IDA operation at the time of ICR preparation.
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                   Date Planned          Date actual/latest estimate
Identification                                            i December 1990 - April 1991
Preparation                                                April 1991 - January 1992
Appraisal                           February 1992          February 1992
Negotiations                         June 1992             June 1992
Board Presentation                  July 1992              July 28, 1992
Signing                                                    October 19, 1992
Effectiveness                        October 1992          June 28, 1993
Midterm Review                       October / November,    June 6-16, 1996
1995
Supplemental Credit
Project Completion                   December 31, 1997     December 31, 1998
Loan Closing                         December 31, 1997     December 31, 1998
Source: Project files.
(--) Not available/Not Applicable (for Supplemental Credit)



Part II: Statistical Annexes                                                      Page 3 Of 17
Table 4: credit disbursements Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY                                1993     1994     1995    1996       1997        1998
Original Appraisal Estimate         11.0     24.0    35.0    43.0        50.0          50.0
Revised Estimate                     8.0     14.6    23.6    34.0        50.0          50.0
Actual                               8.0     14.6    23.6    30.4        42.9          49.4
Actual as % of original estimate   72.9      60.8    67.4    70.7         85.8         98.8
Actual as % of revised estimate     100       100      100     89.4      85.8          98.8
Date of final disbursement       April 30, 1999
Source: IDA Credit disbursement data base.



Part Il: Statistical Annexes                                                               Page 4 Of 17
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
A. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND STREAMLINING OF THE POWER SECTOR
1. Formulation and implementation of a strategy to privatize ENELGUI. A key implementation indicator was that
contractual arrangementfor the private operator should have been concluded prior to credit disbursement.
Status: Unsatisfactory. The private operator was not in place prior to credit disbursements as originally
indicated. The private operator SOGEL took over part of the management of the electricity sector in July 1994.
The company is comprised of Hydro-Quebec (33%), EDF I France (17%), SAUR / France (17%) and the
Government of the Republic of Guinea with the name of ENELGUI (33%). Despite private management, key
operational indicators (Table 6) and overall performance in adherence to related covenants have been deficient.
SOGEL took over the management of the existing distribution networks and a related maintenance program,
while ENELGUI, representing the Government, has accepted the major rehabilitation and expansion of the
installations in the sector. In addition, the Government enacted a law to regulate the industry. The lack of
significant improvement in sector performance is due, in part, to the fact that the private operator has not
implemented a consistent commercial strategy, fully backed up by the Government, to curb the rampant fraud
and to boost the sales. It is worth mentioning that the fraud-induced losses represent more than 37% of the net
generation (field research by SOGEL in July 1997).
Both sector utilities - ENELGUI, the Government's asset-holding company, and SOGEL - have been in serious
financial difficulty throughout the project. The project's June 1996 mid-term review led to the definition of an action
plan to improve sector operations. GOG has not implemented this action plan fully but has helped improve the
situation somewhat by making efforts to pay regularly its bills since 1997 and alleviate SOGEL's financial crisis. GOG
and IDA have agreed that the sector requires a true concession arrangement - making the private operator fully
responsible for operations within an incentive framework -- along with the creation of a small independent regulatory
agency and the liquidation of ENELGUI.
At the end of 1998, however, the implementation of this new concession arrangement in the power sector was
unsatisfactory. After the GOG's decision to recruit the investment bank, SBC Warburg, as lead and financial advisor in
June 1998 on a sole-source basis, the process was put on hold for several months because GOG was unable to raise
funds for the legal and technical advisors. In October 1998, SBC Warburg resigned and GOG launched a bidding
process to recruit a new lead advisor with bilateral funding. The Banque Nationale de Paris - Emerging Markets was
selected and a contract was signed in late November 1998, to be financed by the Agence Fran,aise de Developpement.
The same institution supervised the recruitment of the legal advisor, Coudert Freres, and offered to finance its services.
Negotiations for a contract were finalized at the end of the year and the contract was signed in February 1999.
For the technical advisory services, the Canadian Intemational Development Agency accepted to finance the services of
SNC LAVALIN recruited on a sole-source basis by the GOG. The contract for services was signed late January 1999.
Thus, the recruitment of the team of consultants to advise on the reform process was ongoing at the end of December
1998.
1. Strengthening of the capacity of the Ministry of Energy and Environment for policy making,
planning; monitoring of sector investments; and training of relevant staff
Status: Satisfactory. A project consultant completed a diagnostic report, in May/June 1994, which
contained a detailed work plan. The project resulted in the preparation of guidelines and standards for
construction of transmission and distribution systems. An inventory of auto-producers of electricity using
diesel-based facilities was also conducted and recommendations for a regulatory agency were made. A
Standards and Monitoring Division was set up and achieved the preparation of a detailed energy data bank
as well as the publication of the document "Energy in Guinea". Surveys of the traditional energy sub sector
was carried out and an energy audit methodology was established for administrative buildings along with
the completion of audits for 29 buildings; and the creation of an energy efficiency office. Training
seminars were held on: the institutional framework for the power sector; the role of the Standards and
Monitoring Section; the regulation of the power sector; the monitoring of investments and contracts for
supplies and works; rural electrification; and electricity tariff setting. Hands-on training of and technical
visits by personnel were also organized abroad on these topics.



Part II: Statistical Annexes                                                               Page 5 Of 17
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
(CONTINUED)
3. Training of ENELGUI's personnel in administrative and technical management, to begin in May 1992 and be
completed by December 1995.
Status: Unsatisfactory. Because of the institutional changes that were taking place in the power sector, the training of
ENELGUl's personnel was scaled down and was not properly monitored. As a result, this activity produced mixed
results and was not fully satisfactory.
4. Streamlining the regulatory and institutionalframework of the power sector with the support ofprivatization
consultants between January 1992 and December 1997. Also GOG was to comply with covenants on revising the
regulatory framework.
Status: Unsatisfactory. GOG enacted the Electricity Law in 1993. However, the Power Sector Council has not been
operational and sector regulation has been difficult because of deficiencies in the lease contract with the private
operator. Also the training provided for under the project was not completed. As noted above, further regulatory
reform will be necessary with the planned implementation of concession arrangements.
5.  The preparation of studies and a relatedfollow-up investment project, between January 1993 and December
1997.
Status: Satisfactory: The main objective of these studies was to prepare the investment program required to improve
the quality of service and increase the production of electricity so as to reduce the shortage of electricity and facilitate
the transition from public to private management of the sector. All physical investments programmed in the appraisal
report have been completed in 1998 (some of them with delay and cost overrun) with the exception of: (a) the
construction of dispatching center (financed by KfW); and the rehabilitation of Tombo 2 units.
B. REHABILITATION AND EXPANSION OF POWER PLANT AND DISTRIBUTION NETWORK
1.  Construction of newfuel unloading and storage facilities between May 1992 and October 1993, for the Tombo
I, 11 and III power plants.
Status: Satisfactory. Installations for the transport, storage and treatment of fuel for the Tombo plants
were integrated into the construction of the Tombo III plant. The commissioning of the facilities was completed
in March 1998.
2. Construction of a new power plant (Tombo III); the installation of three new diesel generating sets in the new
power plant; and acquisition of the necessary equipment and spare parts. The new base load plant was to have
a total capacity of between 30 and 40 MW with the preparatory work and construction to take place between
June 1992 and to March 1995, along with an optional service contract through December 1997.
Status: Satisfactory. The Tombo III plant with an installed capacity of 33 MW began operation in October 1997 after
a total contractual delay of 30 months. The delayed operation was due to delayed effectiveness of the project (10
months) and procurement problems (II months). There also was a 9-month delay and a cost overrun of 14 % resulting
from problems with site conditions not initially foreseen.
3. Rehabilitation of the Tombo I and ll power plants and installation of an additional 5- MW diesel generating unit
in the Tombo I power plant. The preparatory work and rehabilitation on the Tombo I plant was to begin in May
1992 and be completed in September 1995. The preparatory work and extension of Tombo 11 were to begin in June
1992 and be completed by April 1994.



Part II: Statistical Annexes                                                               Page 6 Of 17
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
(CONTINUED)
Status: Satisfactory. Rehabilitation work for Tombo I took place between June 1995 and December 1996, with a one-
year delay in completion. However the conversion of all six Tombo I units from gasohol to marine diesel fuel was
completed in July 1993, one year ahead of schedule. The project did not add a new dispatching system because the
financier, KfW, declined financing due to unsatisfactory progress in institutional development/reform since mid-1996.
However, KfW reconsidered its stance when the recruitment of the team of consultants was completed in January 1999.
KfW is currently financing the updating of the dispatching feasibility study and bidding documents, and intends to add
some DM 3 million to the remaining amount of DM 5 million for the construction of the dispatching. The installation
of a new 5 MW diesel unit was completed a year ahead of schedule and began operation in April 1993.
4. Rehabilitation and expansion of the Conakry distribution network, to begin in October 1992 and be completed in
December 1995.
Status: Satisfactory. The rehabilitation and expansion of the Conakry distribution system - which
included medium and low voltage lines, substations, training of operators, etc. - was completed, with a marginal
increase in the cost of installations (3 percent). During project implementation, the urgent need to rehabilitate
the transmission system from Conakry to Kindia became apparent. ENELGUI/SOGEL consulted with IDA,
which agreed to finance the rehabilitation with proceeds from the Credit. The preparation of the bidding
documents for this phase of the project took 10 months, from August 19, 1996 to June 7, 1997. The deadline for
bid submission was extended until October 16, 1997 and bid evaluation took place in November 1997. IDA gave
its non-objection to the selected bidder in early December 1997. Given the importance of the rehabilitation
work, IDA granted a one-year extension of the Credit (which was supposed to close at the end of December
1997) to allow for financing from available Credit funds. At the end of the project, all the prioritized and
programmed works were 100% completed.
C. IMPROVEMENT OF REGULATIONS AND POLICIES FOR PETROLEUM PRODUCT DISTRIBUTION
The implementation of this component was to take place between January 1993 and December 1994. It consisted of:
(a) the streamlining of the regulatory framework governing the import and distribution of petroleum products; (b) the
monitoring of petroleum product distribution operations including general safety requirements, environmental
protection and product quality and quantity controls; and (c) the training of relevant MRNEE staff in fields related to
the monitoring of petroleum operations.
Status: Satisfactory. The Hydrocarbon Division of the National Directorate of Energy received consultant support
between January 1994 and July 1996, and concluded work about a year and a half later than planned. The component
resulted in: a list of standardization certificates for petroleum distribution companies; ministerial decrees on procedures
for governing petroleum product distribution operations; and a laboratory for petroleum product analysis.
Source: Project files and IDA staff estimates.



Part II: Statistical Annexes                                                                         Page 7 Of 17
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Indicators of the Appraisal Report and Other                                                     1998
indicators agreed to during the project       1994       1995      1996        1997        (Unaudited)
Net Production (GWh)
Actual                                               283       281       290         343             485
Target Indicator                                    340        365       470         512
Billing Ratio(%)
Actual                                               55         60        48          49             43
Target Indicator                                     75         75        79          80
Client arrears (No. of days)
Actual                                               _                                _
Target Indicator                                     83         83        83          83
Collection Rate (%)
Actual                                               --         -         80          82             83
Target Indicator                                     58         70        72          76              --
No. of clients per employee
Actual                                               61         45        41          44
Target Indicator                                     60         70        80          80
Operation Ratio
(Expenses/Revenues)
Actual                                              105.2      106.4     96.7        114.3
Target Indicator                                     87         84        81          82
Liquidity Ratio
Stocks and Values/Short-Termn Debt
Actual                                              1.21       1.04      1.3         1.00
Target Indicator                                    2.30      2.70       3.3         --
Se]f-financing ratio (%)
Actual------
Target Indicator                                      --        --        5           10
Number of Mtered Clients
Actual                                              50194     52373    47254        51414
Target                                              50000      100%      100%        100%            --
Power Available for sale (GWh)
Actual                                               283       281        311         372
Target Indicator                                     255       274       371         410
Tombo 3: Lubricant
Consumption (grams per kWh)
Actual
TargetIndicator                       -                -             -             -                1.6
3.5             3.0           2.5           2.5        __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Tombo 3; Fuel Consumption
(gr./kWh)
Actual                                        -               -                    -                213
Target Indicator                     230             230            230           223       _
Source: Project files and IDA staff estimates.
Notes: The power plant Tombo 3 was commissioned in 1997. Therefore, only 1998 data is available for the related plant
indicators.



Part II: Statistical Annexes                                                  Page 8 Of 17
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project
Study             Purpose as defined at Appraisal            Status
or Redefined                  Impact of Study
Engineering Supervision    Implementation and supervision for  Completed with satisfactory
(CFD)                      CFD financed work               implementation of the Emergency
Rehabilitation Program relating to
Conakry HV and MV networks.
Computerized cartographic  Creation of Cartographic data base   Completed. However
database (CFD); Distribution   for Conakry region           recommendations were not
lines in Conakry                                           implemented.
Engineering Results and    Implementation and supervision for  Completed with satisfactory
Supervision (CIDA /        CIDA work                       implementation of the
CANADA);                                                    rehabilitation and reinforcement
of the HV and MV systems.
Engineering results (IDA /  Engineering studies (4 amendments)  Completed satisfactorily. Led to
BEI)                                                        the installation of the Tombo 3
power plant.
Engineering and dispatching    To determine dispatching needs and  Completed. However, the
study (KFW)                urgency                          dispatching was not built at the
end of the project because the
financier KfW withdrew its
contribution, due to the
unsatisfactory power sector
reform.
Engineering study          Power production engineering study  Completed with the installation of
(JICA/JAPON)                                                a 5MW fuel-fired generation unit
12 months ahead of schedule.
Study of Distribution Master   Study the distribution Master Plan    Completed with satisfactory
Plan                       for Conakry                     results. Recommendations helped
to specify the design of the
project's distribution component.
Study on Power Production  Study the increased power system  Completed. Led to the
Capacity Increase          capacity required.               construction of the 33 MW
Tombo 3 power plant.
Study of Hydroelectric      Study Guinea's hydropower       Completed with satisfactory
Resources                  resources in preparation for an  results. Led to the preparation of
investment project.            the Garafiri project.
Source: Project files and IDA staff estimates.



Part II: Statistical Annexes                                                              Page 9 Of 17
Table 8A: Project Costs
Project Component                        Planned                 Actual
US$ million           US$ million
Rehabilitation of Tombo I                                       7.79                  5.52
Expansion of Tombo II                                           6.46                  10.68
Construction Tombo III and Fuel Storage & Piping               46.31                 46.04
Construction Management and Supervision                         4.71                  2.08
Transmission Works                                             11.10                  4.44
Distribution Works                                             33.90                 33.39
General Plant and Equipment                                    14.80                  16.41
Training                                                        3.60                  0.92
Privatization Consultant.                                       1.05                  0.31
Management Support (Technical Assistance)                      16.44                  10.77
Preparation of Investment Program                               2.17                  2.00
Petroleum Component                                             1.67                   1.65
Unallocated                                                     4.84                     0
Rehabilitation of transmission system 110/60 kV                  0.0                   0.86
TOTAL                                                         154.84                135.07
Source: Project files and IDA staff estimates.
Notes: 1. Figures are in 1992 US dollars as of March 31, 1999.
2. The technical assistance to ENELGUI was scaled down to 3 key people for 18 months, instead of a full
management team. Training of ENELGUI's personnel was scaled down because of the institutional reform that
was taking place.



Part Il: Statistical Annexes                                                             Page 10 Of 17
Table 8B: Project Financing
Funding Source                    Planned                   Actual
US$ million              US$ million
IDA                      50.00                     47.0
EIB                      20.70                     25.00
ADB                       17.00                    16.62
SIDA                      8.70                      7.71
FED/CEE                     7.00                      6.73
JICA                      5.20                      7.39
CFD                       11.00                    11.08
USAID                      1.00                      1.00
GTZ/KFW                      6.4                      0.00
KFW                       6.00                      2.24
ENELGUI                     23.93                     10.30
UNALLOCATED                     4.11                     0.00
TOTAL                      161.04                   135.07
Source: Project files and IDA staff estimates.
Note: Figures are in 1992 US$ as of March 31, 1999.



Part II: Statistical Annexes                                                                                                                  Page I I Of 17
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
(US $ Millions)
Incremental Costs      1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999           2000     2001    2002    2003    2004   ... 2013
Investments / a (US$ Mil)      0    26.50     7.53   21.65    21.24    33.65
O & M Cost / b (US$Mil)        0     0.53     0.68     1.11     1.54     2.21    2.21     2.21      2.21     2.21     2.21     2.21     2.21     2.21
Generation (GWh)
- with the project      272.00   285.00   285.60  281.70   310.80   372.10   488.55   581.45   629.29   670.65   716.64   765.91   821.07   821.07
- without the project.  272.00   285.00   271.54  274.91   298.53   290.21   275.42   275.42   527.22   524.03   521.48   518.56   515.87   515.87
Thermal Generation / c
- with the project       38.25    48.44    57.70   37.60    72.11   147.01   269.79   269.79   123.86   166.47   221.46   261.73   315.64   315.64
- without the project    38.25    48.44    43.64   30.81    59.84    65.12    56.66   111.79     7.00    27.15    56.98    93.19   125.90   125.90
Fuel Cost / d
-with the project         1.56     2.22     3.76    1.76     5.13     9.81    13.58    13.58     6.94     9.18    11.61    14.24    18.53    18.53
-without the project      1.56     2.22     2.72    1.28     4.49     5.44     3.24     4.60     0.91     2.04     3.65     5.62     8.12     8.12
Incremental fuel cost          0        0      1.04    0.48     0.64     4.37    10.34     8.98     6.03     7.14     7.96     8.62    10.41    10.41
Total Incremental Cost         0    27.03     9.25   23.25    23.42    40.23    12.55    11.19      8.24     9.35    10.17    10.83    12.62    12.62
Incremental Benefits
Sales (GWh)
- with the project      201.00   240.20   204.70   167.73   150.07   188.65   313.65   394.81   454.98   521.43   565.07   611.58   664.66   664.66
-withouttheproject      201.00   240.20   195.51  164.95   144.16   147.13   176.82   187.01   381.18   407.43   411.19   414.07   417.60   417.60
Incremental Sales (GWh)        0        0     9.19    2.78      5.91    41.52   136.83   207.80    73.80   114.00   153.88   197.81   247.06   247.06
Incremental Revenues / e       0        0        0    0.47      1.20     8.47    27.91    42.39    15.05    23.25    31.39    40.29    50.39    50.39
NET BENEFITS                   0   -27.00    -9.25  -22.77   -22.23   -31.76    15.36    31.20      6.81    13.90    21.22    29.46    37.78    37.78
Source: SOGEL and IDA staff estimates.
INTERNAL ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN (IERR): % 15.75 (estimated at the beginning of 1998); (At appraisal IERR = 30.9%/6)
ASSUMPTIONS (Prepared by SOGEL):
a / Investments: ENELGUI investment program 1993-1997 less the cost of the institutional reform component;
b / 0 & M assumed as 2% of cumulative investment cost per year;
c / Billing rates: 48.29% in 1996; 50.7% in 1997; 64.2% in 1998; 67.9% in 1999; 72.3% in 2000; 77.75% in 2001; 78.85% in 2002; 79.85% in 2003; 80.95% in 2004-2013;
d/Fuel cost: if l0(marine engine oil now used attombo iii): fg240.5 per liter in 1994; fg253 in 1995; fg 288.82 in 1996 and fg 344.92 in 1997-2013.
gasoil: gf 252 per liter in 1992, 1993, 1994; gf 243 in 1995; fg 441.07 in 1996 and fg 450 in 1997-2013.
mazout: fg 85 per liter in 1992,1993, 1994; fg 103 in 1995; fg 164 in 1996; fg 189 in 1997 and fg 186.55 in 1998-2013.
Exchange rate: us$ = fg 922.894 in October 19, 1992.
e / Revenues: at current average tariffoffg 157.01 / kWh in 1995; fg 186.78 in 1996; fg 188.25 in 1997-2013.
marine engine oil now used at Tombo)



Part Il: Statistical Annexes                                                                            Page 12 Of 17
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement
Text        Covenant    Status               Description of covenant                        Comments
Reference        Class
Section        4              NC        The Borrower shall carry out Parts A and C of  DNEM has obtained sufficient
3.01(a)(i)                              the Project in conformity with appropriate  counterpart funds for the institutional
administrative and financial practices and  component of the project for 96 (and has
shall provide promptly, as needed, the funds,   budgeted enough for 97).
facilities, services and other resources
required for such Parts of the Project.
Section        2              NC        The Borrower shall take all measures required   Although earnings of the private operator
3.04(b)                                 on its part to enable ENELGUI to adopt and    have been adjusted for 95 as per the
thereafter maintain at all times a new tariff  formula of the leasing contract, average
structure satisfactory to the Association  tariff has not been increased resulting in
no revenues for the holding company.
Required tariffrestructuring has not been
done.
Section       .I              PC        Make for each fiscal year commencing with    Since 1997, Govt. has been paying
3.04(d)                                 its 1993 fiscal year, sufficient budgetary  regularly its bills. However, arrears for
allocations to promptly settle bills for   1996 electricity consumption are not
electricity consumption by the Borrower's  settled yet.
entities and agencies.
Section         12            C         Tax the importation of heavy fuel products  Heavy fuel oil for electricity production
3.04(e)                                 required by ENELGUI for power generation    is completely tax exempt.
at the level referred to in Section 6.01(f) of
this agreement and not modify it without prior
consultation with the Association.
Section         II            C         The Borrower will provide ENELGUI with      Direct compensation at the time of arrival
3.04(f)                                 adequate funds in the form of equity        of imported goods at customs.
contribution as required to offset the amount
of taxes levied on goods and equipment to be
acquired by ENELGUI for the execution of
the Project.
Section         I             NYD       The Borrower shall have the records and     Audit report for 1998 not yet due.
4.01(b)                                 accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this
Section, including those for the Special
Account and the Disposition Fund for each
fiscal year, audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
the Association
Section         10            NC        The Borrower shall make satisfactory        Initial restructuring of ENELGUI was not
5.01(f)(i)                              progress in the execution of the Program for    completed (in 1994).
purposes of improving the operation and
management of ENELGUI.
Section         10            C         The Borrower shall enact the revised        Complied with
5.01 (f)(ii)                            regulatory framework satisfactory to the
Association to govem the power sector.
Section 3.03   5              NC        ENELGUI shall take out and maintain with    No insurance has been subscribed in
responsible insurers, or make other provision   view of ENEGUI's cash-flow problems.
satisfactory to the Association for, insurance
against such amounts as shall be consistent
with appropriate practice.
Section        5              PC        ENELGUI shall: (a) submit its draft annual  ENELGUI has prepared a 3-year
3.05(a)                                 investment plan to the Association for review   investment program (95-97) which has
and comments by October 31 of each year.   been updated during the mid-term review
mission. For 1998, no investment plan
was submitted.
Section         5             C         (b) undertake any investment required to    Complied with
3.05(b)                                 rehabilitate power networks in provincial
cities or any other investment estimated to
cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more
only if such investment is satisfactory to the
Association.



Part II: Statistical Annexes                                                                         Page 13 Of 17
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Section        5             NC        ENELGUI shall take all appropriate measures  Private consumers arrears to ENELGUI
3,06(b)                                 required to: (a) improve the collection of  still amount to $8 million, with poor
electricity bill payments due to it by any  prospects for effective collection by
public entity or private consumer, and (b)  SOGEL and will likely be provisioned by
reduce the outstanding arrears due by public    ENELGUI.
entities to a 3-month billing average and by
private consumers to a 2-month billing
average.
Section        5             PC        ENELGUI shall: on the basis of withdrawal    Procedure not sufficiently used because
3.07(b)                                 requests submitted to the Association for  of ENELGUI's cash flow problems In
reimbursements of amounts actually spent for  1996, the balance of the Fonds de
eligible expenditures, deposit into the   Disposition was only close to
Disposition Fund amounts to be reimbursed    US$400,000. However, at the end of
by the Association.                       1996, this balance was spent for the
rehabilitation of Conakry street lighting
_ __________    system.
Section        6             PC        ENELGUTI shall: (b) (i) adopt an action plan    Heavy fuel with low sulfur content is
3.08(b)                                 satisfactory to the Association, based on the    used in Tombo I's generators.
recommendations of the environment impact   Incinerators for the waste treatment of
assessment, and (ii) implement said action  Tombo I have not been installed as
plan, no later than 12/31/1993.           recommended.
Section        5             CD         ENELGUI shall: (c) carry out a mid-term   Carried out from June 6 to 16, 1996.
3.08(c)                                 review with IDA no later than June 30, 1995
to assess the progress achieved in the
execution of the Project, and implement the
recommendations.
Section        I             PC        ENELGUI shall have its records, accounts   Audit report for 1998 is not yet due.
4.01(b)                                 and financial statements of income for each
fiscal year audited, and shall fumish these
reports to the Association.
Section        2             NC        Except as the Association shall otherwise  Not attained for 1996, 1997 and 1998.
4.02(a)                                 agree, ENELGUI shall eam, for each fiscal
year after its fiscal year ending December 31,
1994, an annual return of not less than 7% of
the average current net value of ENELGUI
fixed assets in operation during the fiscal
year.
Section        2             NC         ENELGUI shall review each year before     No measures have been taken.
4.02(b)(c)                              October 31 on the basis of forecasts, whether
the ratio mentioned (a) reaches 26% or above
for the next fiscal year, and in the event that
this rate is not achieved, take the necessary
measures to reach this ratio.
Section        2             NC         Except as the Association shall otherwise  Not attained for 1996, 1997 and 1998.
4.03(a)                                 agree, ENELGUI shall produce, for each of
its fiscal year after its fiscal year ending
December 31, 1994, funds from intemal
sources equivalent to not less than 26% of the
annual average of ENELGUI's capital
expenditures incurred for that year, for the
previous fiscal year and for the next following
fiscal year.
Section        2             NC         ENELGUl shall review each year before     See above (4.02).
4.03(b)(c)                              October 31, on the basis of forecasts, whether
the ratio mentioned in (a) reaches 26% or
above for the next fiscal year, and in the event
that this rate is not achieved, take the
necessary measures to reach this ratio.
Source: Project files and IDA staff estimates.
Notes to Table 10: :
C=Complied With; CD =Complied With Delay; NC=Not Complied With;PC=Partially Complied With; SOON :Compliance
Expected in Reasonably Short Time; NYD =Not Yet Due.



Part II: Statistical Annexes                                              Page 14 Of 17
Table 11 Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Not applicable to this project.
Table 12 Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle          Planned            Revised           Actual**
Staff     000      Staff    000      Staff     000
Weeks*    US$    Weeks*   US$    Weeks    US$
Preparation to appraisal
Appraisal
Negotiations through Board approval    --        --        --      --       --        --
Supervision                          62.0     196.8      120   334.5    123.3    375.5
Completion                            8.0       2.0      12.0   24.5       12.0     24.5
TOTAL                                70.0     216.0      132   359.0    135.3    400.0
Source: IDA Management Information System and IDA staff estimates.
(--) Not available.
Planned and revised figures are for FY96, FY97 and FY98 only.
** Actual figures are as of November 10, 1997. These include consultant fees and travel expenses for
staff and consultants.
Source: IDA Management Information System and IDA staff estimates.



Part II: Statistical Annexes                                               Page 15 Of 17
Table 13 Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of project   Date   Staff   Days       Skills     Performance ratings    Types of
cycle                                                   _____problems
Imp.      Div.
Progress  Objectives
Preparation      1991-                    SPO, SPE,    NA         NA
1992                    FA, EC, 00,
SC, IA, PS
Appraisal        1991 -                  SPO, SPE,    NA          NA
through Board    07/28/                  FA, EC, 00,
approval         1992                    IA
Supervision I    Mar    3        21      SPE, 00,       NR        NR          None
1993                    SPE                                  Specified.
Supervision 2    May    1        0       FA             1         I           None
1993                                                         Specified.
Supervision 3    May    1        0       FA             1         1           None
1993                                                         Specified.
Supervision 4    Sep     I       0       PE             S         S           IS
1994           _
Supervision 5    Feb     3       3       ES, PE, FA     U         U           F
1995
Supervision 6    June    1       1       SES            U         U           IN
1995
Supervision 7    Sep 95   1      5       SES            U         U           IN
Supervision 8    Jun     4       32       SES, PE, SC,  U         U           F, P
(Mid-term        1996                    IS
Review)
Supervision 9    Mar    3        18      SES, EC, ES   U          U           A, F,
l 1997                  _L
Supervision 10 &   Oct   3       26      SES, EC, IS    U         U           IN
Completion       1997
Supervision 11    May    2       10                     U         U           A, F, IN, P,
1998                    __S
Supervision 12    Dec    2       10       SPE; EC       NR        NR          F
1998           _         _            _      __
Specializations: EC = Economist; 00 = Operations Officer ;SPE = Senior Power Engineer; SPO =
Senior Projects Officer; SES = Senior Energy Specialist; SC = Senior Counsel; FA = Financial Analyst; ES
= Energy Specialist; IS = Institutional Specialist
Performance Ratings: HS = Highly Satisfactory; S = Satisfactory; U = Unsatisfactory
Performance Categories: DO = Development Objectives; IP = Implementation Progress
Problems Ratings: A = Administrative; F= Financial; IN = Institutional Development; IS
=Implementation Strategy; and P = Procurement
Other: (--) = Not Available; NA = Not Applicable; and NR = Not Reported






APPENDICES






Appendices                                                                                      Page 17 of 17
APPENDIX A
Attachment D: Guinea Energy II Project: Operational Plan
PROJECT ISSUES                        PLANNED ACTIONS                        KEY PERFORMANCE
INDICATORS
Institutional Aspects
*   Lack of a comprehensive vision of    *   Development of consensus within   *   An updated policy statement with a
sector reform and privatization.       the Government on the content and       with a realistic, time- based program
*   Lack of viable functioning              pace of reform.                         for institutional, technical and
regulatory entities in the electric  *   Establishment of fully functioning    financial achievements.
power and petroleum sub-sectors by     entities for regulating the electric  *   Entry into force, by 12/99, of all
project completion                     power and petroleum distribution        laws and regulations enacted for
sub-sectors.                           the regulation of electric power and
petroleum distribution.
Commercial and Financial Aspects
.   Inadequate private management      *   Procurement of expert advisory      *   Signature and implementation of
contract for the electric power sector  services to assist in establishing a   contacts with a team of consultants,
.   Insufficient Govemment actions to       private concession arrangement.         led by the Emerging Markets
make private management viable.   *   Clearing of government arrears to        Division of the Banque Nationale de
*   Lack of significant improvement in      ENELGUI/SOGEL. Allowing the             Paris ,to assist in establishing a full
financial performance.                 private operator full management of     private concession to manage
government held assets without         public electric power facilities.
government interference.           *   Operation of the power system at a
*   Development of a comprehensive          profit beginning in.
plan for reducing fraud..          *   Establishment of realistic targets
.   Detailed assessment of the              over a five-year period for
commercial operations and financial    billing/collection ratios, rates of
condition of the power sub-sector.     return, and internal cash generation
for investments.
*   Continued timely government
payment of its electricity bills.
Technical Aspects
*   Lack of a comprehensive funding    .   Preparation of a comprehensive      *   Determination of specfic
for maintenance and spare parts        operational and plan for all            performance targets for system
*   Uncertain responsibility for physical   generating units and the entire T&D     availability, technical loss reduction,
investments under the project.         system. Preparation of a plan for       and client metering.:
*   Difference in power levels between      meeting the original technical loss  .   Installation of tanks for collecting
the old and new units for Tombo I      targets under the project and for       and separating effluent and
and II.                                reducing non-technical losses           incinerators for burning solid waste
*   Potentially dangerous instability in    through expanded metering and           associated with the Tombo power
the transmission and distribution 1    other loss reduction measures.          plants.
T&D) system.                       *   Continued progress in the
.   Lack of an operational plan for         preparation of the rural
sections of the T&D system.            electrification project with GEF
.   Achievement of only about half of       financing.
its technical loss reduction target  *   Full implementation of the
and lack of significant progress in    recommendations of the
reducing non-technical losses.         environmental assessment.
.   Need to follow up on rural
electrification alternatives..
*   The environmental mitigation plan is
incomplete.






ENERGY PROJECT II
(CREDIT 2416-GUI)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SUMMARY
Introduction
1. Energy Project II, the total cost of which was the equivalent of US$ 150 million, was
financed by IDA (33 per cent), EIB (16.7 per cent), AfDB (11.3 per cent), CFD (7.4 per
cent), CIDA (5.8 per cent), EDF (4.7 per cent), the Japan International Cooperation Agency
(JICA) (3.3 per cent), and USAID (0.7 per cent); the remainder (12.7 per cent), representing
local costs primarily, was financed by ENELGUI. Separate financing agreements were
concluded between the Government and each donor. IDA, which provided Credit 2416-GUI,
for which the Credit Agreement was signed on October 19, 1992, was recognized as project
coordinator.
2. The objective of the Project was to ensure the sustainability of the electric power sector
through an institutional reform program to reorient the State's role in the sector and a limited
investment program to make sector operations profitable. The specific objectives were to: (i)
create an appropriate regulatory framework; (ii) help the Government disengage from
operations and strengthen its regulatory and policy functions; (iii) gradually attract private
operators and investors, starting by turning management of operations over to a qualified
private operator; and (iv) finance the costs of the transition to private management. A
secondary objective was to improve the regulatory framework in the petroleum products
sector, which the Government had recently privatized.
3. The credit was used to finance three components: an institutional reform component for the
electric power sector, an investment component, and a technical assistance component for the
petroleum products sector.
4. The institutional reform program for the power sector called for: (i) consulting services to
study privatization, prepare bidding documents, help evaluate bids, assist in negotiating a
contract, and monitor the new operator; (ii) strengthening the capacity of the National
Directorate of Energy (DNE) for sector planning and regulation and policy formulation; (iii)
financing of the cost of the management contract awarded to ENELGUI during the transition
period; and (iv) preparation of studies for use in planning the follow-up project and
identification of a strategy to improve management and service in a number of Guinean
provinces.



Energy II Project ICR - Guinea                 Summary of Government Contribution
The investment program, which was designed to raise service standards and ensure the success
of the privatization process, focused on (i) rehabilitation of the Tombo I and Tombo II power
plants and installation of an additional 5-MW diesel generating unit at Tombo II; (ii)
construction of a new fuel storage facility for the Tombo plants, including a transmission and
distribution system; (iii) construction of a new 33-MW power plant, Tombo III; (iv) provision of
maintenance services for the new plant; (v) rehabilitation and strengthening of the Conakry
distribution network; (vi) provision of telecommunications equipment and services; and (vii)
provision of vehicles and working capital such as tools, spare parts, and office equipment). A
limited program to rehabilitate the Conakry-Kindia transmission system was identified in 1995
and added to the Project.
5. The technical assistance program for the petroleum sector called for recruiting a consultant to
help the Hydrocarbon Division of MRNE monitor petroleum product distribution in Guinea.
The consultant was to (i) propose an appropriate regulatory structure; (ii) assist in monitoring
distribution activities; (iii) train staff; and (iv) analyze MRNE's capacity to supervise
petroleum sector operations.
Project execution and results
6. Credit 2416-GUI was made effective on June 28, 1993, nine months after the Agreement was
signed. At project closure on December 31, 1997, 82 per cent of financing had been
disbursed. All key elements of the various components were completed, with the exception
of three: construction of the network management center (dispatching center) at Tombo;
rehabilitation of the Tombo II plant; and rehabilitation of the Conakry-Kindia transmission
network. Significant construction delays - ranging from 10-30 months - affected nearly all
of the Project's physical components, the most serious having occurred at the Tombo III
plant. These delays may be attributed mainly to delayed credit effectiveness and delays at
various stages of the procurement process.
7. Conversion of the Tombo I units from gas-oil to IF- IO was completed in July 1994, 12
months after the dated envisaged at project appraisal. Rehabilitation of the units took place
during 1994-1995. A new 5-MW unit was installed in 1993 - a year ahead of schedule - at
Tombo I instead of Tombo II. The new plant at Tombo III was commissioned in September
1997, 30 months behind schedule. The emergency phase of the Conakry network
rehabilitation component was implemented from 1991 (before project launch!) to 1993, while
some of its works were built in 1996. The second phase was completed in June 1997, 27
months late.
8. Privatization of ENELGUI was completed with the signing of a concession agreement on
April 24, 1994, paving the way for the new operator, SOGEL, to take over operations as of
July 25, 1994. The technical assistance program to strengthen the regulatory and monitoring
capacity of MRNE in the electric power sector was implemented from July 1994-July 1996;
the program to strengthen the Ministry's planning and policy formulation capacity was
Page 2



Energy II Project ICR - Guinea                   Summary of Government Contribution
carried out from April 1994-September 1997. The technical assistance program to strengthen
its capacity to regulate and monitor the petroleum products sector was executed from January
1994-September 1995.
9. The results of the Tombo I and II rehabilitation component were poor. Only two of the
plants' eight (seven at project appraisal) generating units are currently in service. The
addition of a sixth unit at Tombo I proved unsatisfactory because the unit has experienced
breakdowns totaling at least 18 months since it was commissioned in 1993. Even though
some of the works were not completed (60 per cent of the low-voltage rehabilitation and
voltage conversion components), the network rehabilitation and expansion program
improved the reliability and carrying capacity of the Conakry distribution network
significantly and led to decreased technical losses resulting in increased annual sales of
approximately US$ 400,000. These results may therefore be considered satisfactory,
although their sustainability will be in jeopardy unless the rehabilitation program is
completed and an appropriate operational plan is put in place. The results of the construction
of the Tombo III plant - commissioned 30 months later than planned - may be deemed
satisfactory given the plant's potential for improving service, its likely commercial
performance, and the expected decrease (1.7 per cent, according to SOGEL) in the
transmission network's power losses. However, the plant's long-term outlook will depend on
the introduction of an appropriate operational plan, including intensive training for operating
and maintenance personnel.
i0. The results of the privatization effort are unsatisfactory because the sector's financial
soundness is far from assured. Indeed, since privatization in 1994 the sector has registered a
cumulative deficit well in excess of US$ 40 million. The results of efforts to strengthen the
capacity of MRNE for strategic sector planning are poor. Much remains to be done if the
Ministry is to move beyond having the capability to prepare a national energy audit, which it
can already do, to being able to draw up exhaustive equipment plans and formulate policies
and strategies covering all facets of power sector development. The sustainability of the
results achieved will depend on how well the former Project unit is integrated with the
MRNE structure and on the operational plan to be put in place. The results of efforts to
strengthen the capacity of MRNE to regulate and monitor the distribution of petroleum
products are satisfactory. Regulations have been introduced and Hydrocarbon Division staff
are equipped to monitor the sector. However, the sustainability of these results is jeopardized
by the Division's status (it is currently part of the Geological Research Unit) and by the
absence of self-financing arrangements, a mechanism that is in fact feasible given the
services provided.
11. The results of each component are thus mixed when compared with the objectives
established at project appraisal. However, if the current situation is weighed against a
hypothetical scenario with no project, the results are hardly negligible: sector management
has been modernized and the potential for improved service quality has been enhanced now
that the deficit in electric power production and network losses have been virtually
eliminated. Nevertheless, it is important not to forget the Project's basic objective, namely,
to ensure the viability of the power sector in record time. The privatization of ENELGUI's
Page 3



Energy II Project ICR - Guinea                   Summary of Government Contribution
operations, a prerequisite for Energy Project I1, was to have ensured improved service quality
and put the sector on a sound financial footing. In summary, the aim was to make the
operation profitable as of the first financial year after the private operator had taken it over,
and then to establish sound self-financing arrangements. Credit Agreement No. 2416 called
for the following financial ratios for the sector as from the 1995 financial year: a 7-per cent
rate of return on net fixed assets and a minimum self-financing capacity of 26 per cent. At
project completion, December 31, 1997, the respective figures were -23.4 per cent and -14.8
per cent.
12. Given the deficits incurred by the sector from 1994 to the present, it is easy to conclude that
the result of the Project as a whole was unsatisfactory. Indeed, throughout the second half of
project implementation, donors and the borrower alike focused on the reform of the sector.
Furthermore, the internal economic rate of return calculated at project appraisal was 30.9 per
cent. Recalculated at project closure, the rate ranged from 19 down to 14 per cent, depending
on the assumptions made regarding the improvement in commercial performance registered
by the operator. An exhaustive analysis of the reasons for this situation is beyond the scope
of this implementation completion report. However, it is possible to identify those project
appraisal assumptions that were not borne out. The prediction that the sector would recover
rapidly was based on these assumptions: that production would rise from 249 GWh in 1991
to 320 GWh in 1992, and then to 556 GWh in 1997; that the operator's productivity would
rise rapidly (showing a billing rate of 81 per cent and a collection rate of 89 per cent by
1997); and that tariffs would increase 10 per cent annually during 1993-1995.
13. In reality, only the assumption regarding tariff increases was borne out over time. Following
the major increase in December 1991, tariffs were raised 15-30 per cent in June 1994,
depending on the consumption level, 11-29 per cent in November 1995, and then 3-14 per
cent in January 1996. An increase in net production, however, did not materialize until 1997,
given the significant delays (already described) experienced at the Tombo III power plant, a
key component of the network rehabilitation effort. By 1997, the operator's billing rate had
reached only 50 per cent. Billing problems attributable, for example, to fraud, made it
impossible to reap the full benefit of the increased tariffs. This explains the low average rate
of tariff increases for 1994-1996 - 12.7 per cent -when nominal tariffs at the various
consumption levels were increased substantially. To sum up, the Project gave rise to
excessive optimism fueled by insufficient analysis of the situation at the outset and a failure
to anticipate the problems that arose regarding the institutional structure planned.
Donor and borrow performance
14. In the light of the information available, an analysis of project preparation, implementation,
and supervision prompts the conclusion that overall donor and borrower performance was
mediocre. The following observations are relevant in this regard:
(i)  The donors forced the privatization process and form by making them a condition
for project implementation. The borrower, in turn, did not thoroughly exarnine the
alternative privatization structures put forward by the donors. Such an analysis
Page 4



Energy II Project ICR - Guinea                  Summary of Government Contribution
would have facilitated greater consensus on the issues, thereby eliminating
subsequent resistance, and would have helped to make the donors more aware of the
privatization option most likely to succeed.
(ii)  Neither the donors nor the borrower were able to identify or analyze in time the risks
- which seem obvious today - inherent in sharing responsibilities under the new
institutional framework they were preparing to establish.
(iii) The donors and the borrower alike were unable to determine exactly how much
ENELGUI's operations improved under the management contract. They took the
manager's reports for granted, whereas the manager had a stake in justifying the
contract and naturally also wished to be hired as the next private operator.
Consequently, the amount of effort required to rehabilitate the sector was
underestimated.
(iv) Neither the donors nor the borrower anticipated how critical the time frame for
implementation of the physical components which were to facilitate the success of
the privatization process would prove. Accordingly, no special measures were taken
to ensure due diligence vis-a vis their implementation.
(v)  The Project was poorly supervised by the donors initially. Later on, during the
second half of the Project, when the donors realized that many provisions of the
Credit and Project Agreements had not been met and that the targets would never be
achieved, instead of carefully analyzing the causes of the situation, they sought to
force the process by attempting to impose a series of measures that turned out to be
unrealistic (such as requiring an immediate increase in what was an already high
tariff and setting unattainable financial ratio targets) or irrelevant given the very
serious viability issue (such as cross-debt).
(vi) The borrower never truly managed the Project in its entirety. Crucial indicators
needed to measure the success of the privatization process properly were not
monitored. Besides failing to implement certain agreement provisions, the borrower
did not opt to initiate a constructive dialogue with the donors in order to work out
corrective measures early on. The borrower was always on the defensive, reacting to
the donors' reactions. Moreover, even though the success of the privatization effort
was partly dependent on harmony between the sector's two companies, the
borrower, which was the supervising authority responsible for monitoring them,
never fully served as arbitrator in a timely manner when conflicts arose.
(vii) Finally, when it become obvious to all concerned that the existing structure was not
working properly, the donors initially recommended an amendment to the existing
lease agreement (convention d'affermage), and nothing more. Several months later
they realized that the amendment had not adequately resolved the problems,
whereupon they asked the borrower to switch abruptly and swiftly to a more radical
arrangement, a classical concession, under which ENELGUI would be liquidated
Page 5



Energy II Project ICR - Guinea                   Summary of Government Contribution
while SOGEL, the current private operator, would be kept on board. Curiously, the
borrower initially accepted the recommendation, only to change its mind several
months later when it decided that the matter had not been adequately studied and
called for other options to be explored before a final decision was taken.
Lessons learned
15. The principal general lessons to be drawn from the Project are set out below.
Project preparation:
(i)  It is essential when planning any radical improvements to carry out an accurate
assessment of the initial conditions. In this case, an independent audit should have
been conducted of the actual situation prevailing at the original operation, in order to
highlight its strengths and weaknesses and discern opportunities and dangers. In
addition, alternative strategies for achieving the desired goal should have been
considered objectively.
(ii)  Agreements should contain a small number of provisions - strenuously debated if
necessary - which the borrower truly accepts and which are not included solely for
the sake of winning credit approval, rather than a host of provisions conveying the
impression that the risks have been overcome whereas in reality some provisions
might not be honored, without any consequences. Where provisions prove to be
inapplicable, they should be jointly reviewed, adapted, or replaced promptly.
(iii) It is a challenge to attempt to combine into a single large project, projects which
were begun independently of one another in different contexts and which are at
different stages of completion. Effective coordination of the many components is
critical.
(iv) Ideally, installations to be turned over to a private operator - one with no investment
responsibilities which will be expected to perforn well - should first be upgraded.
Where this is not possible, such upgrading must be completed as soon as possible
after the operator has taken charge. Failure to do so will result in additional
management costs but no increased income potential.
(v)  Agreements concerning projects focusing on institutional reform should include
provisions on the sharing or transfer of responsibilities resulting from the reform and
on the contractual obligations of the entity to be reformed.
Project execution:
(vi) The capabilities of an administrative unit cannot be strengthened by creating a
separate entity within the unit. If this is unavoidable initially for efficiency reasons,
it should be established clearly at the outset that the new entity will gradually be
Page 6



Energy II Project ICR - Guinea                      Summary of Government Contribution
strengthened so that it can replace the original administrative unit, and the gradual
phase-out of the unit should be planned.
(vii) Whatever form it takes, privatization is not a panacea. Structural problems causing
inefficiencies should be identified in advance and analyzed in concert. The results
sought through privatization should be the focus of detailed action plans, and
systematic monitoring should be carried out so that any required corrective measures
can be taken in a timely manner.
(viii) Privatization should not be viewed simplistically as a tool to be used to disengage
the State forthwith from all its obligations regarding the rehabilitation and
development of a public utility. The State should acknowledge that during a
transition period or even longer it needs to continue to provide its active support to
the utility, in terms of financing and, in particular, in terms of ensuring a favorable
environment, inasmuch as institutional reforms cannot succeed for long in the
absence of such an environment. As to privatization of an electric power system in
particular, a favorable environment implies such factors as strict application of legal
provisions concerning fraud and electricity theft, education of consumers regarding
true sector costs and the importance of timely payment of bills, and timely payment
by government agencies of their own bills.
(ix)  Excessive segmentation of operational responsibilities undermines the overall
efficiency of an operation, whether at the sector or project level. In such situations,
participants tend to shirk their responsibility to be actively involved and creative. To
rectify this problem, leadership capabilities higher up in the hierarchy must be
strengthened substantially.
(x)  Rigorous monitoring is crucial when there is no single unit responsible for managing
all facets of a project and responsibilities are divided up. It is therefore essential to
establish a supervisory/coordinating unit to ensure that project objectives are
effectively pursued and that participants do not lose sight of certain agreement
provisions.
(xi)  With rehabilitation projects comprising many small components at different stages
and on different schedules - as is the case with the rehabilitation of distribution
networks - it is important to stipulate that responsibility for works engineering issues
should be left to the contractors and to avoid using a virtually uncontrollable billing
system such as one based on countless unit retail prices. Furthermore, the
responsibility for supplying small network equipment would best be left to the
contractors, which should be allowed some flexibility so that they can provide for
contingencies in a timely manner.
(xii) Coordination is essential for rehabilitation projects for which equipment is supplied,
assembled, and installed by different companies and financed by different donors.
The coordination process should involve donors beginning at the planning stage, and
Page 7



Energy II Project ICR - Guinea                  Surnmary of Government Contribution
in any case steps should be taken from the outset to ensure that assembly work is not
interrupted if equipment is needed unexpectedly.
Page 8



Republic of Guinea - Electric Power Sector
Terms of Reference for Hiring a Consultant
Establishment of a Concession: Preliminary Phase
Introduction
In the early 1990s the Republic of Guinea launched a program for the institutional and
regulatory reform of the electric power sector. The reform led, inter alia, to the opening up of
the power generation sector, the establishment of an asset holding company (ENELGUI), and the
preparation in March 1994 of a lease contract with an operator (SOGEL); the majority of
SOGEL's interest is held by private partners (Hydro Quebec International, EDF, and SAUR) and
approximately 30 per cent is held by the State, through ENELGUI.
Major difficulties emerged rapidly once the reform process got under way. The following
problems were identified in June 1996 by a mission of Energy'II Project donors:
 The lease contract was deficient, and compliance rapidly proved impossible (among other
reasons, because of unrealistic key data and performance indicators);
* The financial health of the asset holding company was unsound from the outset;
* The commercial management efforts of the private operator were ineffective;
* The commercial situation was undermined because key investments were delayed and
postponed;
* The institutional framework was redundant and was not very functional; and
* These problems in turn created an increasing financial crisis for sector actors.
In light of this situation, the Government decided in March 1997 to replace the existing
lease contract with a "conventional" management contract; i.e. one under which a concessionaire
would assume a degree of responsibility for capital investment, in addition to operating the
system at its own risk. Priority was to be given to negotiating the management contract with the
existing holder of the lease contract and, if no such agreement could be reached, with other
potential partners. The decision to issue a management contract was also to entail liquidation of
the existing asset holding company, and the establishment of a regulatory mechanism.
With this end in view, a number of transitional measures were adopted. An amendment,
negotiated over a period of several months, was finally concluded in September 1997 and
retroactively covered the transitional period (at the time it was estimated that it would take one
year) leading up to the establishment of the concession. The amendment was subrogated to the
lease contract, among other reasons because it contained provisions which, in the actual
circumstances, had proved difficult or impossible to comply with (e.g. Annex 54 of the contract).
Article 8 of the amendment stipulates that the latter shall: (1) operate retroactively to January 1,
1997; and (2) remain in force until the new institutional framework is in place. In addition, the
provisions relating to FY98 must be issued one month before the end of 1997.



-Electric Power Sector                     Terms of Reference for Hiring a Consultant
In October 1997 the Government decided that rather than making a priority of negotiating
with the existing operator, it would instead undertake a selection process to find a concessionaire
per se, a process which was to begin in 1998 at the latest. To this end, it seems to be leaning
either toward engaging in international shopping among potential partners, followed by direct
negotiations with some of them, or toward calling for international competitive bidding. The
Government plans to hire consultants (not those hired to carry out the current mandate) early in
1998 to support its efforts once it selects one of these options, and to set the reform process in
motion.
Description of the tasks ahead
The Government wishes to secure the services of a consultant as soon as possible in order
to introduce transitional measures and delineate the broad outlines of the planned reforns. The
consultant will have the task of:
(1) developing an action plan for the establishment of the concession, including identification of
the various phases involved and the obstacles to be overcome, and preparation of a schedule; and
(2) acting as facilitator for the parties in their negotiations on changes to amendment No. I for
FY 1998 (or possibly for work on a second. amendment) and helping the Government devise
appropriate transitional measures.
Implementation of the work program
The mandate of the selected consultant will comprise two groups of tasks.
Group I Tasks
The consultant will participate in meetings among the various parties in order to complete
modifications to amendment No. 1 (or a second amendment). In the course of the negotiations,
the consultant will also explore with the parties the effect on the amendment, and the
modification thereto, of the Government's decision to forego giving priority to negotiating with
the existing operator in favor of hiring a (new) concessionaire. The provisions of the amendment
will be modified or drafted accordingly.
The consultant will also explore, from a broader perspective, the impact of this decision
during the transitional period and on the hiring of a concessionaire. In particular, the consultant
will discuss the following questions with the parties: What types of legal entity would be
entitled to bid: SOGEL itself, or the members of the consortium, together or individually? What
would the consequences be during the transitional period, at the end of that period (for example
with respect to the liquidation of SOGEL), and when the concessionaire is hired (circulation of
information, conflicts of interest, etc)? The consultant will identify appropriate provisional
2



Electric Power Sector                     Terms of Reference for Hiring a Consultant
measures to address these matters, along with other measures for possible inclusion in the action
plan for the establishment of the concession (see group II tasks).
Throughout this process, it will be essential for the consultant, when discharging his role as
facilitator, to function as an expert serving both parties (and for him to be so perceived by the
parties to the negotiations), and not as an adviser to one party in particular.
Group II Tasks
The consultant will develop an action plan for the establishment of the concession,
including identification of the various phases involved and the obstacles to be overcome and
preparation of a schedule. At a minimum, this analysis should include the following reform
components:
(1) Sectoral policy and market structure
T he consultant will help the Government analyze the competitive environment and the
market structure in which the concession is to operate. In particular,
v  The consultant will study the various options for creating the most competitive setting
possible given the context (for example, opening up power sales to independent distributors)
and will recommend necessary changes to the 1993 law governing the sector and other
relevant instruments; and
v  The consultant will review the (new) BOT law now under consideration and assess its
possible impact on the concession being established.
(2) Organization of the sector
The consultant will help the Government develop an action plan for institutional reform,
including the establishment of a regulatory mechanism and the liquidation of ENELGUI. In
particular:
* the consultant will study various models for a small but professional and competent
regulatory mechanism for the sector (for example, by bringing in private sector specialists to
support regulatory functions during a transitional period and/or subcontracting certain
financial management or other functions).
*  the consultant will develop a plan for liquidating ENEGLUI, including identifying the
measures required to this end, such as:
-  the legal procedure to be followed;
-  the transfer of ENELGUI's debt and other obligations;
-  the transfer/sale of its interest in SOGEL;
-  employee compensation; and
-  other measures.
3



- Electric Power Sector                      Terms of Reference for Hiring a Consultant
(3) Economic and financial viability of the concession
The consultant will identify the steps to be taken to deternine the economic value of the
concession. He will recommend any useful financial simulations as well as tariff and any other
required studies, such as tax and customs measures, measures to ensure that the Govenmnent
pays its electricity bills in a timely manner, etc.
(4) Preparation of an incentive-based, sustainable management contract
-    The consultant will identify for the Government, on a preliminary basis, those issues to
which particular attention should be paid when drawing up an incentive-based, sustainable
management contract, and will indicate how to go about this process. In particular,
*  the consultant will identify methods and provisions constituting "best practices" in the
following areas:
- allocation of responsibilities;
- establishment and indexing of prices;
- performance criteria;
- penalties and bonuses;
- duration, completion, and compensation;
- nonperfornance and force majeur; and
- dispute settlement.
3  The consultant will consider the question of exclusivity, in terms of the territory covered
under the concession and the time frame, and will propose various methods to restrict its
impact (if justified).
(5) The process of hiring the concessionaire
The consultant will help the Government decide what procedure to follow in selecting the
concessionaire. He will therefore assess the various options, as follows:
* The consultant will evaluate the differences between and the advantages and disadvantages
of (1) international shopping followed by direct negotiations  and (2) international
competitive bidding. He will consider the following questions when comparing the two
processes:
- What gains can be derived if there is competition among several bidders?
- Are the processes transparent (as regards additional costs, effects on public confidence,
etc.)?
- What transaction costs are involved?
- What is the minimum time required?
- What are the essential prerequisites before the operation is launched; e.g. preparation of
bidding documents, visits, etc.?
* The consultant will assess the impact of the following factors on the hiring process and will
identify ways to mitigate this impact, including:
4



'Electric Power Sector                    Terms of Reference for Hiring a Consultant
-  the advantage which the members of the consortium and/or the existing operator (see
above) enjoy by being on the scene and having privileged knowledge of the installations
and operations;
-  the impact, if any, of the State's ownership interest in the existing operato; and
-  the existence of a contract with the current operator that is valid until the year 2004.
* The consultant will help the Government draft terms of reference for selecting other
specialized consultants to proceed with hiring the concessionaire.
Qualifications Required of the Consultant
The consultant must be extremely knowledgeable with respect to negotiation techniques,
law (especially lease and management contracts), accounting, economics, organization of
infrastructure sectors (particularly the electric power sector), and practices relating to power
network operations.
The consultant should have experience managing projects similar to this one. Experience
in a West African country would be an asset. A good knowledge of French is indispensable.
Duration and Scope of the Contract
It is estimated that the contract will last for one (1) month and that the scope of the work to
be carried out will require the services of two persons during that period.
Organization and Reports
The consultant will be under contract with the Ministry of Natural Resources and Energy
and will work primarily with this Ministry, in collaboration with the Ministry of Finance,
ENELGUI, SOGEL, and the other parties involved.
A preliminary detailed report will be submitted before December 20, 1997. The final
report incorporating comments and suggestions from the parties concerned will be submitted
before January 15, 1998.
5






MAP SECTION






IBRD 23585
MAURITANIA
/  '< 1X    2   ,                 t ~~~~~~~~~S E N  E G A L                            
SENEGAL YA                                                                                                                                                          L
M A L I                                                                                                                                  M      A      L     I
~BURKINA
W-' --  >           fJ   FASO              Koundo-,
12'-
GO E   SYTM I N E A                                                                 E" K-biKeo.n pg                                                                           *
R I                      l 5 A U
~~2k~~~~ jli  Rope   ~ ~ ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ ~~oe ao
.                        ,,       .                                                                                                                                                  1.Q,  , R  b   \  >  wn  A   X  <Sag  d_t
ENELGUI  PRIVATE         POWER PLANTS                                                                           /       i G k d                     e      7e  
tJJ  ll"   DIESEL   -,    RIVERS                                           ht r;  w    g        ~~~~r.    ,:Mocesroa   )                             )
A              OIL FIRED STEAM PLANT                MAIN ROADS                                    ,/t/ /f ,        
TRANSMISSION LINES                           - -INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIESi*                                                                           1 
3D k 0V                                          0    25   50   75  100                                j                                            /      r   
m/1~~
r
such boondari        ~14~                                               12                                               0                   
fEBRUARY I9V2



