Page  1
                                                            CONFORMED COPY
                 Contribution Agreement Related to Credit Number 2416 GUI
                          CONTRIBUTION AGREEMENT
                                  between
                         THE GOVERNMENT OF CANADA
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                  for the
                      Second Power Project in Guinea
                          Dated October 22, 1992
                 Contribution Agreement Related to Credit Number 2416 GUI
                          CONTRIBUTION AGREEMENT
     The Contribution Agreement made in duplicate on this day of
October 22, 1992.
BETWEEN:  The Government of Canada herein represented by the Secretary of
          State for External Affairs, acting through the Canadian Interna-
          tional Development Agency (hereinafter referred to as "CIDA").
AND:      The International Development Association (hereinafter referred
          to as the "Association").
Page  2
     WHEREAS the Government of Canada, the International Bank for Recon-
struction and Development and the Association have entered into an
agreement, dated December 15, 1988, relating to the cofinancing of
development projects and programs;
     WHEREAS in the context of its assistance to the Energy sector
in Guinea, the Association has agreed to finance a project which will
promote rational energy policies and strengthen the efficient management of
energy resources;
     WHEREAS CIDA has informed the Association that it desires to provide
a contribution, to be administered by the Association, to finance the
carrying out of the project as described further in Annex "A" hereto
(hereinafter called the "Project");
     AND WHEREAS the purpose of the Contribution Agreement (hereinafter
called "Agreement") between the Association and CIDA is to set out the terms
and conditions concerning the administration of such contribution and the
implementation of the Project.
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
     Section 1.01. Promptly after the date of the last signature of this
agreement, CIDA shall deposit an amount of four hundred thousand Canadian
dollars (Can$400,000) in the T-Account (herein-after referred to as the
Account) maintained with the Bank of Canada in the name of the Association.
The second payment of one hundred thousand Canadian dollars (Can$100,000)
shall be deposited in the "Account" upon submission and acceptance by CIDA
of the project financial statement accounting for the activities against
which the first payment was made.
     Section 1.02. The Contribution will be administered by the Association
in accordance with the terms of this Agreement. The contribution will be
kept separate and apart from the funds of the Association.
     Section 1.03. The Contribution may be commingled with other trust fund
assets maintained in the Account. The Contribution may be freely exchanged
by the Association into other currencies as may facilitate their disburse-
ment.
     Section 1.04. The Association may invest the funds in the Account
pending their disbursement. The income therefrom shall be added to the
Account and thereafter be available for the same purpose as said funds.
                                ARTICLE II
     Section 2.01. The Contribution shall be administered by the Association
for the purpose of meeting the costs of the Project as set out in Annex A.
The Association may deduct from the Contribution a fee of two percent (2%)
to defray administrative and other expenses of the Association in adminis-
tering the Project as specified in the budget, Annex A. CIDA hereby
authorizes the Association to transfer to itself, as and when needed,
appropriate amounts to reimburse for such expenses.
     Section 2.02. The Association shall disburse from the Account such
amounts as shall be needed to meet the reasonable costs of services and
other expenses as specified in Annex A financed or to be financed for the
purposes of the Project. Such disbursements shall be effected in accordance
with the Association's applicable procedures.
     Section 2.03. The Association, as Administrator on behalf of Canada,
shall have the sole responsibility for the supervision of the project and
shall keep CIDA informed of the progress of the Project providing to CIDA
annual report of activities.
     Section 2.04. The Association shall exercise the same care in the
discharge of its functions under this Agreement as it exercises with respect
to the administration and management of its own funds and operations.
     Section 2.05. The Association shall enter into such arrange- ments with
Page  3
the Government of Guinea as are necessary to ensure the successful implemen-
tation of the Project.
     Section 2.06. The Association and CIDA shall consult from time to time,
at the request of each other, on all matters arising out of this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
     Section 3.01. The Association shall:
     (a)  maintain separate records and ledger accounts in respect of the
Contribution funds in the Account and those disbursed by the Association
pursuant to the provision of this Agreement. The Association shall furnish
quarterly to CIDA a statement of account on such records and accounts;
     (b)  cause such accounts and records to be audited and certified by
the Association's external auditors at the completion of the Project and
shall furnish the report of such audit by said auditors to CIDA. The cost
of such external audit will be paid out of the Contribution; and
     (c)  provide to CIDA, at the end of the Project, an evaluation of the
Project.
                                ARTICLE IV
     Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force at the date of the
last signature hereto and, subject to the provisions of this Article, shall
continue to be in effect until all disbursements have been made from the
Account.
     Section 4.02. If at any time it appears to either party that the
purposes of this Agreement can no longer effectively or appropriately be
carried out, this Agreement may be terminated at the initiative of such
party ninety days (90 days) after giving notice in writing to that effect.
     Section 4.03. Notwithstanding the termination of this Agreement, the
Association shall continue to hold and draw from unutilized funds of the
Contribution until the earlier of: the satisfaction of all commitments
incurred for the Project prior to the date of termination of this Agreement;
or the filing of the report required under Section 4.04 of this Agreement.
     Section 4.04. Promptly after termination of this Agreement, the
Association shall furnish to CIDA a final report and a financial statement
on the Account, together with an opinion of the Association's external
auditors on such statement.
     Section 4.05. All unutilized funds of the Contribution shall be
returned by the Association, through CIDA, to the Receiver General of Canada
whereupon the Association's functions in respect of this Agreement shall be
considered terminated.
                                 ARTICLE V
     Section 5.01. This Agreement may be amended only by written agreement
of the parties hereto.
     Section 5.02. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given
or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contem-
plated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall
be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand
or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or facsimile to the party to which it is
required or permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinaf-
ter specified or at such other addresses as such party shall have designated
by notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
     For CIDA:
          Regional/Francophone Africa
          Canadian International Development Agency
          200 Promenade du Portage
          Hull, Quebec
Page  4
          K1A OG4
          Canada
                                             Telex:
                                               053-4140
                                             Fax:
                                              (819) 953-9453
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C.  20433
          United States of America
               Cable address:                Telex:
                    INDEVAS                    197688 (TRT)
                    Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA)
                                                64145 (WUI) or
                                                82987 (FTCC)
                                             Fax:
                                               (202) 477-6391
                                ARTICLE VI
     Section 6.01. This Agreement, together with Annex A which forms an
integral part hereof, constitute the entire Agreement between CIDA and the
Association with respect to the Project.
                                ARTICLE VII
     Section 7.01. No member of the Canadian House of Commons shall be
admitted to any share or part of this Agreement or to any benefit to arise
therefrom.
     Section 7.02. Any payment to be made by CIDA under this Agreement is
subject to there being an appropriation by Parliament for the fiscal year
in which the payment is to be made.
     IN WITNESS THEREOF, the undersigned, being duly authorized thereto,
have signed the present Agreement in duplicate.
                    FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF CANADA
                    Canadian International Development Agency
                    Name:  /s/ Roger Couture
                    Title:  Directeur General,
                            Afrique et Moyen Orient
                    Date:  October 27, 1992
                    FOR THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    Name:  /s/ Alberto Harth
                    Title:  Acting Director
                            Africa Department I
Page  5
                    Date:  October 22, 1992
                                  ANNEX A
                        Description of the Project
I.   Objectives
     The Management Assistance Program for ENELGUI (Entreprise d'Electricite
de Guinee) is part of the rehabilitation of the energy sector in Guinea, and
will be carried out in conjunction with the Second Power Project to be
financed by a proposed Credit to be made available by the International
Development Association (IDA) Guinea. The Management Assistance Program is
aimed at implementing more effective and efficient management systems to
increase the performance of ENELGUI.
II.  Components
     The Price Waterhouse Canada Inc/Hydro-Quebec International/have been
chosen for this activity, following the the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published in August 1981. Their activities have already started,
financed by an advance granted by IDA to Guinea from the Project Preparation
Facility.
     Price Waterhouse Canada Inc/Hydro-Quebec International will provide
approximately 170 men-months of management assistance through the end of
December 1992. The management staff responsible for the Project will include
the Director-General, the Financial Director, the Commercial Director and
an expert in human resources.
III. Duration
     The Project will be carried out through December 31, 1992.
IV.  Forecasted Budget         (Can$)
     Experts                   490,000
     (Price Waterhouse/HQI)
     World Bank
     . Administration (2%)      10,000         --        --
     . Contingencies              --
       (audits and others)
     TOTAL                     500,000
                               _______
