Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                      SECOND CIDA GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2416 GUI
                        Development Grant Agreement
                          (Second Power Project)
                                  between
                          THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      as Administrator of Grant Funds
                              Provided by the
                 CANADIAN INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AGENCY
                           Dated April 13, 1994
                      SECOND CIDA GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2416 GUI
                        DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated April 13, 1994, between THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA (the
Recipient) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION, as Administrator
(the Administrator) of Grant Funds Provided by the CANADIAN INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT AGENCY (CIDA).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Recipient has requested the assistance of the
International Development Association (the Association) and CIDA in the
financing of its Second Power Project (the Project), referred to in the
Preamble to Development Credit Agreement Number 2416-GUI, dated October 19,
1992, between the Recipient and the Association (the IDA Development Credit
Agreement);
      (B)   the Association has granted a Credit for this purpose on the
terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement;
      (C)   CIDA wishes to make available to the Recipient a grant in an
amount of one million six hundred thousand Canadian Dollars (Can$1,600,000)
(the CIDA Grant) to assist the Recipient in carrying out part of the Project
on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
Page  2
      (D)   pursuant to an agreement, dated February 21, 1994 between CIDA
and the Association (the Contribution Agreement), CIDA has requested the
Association, and the Association has agreed, to administer the CIDA Grant
in accordance with the provisions of the Contribution Agreement; and
      (E)   the Recipient acknowledges that the financial assistance
extended to the Recipient under this CIDA Grant Agreement shall be
considered as part of the bilateral development aid extended by CIDA to the
Recipient;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definition
      Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions
of the "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements",
dated January 1, 1985 (the General Conditions), with the same force and
effect as if they were fully set forth herein subject, however, to the
following modifications thereof:
      (a)   the term "Association", wherever used in the General Conditions,
means the International Development Association, acting as Administrator of
the CIDA Grant, pursuant to the Contribution Agreement between CIDA and the
Association referred to in the Preamble to this Agreement, except in the
phrase "member of the Association" in Section 2.01 (5) and Section 6.02 (e);
      (b)   the term "Development Credit Agreement", wherever used in the
General Conditions, means this Development Grant Agreement;
      (c)   the term "Credit", wherever used in the General Conditions,
means the CIDA Grant extended to the Recipient under this Agreement;
      (d)   the term "Credit Account", wherever used in the General
Conditions or in this Agreement, means the account opened by the
Administrator in its books in the name of the Recipient to which the amount
of the CIDA Grant is credited;
      (e)   Section 2.01 of the general conditions shall be modified to
read:
                  "Section 2.01. 'Project' means the consulting services
            that may be financed out of the proceeds of the CIDA Grant as
            provided in Section 2.02 (a) of the CIDA Grant Agreement."
       (f)  Section 4.01 of the general conditions shall be modified to
read:
                 "Section 4.01. Withdrawals from the CIDA Grant Account
            shall be made in Canadian dollars."
      (g)   in Section 6.02 and 7.01, the term "Association" shall also
include the International Development Association acting in its own
capacity;
      (h)   Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
                  "(c)  Not later than six months after the Closing Date or
            such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
            Recipient and the Administrator, the Recipient shall prepare
            and furnish to the Administrator a report, of such scope and in
            such detail as the Administrator shall reasonably request, on
            the execution of the Project referred to in the Preamble to the
            Development Credit Agreement, the performance by the Recipient
            and the Administrator of their respective obligations under the
            Development Grant Agreement, and the accomplishment of the
            purposes of the CIDA Grant.";
      (i)   Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 4.02, 4.03, 4.04,4.05, 4.06,
6.05, 7.01, 8.01 (a), 12.02 and 12.05 are deleted; and
Page  3
      (j)   the term "Borrower", whenever used in the General Conditions,
means the Recipient.
      Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context
otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions, in
the Preamble to this Agreement and in the IDA Development Credit Agreement
have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Grant
      Section 2.01. (a) The Administrator agrees to extend to the Recipient,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to herein, a grant in an
amount of up to one million six hundred thousand Canadian dollars
(Can$1,600,000).
      (b)   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.01
of this Agreement, the Administrator shall be relieved from its obligations
set forth or referred to in this Agreement to make any payment to the
Recipient to the extent that any amount of the Contribution is not received
from Canada as a result of non-appropriation by the Parliament of Canada for
the fiscal year in which the payment of any such amount is to be made.
      (c)   Promptly after deposit of the Contribution, the Administrator
shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the T-Account and pay to
itself the amount of the Contribution allocated to Category (2) of the table
set forth in paragraph 1 of the Schedule to this Agreement.
      Section 2.02. The amount of the CIDA Grant may be withdrawn from the
CIDA Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of the  Schedule to
this Agreement to finance expenditures for consulting services.
      Section 2.03. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree,
consulting services to be financed out of the proceeds of the CIDA Grant
shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to the IDA
Credit Agreement.
      Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997, or such
later date as the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall
promptly notify the Recipient of such later date.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree
Articles III and IV of the IDA Credit Agreement are hereby incorporated into
this Agreement with the same force and effect as if the provisions of those
Sections were fully set forth herein. All references to the Association in
Articles III and IV of the IDA Credit Agreement shall be deemed to be
references to the Administrator of the CIDA Grant under this Agreement. All
references to the "Development Credit Agreement" shall be deemed to be
references to this Development Grant Agreement, and all references to the
"Credit" shall be deemed to be references to the CIDA Grant.
                                ARTICLE IV
                       Effectiveness; Representation
      Section 4.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon signature.
      Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Recipient
hereunder shall terminate on the date on which the IDA Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms.
      Section 4.03. The representative designated in Section 7.01 of the IDA
Credit Agreement shall be the representative of the Recipient for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 4.04. The addresses specified in Section 7.02 of the IDA
Credit Agreement shall be the addresses specified for the purposes of
Page  4
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions.
      Section 4.05. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in
full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under
the IDA Credit Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE V
                    Transfer of Rights and Obligations
      Section 5.01. In accordance with the Contribution Agreement, the
rights and obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement may be
transferred to CIDA. The Recipient accepts and agrees that, upon notice to
that effect by the Administrator to the Recipient, CIDA shall, ipso facto,
from the date specified in such notice, be substituted in all rights and
obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement as if CIDA had been
an original party to this Agreement without any further action or formality
being required on the part of any party and, from such date, the
Administrator shall cease to have any rights or obligations as a party under
this Agreement.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
                  By  /s/ Boubacar Barry
                                                Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    as Administrator of Grant Funds
                    Provided by the
                    CANADIAN INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AGENCY
                  By  /s/ Olivier Lafourcade
                                           Acting Regional Vice President
                                                                   Africa
                                 SCHEDULE
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Contribution
      The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed and
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Contribution Allocated        % of
                           (Expressed in            Expenditures
Category                  Can $ Equivalent)        to be Financed
(1) Consulting                 1,565,000           100%
    services
(2) Administration                35,000           Amount due pur-
    fee and auditing                               suant to Section
    of T-Account                                   2.01 (c) of this
    Agreement                                
                               _________
        TOTAL                  1,600,000
                               =========
Page  5
