Page  1
                                                          CONFORMED COPY
          SECOND CONTRIBUTION AGREEMENT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2416 GUI
                          Contribution Agreement
                                  between
                         THE GOVERNMENT OF CANADA
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        within the Framework of the
                      Second Power Project in Guinea
                          Dated February 21, 1994
          SECOND CONTRIBUTION AGREEMENT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2416 GUI
                          CONTRIBUTION AGREEMENT
      The Contribution Agreement made in duplicate on this day of
February 21, 1994.
BETWEEN:    The Government of Canada herein represented by the Secretary of
            State for External Affairs, acting through the Canadian
            International Development Agency (hereinafter referred to as "CIDA")
.
AND:        The International Development Association (hereinafter referred
            to as the "Association").
      WHEREAS the Government of Canada, the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development and the Association have entered into an
agreement, dated December 15, 1988, relating to the cofinancing of
development projects and programs;
      WHEREAS in the context of its assistance to the Energy sector
in Guinea, the Association has agreed to finance a project which will
promote rational energy policies and strengthen the efficient management of
energy resources;
Page  2
      WHEREAS CIDA has informed the Association that it desires to provide
a contribution, to be administered by the Association, to finance the
carrying out of the project "Appui a ENELGUI-Etudes et Systemes de Gestion"
as described further in Annex "A" hereto (hereinafter called the "Project");
      AND WHEREAS the purpose of the Contribution Agreement (hereinafter
called "Agreement") between the Association and CIDA is to set out the terms
and conditions concerning the administration of such contribution and the
implementation of the Project.
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
      Section 1.01. CIDA appoints the Association as Administrator of a
contribution of funds in an amount of one million six hundred thousand
Canadian dollars (CAN$1,600,000), (hereinafter referred to as the
"Contribution") for the Project in the following manner:
      (a)   As soon as possible after signing this Agreement, the
Association shall provide CIDA with an estimated of quarterly disbursements
for the technical assistance up to the end of March 1997.
      (b)   Promptly after the date of the last signature of this agreement,
CIDA shall deposit an amount of five hundred thousand Canadian dollars
(Can$500,000) in the T-Account (hereinafter referred to as the Account)
maintained with the Bank of Canada in the name of the Association.
      (c)   Each individual advance payment is restricted to a limit of five
hundred thousand Canadian dollars (CAN$500,000).
      (d)   The total value of advance outstanding at any time should not
exceed one million Canadian dollars (CAN$1,000,000).
      (e)   The advances payments are conditional on submission of quarterly
financial statements acceptable to CIDA, indicating receipts, disbursements
made against such advance payments and cash balance for the preceeding
calendar quarter, together with any other information CIDA may require.
      (f)   A final transfer of one hundred thousand Canadian dollars
(CAN$100,000) shall be deposited in the "Account" upon submission and
acceptance by CIDA of the previous financial statement accounting for the
activities against which the payments were made.
      Section 1.02. The Contribution will be administered by the Association
in accordance with the terms of this Agreement. The contribution will be
kept separate and apart from the funds of the Association.
      Section 1.03. The Contribution may be commingled with other trust fund
assets maintained in the Account. The Contribution may be freely exchanged
by the Association into other currencies as may facilitate their
disbursement.
      Section 1.04. The Association may invest the funds in the Account
pending their disbursement. The income therefrom shall be added to the
Account and thereafter be available for the same purpose as said funds.
                                ARTICLE II
      Section 2.01. The Contribution shall be administered by the
Association for the purpose of meeting the costs of the Project as set out
in Annex A. The Association may deduct from the Contri-bution a fee of two
percent (2%) to defray administrative and other expenses incurred by the
Association in administering the Project as specified in the budget, Annex
A. CIDA hereby authorizes the Association to transfer to itself, as and when
needed, appropriate amounts to reimburse for such expenses.
      Section 2.02. The Association shall disburse from the Account such
amounts as shall be needed to meet the reasonable costs of services and
other expenses as specified in Annex A financed or to be financed for the
purposes of the Project. Such disbursements shall be effected in accordance
with the Association's applicable procedures.
Page  3
      Section 2.03. The Association, as Administrator on behalf of Canada,
shall have the sole responsibility for the supervision of the project and
shall keep CIDA informed of the progress of the Project by providing to CIDA
an annual report of activities.
      Section 2.04. The Association shall exercise the same care in the
discharge of its functions under this Agreement as it exercises with respect
to the administration and management of its own funds and operations.
      Section 2.05. The Association shall enter into such arrange- ments
with the Government of Guinea as are necessary to ensure the successful
implementation of the Project.
      Section 2.06. The Association and CIDA shall consult from time to
time, at the request of each other, on all matters arising out of this
Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
      Section 3.01. The Association shall:
      (a)   maintain separate records and ledger accounts in respect of the
Contribution funds in the Account and those disbursed by the Association
pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement. The Association shall furnish
quarterly to CIDA a statement of account on such records and accounts
reflecting expenditures incurred in respect of the Contribution;
      (b)   cause such accounts and records to be audited and certified by
the Association's external auditors at the completion of the Project and
shall furnish the report of such audit by said auditors to CIDA. The cost
of such external audit will be paid out of the Contribution; and
      (c)   provide to CIDA, at the end of the Project, an evaluation of the
Project.
                                ARTICLE IV
      Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force at the date of the
last signature hereto and, subject to the provisions of this Article, shall
continue to be in effect until all disbursements have been made from the
Account.
      Section 4.02. If at any time it appears to either party that the
purposes of this Agreement can no longer effectively or appropriately be
carried out, this Agreement may be terminated at the initiative of such
party ninety days (90 days) after giving notice in writing to that effect.
      Section 4.03. Notwithstanding the termination of this         Agree-
ment, the Association shall continue to hold and draw from unutilized funds
of the Contribution until the earlier of: the satisfaction of all
commitments incurred for the Project prior to the date of termination of
this Agreement; or the filing of the report required under Section 4.04 of
this Agreement.
      Section 4.04. Promptly after termination of this Agreement, the
Association shall furnish to CIDA a final report and a financial statement
on the Account, together with an opinion of the Association's external
auditors on such statement.
      Section 4.05. All unutilized funds of the Contribution shall be
returned by the Association, through CIDA, to the Receiver General of Canada
whereupon the Association's functions in respect of this Agreement shall be
considered terminated.
                                 ARTICLE V
      Section 5.01. This Agreement may be amended only by written agreement
of the parties hereto.
      Section 5.02. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given
or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties
Page  4
contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request
shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered
by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or facsimile to the party to
which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party's
address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
      For CIDA:
            Francophone Africa Division
            Canadian International Development Agency
            200 Promenade du Portage
            Hull, Quebec
            K1A OG4
            Canada
                                          Telex:
                                             053-4140
                                          Fax:
                                             (819) 953-9453
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C.  20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                   197688 (TRT)
                  Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                             82987 (FTCC)
                                           Fax:
                                             (202) 477-6391
                                ARTICLE VI
      Section 6.01. This Agreement, together with Annex A which forms an
integral part hereof, constitute the entire Agreement between CIDA and the
Association with respect to the Project.
                                ARTICLE VII
      Section 7.01. No member of the Canadian House of Commons shall be
admitted to any share or part of this Agreement or to any benefit to arise
therefrom.
      Section 7.02. Any payment to be made by CIDA under this Agreement is
subject to there being an appropriation by Parliament for the fiscal year
in which the payment is to be made.
      IN WITNESS THEREOF, the undersigned, being duly authorized thereto,
have signed the present Agreement in duplicate.
                  FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF CANADA
                  Canadian International Development Agency
                  Name: /s/ Carolyn McAskie
Page  5
                  Title: Vice-President
                         Africa and the Middle East
                  Date: /s/ February 20, 1994
                  FOR THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
                    ASSOCIATION
                  Name: /s/ Olivier Lafourcade
                  Title: Director
                         Occidental and Central Africa Department
                  Date:  February 28, 1994
                                  ANNEX A
                        Description of the Project
I.    Objectives
      The Management Assistance Program for ENELGUI (Entreprise
d'Electricite de Guinee) is part of the rehabilitation of the energy sector
in Guinea, and will be carried out in conjunction with the Second Power
Project financed under Credit No. 2416 GUI dated October 19, 1992, made
available by the International Development Association (IDA) Guinea. The
Management Assistance Program is aimed at rehabilitating the existing
distribution network and implementing more effective and efficient
management systems to increase the performance of ENELGUI in the fields of
the network planning and  projects management.
II.   Components
Price Waterhouse/HQI Services
      Price Waterhouse Canada Inc/Hydro-Quebec International (PWCE/HQI) have
been chosen for this activity, following the  "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published in August 1981. Their activities have started on March 13,
1990, financed by an advance granted by IDA to Guinea from the Project
Preparation Facility.
      Price Waterhouse Canada Inc/Hydro-Quebec International will provide
approximately 20 men-months of management assistance through the end of
December 1993 in order to develop the master plan for about twenty inland
electrical networks and install management systems (accounting, procurement
and inventories).  Management staff responsible for these activities will
include the Director-General, the Financial Director, the Data Processing
Director, the Procurement Director and the General Planning Director.
SNC-Lavalin Services
      SNC-Lavalin carried out in 1991, under cover of Shawinigan-Lavalin,
the basic studies to develop a master plan for power distribution in Guinea.
      SNC-Lavalin has been selected by ENELGUI to provide approximately 36
men-months of technical services and management assistance to ENELGUI
through the end of December 1995 in order to:
            -     complete detailed studies, identify material
                  implementation and prepare tenders documents for the
                  power distribution master plan developed in 1991; and
            -     ensure the implementation of the program of
                  rehabilitation and extension of the Conakry-Kindia
Page  6
                  network distribution.
Management staff provided by SNC-Lavalin to carry out this task include: a
technical director, a procurement officer, a quality monitoring officer, an
administrator officer at Headquarter, an expert in the field.
III.  Duration
      The Project will be carried out through December 31, 1997.
IV.   Forecasted Budget
      The forecast budget from April 1993 to end of March 1997 is presented
in Annex "B".
                                  ANNEX B
                             Forecasted Budget
                       April 1, 1993-March 31, 1997
                 Apr. 1, 1993    Apr. 1, 1994    Apr. 1, 1995    Apr. 1, 1996
                Mar. 31, 1994   Mar. 31, 1995   Mar. 31, 1996   Mar. 31, 1997
             Total
Price
Waterhouse
HQI Services         264,000
      264,000
SNC-Lavalin
Service              620,000         250,000        250,000          150,000
                   1,270,000
World Bank
Administration
fees (2%)             18,000           5,000          5,000            4,000
                      32,000
Contingencies                                                         32,000
                      34,000
    Total            902,000         255,000        255,000          188,000
                   1,600,000
