Report No. PID10559
Project Name                     Romania-Second Private sector Institution ... G
Building Loan
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Institutional Development;
Privatization; Other
Public Sector Management; Other Finance
Project ID                       ROPE69679
Borrower(s)                      Government of Romania
Implementing Agency
Ministry of Public Finance
Address: Minister of Public Finance
Contact Person: Ms. Nicoleta Bala
Tel:
Fax: 40-1-312-4284
Email: nbala@ctif.mfinante.ro
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                November 6, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date           July 18, 2001
Projected Board Date             January 24, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
Recognizing the need for effective structural reforms to reverse economic
decline and get the economy on the path to sustainable growth and
development, Romania made important strides in the past two years to
re-establish credibility and accountability with the international
community-both donor as well as private sector. GOR renewed its commitment
to macroeconomic stabilization, coming to agreement with the IMF on a $540
million Stand-by Arrangement. GOR received a further boost from Private
Sector Adjustment Loan (PSAL I) and the accompanying PIBL I, which helped
finance the Government's reform program involving (i) restructuring and
privatization in the banking sector, (ii) liberalization and privatization
in the state enterprise sector, (iii) an assessment of and improvements in
the business environment, and (iv) delivery of social assistance to
affected workers and communities. Continued progress in these areas within
the context of an increasingly stable macroeconomic framework, along with
ambitious public administration reform and more extensive financial sector
reform, remain at the core of the GOR reform program.GOR met all
conditionalities under PSAL I ahead of schedule. This performance, along
with recognition by the Bank that GOR is now at a critical point in
transforming the economy from a sluggish state-owned model to one that is
poised for private sector-oriented growth, allowed the Bank to proceed
with preparation of PSAL II and its accompanying technical assistance
loan, PIBL II.
2. Objectives
The goal of the proposed Private Sector Institution Building Loan II (PIBL



II) is to support effective implementation of the Private Sector
Adjustment Loan II (PSAL II) by providing needed technical assistance to
achieve the following objectives: (i) a competitive financial sector
predicated on the restructuring and privatization of state-owned banks,
development of securities markets, and improvements in legal, regulatory
and institutional support structures; (ii) enhancement of the private
sector's role in the economy (and as a contribution to macroeconomic
stability) through the privatization of state-owned assets; (iii)
development of a more efficient and service-oriented energy sector based
on needed restructuring and privatization of key industries, introduction
of a sound regulatory framework, reduction in arrears build-up, and
clarification of new tariff schemes to achieve cost recovery; (iv)
emergence of a competitive private sector based on the creation of an
environment conducive to private sector growth and development; (v)
development of institutional and governance reform, and (vi) adoption of
critical measures to provide needed social protection during the
adjustment period, and to establish effective poverty reduction mechanisms
to mitigate hardship in society. Success will be indicated by a reduction
in the public sector deficit (associated with loss-making state
enterprises and utilities), better performing banks under more competitive
conditions, the increase in volume and profitability of private sector
economic activity, and more efficient delivery of public sector services
with regard to social protection
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The World Bank has extensive experience and knowledge of the process of
privatization and the restructuring of the financial sector. The Bank is
thus in a unique position to furnish practical advice on privatization,
bank restructuring and design of economic incentives. The Bank can also
draw upon its international network of consultants and advisors to bring
the latest best practices to Romania to strengthen the capacity of Romania
institutions. The World Bank will also assist in implementation of the
project through hands-on supervision and imparting knowledge of Bank
procurement methods to Romanian counterparts.
4. Description
The project has four main components and utilizes the established project
management unit (PMU) from PIBL I (and PSAL I) to implement the program.
The PMU will continue to coordinate and implement the project in support
of the reform strategy developed by the Borrower in conjunction with the
Bank.a. Financial Sector Restructuring and Privatization Support:
Technical assistance to the financial sector would cover the following:
(i) Restructuring CEC in preparation for privatization (ii) developing the
capital and money markets by strengthening legislation, regulatory
capacity and infrastructure, including revised mechanisms for more active
use of the market for Government securities; (iii) enhancing financial
sector infrastructure support by (a) strengthening the payment and
clearing system via automation of large value payments and electronic
payment clearing, (b) mandating IAS for all banks in their financial
reporting and financial disclosure to the NBR, as well as by NBR in its
supervision and examination of banks, (c) making deposit insurance more
feasible under improved institutional structures and incentives, and (d)
enhancing the capacity of the NBR credit information bureau by
iintroducing a more developed risk classification and credit scoring
system; (iv) strengthening the capital markets regulatory agencies (CNVM):
- 2 -



and (v) strengthening insurance supervision as Romania moves forward with
development of life insurance and a broader array of non-life products.
b. Privatization Support for Enterprises:    Under this component,
technical assistance will be provided to support large SOE divestiture
through case-by-case privatizations, work-outs and liquidations, and
privatizations through pools. This will include finalization of
transactions begun under PSAL I, as well as new privatizations. GOR is
particularly focused on the privatization of such large firms as SIDEX,
ALRO and ALPROM. All together, GOR will have finished the privatization of
nine large SOEs and the workout of five large SOEs by second tranche
release. Other planned reforms include finishing up earlier pool
privatization and workouts and introducing new pools, concluding
privatizations of large joint ventures, carrying out privatizations and
liquidations in the SME sector as well as for selected large enterprises
under the direction of APAPS (formerly SOF), and ensuring that the use of
privatization proceeds generated from these sales are used to provide
social relief for displaced workers, rather than being used for SOE
restructuring or compensation for FNI losses. It is important to note
that there will be increased reliance on privatization advisers to carry
out transactions, and that the Bank itself will be involved more directly
in the process to ensure fairness and transparency. c. Privatization
Support for the Energy Sector:    Under this component, technical
assistance will be provided to support the divestiture of key enterprises
in the oil, gas, and electricity/power generation, including majority or
strategic sales under market conditions. GOR intends to focus on needed
rationalization of the power sector and related energy industries to
reduce cross-subsidization by gas and electricity distributors and other
energy suppliers to weak state enterprises. Environmental conditions have
also worsened as a result of foregone efforts to more properly allocate
energy resources based on market mechanisms. In the quest for cost
recovery and modernization (including needed re-investment), GOR also
intends to continue efforts to reduce household tariff subsidization.
Thus, PIBL II will help GOR to provide a legal and regulatory framework
for private competition in the energy sector (namely network industries),
to increase prices and reduce arrears in the oil and gas sectors, and to
initiate efforts in other energy sectors to ensure that the growing
problem of cross-subsidization and arrears is contained and brought under
control. d. Support for an Improved Business Environment: Technical
assistance to strengthen the business environment would involve
introduction of a unified investment law that provides equal treatment to
domestic and foreign businesses, the comprehensive removal/reduction of
administrative barriers, improvements in shareholder protection, and
better accounting and audit standards. The economy has suffered from a
variety of structural weaknesses that have interfered with investment and
private sector growth. PIBL II will support GOR by helping to establish a
level playing field for investment into the economy. e. Technical
Assistance for Institutional and Governance Reform:Under this component
technical assistance will be provided to the Ministry of Finance, Court of
Accounts, Ministry of Public Administration, Ministry of Transportation,
Ministry of Communication and Technology, and the Parliament to strengthen
and develop the public expenditure management, local public administration
capacity, civil services, human resource management systems, financial and
performance audit, decentralization, local infrastructure, e-government
strategy development and parliamentary oversight.
- 3 -



5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government of Romania 4.72
Total Project Cost 27.22
6. Implementation
The Ministry of Public Finance's (MOPF) International Financial Department
is the main counterpart for the project. The overall coordination of the
project would rest with the Project Management Unit (PMU), which has been
established in the Ministry of Public Finance. The PMU is and will
continue to be headed by the current Minister of Public Finance as
Director. The Director will have overall responsibility for the project
and continue to report to the Prime Minister. He will be assisted by a
Project Administrator who will oversee the day-to-day operations of the
project. A Project Steering Committee (PSC) has been established with
participants from all project entities. The PSC, under the guidance of the
PMU director, will ensure that all project objectives and targets as
specified in the PIP are on track and achieved. Technical expertise on a
short-term basis will be provided to the Project Administrator as and when
required. PIBL II has built in long-term expertise to assist the PMU with
needed tasks regarding the main components of the project. This has been
done in recognition of the expressed needs of the PMU. Specifically,
long-term experts are expected to assist the PMU in all five key areas of
reform-enterprise, utilities and bank privatizations; improving the
business environment; and social protection. The PMU Project Administrator
is well versed in Bank procurement, disbursements, and contracting
procedures. She will continue to be assisted by two procurement
specialists, a disbursement specialist, and an accountant. All PMU
specialist are experienced in World Bank procedures.The PMU will ensure
the preparation and distribution of consolidated periodic reports
(Progress Report) to the relevant government and other participating
institutions, including the World Bank, to reflect: (i) the status of
implementation progress, problems encountered, and corrective actions
needed; (ii) current costs of each project component and estimated costs
of completion; and (iii) a quarterly Project Management Report (PMR),
including annual audit reports of project expenditure, Statement of
Expenditure (SOEs), and institutional accounts.
7. Sustainability
This Technical Assistance Loan supports reforms that will enhance
Romania's long-term prospects for economic growth and development; provide
underlying support to workers displaced by restructuring; and promote
development of conditions that would accelerate Romania's preparation for
formal entry into the European Union and other organizations. To help
Romania achieve sustainable growth, the World Bank proposes a separate
private sector adjustment loan (PSAL II) of $300 million. This loan is to
provide balance-of-payments support to GOR as it undergoes necessary but
costly restructuring of its enterprise and financial sectors, introduces
needed public sector reforms, and demonstrates greater capacity for social
assistance and poverty reduction. PSAL II financing would support seven
broad areas of activity: (i) restructuring and privatizing remaining
state-owned banks; (ii) strengthening banking and insurance sector
regulation and supervision; (iii) assisting in the development of
securities markets, with specific focus on government securities; (iv)
strengthening overall financial sector infrastructure; (v) privatizing and
-4 -



divesting remaining large state-owned enterprises, including in the power
sectors; (vi) privatizing and divesting remaining small- and medium-sized
state-owned enterprises; and (vii) improving the business environment.In
addition to broad macroeconomic benefits, all of these actions would
promote development of a market-based economy with stronger governance,
management, transparency, and participation that should result in
sustainable economic growth.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Within the World Bank, sector experience of the bank and experience with
TA projects, indicates that projects with a great deal of technical
assistance should: (i) have the active support of ministry and government
officials to ensure properly considered and timely decision-making on
crucial issues; (ii) have a well-defined procurement plan, including terms
of reference for consultants, and studies drafted and agreed on with the
borrower prior to negotiations; (iii) have a PMU with well-qualified and
competent staff who are properly compensated for their work; and (iv) have
a PMU that can access needed outside expertise to facilitate matters of
contracting, to provide greater precision in defining the needs of
consultants (through TORs), and to offer constructive assessments on the
quality of responses when proposals are made on privatization,
restructuring and other contracts relevant to implementation of PSAL II.
Based on these lessons, PIBL II will focus on four specific areas for
which government commitment and financing have been secured. A procurement
plan, including TORs for consultants and studies, will be drafted and
agreed on with the borrower. A PMU has been established, and is operating
with qualified and competent staff who are paid in accordance with market
rates. These resources will be augmented by the presence of permanent
advisors to assist with project implementation. The Bank project team
will closely supervise implementation and procurement activities under the
project.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     Yes
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  In accordance with the Bank's Operational Directive
on Environmental Assessment (OD 4.01 Annex E), the proposed project has
been placed in Category "C" and does not require an environment assessment.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Hiran Herat
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 36-1-374-95-71
Fax:  36-1-374-95-10
12.  For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
- 5 -



Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending November 16,2001
- 6 -



