Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 23263-RO
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 18.60 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ROMANIA
FOR
PRIVATE AND PUBLIC SECTOR INSTITUTION BUILDING LOAN
April 15, 2002
Private and Financial Sector Development
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective)
Currency Unit = Lei
1000 Lei = US$0.319
US$1.00 = 31,300 Lei
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APAPS    -         Authority for Privatization and Management of State Ownership
BCR      -         Romanian Commercial Bank
BDR      -         Romanian Bank for Development
BSE      -         Bucharest Stock Exchange
COA      -         Court of Accounts
CAS      -         Country Assistance Strategy
CEC Bank -         Savings Bank
CNVM     -         National Securities Commission
CO       -         Certificate of Ownership
EFSAL    -         Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
EU       -         European Union
GDP      -         Gross Domestic Product
GOR      -         Govermment of Romania
ICB      -         International Competitive Bidding
IS       -         Intemational Shopping
ISC      -         Insurance Supervision Commission
LAS      -         International Accounting Standards
IGRSAL   -         Institutional and Governance Reform Structural Adjustment Loan
MoPF     -         Ministry of Public Finance
MOCIT    -         Ministry of Communication and Information Technology
MOJ      -         Ministry of Justice
MOPA     -         Ministry of Public Administration
NBR      -         National Bank of Romania
NS       -         National Shopping
PIBL     -         Private Sector Institution Building Loan
PSAL     -         Private Sector Adjustment Loan
PSD      -         Private Sector Development
SOEs     -         State-Owned Enterprises
SOF      -         State Ownership Fund
SSDP     -         Social Sector Development Project
TA       -         Technical Assistance
VAT      -         Value Added Tax
Vice President: b Johannes Linn
Country Manager/Director:    Andrew Vorkink
Sector Manager/Director:   Khaled Sherif/Paul Siegelbaum
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:     Hiran Herat



ROMANIA
PRIVATE AND PUBLIC SECTOR INSTITUTION BUILDING LOAN
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                      2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project     2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                         2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 4
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                 7
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      9
3. Benefits and target population                                                     9
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      10
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                         11
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         11
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                                12
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   13
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        13
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                          13
2. Financial                                                                          13
3. Technical                                                                          13
4. Institutional                                                                      14
5. Environmental                                                                      15
6. Social                                                                             15
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 16



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                   16
2. Critical risks                                                                   17
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                   18
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                          18
2. Other                                                                            18
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                        18
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                       19
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                        20
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                  24
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                       29
Annex 4: Financial Summary                                                             31
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                             32
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                     33
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                   43
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                 44
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                45
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                          47
Annex 11: Financial Management Assessment Report                                       48
MAP(S)



ROMANIA
Private and Public Sector Institution Building Loan
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSPF
Date: December 20, 2001                          Team Leader: Hiran Herat
Country Manager/Director: Andrew N. Vorkink      Sector Manager: Khaled Sherif
Project ID: P069679                              Sector(s): BI - Institutional Development, BP -
Privatization, BY - Other Public Sector Management, FY -
Other Finance
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan (TAL)  Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
°Project Financing Data
PX] Loan     [ ] Credit   I ] Grant    [ ] Guarantee    [ ] Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 18.60
Borrower Rationale for Choice of Loan Terms Available on File: O Yes
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Variable-Spread Currency Loan (VSL)
Grace period (years): 5                        Years to maturity: 17
Front end fee (FEF) on Bank loan: 1.00%
Financing Plan (US$m):    Source                           Local        Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                      3.74           0.00          3.74
IBRD                                                          0.00          18.60         18.60
Total:                                                        3.74          18.60         22.34
Borrower:
Responsible agency:
Ministry of Public Finance
Address: Minister of Public Finance
Contact Person: Ms. Nicoleta Bala
Tel:             Fax: 40-1-312-4284           Email: nbala@ctif.mfmante.ro
Estimated Disbursements (Bank FY/US$m):
FY         2002       2003       2004      2005              .
Annual     3.59       7.27      5.71       2.03
Cumulative     3.59     10.86      16.57     18.60
Project implementation period: June 1, 2002 - December 31, 2004
Expected effectiveness date: 06/01/2002  Expected closing date:  06/30/2005
OMs PADr Ft.~ R h MM



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The goal of the proposed Private and Public Sector Institution Building Loan (PPIBL) is to provide the
required technical assistance to implement the policy measures which will be supported by the Second
Private Sector Adjustment Loan (PSAL II) and to lay the ground for the reforms that will be implemented
under the proposed Programmatic Adjustment Loan (PAL), formerly Institutional and Governance Reform
Structural Adjustment Loan (IGRSAL). The PPIBL is a follow-on operation that will continue to provide the
needed technical assistance that began under the first Private Sector Institution Building Loan (PIBL) of
which its entire amount is almost fully committed. The PPIBL is a natural continuation of the PIBL. The
PPIBL will provide a small amount of funding to complete few remaining private sector actions while
targeting the majority of the project resources to energy and public sector reforms. In this sense, the PPIBL
will aim to achieve the following objectives: (i) a competitive financial sector predicated on the
restructuring and privatization of state-owned banks, development of securities markets, and improvements
in legal, regulatory and institutional support structures; (ii) enhancement of the private sector's role in the
economy through the privatization of state-owned assets; (iii) a more efficient and service-oriented energy
sector based on needed restructuring and privatization of key industries, introduction of a sound regulatory
framework, reduction in arrears, and clarification of new tariff schemes to achieve cost recovery; (iv) a
competitive private sector based on the creation of an environment conducive to private sector growth and
development; (v) a more responsive, transparent and accountable public sector; and (vi) adoption of critical
measures to provide social protection during the adjustment period and to establish effective poverty
reduction mechanisms. Success will be indicated by a reduction in the public sector deficit (associated with
loss-making state enterprises and utilities), better performing banks under more competitive conditions, the
increase in volume and profitability of private sector economic activity, and more efficient delivery of public
sector services.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Key performance indicators for measuring the project's success in meeting objectives are state divestiture
from enterprise and financial sector assets, sound functioning of institutional support structures for market-
based growth, and more stable fiscal revenues combined with declining budget deficits, increased efficiency
in the energy sector, including reduction of inter-enterprise arrears, and key milestones in improving public
sector responsiveness, transparency and accountability are agreed, monitored and publicized.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number:   Date of latest CAS discussion: CAS dated May 22, 2001
The CAS identified several key areas for Romania's reform program including enterprise privatization,
reform of the banking and financial sector, restructuring and deregulation of the energy sector, fiscal
decentralization, improved public sector services and poverty reduction. The current operation supports
several of these: private sector development (including comprehensive financial sector reform and energy
sector reform), strengthening of institutional capacity and governance, efficient delivery of public sector
services and poverty reduction measures.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
-2-



The evolution of the Romanian economy after the collapse of the communist system has been
extremely uneven. Different from most transition economies, Romania showed positive economic
growth after a mere two years of dislocation. While the initial dislocation translated into negative
growth in 1991 and 1992, Romania showed positive growth in the following years, peaking at 7.1
percent in 1995. However, negative growth retumed in 1997-99, demonstrating that the interim
years of growth represented only a temporary recovery that was artificial and unsustainable due to
continued budgetary and quasi-fiscal subsidies. The economic program for 1999 yielded favorable
results in terms of extemal adjustment and financial stability, thereby creating the conditions for
positive real GDP growth and lower inflation in 2000. Positive real GDP growth was 1.5 percent
in 2000, marking the first time Romania experienced real growth since 1996. While the growth
rate was low, the trend is favorable, and partly reflects success achieved under the earlier PSAL I
program. Particular cause for optimism is found in the emergence of export industries that are
demonstrating competitiveness in intemational markets. However, fiscal deficits remain
problematic, approximately 4.3 percent of GDP in 2000 excluding privatization receipts, and the
social costs of adjustment remain high due to weak administrative capacity and ineffective
targeting of poverty reduction measures.
While Romania's balance of payments improved due to PSAL I, a restoration of IMF financing,
and renewed extemal financing from the capital markets in late 1999, eased the balance of
payments burden. Romania continues to experience financial sector and balance of payments
weaknesses. These are rooted in the long transition to a genuinely market-based economy, long
standing political divisions that have slowed reforms, and the disruption trade in the
Balkan/Danube region related to earlier sanctions against Yugoslavia and the recent crisis in
Kosovo. Notwithstanding improvements and favorable trends, financial sector weaknesses are
reflected in some of the monetary statistics, which generally translate into low levels of financial
intermediation, underdeveloped capital markets, and inadequate levels of public confidence for
sustained growth. The year-on-year CPI was 40 percent at end 2000, compared to 54.8 percent at
end 1999. This translated into an even more favorable decline in NBR interest rates, from 66.2
percent at end 1999 to 40.3 percent at end 2000. Broad money growth increased 35.2 percent, its
lowest rate of aggregate growth since the transition began, while real domestic credit declined 9.8
percent the second consecutive year in which real credit has declined. The average interest rate
charged for loans to non-bank clients declined in 2000 to average 53.5 percent after increasing in
1999 to an average 65.9 percent. Several factors are expected to restore lending to the
nongovemmental sector including (i) the sustained reduction of interest rates to 20-25% by year
end, (ii) a decline in the fiscal deficit to 3.1% in 2001, and (iii) progress with structural reform in
the financial and real sectors.
Romania made important strides in 1999 to re-establish credibility and accountability with the
intemational community-both donor as well as private sector. That effort received a boost from
the Bank-GOR PSAL /PIBL programs. PPIBL and its attendant support for successful
implementation of PSAL II proposes to sustain the momentum established by PSAL I, and to ease
the burden of ambitious restructuring and privatization by increasing the amount of funding in
conjunction with broader reforms in the state-owned sector and public administration.
The Romanian economy continues to be exposed to structural vulnerability. The areas of
-3 -



exposure include (i) continued state ownership in the banking and enterprise sectors; (ii)
increasing use of the energy sector as a quasi-fiscal vehicle for cross-subsidization and soft
lending to non-restructured and noncompetitive enterprises; (iii) a cumbersome business
environment that deters investment, modernization, and expansion of the fiscal base; and (iv)
problematic public sector institutions, which contribute to a non-responsive and poorly
accountable public administration, with significant administrative corruption and unattractive
business environment. PPIBL aims to provide the necessary technical assistance to GOR to
resolve these structural deficiencies. Such progress would make it more difficult for GOR to
return to policies that have delayed the transition process. Such progress would also accelerate
Romania's entry to the European Union.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
(a) Banking Sector Privatization and Financial Sector Development
Financial sector reform is still under way. GOR liquidated the most troubled bank in
Romania-Bancorex. Banca Agricola has been sold to Raiffeisen Zentralbank Ostereich AG
(Raiffeisen) and the Romanian American Enterprise Fund (RAEF). Assuming continuing
Government commitment, prospects for the privatization of Romania's largest bank by end-2002
are good. These two privatizations alone will sustain momentum towards a prime-rated banking
system, and leave only two smaller banks in state hands-CEC and EXIM. These banks will
undergo restructuring programs leading to their privatization and restructuring. New and more
comprehensive legislation has been introduced to improve the efficiency of banks and the capital
and equity markets, simplify and speed up the privatization of banks, develop the banking and
capital market infrastructure, and strengthen banking sector supervision. However, laws and
regulations are not sufficient. GOR strategy and PSAL II are geared toward developing a safe,
sound and stable banking system combined with the steady development of properly regulated
capital/money markets and non-bank financial institutions. PPIBL will supply needed technical
assistance to help make these developments come to fruition.
(b) Enterprise and Utilides Sector Privatization
For years, Romania's economy has been burdened by continued state ownership in the enterprise
sector. This has perpetuated an ineffective incentive structure that has undermined economic
competitiveness and been a drain on growth. Such structural weaknesses go right to the core of
Romania's macroeconomic weaknesses throughout the 1990s and even into the current phase,
resulting in (i) payment arrears to utilities, other commercial creditors, and the budget; (ii) bank
insolvency due to the unpaid debts of loss-making, state-owned companies; (iii) high fiscal and
quasi-fiscal costs of supporting loss-makers; (iv) inefficiency at large industrial enterprises; and (v)
inadequate levels of new direct investment and new owners. These problems have not only
undermiined performance, but also distorted the market, preventing private sector competition
form providing the kinds of economic benefits that are essential to recovery and growth. PSAL II
intends to build on progress initiated under PSAL I in adverting these weaknesses and putting the
enterprise sector on track to recovery and competitiveness. Reform efforts include continued
- 4 -



privatization, restructuring and workouts through varied means to close out privatization of the
state enterprise sector by the end of PSAL II. Where state enterprises remain, it is expected these
will be few in number and represent energy/power-related companies that generally function as
natural monopolies throughout the globe (i.e., transmission grids). To ensure proper management
and consumer protection, sound regulatory structures are to be put in place. At the same time, to
ensure private sector competition, the reform program envisages the exit of the government from
ownership in most enterprises, measures to establish prices that allow for cost recovery,
reinvestment and sustained services, and a general incentive framework that promotes investment
and competition. GOR strategy and PSAL II aim to transform the enterprise sector so that viable
companies can compete, resource allocation stirnulates higher levels of sustainable economic
growth, and employment generation restores public confidence and fiscal soundness.
GOR also intends to address the power, oil and gas sectors to reduce cross-subsidization by gas
and electricity distributors and other energy suppliers to weak state enterprises. Non-payments,
particularly by SOEs, are a chronic problem in the energy sector. In the past, the provision of
energy subsidies has been selective and non-transparent, often benefiting inefficient and
environmentally unsound state enterprises at the expense of more competitive, energy-efficient
enterprises. More recently as lending from the banking sector has diminished, energy companies
have been used to subsidize selected companies. Such cross-subsidization has slowed the
restructuring, distorted the competitive environment, and perpetuated problems associated with
power generation and service delivery. Environmental conditions have also worsened as a result
of foregone efforts to more properly allocate energy resources based on market mechanisms. In
the quest for cost recovery and modemization, including needed re-investment, GOR also intends
to continue efforts to reduce household tariff subsidization.
PPIBL will provide technical assistance and support for these reforms both in the enterprise and
utilities sectors. This support will include the financing of investment advisers to accelerate
privatization.
(c)   Business Environment
Improving the business environment was one of the key components of PSAL I and is an
important component in PSAL 11. Continued weaknesses remain with regard to the investment
climate and tax incentives, administrative barriers, shareholder protection, the usefulness of
financial information generated by the accounting and audit process, and bankruptcy/liquidation.
GOR also needs to build on progress with regard to (i) investment legislation and related tax
incentives; (ii) administrative barriers in the form of licensing, inspection, and general regulation;
(iii) implementation of accounting and audit standards; (iv) bankruptcy and liquidation; and (v)
facilitate the development and implement new e-legislations to enable business transactions to
take place over the electronic media.
In its efforts to improve the business environment, GOR has faced many of the same structural
problems that have weakened performance in the financial and state enterprise sectors.
Discriminatory tax provisions have deterred investment and not led to a dynamic enterprise
sector. Administrative barriers have slowed formation of new business, reduced direct investment
- 5 -



and given small-scale businesses incentives to avoid taxes. Barriers have been erected to prevent
labor mobility, to prevent the appointment of needed managers for larger enterprises with
potential links to international markets, and to extract informal taxes on firms seeking permits.
The lack of transparency and disclosure has exposed minority shareholders to dilution without
recourse and undermined corporate governance has failed to provide potential investors with
needed information in making decisions. Informational weaknesses have also undermined the
quality of internal information available to managers and boards for strategic planning purposes.
Administrative weaknesses and high level of corruption in the customs, tax collection and other
areas of government and undermined efforts to achieve competitiveness at the firm level. GOR
strategy and PSAL II are geared to putting into place the incentives needed to strengthen the
business environment for enhanced investment and sustainable growth. PPIBL will supply the
needed technical assistance to achieve this objective.
(d)   Institutional and Governance Reform
Public sector institutions in Romania exhibit a number of problematic characteristics, that
contribute to a non-responsive and poorly accountable public administration and manifest
themselves in administrative corruption and an unattractive business environment. In parallel, the
constantly changing legal framework undermines the capacity of public entities to efficiently
implement policies and deliver public goods and services within their mandates and makes it
difficult for private firms to operate successfully within Romania. Accordingly, the PPIBL will
support activities aimed at making the legal and judicial systems more predictable and reliable.
Non-responsiveness of public entities, weak accountability of the public administration and
significant levels of administrative corruption also reflect weak budget management institutions,
both centrally and within line ministries, as well as at different levels of government, including at
the decentralized level.
Accordingly, the PPIBL program include resources to strengthen public expenditure management
institutions and capacities - centrally, within key line ministries, and at the local level. These
include both budget formulation reforms (improving the program budget innovations already
launched by the Government, decentralization financing arrangements, review of health financing
issues), as well as budget execution strengthening (cash management, government accounting,
internal audit, external audit, as well as decentralization financing and health financing). It also
programs resources to help the Government to re-engineer certain administrative processes and
practices to increase the transparency, responsiveness and accountability of the public
administration to citizens. Included in this is assistance to help the Government to launch certain
e-government and e-administration initiatives.
(e)   Social Protection and Poverty Reduction
Previous efforts at reform of the banking and enterprise sector have been partly undermined by
weaknesses in the civil service sector, the inability of the public sector to provide adequate social
protection to offset the costs of adjustment, and implementation of poverty reduction programs.
Major issues and problems that have faced GOR in its efforts to improve the delivery of public
services have included a weak fiscal base, bloated head count, excess centralization, weak
information, and poor pay. These problems have undermined the effectiveness of the civil service,
- 6 -



provided incentives for corruption and favoritism, and generally led to poor service delivery.
However, in the last few years, there has been growing recognition of the urgency of this
situation. Thus, GOR strategy and PSAL II are geared to strengthening public sector capacity to
provide social assistance, introduce and implement effective poverty reduction measures, and to
put in place a revised pension scheme that will offer people instruments by which they can save
for the long term. No funding has been provided under PPIBL, as support to these objectives are
included from the Bank under ESPP and SSD, and other donors are in the process of making
decisions about their possible support.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project has five main components and utilizes the established project management unit
(PMU) from PIBL (and PSAL I) to implement the program. The PMU will coordinate and
implement the project in support of the reform strategy developed by the Borrower in conjunction
with the Bank.
a.    Financial Sector Restructuring and Privatization Support:
Technical assistance to the financial sector would cover the following: (i) restructuring CEC in
preparation for privatization; (ii) developing the capital markets by strengthening legislation,
regulatory capacity and infrastructure, including revised mechanisms for more active use of the
market for Government securities; (iii) strengthening the capital markets regulatory agencies
(CNVM); and (iv) strengthening insurance supervision as Romania develops life insurance and a
broader array of non-life products.
b.    Privatization Support for Enterprises:
The privatization and liquidation of most large state enterprises is the responsibility of APAPS
(formnerly the State Ownership Fund), which holds the Government's shares in the remaining
1,444 companies. Under this component, technical assistance will be provided to support GOR in
privatizing the ten largest state investments in private firms in which the Government holds 20
percent or more by disposing of at least 50 percent of its ownership stakes in each of these
enterprises. The size of the joint venture will be measured in terms of profitability over the last
three years (or less if necessary).
C.    Privatization Support for the Energy Sector:
Under this component, technical assistance will be provided to support the divestiture of key
enterprises in the oil, gas, and electricity/power sectors, including majority or strategic sales under
market conditions. Thus, PPIBL will help GOR to provide a legal and regulatory framework for
private competition in the energy sector (namely network industries), to increase prices and
reduce arrears in the oil and gas sectors, and to initiate efforts in other energy sectors to ensure
- 7 -



that the growing problem of cross-subsidization and arrears is contained and brought under
control. Divestiture will include the use of investment bankers as privatization advisors to
accelerate the process of liberalization and reform.
d.    Support for an Improved Business Environment:
Under this component support for an improved business environment is intended to promote
development of an environment conducive to investment and business growth. Assistance will
cover: (i) training of judges and court personnel; (ii) procurement of equipment for the
commercial divisions of courts; (iii) reftrbishing works to be perforned with the commercial
divisions of courts; (iv) improving the business environment in Jiu Valley at the municipality level,
which has been adversely effected by the mining closures. Advisory services and equipment will
be provided to the region for removing administrative barriers, improving local public
administrations services, and marketing of the region; (v) and a public awareness campaign on
improvement of the business climate.
e.    Institutional and Governance Reform
Under this component, technical assistance will be provided to strengthen: (i) public expenditure
management; (ii) external audit; (iii) e-government; (iv) public administration; (v) rule of law; and
(vi) health administration. This technical assistance is designed to help in the design and initial
stages of implementation of the Government's institutional and governance reform agenda. The
overarching objectives of that agenda are to create a more responsive, transparent and
accountable public sector.
£     Project Management Unit:
A PMU was established to implement PIBL. This PMU will implement PPIBL. The PMU
operational costs are been financed under PIBL. Funds to cover one year of operational costs for
the PMU are included under PPIBL.
I ,                    . Indicative         Bank-      % of
Component                 Sector       Costs     % of    financing  Bank-
(USSM)    Total    (US$M)   financing
Financial Sector Restructuring and  Institutional   4.35     19.5      3.68     19.8
Privatization Support          Development
Privatization Support for Enterprises  Institutional  0.66    3.0      0.55      3.0
Development
Privatization Support for the Energy  Institutional  2.50    11.2      2.09     11.2
Sector                         Development
Support for an Improved Business  Institutional     1.96      8.8      1.66      8.9
Environment                    Development
Institutional and Governance Reform  Institutional  12.44    55.7     10.40     55.9
Development
Project Management Unit        Institutional        0.24      1.1      0.22      1.2
_________________________Development    _____
Total Project Costs
- 8 -



22.15     99.1     18.60    100.0
Front-end fee                  0.19      0.9     0.00       0.0
Total Financing Required                22.34     100.0    18.60    100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The proposed PPIBL technical assistance loan seeks to provide GOR with the expertise to
successfully implement the PSAL II adjustment program and the proposed Programmatic
Adjustment Loan (PAL), formerly Institutional and Govemance Reform Structural Adjustment
Loan (IGRSAL). These programs would build on and complement the reforms already
undertaken by the Government since 1990 and supported by the World Bank Structural
Adjustment Loan, the FESAL operation, and PSAL I. The PSAL II and the proposed PAL aim
to sustain these reforms and to bring to closure many of the outstanding problems that festered
through the 1990s as a result of political opposition and administrative capacity limitations. In the
financial sector, reforms include: (i) the exit of the public sector from banking via the
restructuring and privatization of the remaining state-owned banks; (ii) strengthening banking
sector and capital market infrastructure via an improved legal and regulatory structure, faster
large-value payments, implementation of intemational standards for accounting and auditing, and
a sounder deposit insurance system; (iii) broadening and deepening the capital markets, with
particular focus on the govermment securities market; and (iv) strengthening insurance supervision
capacity. Reforms in the enterprise and utilities sector include: (i) accelerating state-owned
enterprise (SOE) privatization across a wide spectrum of sectors (i.e., power, public industry); (ii)
enforcing hard budget constraints on remaining SOEs through the closure of big loss-makers (i.e.,
mines); and (iii) implementing an action plan to stimulate private sector development and
streamline the business environment developed during PSAL I. In addition to an improved
business environment and increased private sector ownership and management in the real and
financial sectors, the proposed PAL aims to support institutional and govemance reforms required
to create a more accountable, transparent and responsive public sector, including support for
better public sector expenditure management, a more stable legal framework and more
responsive, accountable and transparent public administration. Finally, PSAL II aims to support
meaningful introduction of social protection and poverty reduction measures, including income
assistance, pre-layoff services and pension reform.
3. Benefits and target population:
Implementation of structural reforms in the enterprise and financial sectors under this operation
will enhance Romania's prospects for growth and will reinforce the sustainability of its
macroeconomic stabilization. Institutional and governance reforms will benefit the private sector,
by helping to create a more predictable legal environment and more enforceable legal rights.
These reforms will also benefit citizens more generally by streamlining administrative procedures
and helping to make the public administration more transparent, accountable and responsive.
The target population will be the state-owned banks and the enterprise sector at large, which will
ultimately benefit from an improved business environment. The target population includes existing
private enterprises that have found it difficult to operate freely and to obtain needed debt and
equity financing. The target population also includes those likely to be released from employment
- 9-



as a result of restructuring. Social assistance, training, and more sustainable long-term financing
of public (i.e., child benefit, unemployment fund, social security) and private (i.e., pension)
schemes are intended to mitigate these effects. The target population will also be the general
public at large, who will benefit from more efficient and transparent public sector services.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Project Implementation
The Ministry of Public Finance's (MOPF) International Financial Department is the main
counterpart for the project. The overall coordination of the project, including the administrative
functions, financial management, procurement and monitoring will be executed by the Project
Management Unit (PMU), anchored within the Ministry of Public Finance and established under
the PIBL. This PMU will continue to be headed by the current Minister of Public Finance (Project
Director). The Minister will have overall responsibility for the project and continue to report to
the Prime Minister. He will be assisted by a Project Administrator who will oversee the
day-to-day operations of the project. A Project Steering Committee (PSC) has been established
with participants from all project entities. The PSC, under the guidance of the PMU director, will
ensure that all project objectives and targets as specified in the PIP are on track and achieved.
Technical expertise on a short-term basis will be provided to the Project Administrator as and
when required. PPIBL has built in long-term expertise to assist the PMU with needed tasks
regarding the main components of the project. This has been done in recognition of the expressed
needs of the PMU. Specifically, long-term experts are expected to assist the PMU in all key areas
of reform-enterprise, utilities and bank privatizations; improving the business environment; and
social protection. The PMU Project Administrator is well versed in the Bank procurement,
disbursements, and contracting procedures and will continue to be assisted by two procurement
specialists, a disbursement specialist, and an accountant. All PMU specialists are experienced in
the Bank procedures.
Project Financial Management System and Audit
To maintain project accounts and produce reports in accordance with standards acceptable to the
Bank, a FMS was established at the PMU for the PIBL . This system has been modified to
accommodate project accounts under the PPIBL. In accordance with OP/BP 10.02, a
Bank-accredited financial management specialist reviewed the proposed financial management
system in July 2001. Based on this assessment, it was found that the PMU satisfies the Bank's
minimum financial management requirements. However, the PMU has agreed to take the
following actions to improve its financial management processes.
*      By September 30, 2002 the PMU is to appoint an independent auditing firm, acceptable to the
Bank, for the audit of the project financial statements.
*      By September 30, 2002, the PMU will prepare financial monitoring reports.
Financial Reporting.
The PMU will ensure the preparation and distribution of consolidated periodic progress reports to
- 1 0 -



the relevant government and other participating institutions, including the World Bank, to reflect:
(i) the sources and uses of funds by project categories and components; (ii) project progress
reporting, and (iii) procurement activities. In this context, the PMU will prepare quarterly
Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs), which would be submitted to the Bank within 45 days of
the end of each quarter. The first quarterly FMRs will be submitted at the end of the third quarter
of 2002. The FMRs format were discussed during appraisal and agreed at negotiations.
Audit Arrangements. The PMU would be subject to an independent, external audit, in accordance
with international standards on auditing, on an annual basis. This audit would be carried out by an
independent auditor acceptable to the World Bank, and the audit report would be sent to the
Bank within six months of the end of the fiscal year. The audit of the project accounts for PIBL
was carried out by Arthur Andersen, and a unqualified opinion was issued. During negotiations,
agreement was reached with the PMU to retain the same audit firm or an audit firm acceptable to
the Bank for the audit of PPIBL project accounts. The PMU will provide the Bank (within six
months of the end of each Government fiscal year) with an audit report of such scope and detail
as the Bank may reasonably request, including a separate opinion by the independent auditor on
disbursements against certified SOEs, and the special account.
Disbursements. Disbursements from the Loan will be made based on traditional disbursement
methods (i.e., from the Special Account with reimbursements made based on Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs) and full documentation, and direct payments from the Loan Account). The
PMU has good experience of such disbursement procedures from implementing the Bank financed
PIBL. The proceeds of the World Bank loan will be allocated in accordance with Table C, Annex
6. To facilitate timely project implementation, the PMU will establish, maintain and operate, a
special account under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Two alternative methods of privatization were considered and rejected.
*     The use of local sales agents was considered for case-by-case privatization and pool
privatization. This was not considered viable because local investment banks and liquidators have
only limited experience and do not have access to international investors.
*     The use of advisors instead of sales agents was considered impractical given the
experience with such advisors by the SOF (now APAPS).  The contracts executed for
case-by-case privatizations with seven investment banks were, in effect, advisory contracts. This
approach hampered the effective use of investment bank expertise by not bringing them into the
final negotiation process.
Under the current environment, engaging investment banks, liquidation experts, and work-out
firms as sales agents, while using Bank procurement procedures, is the most practical proposal.
This method, which will protect the privatization process from bureaucratic micro-management
and political control, should accelerate the pace of privatization significantly.
- 11 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
:   |  . -- ~ :                 Latest Supervislon
Sectorlssue           |          Project                (PSR) Ratirgs
._________________________________ I .__________________________  (Bank-flnanced projects only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                 Progress (IP)  ObjecUve (DO)
Privatization of SOEs and Banks,  Private Sector Institution      S             S
improvement of business environment  Building Loan (PIBL)
Privatization of SOEs and Banks,  PSAL II
improvement of business environment
and strengthening social protection
Energy Sector Reforms            Petroleum Sector Rehabilitation
Project
Social Sector Reforms            Social Sector Development
Fund Project
Public Sector Reforms            Programmatic Adjustment Loan
(PAL), ), formerly Institutional
and Govemance Reform
Structural Adjustrnent Loan
(IGRSAL)
Other development agencies
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Within the Bank, sector experience of the bank and experience with Technical Assistance
projects, indicates that projects with a great deal of technical assistance should: (i) have the active
support of ministry and government officials to ensure proper and timely decision-making on
crucial issues; (ii) have a well-defined procurement plan, including terms of reference for
consultants, and studies drafted and agreed on with the borrower prior to Board; (iii) have a PMU
with well-qualified and competent staff who are properly compensated for their work; (iv) the
PMU staff should have access to the Project Director, in order to make swift decisions and not
delay project implementation; and (iv) have a PMU that can access needed outside expertise to
facilitate matters of contracting, to provide greater precision in defining the needs of consultants
(through TORs), and to offer constructive assessments on the quality of responses when
proposals are made on privatization, restructuring and other contracts relevant to implementation
of PSAL II.
Based on these lessons, PPIBL will focus on five specific areas for which government
commitment and financing have been secured. A procurement plan, including TORs for
consultants and studies, will be drafted and agreed on with the borrower. A PMU has been
established and is operating with qualified and competent staff who are paid in accordance with
- 12 -



market rates. During negotiations, agreement has been reached with the Minister of Public
Finance to submit a letter to the Bank, by December 31, 2001, indicating that in his absence, a
Secretary of State will have authority to make decisions on his behalf as Project Director (This
letter has been received by the Bank). The Bank project team will closely supervise
implementation and procurement activities under the project.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government has requested support to implement the proposed PSAL II program. PPIBL will
provide the technical assistance required to implement the conditions under the PSAL II program.
Government commitment has been demonstrated by closely working with the Bank team to
prepare the project, including close association in arriving at key objectives in the policy matrix
and agreeing to a time line to achieve objectives.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank has extensive experience and knowledge of financial sector restructuring, enterprise and
utilities privatization, the business environment, social assistance reform, and public sector
institutional reform. Thus, the Bank is in a unique position to furnish practical advice on bank
restructuring, enterprise and utilities privatization, the design of economic incentives, and social
assistance and poverty reform. The Bank can also draw on its international network of
consultants and advisors to bring the latest best practices to Romania to strengthen the capacity of
Romanian institutions. The World Bank will also assist in implementing the project through
hands-on supervision and sharing knowledge of Bank procurement methods with Romanian
counterparts.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit   NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
N?A
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Fiscal Impact
The losses incurred by the state-owned banks and enterprises have a substantial cost to the
Government's budget. Furthermore, poor financial control and accountability and limited lending
capacity have prevented the development of a sound banking sector. The proposed project will
support the Government's efforts to: (a) resolve financial issues relating to the state-owned banks
and enterprises; (b) strengthen the financial sector and encourage private banking; (c) promote
financial intermediation; and (d) build the foundation for increased private sector development. It
is, therefore, expected to assist the Government in reducing the insolvency in the financial sector
and curtailing the losses of state-owned banks, thereby minimizing exposure to potential further
- 13 -



fiscal costs.
Fiscal Impact:
3. Technical:
Successful financial/enterprise sector reforms require high-quality advice and expertise in a
number of areas. These technical skills are weak in the banking and enterprise sectors. The project
will ensure that the GOR has access to the necessary expertise, through top level advisors and
consultants to facilitate the achievement of its reform objective in a timely manner. An important
element of the project will be for the experts hired to train and transfer these skills to
counterparts, for example in banking supervision and accounting, particularly in the area of
on-site examinations, treasury operations, public debt management and in judicial reforms.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
Ministry of Public Finance
4.2 Project management:
The overall coordination including administrative functions (financial management, procurement
and monitoring) of the project, will rest with the Project Management Unit. The PMU was
established in the Ministry of Public Finance for the implementation of PIBL. The PMU staff
were hired on a competitive basis and are compensated accordingly. Sustaining, a core group of
qualified and well compensated experts will be crucial for the smooth implementation of the
project.
4.3 Procurement issues:
The procurement methods adopted, especially in case of the privatization components, have been
established with the objective of instilling transparency and efficiency into the system. Strict
adherence to these procedures will be crucial for smooth implementation. The project teams will
prepare terms of reference for consulting services, training, feasibility studies, banks, and sales
agents. The PMU staff will assist members of the Bid Evaluation Committee to evaluate
proposals received for these services and to process the contract awards. A project team will be
established at all participating entities.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The first Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) for Romania will be carried out
during FY03. Based on country experience the two main generic risks. The first risk is the
liquidity problem associated with banks. The banking system in Romania is still perceived as
potentially sensitive to liquidity problems.  Despite a certain degree of restructuring and
"cleaning" of the banking sector, the systemic risk is still perceived as significant. The second risk
is the fraud and corruption. Concerns have been raised with regard to fraud, waste and abuse of
donor funds in the region. Perceived corruption as reported in the press is principally in the area
- 14 -



of procurement. To mitigate these concerns the following actions will be taken. First, the special
account for this project will be opened in the same bank that holds the special account for the
PIBL. No problems were encountered in the operation of the special account under PIBL.
Second, the PMU established for the implementation of PIBL will also implement PPIBL. The
PMU has in place adequate internal procedures to mitigate potential fraud and corruption. PIBL
is being implemented successfully with out any major problems. The audit of the project accounts
under PIBL received a clean opinion.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
In accordance with the Bank's Operational Directive on Environmental Assessment (OD 4.01
Annex E), the proposed project has been placed in Category "C" and does not require an
environmental assessment.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Not Applicable
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
The APAPS, as representative of government ownership in state-owned banks and enterprises, is
the primary beneficiary. Representatives of APAPS have participated closely in the design of the
proposed PSAL II and PPIBL.
Other key stakeholders:
The Ministry for Public Finance, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Industry and Resources,
the Ministry of Development and Prognosis, the Ministry of Public Administration, the Ministry of
Communication and Information Technology and the business community are beneficiaries and
- 15-



have been involved in the design of PSAL II and PPIBL.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Not Applicable
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
Not Applicable
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Not Applicable
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any orthe following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy-                                 Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)        0 Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                 0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                   0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                               0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                       0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                           0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*     0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
The PPIBL is a technical assistance project that strongly complements the PSALII. It was agreed
at the review meeting that the appropriate environmental rating for such a TA project is a "C". It
is to be expected, however, that, as it will support activities under PSALII where the
environmental safeguards are relevant, it will also provide TA, where appropriate, to ensure that
any projects supported by the financial institutions meet the national environmental standards.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
This Technical Assistance Loan supports reforms that will enhance Romania's long-term
prospects for economic growth and development; provide underlying support to workers
displaced by restructuring; and promote development of conditions that would accelerate
Romania's preparation for formal entry into the European Union and other organizations.
To help Romania achieve sustainable growth, the Bank has proposed a separate private sector
adjustment loan (PSAL II) of $300 million. This loan is to provide balance-of-payments support
to GOR as it undergoes necessary but costly restructuring of its enterprise and financial sectors,
- 16 -



introduces needed public sector reforms, and demonstrates greater capacity for social assistance
and poverty reduction. PPIBL financing would support seven broad areas of activity: (i)
restructuring and privatizing remaining state-owned banks; (ii) strengthening banking and
insurance sector regulation and supervision; (iii) assisting in the development of securities
markets, with specific focus on government securities; (iv) strengthening overall financial sector
infrastructure; (v) privatizing and divesting remaining large state-owned enterprises, including in
the power sectors; (vi) privatizing and divesting remaining small- and medium-sized state-owned
enterprises; (vii) improving the business environment, and (viii) development of institutional and
govemance reform.
In addition to broad macroeconomic benefits, all of these actions would promote development of
a market-based economy with stronger governance, management, transparency, and participation
that should result in sustainable economic growth. In addition, these reforms will be supported by
a programmatic adjustment loan for institutional and governance reform.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Continuing commitment of government to      S         - Continued dialogue with the Government and
the banking, private and energy sector                other local stakeholders on the benefits of
restructuring, including institutional and            sectoral reforms.
govemance reforms                                     - Adequate budget provisions for sustained
privatization of banks;
- Support from the IMF Stand-by Program.
From Components to Outputs
The Government will not follow through      S         - Associated PSAL conditionality and IMF
on its agreement with the Bank and the                Stand-by Agreement will support the pace of
IMF to withdraw banking licenses,                     reforms.
privatize key state owned enterprises,
reform the energy sector, remove business
barriers and implement institutional and
governance reforms
Timely recruitment and contract with        S         - Some contracts have already been awarded
investment bank and sales agents will not             under the PSAL I and PIBL, but for new
occur                                                 contracts, the early agreement on terms of
reference and subsequent appointment of foreign
experts and advisors can help maintain
momentum in the Government's agenda and
reduce the risk of delays.
Sustain qualified and competent staff in    M         - Qualified staff have been hired, who are
the PMU, who have access to the Director              properly compensated. During negotiations,
for smooth implementation of the project              agreement has been reached with the Borrower
to submit a letter to the Bank, by December 3 1,
2001, indicating that, in the absence of the
- 17 -



Minister of Finance, a Secretary of State will
have authority to make decisions on his behalf
as Project Director (This letter has been
received by the Bank).
Overall Risk Rating                       5
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
N/A
G. Main LoanConditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
(i) The Borrower will advise the Bank of its ratification of the Loan Agreement.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
(i)   A Mid Term Review to be conducted by June 30, 2003, based on satisfactory TORs.
(ii) Throughout the implementation of the Project, the Borrower shall maintain, in a manner and
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, a PSC headed by the Project Coordinator and
composed of a representative each of APAPS, the Ministry of Public Finance, the Ministry of
Justice, the Ministry of Industry and Resources, the Ministry of Public Administration, the
Ministry of Communication and Information Technology and the Ministry of Development and
Prognosis. The PSC shall be responsible for overseeing Project implementation.
(iii) The Borrower shall ensure that the studies to be conducted under Part C.2 of the Project
shall include an assessment of the appropriate mechanisms for screening environmentally sensitive
projects
(iv)  The PMU to maintain satisfactory Financial Management Systems including records and
accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with accounting standards satisfactory
to the Bank and annual project accounts and institutional audits to be provided to the Bank
within six months of each year (the audit to be carried out by independent auditors in accordance
with intemational accounting standards, and TORs satisfactory to the Bank).
- 18 -



(v)   The Borrower to maintain the PMU      with satisfactory functions, staffing and other
resources.
(vi)  PMU to implement the project in accordance with the Project Implementation Plan.
(vii) PMU and the Borrower to monitor project performance in accordance with the
satisfactory monitoring indicator framework.
H. Readiness for Implementation
0 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
Z 1. b) Not applicable.
O 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
l2 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
0 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Hiran Hierat                   Khaled Sherif                     Andrew N. Vorkink
\Team Leader                      Sector Manager                    Country Manager/Director



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
ROMANIA: Private and Public Sector Institution Building Loan
Key Performance       Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives         Indicators                                 -   Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:  Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:  (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Promote structural reform and Reduction in budget deficit Privatization  targets  and An improved private sector
private sector development  and increase in investment  budget deficit targets  environment will successftully
induce greater investment
Project Development       Outcome / Impact          Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
Enhance the private sector's State  Divestiture  from Privatization schedules  Availability of domestic and
role in the economy through enterprise and financial sector Passage of laws   international  capital  and
the transfer of state-owned assets and rationalization of Implementation of standards  entrepreneurial skills
assets and the creation of an economic framework
enabling       environment
conducive to private sector
growth and development
Output from each          Output Indicators:        Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
FINANCIAL SERVICES        1. Bank Twining Services  Reports of PMU            Continuing commitment of
1. CEC Bank                                         Reports of consultants    government
2. CNVM                   I.Refurbishment of the    Report of PMU             Continuing commitment of
CNVM building.            Report of consultants     government
2.Equipment and systems for
the CNVM
3. Strengthening the
institutional capacity of
CNVM
3. Bucharest Stock Exchange  1. Draft regulations for the  Report of PMU      Continuing commitment of
BSE.                      Report of consultants     government
2. Training for BSE staff
3. Public Awareness
Campaign Design and
implementation
4. Insurance Supervision  1. Institutional strengthening  Report of PMU       Continuing commitment of
Commission                of the Insurance Supervision  Report of consultants  government
Commission
2. Technical assistance for the
insurance sector
- 20 -



PRIVATIZATION
SERVICES
1. Develop a privatization  PMU reports              Continuing commitment of
I.SOEs.                   strategy for the electricity  Consultant Reports     government to privatization of
generation sector                                    SOEs
2. Review taxation system for
2. ANRG                    oil and gas sector
3. Training for ANFG staff
4. Review framework for
3. Gas Distribution.      network industries
5. Strengthening the
4. Electricity Distribution  regulatory capacity of ANRG.
BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT
1. Administrative Barriers  1. Review of the existing legal PMU Progress Reports  Full participation of relevant
framework for e-business  Consultants reports        ministries and continued
Business environment      government commitment.
2. Bankruptcy Procedures.  2. Improve court          monitoring system
infrastructure
3. Public Awareness
Campaign
4. Improve business
environment of Jui Valley
INSTITUTIONAL AND
GOVERNANCE REFORM
I. Public Expenditure     1. Strengthen the cash     PMU Reports               Continuing commitment of
Management                management capacities of the Reports of consultants  Government
Treasury
2. Improve the program- and
results-oriented budget
formulation reforms already
underway
3. Ensure better coordination
and accountability for
foreign-financed activities
4. Strengthen public sector
-21 -



accounting capacities
5. Strengthen internal audit
Address certain risks posed by
the ongoing decentralization  PMU Reports           Continuing commitment of
process.                  Reports of consultants    Government
2. External audit         6. Strengthen external audit  PMU Reports
Reports of consultants
3.E-government            7. Take initial steps for
establishing a SMART-card  PMU Reports              Continuing commitment of
system for use within the  Reports of consultants   Government
public administration.
4. Public administration  8. Take initial steps for
establishing an integrated
information system for
documents management for  PMU Reports               Continuing commitment of
use throughout Romania's  Reports of consultants    Government
public administration.
5. Rule of law            9. Take initial steps to ensure
a more stable legal framework
and more predictable and fair PMU Reports           Continuing commitment of
enforcement of legal rights.  Reports of consultants  Government
6. Health administration  10. Take initial steps to
ensure more accountable,  PMU Reports               Continuing commitment of
effective and fiscally prudent Reports of consultants  Government
use of public financial
resources devoted to the
provision of health care in
Romania.
- 22 -



Key Performance       Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives        Indicators                                     Critical Assumptions
Project Components /      Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:        (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                        Outputs)
1. Financial Sector              US$ 4.35          PMU Reports and PMRs     Full participation of relevant
Restructuring and                                                           ministries and continued
Privatization Support                                                       government commitment
2. Privatization Support for     US$ 0.66
Enterprises
3. Privatization Support for     US$ 2.50
the Energy Sector
4. Support for Improved          US$ 1.96
Business Environment
5. Institutional and
Governance Reform                US$ 12.44
6. PMU Operating Costs           US$ 0.24
- 23 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
ROMANIA: Private and Public Sector Institution Building Loan
By Component:
Project Component I - US$4.35 million
Component 1: Financial Sector Restructuring and
Privatization Support
In the financial sector, the key objective is to end public sector banking.
CEC: To to provide CEC with technical assistance to engage bank restructuring and privatization
advisor(s) under a twining arrangement, and commence the restructuring of the CEC Bank in
preparation for its privatization within 60 days of First Tranche Release.
Capital and Equity Market Development: To strengthen the regulatory powers, span of authority,
financial independence, staff and institutional capacity of the National Securities Commission
(CNVM) to support, supervise, and provide oversight of the capital and equity markets, in
consistence with EU acquis and directives; and to support the institutional strengthening of the
Bucharest Stock Exchange in participation in the secondary market for Government securities.
Insurance Sector: To assist in strengthening the institutional and building capacity of the
Insurance Supervision Commission (ISC) to supervise and provide regulatory oversight of the
insurance sector, in conjunction with the duties, responsibilities, and span of authority of the ISC.
Project Component 2 - US$0.66 million
Component 2: Privatization Support Enterprises
The privatization and liquidation of most large state-owned enterprises is the responsibility of
APAPS (formerly the State Ownership Fund), which holds the govermnent's shares in the
remaining 1,444 companies in this category. Under this component, technical assistance will be
provided to support GOR in privatizing the ten largest state investments in private finns in which
the Government holds 20 percent or more by disposing of at least 50 percent of its ownership
stakes in each of these enterprises. The size of the joint venture will be measured in terms of
profitability over the last three years (or less if necessary).
Project Component 3 - US$ 2.50 million
Component 3: Privatization Support for the Energy Sector
Efforts to promote energy sector reforms are geared to reducing the use of the energy
sector-mainly the gas and electricity sectors-as sources of quasi-fiscal credit for uncompetitive
SOEs at the expense of more competitive (and often restructured) enterprises that are forced to
operate under distorted conditions. GOR plans to achieve this objective by introducing major
reform of the gas and oil sector.
-24 -



Gas Sector: PPIBL will assist GOR in strengthening the regulatory capacity of ANRG, training
for ANRG staff and examining the gas production Technical tax regime.
Electricity Sector: PPIBL will provide technical assistance to GOR to develop a privatization
strategy for the electricity generation sector.
Project Component 4 - US$1.96 million
Component 4: Improvement in the Business
Environment
Technical assistance to improve the business environment will include:
(i) strengthening e-business, including e-commerce, e-government to the Ministry of
Information Technology;
The Govermment is committed to improve the e-business in Romania. The e-signature has
been already passed as well as the law on e-commerce. However, the legislative and
institutional framework governing this field needs further development. In this sense technical
assistance is necessary to ensure the successful implementation.
(ii) training of commercial court judges and personnel;
The training program is aimed at helping the trainees to better understand the legislation that
influences bankruptcy proceedings for both corporate and bank insolvency and other pieces
of ancillary legislation. It also offers the trainees an overview of the economic/commercial
and international operations, which are relevant for the bankruptcy cases. In addition, the
training program is supposed to bestow a businesses type of reasoning upon the participants
when deciding over various commercial alternatives to be pursued in order to attain certain
outcome.
(iii) improve court infrastructure;
The Ministry of Justice will allocate the funds to renovate a few commercial divisions of the
local courts (tribunals). This aims to improve the interior working environment.
(iv) development of a public relations campaign for the improvement of the business
environment;  and       (v)   implementation  of   the   public  awareness
campaign; The Government has launched a campaign to improve communications with the
business community on the ongoing business environment reforms. PPIBL will support the
task force that has already been established on this matter to develop and implement this
communication strategy.
(v) improvement of the business environment, and provision of equipment the Jiului Valley.
Based on the CDF consultation, the local communities located in Jiului Valley have
formulated a long term strategy for a sustainable development. This draft strategy is being
discussed by the Inter Ministerial Committee which has been set up by the Prime Minister for
this purpose. The funds located in PPIBL will finance the technical assistance for improving
- 25 -



the local capacity to implement the drafted strategy, and further its development. The
improvement of the business environment will be achieved by involving also the local private
sector and civil society into this process.
Project Component 5 - US$12.44 million
Component 5: Institutional and Governance Reform
Under this component, technical assistance will be provided to strengthen: (i) public expenditure
management (MoPF); (ii) extemal audit (CoA); (iii) e-government (MoCIT); (iv) public
administration (MoPA); (v) rule of law (MoJ); and (vi) health administration. This technical
assistance is designed to help in the design and initial stage of implementation of the
Government's institutional and govemance reform agenda. The overarching objectives of that
agenda are to create a more responsive, transparent and accountable public sector.
Public expenditure management: Technical assistance within this subcomponent will address six
distinct aspects of Romania's public expenditure management systems and practices: (i) cash
management within the Treasury system; (ii) budget formulation; (iii) foreign financing
coordination; (iv) govemment accounting; (v) intemal audit; and (vi) decentralization. Technical
assistance for cash management will provide advice for handling transactions (e.g., build clearing
house within MoPF vs. contract with private banking sector, using TRANSFOND), as well as on
revising the legal framework of governing treasury functions. In addition, training in cash
management will be provided to Treasury Department staff. Technical assistance for budget
formulation will provide training to major budget institutions on how to prioritize their activities
and budget proposals and how to define programs for the purpose of program budgeting and how
to build capacity to monitor performance in achieving program objectives. Technical assistance
for foreign financing coordination will assist the Ministry of Finance in implementing legislation
for improving coordination of foreign financing by assisting MoPF staff in exploring options such
as establishing a central unit for coordinating foreign financing within MoPF, ensuring that
accounting improvements capture foreign financing, or requiring MoPF to sign-off for any
foreign-financed project. In addition, a study tour to Hungary will serve to expose key MoPF
staff to that system for coordinating public debt. Government accounting will be improved by
providing Technical assistance to help the MoPF to develop accrual accounting capacities,
accounting regulations and procedures, and program accounting capacities. Internal audit will be
improved by developing and installing software and hardware for monitoring and providing
search capacities for legal instruments goveming intemal audit and a data base on intemal audits
and their findings. This work will be undertaken in order to be consistent with the Ministry's
"Policy Paper on Public Intemal Financial Control" (October 5, 2001). Technical assistance will
help the Govemment to address decentralization risks by advising the Govemment on
amendments to the Law on Local Public Finance, strengthening institutional capacities of local
authorities on a pilot basis, in order to improve their accountability and providing advice to the
Govemment on implementation of the equalization fommula.
External audit: Technical assistance for extemal audit will provide training and information
- 26 -



technology to complement a comprehensive program of Technical assistance to the Court of
Accounts, which is already in place and being financed by the EC and DFID. Training will be
built around training of trainers in order to ensure of this technical assistance. It will focus on
financial and performance auditing for CoA staff working at the local level (in the 28 Judets not
already provided such training under the existing twining arrangement), auditing of privatization
processes, program budget auditing, and fraud, corruption and Technical assistance evasion
auditing. In addition, information technology (hardware and software) will be developed and
installed to support financial and performance auditing.
E-government: The Government is mounting a comprehensive strategy for developing various
e-government applications, such as e-procurement, a unified portal for access to government
web-sites, development of various national on-line registries, as well as development of
SMART-card access to government functions and services. These applications aim to make public
administration functions and public service provision more accessible and transparent, as well as
more accountable thereby reducing incentives and opportunities for administrative corruption and
contributing to a more attractive business environment. As part of this effort, technical assistance
under PPIBL will assist the Ministry of Communication and Information Technology to advance
one or more of these efforts. At a minimum, this technical assistance will assist the MoCIT to
undertake a feasibility study and prepare functional requirements for the SMART-card system.
Public administration: Consistent with the Government's e-government strategy, an important
element of its public administration reform strategy is to introduce information technology-based
document systems. Accordingly, the PPIBL will finance a feasibility study for development of an
integrated information system for document management for use throughout Romania's public
administration.
Rule of law: A recent diagnostic of Romania's legal and judicial systems, as well as systematic
survey data, reveal that the most deleterious aspects of those systems are the endemic instability
of Romania's legal framework and the extent to which the interpretation of regulations is
predictable information about regulations is easy to obtain and administrative recourse is
available. Accordingly, technical assistance for the rule of law will support key elements of the
Govermment's strategy for addressing corruption, the National Program for Prevention of
Corruption: National Action Plan Against Corruption (Bucharest: 2001). This strategy was the
result of a participative policy deliberation process undertaken by the Government of Romania
and builds on insights provided by Diagnostic Surveys of Corruption in Romania: First Results
(The World Bank: August 15, 2000), particularly those elements related to ensuring a more stable
legal framework and better enforcement of legal rights.
Health administration: The Government faces an important challenge to provide health care to
citizens. Accordingly, technical assistance for health administration will help the Govemment to
design a strategy and action plan for addressing these challenges, as well as to launch
implementation of the proposed strategy and action plan.
Project Component 6 - US$0.24 million
- 27 -



Project Management Unit (PMU)
The PMU will carry out the following tasks: monitoring project expenditures and costs (local and
foreign), process loan disbursement applications and track disbursements of the loan and
government funds; maintain project records and accounts; preparing physical and financial
forecasts of future activities required to implement the components and for inclusion in budgetary
proposals for the succeeding implementation year. One year of operating costs of the PMU will
be financed under PPIBL. Currently, the PMU staff is been paid under PIBL and will continue
until PIBL closure.
- 28 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
ROMANIA: Private and Public Sector Institution Building Loan
Project Cost by Component      Local USS  Foreign US$   Total USS
million     million      million
Financial Sector Restructurng and  1.84      2.15         3.99
Privatization Support
Privatization Support for Enterprises  0.10  0.50         0.60
Privatization Support for the    0.46        1.80         2.26
Energy Sector
Support for an Improved Business  0.86       0.94         1.80
Environment
Institutional and Governance     1.80        9.45         11.25
Reform
Front End Fee                    0.19        0.00         0.19
PMU Operating Cost               0.24        0.00         0.24
Total baseline cost              5.47        14.84        20.31
Price Contingencies              0.17        0.84         1.01
Physical Contingencies           0.17        0.85         1.02
Total Contingencies              0.34        1.69         2.03
Total Project Cost               5.81        16.53        22.34
Total Financing Required         5.81        16.53        22.34
Project Cost by Category
Goods                            0.93        4.90         5.83
Civil Works                      0.09        0.45         0.54
Services Training and Audit      2.16        11.35        13.51
Incremental Operating Cost       0.04        0.20         0.24
- 29 -



Front End Fee                   0.19        0.00         0.19
Unallocated                     0.34        1.70         2.04
Total Project Costs             3.74        18.60        22.34
- 30 -



Annex 4Financial Summary
ROMANIA: Private and Public Sector Institution Building Loan
Not Applicable
- 31 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
ROMANIA: Private and Public Sector Institution Building Loan
Project Cost                    Year 1     Year 2      Year 3     TOTAL
Investment Costs                8.73        8.71        4.66       22.10
Recurrent Costs                  0.00       0.07        0.17       0.24
Total                            8.73       8.78        4.83       22.34
Financing                       Year 1     Year 2      Year 3     TOTAL
IBRD                            7.18        7.37        4.06       18.60
Govemment                        1.56       1.41        0.77       3.74
Total                            8.73       8.80        4.83       22.34
- 32 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
ROMANIA: Private and Public Sector Institution Building Loan
Procurement
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement of Goods and Works (Table A)
Goods and works will be procured in accordance with the provisions of the Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD loans and IDA credits published by the Bank in January 1995, and
revised in January and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999 (including amendments
as of loan-signing date). When applicable, the appropriate Standard and Sample Bidding
Documents issued by the Bank will be used with minimum changes acceptable to the Bank. For
procurement under ICB, domestic suppliers will be given a margin of preference in accordance
with procurement guidelines.
International Competitive Bidding: ICB procedures for goods will be used for contracts
estimated to cost US$ 100,000 equivalent or more.
National Competitive Bidding: Works estimated to cost less than US$ 400,000 equivalent per
contract up to an aggregated amount not to exceed 590,000 equivalent will be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the
Guidelines.
International Shopping (IS):  Contracts for supplies readily available off-the-shelf or
commodities of standard specification estimated to cost less than US$100,000 and up to an
aggregate not to exceed US $260,000, may be procured under IS procedures by obtaining
competitive price quotations from at least three suppliers in two different countries.
National Shopping (NS): Contracts for supplies minor sundry items estimated to cost less
than US$ 50,000 per contract up to an aggregated amount not to exceed US$ 130,000
equivalent, may be procured under NS procedures by obtaining competitive price quotations
from at least three suppliers.
Procurement of Services (Table A.1.)
Contracts for consultant services will be awarded in accordance with the provisions of the
Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers published
by the Bank in January 1997, revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (including
amendments as of loan-signing date). The services financed under the loan include (i) financial
sector services, (ii) privatization services, (iii) energy sector reform and privatization, (iv)
improvements in business environment, (v) public sector reform, and (vi) continued operation of
the project management unit. Selection of consulting company will be based on the Standard
- 33 -



Request for Proposal issued by the Bank.
The following method of selection will be followed:
Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS): Since the jobs for the consultancies to support
privatization, financial, business services and public sector reform are specialized in nature, the
QCBS method will be used for contracting services. For purposes of procuring services for
privatization activities, the modified evaluation formula approved by the Bank shall apply.
Selection Based on Consultant's Qualification (SBCQ):Services for Technical Assistance for
contracts under US$ 100,000 may be procured in accordance with the provision of
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of Section 3 of the Consultants Guidelines up to an aggregated
amount of US$ 0.88 million.
Selection Based on Fixed Budget (SBFB): Public awareness campaign under contracts less
than USD 400,000 will be implemented in accordance with paragraph 3.5 of Section III of the
Consultants Guidelines up to an aggregated amount of US$ 0.68 million.
Selection of Individual consultant (SIC): Individual consultants for selected studies,
regulations, and other components for an aggregate amount of US$ 0.77 million will be
selected on the basis of their qualifications for the assignment in accordance with Section 5 of
the Consultants Guidelines.
Single Source Selection: Services for audit of the project account as a continuation of
previous work carried out by the firm may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of Section 3 of the Consultant
Guidelines.
Training: Training shall be procured on the basis of quotes obtained directly from training
providers in accordance with the procedure agreed upon the Bank
Bank Review
The PMU will use the current Bank Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) for procurement of
goods and services financed by the Bank, and Standard Bid Evaluation Form for Procurement of
Goods for the evaluation of bids procured through ICB. For selection of consultants, Bank
Published Standard Request for Proposal (RFP) will be used. For preparation of consultants'
proposals evaluation report, the Bank standard evaluation form will be used. The Bank's prior
review of procurement actions are given in Table B.
All other procurement documents and procedures would be subject to the Bank's ex-post review.
About 20 percent of such contracts would be reviewed on a random basis during supervision
missions. In such cases, the agencies would provide for review of the relevant documentation
(invitation to bid/request for proposals, instructions to bidders, conditions of contract, etc.)
leading up to the culmination of the bidding process, minutes of bid opening, bid evaluation
- 34 -



report, recommendations, and copies of the bid proposals. The outcome of the ex-post review
would be communicated by the Bank to the agencies. The PMU would keep a complete and
up-to-date record of all procurement documentation and relevant correspondence in its files.
Table A. Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure
Category         ICB        NCB        Other'      N.S.      I.S.   N.B.F.  Total Cost
1. Works              0.00       0.59         0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.59
(0.00)      (0.49)      (0.00)    (0.00)   (0.00)   (0.00)    (0.49)
2. Goods              6.05        0.00        0.00      0.13     0.26     0.00      6.44
(5.06)      (0.00)      (0.00)    (0. I 1)  (0.22)  (0.00)    (5.39)
3. Services           0.00        0.00        14.87     0.00     0.00     0.00      14.87
(0.00)      (0.00)     (12.50)    (0.00)   (0.00)   (0.00)    (12.50)
4. Operating Cost     0.00        0.00        0.26      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.26
(0.00)      (0.00)      (0.22)    (0.00)   (0.00)   (0.00)    (0.22)
Total Project       6.05       0.59        15.13      0.13     0.26    0.00      22.16
(5.06)      (0.49)     (12.72)    (0.11)   (0.22)   (0.00)    (18.60)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2/   Includes goods to be procured through consulting services, services of contracted staff of the project
management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
managing the project, excluding front end fees.
- 35 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Selection Method
Selectio
Consultant Services                                     n
Expenditure Category  QCBS    SBCQ     FBS     IC       SS     Other   N.B.F.  Total
cost'
A. Firms                 10.89    0.88   0.68     0.00    0.26    0.00    0.00    12.45
(9.16)  (0.74)  (0.57)          (0.22)                  (10.41)
B. Individuals            0.00    0.00    0.00    0.77    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.77
(0.65)                          (0.65)
C. Training               0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.39    0.00    1.39
I  I  I         1 (1.16)          (1.16)
Total Project           10.89    0.88    0.68    0.77    0.26    1.39    0.00    14.87
(9.16)  (0.74)   (0.57)  (0.65)  (0.22)  (1.16)         (12.50)
1\ Including contingencies, excludes front end fees.
Note:QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
IC = Selection of Individual Consultants
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
SBCQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
SS - Sole Source Selection
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
- 36 -



Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods
Section 1: Procurement Review
Goods and         ICB          NCB            IS           NS      Small Works    Other      Percentage of loan
Works                                                                          methods     amount subject to
prior review
Procurement   >--US$100,000 <US$ 400,000 <US$100,000     <50,000                                    80%
thresholds:                (US$ 590,000) (US$260,000) (US$130,000
individual and    (US$)                                      )
aggregate
Prior Review         All         First two    First two    First two                          I l
Consulants       QCBS           LCS          SBCQ         Fixed     Individuals    Single
Budget                   Source
Selection
Procurement       N/A                     <US$ 1 00,000  <= US$        N/A
thresholds:                              (US$880,000)    400,000   (US$770,000 (US$ 260,000)
individual and                                             (US$
aggregate                                               680,000)
Prior Review:  >US$ 100,000                All TOR and     >US$     All TOR and      All            90%
Contracts     100,000    Short Lists
and Contracts
>US$ 50,000
Ex-post Review: j   Ex-post Review will be done during supervision mission of those documents that are not prior reviewed.
Section 2. Capacity of the Imnlementinv A2encv in Procurement and Technical Assistance
Requirements
4. Brief         The PMU staff constitutes of two Procurement Officers and a Procurement Assistant. The Procurement Officers
statement        have extensive experience in Bank's procurement procedures. The Procurement Assistant is experienced in
foreign trade and public procurement. Various consultants appointed at project sites will prepare the technical
specifications, and TORs for consulting services.
- 37 -



5. Country Procurement Assessment Report or  6. Are the bidding documents for the procurement actions of the first year ready
Country Procurement Strategy Paper status: Under  by negotiations Yes
preparation
Section 3. Trainina, Information and Develonment on Procurement
7. Estimated date of Project  8. Estimated  9. Indicate if contracts are  10. Domestic 11. Domestic Preference for Works,
Launch Workshop              date of        subject to mandatory SPN in Preference for if applicable
publication of  Development Business    Goods
General
Procurement
Notice                                               No
April 2002                                  Yes                      Yes.
January 2002  1                         I
12. Retroactive financing.     No.                       13. Advanced procurement No
14. Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System and Information System: The PIU is being equipped with the necessary
computers and software to enable it to monitor and record procurement implementation. All procurement requests will be
addressed to the procurement staff working in the PIU. Quarterly progress reports will be sent to the Bank to update procurement
implementation progress.
Section 4. Procurement Staffing
15. Indicate name ofProcurement Staff as part of the Project Team responsiblefor the procurement in the project:
Eszter Kovacs
16. Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in Procurement:
NOTE: ER =Evaluation Report; RFP = Request for Proposal; WBP=
World Bank Procurement.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Please see the attached file with the Procurement Schedule
- 38 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Expenditure Category      Amount In USS million      Financing Percentage
1 .Goods                                4.90         100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and
80% of local expenditures for other items
procured locally.
2. Civil Works                          0.45                      80%
3. Consultants' services (including audit,  11.35                 100%
workshops and training)
4. Incremental Operating Costs          0.2                       100%
4. Unallocated                          1.70
Total                                  18.60
The allocation of loan proceeds is given in Table C, which also indicates the financing for the
various categories of expenses. The project will be executed over a period of three years when
the loan amount of US$ 18.60 million would be disbursed. The proposed closing date for the
project would be June 30, 2005. Disbursement is expected to be based on traditional disbursement
procedures. Disbursement procedures are required to be consistent with Bank requirements in
financial management and reporting systems, the key elements of which are outlined in the
Handbookfor Financial Management System. A time-bound action plan was agreed with the
Borrower whereby the PMU would produce financial monitoring reports acceptable to the Bank
by no later than September 30, 2002.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Disbursements would be made against Statements of Expenditure for (i) goods and works under
contracts costing US$100,000 equivalent each, except in respect to the first two contracts to be
awarded pursuant to part C2 of Section 1 of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement; (ii) incremental
operating costs; and (iii) services under contracts costing less than US$100,000 equivalent each
for employment of consulting firms, and under contracts costing less than US$ 50,000 each for
the employment of individual consultants, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Detailed documents outlining these expenditures would be
reviewed and retained by the PMU and made available for the required audit as well as to the
Bank supervision missions. Disbursements against goods and services exceeding the above limits
would be made against full documentation. Disbursement and procurement documents using SOE
procedures would be retained by the PMU for a period of at least two years after disbursement
and made available to Bank staff and external auditors.
Special account:
The PMU will open and maintain a Special Account with an acceptable commercial bank in
Romania on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. The PMU will manage the SA; the
authorized allocation of it would be US$350,000. At the start of the project, the initial deposit
- 39 -



will be limited to US$200,000. The initial allocation may be increased up to the authorized
allocation once aggregate disbursements of US$ 4,000,000 are reached by submitting the relevant
withdrawal applications.Withdrawal applications for replenishments of the SA should be sent to
the Bank on a monthly basis, or when the balance of the SA is equal to about half of the initial
deposit or the authorized allocation, whichever comes first. The SA would be audited annually by
independent auditors, and the audit report would be submitted to the Bank for review and
approval within six months of the end of the fiscal year.
Financial Management Assessment - Please refer to Attachment 11.
-40 -



-41 -



-42 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
ROMANIA: Private and Public Sector Institution Building Loan
Project Schedule                                  Planned                     Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      10
First Bank mission (identification)             02/01/2001                  02/28/2001
Appraisal mission departure                     11/15/2001                   10/29/2001
Negotiations                                    11/19/2001                   12/12/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   04/01/2002                  04/01/2002
Prepared by:
Preparation assistance:
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Khaled Sherif                     Acting Sector Manager, Lead Country Economist
Rodrigo Chaves                    Romania PTL, Lead Financial Economnist
Hiran Herat                       Project TTL, Sr. Financial Analyst/FMS
Ramnin Shojai                     Sr. Private Sector Development Specialist
Marcelo Bueno                     Consultant
Gary Reid                         Sr. Public Sector Management Specialist
James Dick Welch                  Consultant
Irena Tchoukleva                  Consultant
Varadarajan Atur                  Sr. Financial Analyst
Arabela Negulescu                 Sr. Operations Officer
Doina Visa                        Operations Officer
Sorin Teodoru                     Consultant
Nadia Sirghi                      Consultant
Eszter Kovacs                     Procurement Officer
William Porter                    Lead Oil and Gas Specialist
Irna Kichigina                    Sr. Counsel
Elly Gudmundsdottir               Counsel
-43 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
ROMANIA: Private and Public Sector Institution Building Loan
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
B. 1. Procurement Assessment
B.2. Financial Management Systems Assessment
C. Other
C. 1. Financial Management Questionnaire
*Including electronic files
- 44 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
ROMANIA: Private and Public Sector Institution Building Loan
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount In USS Millions                               disbursements
Project ID     FY   Purpose                                        IBRD         IDA         SF       GEF     Cancel.    Undisb.       Orig   Frm Rev d
P008777        1994 Petroleum Sector Rehabiltation                    175.60                            0.00       0.00      71.50      71.50     -52.90
P008784        1994 Educaton Reform                                    50.00                            0.00       0.00       9.00       9.00       9.00
P008776        1995 Employment & Social Protection                     55.40                            0.00       0.00      29.60      29.60       0.00
P008794        1996 Power Sector Rehabilitabon                        110.00                            0.00      33.50      58.70      92.20      83.80
P036013        1996 Railway Sector Rehabilitaton                      120.00                            0.00       0.00      31.80      31.80       0.00
P008793        1997 Higher Educaton                                    50.00                            0.00       0.00      15.60      15.60       1.60
P039250        1997 Second Roads                                      150.00                            0.00       0.00      22.90     -14.60       0.00
P044614        1998 Schools Rehabilitaton                              70.00                            0.00       0.00      40.80      33.30      -5.20
P034213        1998 General Cadastre and Land Registration             25.50                            0.00       0.00      23.00      13.00       0.00
P008788        1998 Telecommunicabons                                  30.00                            0.00       7.00      15.40      21.80      10.30
P055495        1998 Child Welfare Reform                                5.00                            0.00       0.00       2.40       2.20       0.00
P058284        1999 Cultural HerItage                                   5.00                            0.00       0.00       4.20       4.00       0.10
P039251        1999 Private Sector Institution Building                25.00                            000        1.10      14.00       9.10       0.00
P056337        2000 Mine CAosure 6 Social Mitgation                    44.50                            0.00       0.00      41.30      23.80       0.00
P043882        2000 Agrculture Support Services                        11.00                            0.00       0.00      10.40       1.80       0.00
P065041        2000 Trade & Transport Fadlitaton In SEE EUR            17.10                            0.00       0.00      15.20      -1.90       0.00
P008797        2000 Health Sector Reform                               40.00                            0.00       0.00      26.20       5.00       0.00
P056891        2001 Rural Finance (APL 1)                              80.00                            0.00       0.00      80.00       2.40       0.00
P008783        2001 Social Sector Development                          50.00                            0.00       0.00      50.00       9.60       0.00
P044176        1999 Biodivemsity (GEF)                                  0.00                            5.50       0.00       3.70       2.20       0.00
P068808        2002 Social Development Fund 2                          20.00                            0.00       0.00      20.00       0.00       0.00
Total:     1134.10                           5.50        41.60     585.70     361.40      46.70
-45 -



ROMANIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                       Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic  Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1993               Alcatel                       5.97    0.00    0.70     0.00    5.97    0.00    0.70    0.00
1999               Ambro                         7.40    0.00    0.00     0.00    4.76    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998/02            Banc Post                     0.00    0.00    10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.00    0.00
2001               Banca Romaneasca              5.92    0.00     0.00    0.00    5.12    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               Bilstein Compa                1.35    0.00    0.00     1.35    1.35    0.00    0.00    1.35
1996               Danube Fund                   0.00    2.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00
1998               Demir Romania                 2.86    2.55    0.00     0.00    2.86    2.55    0.00    0.00
1997               Efes Brewery                  5.92    0.00    0.00    4.00     5.92    0.00    0.00    4.00
1998               FCR Fund                      0.00   10.00    0.00     0.00    0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00
1998               Garanta                       0.00    0.60    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.30    0.00    0.00
1998               Small Bus. Loan               5.00    0.03    0.00     0.00    5.00    0.03    0.00    0.00
2001               ICME                          13.21   0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               Krupp Compa                   5.26    0.00    0.00    2.26     4.16    0.00    0.00    1.78
1997/00            Mobil Rom                    38.14    0.00    10.00  146.86   38.14    0.00   10.00  146.86
1997               Rambox                        1.09    0.00    2.00    0.00     1.09    0.00    2.00    0.00
1994/98/01         Romlease                      5.64    1.02    0.00     0.00    2.64    1.02    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:        97.76   16.20   22.70   154.47   77.01   15.90   22.70   153.99
Approvals Pending Comnmitment
FY Approval        Company                         Loan     Equity    Quasi     Partic
2001               Kronospan Rom                   30.20     0.00      0.00     45.73
Total Pending Commitment:       30.20      0.00      0.00    45.73
-46 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
ROMANIA: Private and Public Sector Institution Building Loan
Europe &    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           Central  middle-
Romanla       Asia   Income      Development dimond'
2000
Population. mid-year (millions)                      22.4       475     2,046                 Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method. US$)                   1.670     2.010     1,140
GNI (Atlas method. US$ billions)                     37.4       956     2.327
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Population (%)                                        -0.2      0.1       1.0
Labor force (X)                                        1.2      0.6       1.3      GNI          7                  Gross
per         -.primary
Most recent eastimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                            capita          ,            enrollment
Povertv (% of Population below national Dovertv line)  41
Urban population (% of total population)               56        67        42
Life expectancv at birth (years)                       70        69        69
Infant mortalltv (per 1,000 live births)               19        21        32
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)             ..        ..        11           Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)   58        90        80
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                    2         3        15
Gross primary enrollment (%of school-aqe population)   96       100       114              Romania
Male                                                 96       101       116              Lower-middle-income group
Female                                               95        99       114
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990      1999      2000
Economic ratlos,
GDP (USS billions)                            ..     38.3      35.2      36.7
Gross domestic investment/GDP               39.8     30.2       17.2     19.4                     Trade
Exports of aoods and serviceslGDP           35.3     16.7      29.0      34.1
Gross domestic savings/GDP                  35.0     20.8       12.8     13.6
Gross national savinas/GDP                    ..     21.5       13.5     15.1
Current account balance/GDP                    ..    -4.7       -3.7      3.7      Domestic                   Investment
Interest pavments/GDP                         ..      0.0       1.4       1.4     saings
Total debt/GDP                                 ..     3.0      26.6      29.3
Total debt service/exports                   12.6     0.4      31.3      15.7
Present value of debt/GDP                      ..      ..      22.7      27.4
Present value of debt/exports                 ..       ..      79.5      80.7
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00     1999      2000   2000-04
(averaqe annual growth)
GDP                                 0.5     -0.7     -2.3       1.6       4.0         -     Romania
GDP per caoita                      0.1     -0.4     -2.1       1.8       4.3               Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services        ..      8.5     10.8      23.9
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999      2000      Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                        20
Agriculture                                   ..     20.3       15.0     12.8
Industry                                      ..     50.0      35.9      36.3     10
Manufacturing                                ..       ..      26.7      27.0
Services                                      ..     29.8      49.1      50.9      o
Private consumption                         59.9     65.9      74.4      73.9    -10
General government consumption               5.0     13.3      12.7      12.5                     GDI      11OGDP
Imports of goods and services               40.1     26.2      33.4      39.9
1980-90  1990-00      1999      2000     Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(averaae annual qrowth)
Agriculture                                   ..     -0.6       3.4     -15.9     40 -
Industrv                                      ..     -0.8      -1.6       6.2     30
Manufacturinq                                ..     -2.8      -7.1       6.2    20
Services                                      ..     -0.5      -4.6       6.7     10t
Private consumption                           ..      1.2      -3.6       1.4
General government consumption                ..      1.1      -9.4       4.2     10     95    96   97    98   89    00
Gross domestic investment                     ..     -5.2      -5.3      10.9                   Exports  -*mports
Imports of goods and services                 ..      6.4      -1.1      29.1
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the countrv (in bold) compared with its income-aroup average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
-47 -



Romania
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980    1990      1999     2000     Inflation (%)
Domestfc prices
(% change)                                                                   20
Consumer prices                             ..     5.1      45.8     45.7    5so
ImplicR GDP deflator                       0.6     13.7     48.7     45.3    loo.
Government finance                             s0 -
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                            0
Current revenue                             ..     39.5     32.1     31.4            9s   9a    97    98   99
Current budget balance                      ..      8.5      0.0     -0.6                  GDP deflator  eCPI
Overal surplus/deficit                      ..      1.0     -3.7     -4.0
TRADE
1980    1990      1999     2000      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                         ..    5.770    8,487   10.367     15000
Textiles                                   ..     944     1,310    1.658
Metals                                     ..   1,136      502      822     10.0*                     *
Manufactures                               ..   3,428     5,697    6,984     .009
Total imports (Cf)                                9,202    10,557  13,055
Food                                       ..   1,211      795      932     5.000
Fuel and energy                            ..   3,896     1,251    1,830
Capital goods                              ..   1,958     2,903    3,767       o
94  es   96   97  98   99   00
Export price Index (1995=100)               ..      97        98      105
Import price index (1995=100)               ..     105       101      107                 *Exports     *Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                    ..     93        97       98
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                            1980    1990      1999     2000     Current account balance to GOP (%)
Exports of goods and services           12,087   4,295     9,870   12,133
Imports of goods and services           13,730   6,065    11,381   14,071
Resource balance                         -1,643  -1,770   -1,511    -1,938    .2
Net income                                -777    -140      -411     -285     -4
Net current transfers                        0     107       626      860
Current account balance                  -2,420  -1.803   -1,296    -1,363
Financing Items (net)                    2,174     157     1,469    2,291     -s
Changes in net reserves                   247     1,646     -173     -928    l1o
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)      ..     877     2,493    3,397
Conversion rate (DEC. loca//US$)            ..    22.4   15,332.8  21,708.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980    1990      1999     2000
(US$ millions)                                                                ComposItIon of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed     9,762    1,140    9,367   10.740
IBRD                                    806        0     1,662    1,898
IDA                                       0        0         0        0               G:1,C81      A:1,888
Total debt service                       1.529      18     3,138    1.953
IBRD                                     81        0       170      195                                  c:453
IDA                                       0        0        0         0
Composition of net resource flows                                                                          D: 1,094
Ofricial grants                           0        3         ..       ._
Official creditors                      613       19        14      467
Private creditors                      1,360       4      -327    1,068               \772
Foreign direct investment                  ..     ..     1,025    1,009         F: 5.442
Portfolio equity                          0        0      -715      110
World Bank program
Commitments                             240        0       380       68     A - IBRD                  E - aitateral
Disbursements                           239        0       315      384     B-IDA    D- Other multlateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                     22        0        83       91     C - IMF                   G - Short-term
Net fows                                217        0       233      293
Interest payments                        59        0        88      104
Nettransfers                             158       0       145      189
Development Economics                                                                                        9/10/01
-48 -



Additional Annex 11: Financial Management Assessment Report
ROMANIA: Private and Public Sector Institution Building Loan
1.   Executive Summary and Conclusion
A review of the Financial Management arrangements for the project was undertaken in July 2001 to
determine whether the financial management arrangements within PMU are acceptable to the Bank. It is
concluded that the PMU currently satisfies the Bank's minimum financial management requirements.
The financial management arrangements for the PMU are considered capable of satisfactorily recording all
transactions and balances, supporting the preparation of regular and reliable financial statements, and are
subject to auditing arrangements acceptable to the Bank. A summary of financial management assessment
and conclusions are as follows:
Financial Management Assessment     Rating                  Comments
1. Implementing Entity (PMU)      Satisfactory  PMU is successfully implementing the
Bank financed PIBL project
2. Funds Flow                     Satisfactory  Same funds flow as existing project
3. Staffing                       Satisfactory  Experienced project management and
financial team
4. Accounting Policies and        Satisfactory  Good financial manuals and policies.
Procedures                                    Tested under PIBL.
5. Intemal Audit                  Satisfactory  Internal Audit carried out by the Court of
Accounts (for PIBL).
6. External Audit                 Satisfactory  The project will be audited by the same
audit firm, that has audited the PIBL and
issued a clean opinion.
7. Reporting and Monitoring       Satisfactory  PMU prepares reliable PMRs
8. Information Systems            Satisfactory  Using accounting system developed by
Arthur Anderson, which is used by
several projects in Romania.
Overall Financlal Management      Satisfactory
Rating
Detailed financial management assessment questionnaires are included in the project files.
2.     Project Description Summary
The objectives of the proposed Private Sector Institution Building Loan II (PIBLII) are to enhance the
private and public sector's role in the economy through the transfer of state-owned assets, the final
restructuring and privatization of state-owned banks, the creation of an environment conducive to private
sector growth and development, and prudent rationalization and contraction of public administration with a
focus on professionalization and improved service delivery. Success will be indicated by a reduction in the
public sector deficit (associated with loss-making state enterprises), better performing banks, the increase
in volume and profitability of private sector economic activity, and more stable fiscal accounts.
3.     Country Financial Issues
-49 -



The first Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) for Romania will be carried out during
FY03. A summary of the main country generic risks is given below. The banking system in Romania is still
perceived as potentially sensitive to liquidity problems. Despite a certain degree of restructuring and
"cleaning" of the banking sector, the systemic risk is still perceived as significant, as some commercial
banks are regarded as not very safe. The main problems reside in asset quality, bad-loans percentage,
relatively high foreign currency exposure, etc. It is perceived that by opening the Special and Sub-Special
Accounts at a big Romanian commercial bank, acceptable to the World Bank, the banking risk is kept at an
acceptable moderate level.
During the recent past some concems have been raised concerning fraud, waste and abuse of donor funds in
the region. Perceived corruption as reported in the press is principally in the area of procurement. These
risk are expected to be mitigated by "ring-fencing" of the project through the establishment of the project
management unit and project implementation units and teams within the beneficiaries' entities, segregation
of duties within the units, requiring beneficiaries' representatives to certify the works done, goods delivered
and services rendered before payments are made to the suppliers. Including proper supervision from the
World Bank's teams and an independent yearly audit of project funds by a reputable audit firm, acceptable
to the Bank..
At the project level, based on the experience gained from PIBL 1, no major issues are foreseen. The
existing PMU is well versed in Bank procedures and a FM system acceptable to the Bank is in place. This
system is been modified to accommodate the project accounts for PPIBL. The auditors (Arthur Andersen)
for PIBL I has issued a clean opinion on the project accounts for 1999 and 2000.
4.     Financial Management System Assessment
4.1    Project Management and Coordination
The Ministry of Public Finance's (MOPF) Intemational Financial Department is the main counterpart for
the project. The overall coordination of the project, including the administrative functions (financial
management, procurement, monitoring) will be executed by the Project Management Unit (PMU), which
has been established in the Ministry of Public Finance for the implementation of the PIBL 1. This PMU is
and will continue to be headed by the current Minister of Public Finance. The Minister will have overall
responsibility for the project and continue to report to the Prime Minister. He will be assisted by a Project
Administrator who will oversee the day-to-day operations of the project. A Project Steering Committee
(PSC) has been established with participants from all project entities. The PSC, under the guidance of the
PMU director, will ensure that all project objectives and targets as specified in the PIP are on track and
achieved. Technical expertise on a short-term basis will be provided to the Project Administrator as and
when required. PPIBL has built in long-term expertise to assist the PMU with needed tasks regarding the
main components of the project. This has been done in recognition of the expressed needs of the PMU.
Specifically, long-term experts are expected to assist the PMU in all key areas of reform-enterprise,
utilities and bank privatizations; improving the business environment; and social protection..
- 50 -



4.2    Staffing of the Accounting/Finance Function
The PMU has a Director, three procurement officers, a financial manager and a disbursement officer.. The
Finance Manager is familiar with financial and accounting systems as well as with Bank requirements. She
would be responsible for all aspects of the financial management and accounting, including maintaining
books of accounts, reporting day-to-day transactions. The Disbursement officer will be in charge of the
special account and preparation of SOEs and replenishment of the SA. All PMU specialist are experienced
in World Bank procedures.
4.3    Accounting and Internal Controls
A project financial management system exists at the PMU, which was established to keep accounts for
PIBL 1.. This system has been modified to also accommodate the accounts for PPIBL. An accounting
procedures manual was developed for PIBL 1 and this document has been modified to incorporate activities
related to PPIBL. The manuals describing the internal controls, including adequate authorization and
segregation of duties, control checklist, regular reconciliation, etc. There is proper segregation of duties
between the finance manager, disbursement officer and the Director. The PMU has extensive experience
gained from implementing the PIBL . It has established key internal control mechanisms on the application
and use of funds. All necessary steps has been taken to ensure that the project complies with the relevant
Bank policies (OP/BP 10.02). The PMU staff are well versed in Bank requirements and procedures.
4.4    Computerized Accounting Systems
The PMU is responsible for overall project financial management and accounting for the project. During
the implementation of the PIBL, the PMU implemented computerized accounting system that complies with
international accounting standards and meets the FMR-based requirements. The additional license, bought
by the PMU during the financial management assessment for PPIBL, complies with the local accounting
reporting requirements, especially the chart of accounts and also meet the needs of the Bank. The
accounting system meets the minimum reporting requirement of the Bank and is capable of producing
FMRs.
4.5    Audited Financial Statements and Management Letters
The PMU will recruit independent auditors under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. Audited
Project Financial Statements will be submitted to the Bank with the audit report six months after end of
each year audited. Cost of the audit will be financed through IBRD Loan. During Negotiations, it was
agreed that the PMU will retain the services of the same audit firm (Arthur Andersen) or a firm acceptable
to the Bank, to audit the PPIBL accounts.
4.6    Financial Manual
Internal controls were reviewed and found acceptable under PIBL I. Operational procedures and guidelines
for project financial management are documented in a Financial Management and Operational Manual,
encompassing all levels of project management and administration. The Manual includes financial
management and staffing, identification of accounting and auditing standards and procedures used for the
project, project reporting and monitoring, procedures for cash and asset management and format of project
management reports. All payments from the PMU is subject to review by the internal controller of the
MOPF.
- 51 -



4.7    Conclusion
It is concluded that the PMU has a financial management system which will meet the Bank's minimum
financial management requirements because:
*      The PMU has implemented acceptable computerized accounting system;
*      The PMU has a financial manual describing the accounting policies and procedures, internal
controls, delegation of responsibilities;
*      The PMU has an accountant and a disbursement officer acceptable to the Bank; and
*      The PMU has proved experience in implementing a Bank financed project
5.     Financial Flows
The Ministry of Public Finance will be the borrower, on behalf of the Government. A special account will
be opened in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank. All contracts will be concluded by the PMU, who
will operate the SA and make all payments with respect to all the components. Counterpart funds would be
paid from the budget allocation from the MOPF.
6.     Financial Management Reports
The PMU will maintain accounts of the Project and will ensure appropriate accounting of the funds
provided. It has been agreed that the PMU will be responsible for designing appropriate financial
monitoring reports (FMRs) and preparing FMRs on a quarterly basis. The FMRs include:
*      Project Sources and Uses of Funds;
*      Uses of Funds by Project Activity;
*      Special Account Statement Plus Local Bank Account Statement;
*      Project Progress Report; and
*      Procurement monitoring Report
7.     Financial Risk Analysis
From a financial management perspective, the proposed PPIBL is considered a moderate-risk project. A
summary of the consolidated risk assessment for the project is as follows:
- 52 -



Risk Assessment
H      S    M     N               Comments
[list specific country, entity, and project
inherent risks]
Romania                                        X                Overall corruption is high and
governance is inadequate.
Project Management Unit                              X          The PMU has been established for
the operation of the PIBL I and will
___ _ __   be implementing the PPIBL.
Project                                              X          The TA project complements the
adjustment operation agreed with the
Bank. In order to meet the
conditionalities of the adjustment
operation, the TA is required.
Overall Inherent Risk            X          The project is implemented by the
PMU and not a government agency,
as a result the project is ring-fenced.
=___________ _  The overall risks are moderate.
1. Implementing Entity                               X          PMU has been established and well
versed in Bank procedures
2. Funds Flow                                        X          Based on the experience gained
under PIBL 1, no problems are seen.
3. Staffing                                          X          Qualified and experienced staff are
already on board and are well
compensated for their efforts.
4. Accounting Policies and Procedures                X          Based on experience gained under
PIBL I no problems are foreseen.
5. Internal Audit                                    X          Internal audit is carried out by the
Court of Accounts. The audit of the
__________________ _  PIBL was found satisfactory.
6. External Audit                                    X          Based on experience of PIBL, no
problems are foreseen
7. Reporting and Monitoring                          X          Based on experience of PIBL , no
.problems are foreseen
8. Information Systems                               X     =    No problems
Overall Control Risk        _    X
H - High      S - Substantial     M - Moderate         N - Negligible or Low
FM Report for PAD for PSCP - New Format
12/31/01
- 53 -



8.     Disbursements
Disbursements would be made against Statements of Expenditure for (i) goods under contracts costing
$100,000 equivalent each, except in respect to the first two contracts to be awarded pursuant to part C2 of
Section I of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement; (ii) incremental operating costs; and (iii) services under
contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each for employment of consulting firms, and under
contracts costing less than $50,000 each for the employment of individual consultants, under such terms
and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Detailed documents outlining these
expenditures would be reviewed and retained by the PMU and made available for the required audit as well
as to the Bank supervision missions. Disbursements against goods and services exceeding the above limits
would be made against normal documentation. Disbursement and procurement documents using SOE
procedures would be retained by the PMU for a period of at least two years after disbursement, and made
available to Bank staff and extemal auditors.
9.     Special account:
The PMU will open and maintain a Special Account with an acceptable commercial bank in Romania on
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. The PMU will manage the SA; the authorized allocation of it
would be US$350,000. At the start of the project, the initial deposit will be limited to US$200,000.
Withdrawal applications for replenishments of the SA should be sent to the Bank on a monthly basis, or
when the balance of the SA is equal to about half of the initial deposit or the authorized allocation,
whichever comes first. The SA would be audited annually by independent auditors, and the audit report
would be submitted to the Bank for review and approval within six months of the end of the fiscal year.
10.    Agreed Action Plan for the PMI
It is concluded that the PMU currently satisfies the Bank's minimum financial management requirements.
There is however, the following actions that the PMU have agreed to take to improve its financial
management process.
Action                                                          Deadline
1.    Appoint an auditor to audit the project accounts.         09/30/2002
2.    Prepare FMRs                                               09/30/2002
11.    Financial Covenants
The following are the covenants relating to financial matters:
*      The Government will complete the agreed financial action plan for strengthening the project
financial management systems by September 30, 2002.
*      The Govemment will cause the PMU to have its records, accounts and financial statements audited
each year, commencing with the accounts for the year ending December 31, 2002.
12. Supervision Plan
- 54 -



The reports of the progress of the project implementation will be monitored in detail during supervision
missions. FMRs will be reviewed on a regular basis and the results or issues followed up during the
supervision missions. Financial audit reports of the project and PMU will be reviewed and issues identified
and followed up. The FMS would monitor the agreed action plan to ensure appropriate actions have been
implemented by PMU.
- 55 -






MAP SECTION






IRED 2871 OR
22-                 ~~~~~~~~24'                  26I   /28
UKRAINE          TorROMAN IA
ELEVATIONS ABOVE 500 METERS
J  >  ''i . r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                 a ~~~~~~~~SELECTED CITIES
H U NG ARY             k.     v-            14sIOFE                                's-tI      %                 COUNTY(JUDEF)CENTERS
AlAt A  AILItt E 5                        4'                           NATIONAL CAPITAL
F E                                                             T~~~~~-  ----- EXPRESSWAY
e"8a4  -.  ~ ~  ~  ~   -------- ~~MAJOR ROADS
I..  ,~~~~~~e  ---~~~~~**~~~~~-,-  C-'  ... ~~~~~~~~~T. Kislti-e  J  OTHER POETS
Budapest   .-' EI'IUIIA ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.- -3        'IA 5/               rt'-.. RIVERS~~~~~~~~~~~~RIER
1-~~~  -        ---- ~~~~~COUNTY IJUDET) BOUNDARIES
/  ~~~~-* ~~S-l    .".*                 sC   o1-'''INTERNATIONAL BOUN'DARIES
L-- -         I~~                      ~    ~   ~~~~~ L  NE JT
)  tIHc'R                      /   I              I                      N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HaR!G)TA  V  I 
(9  ---'  -(  J        A  HSRUHITA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,  L~~~~ u  \ VA'~~~~~~jIUI    KILOMETERS~~KIOMEER
T. S'.q.d       0L'-r           '.>-..4                                                            ~4             18  20  320  40  50  60
--  __  -Ruin's               '\yI,    'N                                             MILES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MIE
P  ---  '-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4-
r                                                                        I            L A~~~ AI'
~~  'AbA                            I:    £ ~~~~~            11                 bbj ALATICt:
,EVEPIN',  LI"tLt N; kA 
,RILs  b-A          s''3~~~~~-tV'sp A                       T u 'IE
E~~~~~~h'                                               sipI 
¶sCnI  Je           ~~~~~~~~~~I L\                25JA 4, -
F ED.R EP. 0r F                                                                                ,aE
YUGOSLAVIA                           /C ALE                                                       ~L/-        'r$       IIt
This map suspcad-od by the                                                              Dm                     Bock5oo              AC 
Mop Design Gl of The World Rank  CAeodt                                                 00b ',...
-nd -nyath. or nfrmtion sl-o - onEL                                OOur-u
this mop do -atimply, on the pert oFntk                        TusMgr'
Th. Wand Ennk Grop, eay u dg-et                          +
such kaes,s   -yTa,y,,T                                                                                          .
_y  --pr.- f~~~~~~~                                                      2



