Page  1
February 9, 2001
His Excellency
Mihai Tanasescu
Minister of Public Finance
Ministry of Public Finance
17, Apolodor Street
Bucharest
Romania
Re:
Japanese Grant for Second Private Sector Institution 
Building Loan (PIBL II) – Grant TF026527
Dear Mr. Minister:
I am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank) to indicate the Bank’s agreement, as administrator of grant 
funds provided by Japan, to make a grant in an amount not exceeding three hundred 
thousand United States dollars (US$300,000) (the Grant) to Romania (the Recipient). 
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex 
to this Letter Agreement.  The Recipient hereby confirms its request that the Bank 
carry out the activities described in paragraph 1 of the Annex to this Letter 
Agreement, and represents that it is authorized to contract the Grant for the said 
purposes and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon 
receipt by the Bank of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this 
Letter Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Andrew N. Vorkink
Country Director
South Central Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
AGREED:
ROMANIA
By /s/ Mihai Nicolae Tanesescu
Minister of Public Finance
Date:
February 23, 2001
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of the Grant
1.
The purposes of the Grant is to assist in the preparation of the Second Private 
Sector Institution Building Loan (PIBL II) (the Project), which has as main objectives 
to assist the Government of Romania with needed expertise to make implementation of 
its Private Sector Adjustment Loan II (PSAL II) program successful. 
The activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given are as follows:
a.
Banking Reform (estimated to cost US$121,200 equivalent)
Preparation of Privatization Plans, Audits and Due Diligence Reports and 
Page  2
Liquidation Strategies: Sponsoring of consultants and investment banks for the 
development of and implementation of privatization (or liquidation) plans for Banca 
Agricola (BA) and Banca Comerciala Romana (BCR).  Conduct of operational, management 
and financial audit of Savings Bank (CEC) including legal due diligence for changes in 
relevant laws to move CEC towards privatization.  Development of Rationalization and 
Restructuring Plan (RRP) for the EXIM Bank to limit its activities to its original 
mandate of import and export promotion.
b.
Legal and Regulatory Framework (estimated to cost US$73,600 equivalent)
(i)
Review of Laws on Credit Cooperatives: Review of the Law on Credit 
Cooperatives to bring credit 
cooperatives and other 
financial institutions operating outside the supervision of the National Bank of 
Romania (NBR), specifically the Banca Populara, under the 
supervision of the NBR, requiring full compliance 
with all banking 
prudential standards and attendant sanctions. 
(ii)
Review of Bankruptcy Legislation: Review of the current bankruptcy 
and collateral legislation and creditors 
rights which directly 
affect the efficiency and effectiveness of banking operations.
(iii)
Strategy Report for Treasury Department of the Ministry of Finance 
(MOF): Review of the state-issued 
savings certificate 
program (SSCP) being administered by the Treasury Department of the MOF with a view to 
its rationalization with the wholesale auction and placement 
system of government securities.   
(iv)
Review of Tax Legislation: Review of tax legislation affecting 
banking operations for developing 
recommendations for 
changes in tax legislation in line with the adoption of International Accounting 
Standards (IAS) deposit guaranty.
c.
Capital and Equity Market Development (estimated to cost US$50,000 equivalent)
(i)
Preparation of Blueprint for the Securities Regulatory Body:   
Development of a strategic plan and 
blueprint to 
strengthen the capital and equity markets in Romania and the development of a program 
to 
strengthen the institutional capacity of the National 
Securities Commission (CNVM) including 
recommendations for the establishment of a simplified and comprehensive national 
securities law with 
enabling legislation and 
regulations, consistent with other related laws.
(ii)
Plan for Modernization of Front Office and Back Office Operations 
and Study for the Development of 
Secondary Market for 
Government Securities: Development and implementation of plans for the modernization 
of auction system for government securities, for the registration, 
clearing and settlement of such 
securities and for the 
distribution of such securities through existing capital market institutions.
d.
Bank Infrastructure Support System (estimated to cost US$55,200 equivalent)
(i)
Automation of Large Value Payment Process and Clearing System: 
Development of an automation plan with time 
line implementation 
benchmarks to automate the Large Value Payment Process (LVPP) and the Electronic 
Payment and Clearing System (EPCS), including the attendant 
communications infrastructure.
(ii)
Development of Strategic Plan for the Strengthening of Deposit 
Guaranty System:  Review of legislation on 
the deposit guarantee fund 
with a view to addressing and strengthening the fund, with the objective of 
implementing the appropriate changes in the operations of the deposit 
guarantee fund.
(iii)
Study for Establishing a Credit Information Bureau and Risk 
Classification System:   Development and 
implementation of: 
Page  3
(i) a plan for a credit information bureau (CIB) for the banking system as a 
centralized 
source of information, data, and credit rating for 
individuals and corporate borrowers; and (ii) a plan for 
a Risk 
Classification System (RCS) for borrowers.
2.
The Grant shall be used to finance consultants’ services required for the 
Activities.
3.
The Bank shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient.  The 
Recipient shall cooperate with the Bank to the extent necessary to permit the Bank to 
carry out the Activities promptly and effectively, and to evaluate the results of the 
Activities. The Recipient shall indemnify the Bank against any costs or liabilities 
incurred by the Bank as a result of claims against the Bank in connection with the 
Activities, except those resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of 
its staff or external consultants.
4.
The Activities shall be completed by not later than April 30, 2001, or such 
later date as the Bank may establish by notice to the Recipient (the Closing Date). 
Except in special circumstances, no proceeds of the Grant shall be used to fund 
Activities after Bank approval of financing for the Project, and the Closing Date 
shall not be extended beyond the expected date of such approval.  After the Closing 
Date, the Bank may at any time cancel the remaining balance of the Grant.
5.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) required to 
assist in the carrying out of the Activities shall be the responsibility solely of the 
Bank and shall be governed, except as otherwise decided by the Bank after consultation 
with the Recipient, by the provisions of the Attachment to this Annex.
6.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, or in 
the territory of Romania on the Consultants or any of the Consultants’ personnel 
(other than nationals or permanent residents thereof) in connection with the 
Activities.
7.
The Recipient may at any time request the Bank in writing to terminate the 
Activities. Whether or not the Recipient has made such a request, the Bank may at any 
time suspend or, after consultation with the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to receive Grant funds for the Activities if any of the following events has 
occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to perform any of its 
obligations under this Letter Agreement; or (b) the right of the Recipient or any 
other entity to which the Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of Romania to make 
withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank or any development credit agreement 
with the International Development Association shall have been suspended. The Bank may 
also terminate the right of the Recipient to receive Grant funds if: (a) the Bank has 
decided, at any time after consultation with the Recipient, to withdraw its support to 
the Project; or (b) the Recipient has withdrawn its request for the Bank’s assistance 
in the financing of the Project. 
8.
The Bank is not an agent of, or trustee for, the Recipient and shall not have 
any fiduciary relationship with the Recipient. The Recipient shall have no right to 
any portion of the Grant that is not expended by the Bank pursuant to this Letter 
Agreement.
Attachment
Consultants’ Services
1.    Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of Statement 15.00 of the Bank’s Administrative Manual, dated July 1997 
(the Administrative Manual), the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: 
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank 
in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Attachment.
2.  
Services for Activities described in subparagraphs 1.(d)(i), 1.(d)(ii) and 
1.(d)(iii) in the Annex to this Letter Agreement shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions, which are consistent with the provisions of 
the Administrative Manual, of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines 
Page  4
(Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications).
3.  
Services for Activities described in subparagraphs 1.(a), 1.(b)(i), 1.(b)(ii), 
1.(b)(iii), 1(b)(iv), 1.(c)(i) and 1.(c)(ii) of the Annex to this Letter Agreement 
shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of the Administrative Manual, of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
