Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4676 RO 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Private and Public Sector Institution Building Project) 
 
between 
 
ROMANIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated September 13, 2002 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 4676 RO 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated September 13, 2002, between ROMANIA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(the Bank). 
 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. 
The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. 
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“APAPS” means the Borrower’s Authority for Privatization and 
Management of State Ownership; 
 
(b) 
“Financial Management Report” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;  
 
(c) 
 “PMU” means the Project Management Unit established within the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Public Finance;  
 
(d) 
“Project Coordinator” means the head of the PSC whose duties and 
responsibilities shall be performed by the Minister of Public Finance or his successor; 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
(e) 
“PSC” means the Project Steering Committee referred to in Section 3.05 
of this Agreement, and its composition may change from time to time upon agreement 
with the Bank; and 
 
(f) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to eighteen 
million six hundred thousand Dollars ($18,600,000). 
 
Section 2.02. 
(a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a bank and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.  Deposits 
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. 
The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2005, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to 
one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. Such fee shall be payable not later than 
thirty (30) days after the Effective Date. 
 
Section 2.05. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
 
Section 2.06. 
(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date. 
 
(ii) 
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 
2.07 of this Agreement. 
 
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial 
Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on 
or next preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
 
(iv) 
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR 
Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said 
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The 
new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower 
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
 
Section 2.07. 
Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on February 15 and August 15 in each year.  
 
Section 2.08. 
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
Page  5
-
4
-
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and 
in conformity with appropriate financial, technical and administrative practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
for the Project. 
 
Section 3.02. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. 
For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.  
 
Section 3.04. 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about May 31, 2003, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said 
report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following 
such date; and 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
(c) 
review with the Bank, by June 30, 2003, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take 
all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
 
Section 3.05. 
During implementation of the Project, the Borrower shall 
maintain, in a manner and under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, a PSC 
headed by the Project Coordinator and composed of a representative each of APAPS, the 
Ministry of Public Finance, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Industry and 
Resources, the Ministry of Development and Prognosis, the Ministry of Public 
Administration and the Ministry of Communications and Information Technology. The 
PSC shall be responsible for overseeing Project implementation. 
 
Section 
3.06.  The PMU shall be responsible for day-to-day Project 
administration, management and coordination, including activities related to 
procurement, accounting, disbursement, auditing and reporting. During implementation 
of the Project, the Borrower shall maintain the PMU with a sufficient number of qualified 
staff and adequate facilities, satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
Section 3.07. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the studies to be conducted under 
Part C.2 of the Project shall include an assessment of the appropriate mechanisms for 
screening environmentally sensitive projects. 
 
ARTICLE IV
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. 
(a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to 
the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project. 
 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, who shall have 
been appointed not later than September 30, 2002; 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on 
such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 
 
Section 4.02
.
(a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Bank 
for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph (a) of 
said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than September 30, 2002, or 
such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly Financial Management 
Reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which: 
 
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
Page  8
-
7
-
said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan during the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report; 
 
(ii) 
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and      
(B) explains variances between the actual and previously 
forecast implementation targets; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, as at the end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each 
calendar quarter, a Financial Management Report for such period. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Termination 
 
Section 5.01. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Public Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Public Finance 
 
17,
Apolodor Street 
Bucharest 
Romania 
 
Telex:   
 
 Facsimile: 
 
11239 
  401-312-4284 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 
477-
6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Bucharest, Romania, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
ROMANIA 
 
By   /s/  Mihai Nicolae Tanasescu 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By     /s/  Andrew N. Vorkink 
Director 
South Central Europe Country Unit 
Europe and Central Asia 
 
Page  11
-
10
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 
1.  
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(1) 
Goods 
4,900,000 
100% of foreign 
 
100%
of
local 
 expenditures 
(ex- 
 factory 
cost) 
and 
 
80% of local 
 expenditures 
for 
 other 
items 
 procured 
locally 
 
(2) Civil 
Works 
450,000 
 
80% 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ services 
11,350,000 
100% 
 
(including audit and  
 training) 
 
 
 
(4) 
Incremental Operating 
200,000 
          100% 
 Costs 
 
(5) Unallocated 
1,700,000
TOTAL 18,600,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods, works or services supplied from 
the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
 
Page  12
-
11
-
(b) t
he
term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower for goods, works or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
 
(c) 
the term “incremental operating costs” means salaries of PMU staff 
members (other than salaries of civil servants who already receive a salary from their 
public employer), and office equipment and other materials and supplies utilized by the 
PMU staff members in carrying out the Project.    
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made under Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 to this Schedule until the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement has been paid; and (b) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of 
this Agreement. 
 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts costing 
less than $100,000 equivalent each, except with respect to the first two contracts to be 
awarded pursuant to Part C.2 of Section I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (b) works and 
goods under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (c) incremental 
operating costs; and (d) services under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent 
each for the employment of consulting firms and under contracts costing less than 
$50,000 each for the employment of individual consultants, under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
Page  13
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in development of an 
adequate institutional framework for: (a) a competitive financial sector through 
restructuring and privatization of state-owned banks, development of securities markets, 
and improvements in legal, regulatory and institutional frameworks; (b) privatization of 
state-owned enterprises; (c) restructuring and privatization of key industries in the energy 
sector, improvement of regulatory framework, reduction in arrears build-up, and 
strengthening cost recovery measures in the energy sector; (d) a business environment 
conducive to private sector growth; and  (e) an effective, transparent and accountable 
public sector. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A
:
Financial Sector Restructuring and Privatization Support
1. 
Strengthening the capacity of the Savings Bank through provision of advisory 
services for restructuring of the Savings Bank through a twin-management arrangement. 
 
2. 
Support to the development of capital markets through: (a) strengthening the 
regulatory powers, authority, financial independence, staff and institutional capacity of 
the National Securities Commission; and (b) institutional strengthening of the Bucharest 
Stock Exchange. 
 
3. 
Strengthening the institutional capacity of the Insurance Supervision Commission 
to supervise and provide regulatory oversight of the insurance sector. 
 
Part B:
Privatization Support for State-Owned Enterprises
Provision of consultants’ services to assist in the divestiture and privatization of 
the selected state-owned enterprises. 
 
Part C:
Privatization Support for the Energy Sector
1. 
Provision of goods and consultants’ services to strengthen the regulatory capacity 
of the National Agency for Gas Distribution (ANRG). 
 
2. 
Provision of assistance for the preparation of a privatization strategy for the 
electricity generation sector. 
 
3. 
Provision of assistance to review the taxation system for oil and gas production. 
 
Page  14
-
13
-
Part D:
Support for an Improved Business Environment
1. 
Strengthening e-business, including e-commerce and e-government in the 
Ministry of Communication and Information Technology. 
 
2. 
Provision of training of  judges and court personnel in the area of bankruptcy. 
 
3. 
Carrying out of refurbishing works and provision of equipment to selected courts. 
 
4. 
Development and implementation of a public awareness campaign for the 
improvement of business environment. 
 
5. 
Provision of advisory services and goods to improve the business environment in 
Jiu Valley at the municipality level. 
 
Part E
:
Institutional and Governance Reform
1. 
Provision of technical assistance and goods to improve public expenditure 
management, 
inter alia
,
in the areas of: (a) cash management within the Treasury system; 
(b) budget formulation; (c) foreign financing coordination; (d) government accounting; 
(e) internal audit; and (f) decentralization. 
 
2. 
Provision of advisory services, training and information technology to the Court 
of Accounts. 
 
3. 
Provision of technical assistance and equipment to the Ministry of 
Communication and Information Technology for the development of the SMART-card 
system. 
 
4. 
Carrying out a feasibility study for development of an integrated information 
system for document management for the Borrower’s public administration system. 
 
5. 
Provision of technical assistance to institutions involved in the process of legal 
drafting and to judicial institutions to strengthen their procedures and processes for fair 
and speedy adjudication of disputes. 
 
6. 
Development of a strategy and action plan for public health insurance 
administration. 
 
Part F
:
Project Management Unit
Provision of incremental operating costs to the PMU to continue its management 
capacity in carrying out the Project. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2004. 
Page  15
-
14
-
Page  16
-
15
-
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Payment of Principal 
 
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in Dollars)
August 15, 2007 
 
775,000 
 
February 15, 2008 
 
775,000 
 
August 15, 2008 
 
775,000 
 
February 15, 2009 
 
775,000 
 
August 15, 2009 
 
775,000 
 
February 15, 2010 
 
775,000 
 
August 15, 2010 
 
775,000 
 
February 15, 2011 
 
775,000 
 
August 15, 2011 
 
775,000 
 
February 15, 2012 
 
775,000 
 
August 15, 2012 
 
775,000 
 
February 15, 2013 
 
775,000 
 
August 15, 2013 
 
775,000 
 
February 15, 2014 
 
775,000 
 
August 15, 2014 
 
775,000 
 
February 15, 2015 
 
775,000 
 
August 15, 2015 
 
775,000 
 
February 15, 2016 
 
775,000 
 
August 15, 2016 
 
775,000 
 
February 15, 2017 
 
775,000 
 
August 15, 2017 
 
775,000 
 
February 15, 2018 
 
775,000 
 
August 15, 2018 
 
775,000 
 
February 15, 2019 
 
775,000 
 
Page  17
-
16
-
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods
Part A
:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank 
in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 
1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.   
 
2. International 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $260,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
3. National 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $130,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Additional Provisions Regarding the National Competitive Bidding Procedures
When procuring works in accordance to the procedure referred to in Section I, 
C.1. of this Schedule, the following procedures shall be followed: (a) invitations to bid 
shall be advertised in at least one national newspaper with a wide circulation, at least 30 
days prior to the deadline for the submission of bids; (b) bid documents shall be made 
Page  18
-
17
-
available, by mail or in person, to all who are willing to pay the required fee; (c) foreign 
bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and no preference of any kind shall be given 
to national bidders in the bidding process; (d) bidding shall not be restricted to pre-
registered firms; (e) qualification criteria shall be stated in the bidding documents;        (f) 
bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for submission of bids; (g) 
bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with an official estimate 
without the prior concurrence of the Bank; (h) before rejecting all bids and soliciting new 
bids, the Bank’s prior concurrence shall be obtained; (i) contracts shall be awarded to the 
lowest evaluated bidders; and (j) post-bidding negotiations shall not be allowed with the 
lowest evaluated or any other bidders. 
 
Part E
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of 
said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to: (i) each contract to be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of Part B of this Section; and (ii) the first two contracts to be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of Part C.1 of this Section, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to: (i) the first two contracts to be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of Part C.2 of this Section; and (ii) the first two contracts to be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of Part C.3 of this Section, the following 
procedures shall apply: 
 
(i) 
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, 
the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a report on the 
comparison and evaluation of quotations received; 
 
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract; and 
 
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
3. Post 
Review
Page  19
-
18
-
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section II of this Schedule. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultant’s services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-
based selection of consultants.  For purposes of procuring services for privatization 
activities, the modified evaluation formula approved by the Bank shall apply. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Based on Consultant’s Qualification
Services for technical assistance for contracts less than $100,000 up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed of $880,000 may be procured in accordance with the 
provision of paragraph 3.1 and 3.7 of Section 3 of the Consultants Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Selection Based on Fixed Budget
Services for public awareness campaign for contracts less than $400,000 up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $680,000, shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.5 of Section 3 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
3. Individual 
Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
 
4. 
Single Source Selection
Page  20
-
19
-
Services for audit of the project account as a continuation of previous work 
carried out by the firm, may, with Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for 
its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 
to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with 
the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms, 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall 
apply. 
 
(c) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded 
only after the said approval shall have been given. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
 
Page  21
-
20
-
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works, services and incremental operating costs required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to 
the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$350,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent 
to $200,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of 
$4,000,000. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
Page  22
-
21
-
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the respective Special Account, minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.  
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
Page  23
-
22
-
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
Page  24
-
23
-
M:\BACKUP\ROMANIA\W-1922NegotiatedLA.doc 
4/25/2002 10:51 AM
 
