Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 17178-BR
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
FOR A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$155.0 MILLION
TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY REFORM SUPPORT PROJECT
November 26, 1997
Department of Human Development
Brazil Country Management Unit (LCC5C)
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate as of April 1997)
Currency Unit = Real (R$)
US$1.00 = $1.00 Real
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
WEIGHT AND MEASURES
The metric system has been used throughout this report
SELECTED ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ABC               Academia Brasileira de Ciencias (Brazilian Academy of Sciences)
ABIPTI            Associa,do Brasileira de Institutos de Pesquisa Tecnol6gica (Brazilian Association
of Technological Research Institutes)
ANPEI             Associa,jo Nacional de Pesquisa Econ6mica e Industrial (National Association for
Economic and Industrial Research)
ASPE              Assessoria de Programas Especiais (Special Program Office)
BNDES             Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Econ6mico e Social (National Bank for
Economic and Social Development)
CAPES             Coordenacdo de Aperfei,oamento de Pessoal de Nivel Superior (Coordinating
Agency for Graduate Education)
CAS               Country Assistance Strategy
CA                Comite Assessor (Advisory Council, PADCT)
CS                Comite Supervisor (Supervisory Committee, PADCT)
CCT               Conselho Nacional de Ciencia e Tecnologia (National Council for Science and
Technology)
CNI               Conselho Nacional da Induistria (National Council of Industry)
CNPq              Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Cientifico e Tecnol6gico (Brazilian National
Council for S&T Development)
CSCG              Colegiado da Secretaria de Coordenagdo e Gerenciamento (Collegiate of the SCG)
EMBRAPA           Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecudria (Brazilian Corporation for
Agricultural Research)
FAP               Funda,do de Amparo a Pesquisa (State Foundation for the Advancement of
Research)
FINEP             Financiadora de Estudos e Projetos (Brazilian National Foundation for Technology
Development)
GCCT              Grupo Consultivo de Ciencia e Tecnologia (International Consultative S&T Group)
GERD              Gross Expenditure on R&D
GDP               Gross Domestic Product
GOB               Government of Brazil
GPA               Grupo de Planejamento e Avalia,co (Planning and Evaluation Group)
Vice President                Sahid Javed Burki
Director                      Gobind T. Nankani
Country Sector Leader         Patricio Millan
Task Manager                  Alcyone Saliba



GTC               Grupo Tecnico de Coordena,do (Technical Coordinating Group for Monitoring and
Evaluation)
IBGE              Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estatistica (Brazilian Bureau of Census
INMETRO           Instituto Nacional de Metrologia (National Institute of Metrology)
INPI              Instituto Nacional de Propriedade Industrial (National Institute of Industrial
Property)
INT               Instituto Nacional de Tecnologia (National Institute of Technology)
IPT               Instituto da Pesquisas Tecnol6gicas (Technological Institute for Research)
IRR               Internal Rate of Return
LCSHD             Department of Human Development, LAC
LENA              Project Appraisal Phase of the Lending Cycle
LENN              Project Negotiations Phase of the Lending Cycle
LENP              project preparation phase of the lending cycle
M&E               Monitoring and evaluation
MCT               Ministerio da Ciencia e Tecnologia (Ministry of Science and Technology)
MO                Manual Operativo (operational manual)
MSTQ              Metrology, Standards, Testing, and Quality
NGO               Nongovernmental organization
NIC               Newly industrialized country
NPV               Net present value
OECD/DSTI         Organisation for Economic Cooperation and DevelopmentlDivision of Science,
Technology and Industry
PACTI             Programa de Apoio a Ciencia e Tecnologia Industrial (Program for the Advancement
of Industrial Technology)
PADCT             Programa de Apofo ao Desenvolvimento CientifWco e Tecnologico (Program to
Support Scientific and Technological Development)
PATME             Programa de Apoio Tecnico as Micro-Empresas (Technical Support Program for
Small Businesses)
PIP               Plano de Implementa,co do Projeto (Project Implementation Plan)
PIs               principal (scientific research) investigators
R&D               Research and development
R&D&E             Research and development and nonroutine engineering
S&T               Science and technology
SBPC              Sociedade Brasileira de Progresso para a Ciencia (Brazilian Society for Scientific
Development)
SCG               Secretaria de Coordena,co e Gerenciamento (Management and Coordination
Secretariat) of PADCT
SEBRAE            Servi,o Brasileiro de Apoio as Micro e Pequenas Empresas (Brazilian Support
Service for Small Businesses)
SECAV             Secretaria de Acompanhamento e Avalia,co (Secretariat for Monitoring and
Evaluation, MCT)
SETEC             Secretaria de Desenvolvimento Tecnol6gico (Secretariat for Technological
Development, MCT)
SME               Small- and medium-scale enterprises
SOE               Statement of expenditures
TIB               Subprograma de Tecnologia Industrial Bdsica (Basic Industrial Technology
Subprogram)
US NSF            United States National Science Foundation
WB                The World Bank
WDR               World Development Report, The World Bank



I



BRAZIL
Science and Technology Reform Support Project
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS ................................................i
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT SUMMARY ................................................                                                                                                 iii
Block A: Project Description .................................................1
1. Project development objectives ................................................1
2. Project components ................................................1
3. Project strategic management ................................................2
4. Benefits and target population ................................................2
5. Institutional and implementation arrangements .................................................3
Block B: Project Rationale .................................................3
6. CAS objective(s) supported by the project .................................................3
7. Main sector issues and government strategy .................................................4
8. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ................................................6
9. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ................................................7
10. Major related projects financed by the World Bank or the IADB .................................................                                                                  8
I1. Lessons learned and reflected in the proposed project design ................................................9
12. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ................................................                                                                               10
13. Value added of World Bank support ...............................................                                                                                              10
Block C: Summary of Project Assessments ...............................................                                                                                            11
14. Economic assessment ................................................11
15. Financial assessment ...............................................                                                                                                           I 1
16. Technical assessment ...............................................                                                                                                            11
17. Institutional assessment ................................................                                                                                                       12
18. Social Assessment ...............................................                                                                                                               12
19. Environmental assessment ...............................................                                                                                                        12
20. Participatory approach ...............................................                                                                                                          13
21. Sustainability ................................................                                                                                                                 13
22. Critical Risks ................................................                                                                                                                 14
23. Possible controversial aspects ...............................................                                                                                                 14
Block D: Main Loan Conditions ................................................                                                                                                     15
24. Effectiveness conditions ................................................                                                                                                       15
25. Other ................................................                                                                                                                          15
Block E: Compliance with Bank Policies: ...............................................                                                                                            15



ANNEX 1: SUMMARY OF SECTOR POLICIES ......................................................................   16
ANNEX 2: PROJECT DESIGN SUMMARY ......................................................................  20
ANNEX 3: PROJECT COMPONENTS SUMMARY .......................................................................  25
ANNEX 4: ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS ......................................................................  31
ANNEX 5: ECONOMIC ANALYSIS ......................................................................  33
ANNEX 6: FINANCIAL SUMMARY ......................................................................  47
ANNEX 7: SUMMARY OF PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS ..........48
ANNEX 8: PROJECT PROCESSING, BUDGET, AND SCHEDULE .................................................. 54
ANNEX 9: SELECTED DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE ........................................................ 55
ANNEX 10: STATUS OF WORLD BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL ............................... 58
ANNEX 11: BRAZIL AT A GLANCE .......................................................................  62
TABLE 4-1 ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS (IN US$ MILLIONS)                             31
TABLE 4-2: PROJECT FINANCING BY COMPONENT (IN US$ MILLIONS)                     32
TABLE 5-1: SELECTED CRITICAL MACROECONOMIC INDICATORS                           33
TABLE 5-2: ANPEI SURVEY DATA FROM 1996                                          37
TABLE 5-3: ECONOMIC ANALYSIS CALCULATIONS                                       42
TABLE 5-4: PROJECT NET PRESENT VALUE                                            43
TABLE 5-5: INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN (PERCENT)                                    43
TABLE 6-1: PROJECT EXPENDITURES AND THE ECONOMY                                 47
TABLE 7-1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COST BY PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS                  49
TABLE 7-2: DETAILED PROJECT COST ESTIMATES BY PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS  49
TABLE 7-3: CONSULTANT SELECTION ARRANGEMENTS                                    50
TABLE 7-4: THRESHOLD FOR PROCUREMENT METHODS AND PRIOR REVIEW                   50
TABLE 7-5: ALLOCATION OF LOAN PROCEEDS BY EXPENDITURE CATEGORY                  52
FIGURE 5-1: PROBABLE IMPACTS OF THE S&T REFORM PROJECT                          36
FIGURE 5-2: DISTRIBUTION OF EXPECTED RATES OF RETURN FOR R&D&E                  40
FIGURE 5-3: INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN                                             44



International Bank For Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
LAC: Country Department I
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT SUMMARY
BRAZIL
Science and Technology Reform Support Project
Date6:- Nove-mber.: -6-, 997. 1
... e o.r . . .. .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....                         -.. ... ... -    .. -  
-Tsk TemLedr:  kyne V;-.     Slba:                                                 : Cona  ---ag: OoidT  Naakai;
''jed - ID: BR-PE-3 8947            .*                                           j ,:cto.: ...                .......               ... .o.............i-
L din  Is         en ,   v-tment Man                                                                ....................n   L   , ' ' :  X  - '
..... . , -.,, . - ~~~~~~~~~~~...........                                                                     ...   -  ,..... . - .. -.,,..........  .. .   ,... .     --.. .i.   .-.-
Project F.nancing ... .                               Lo.n    : ,.d:                        G:      te. ...  ......  ..  :  e...  (.... .-- p
un@SE)-$5 i+ViD : .::.                                                    a                          0                       Ai< 
-Grace period (year):           -          y -          -    5:2rs - -           . :     .                          -X    S
.y,. '-%,'"' ' *.-'-.--.' ............. '---.' - ' .':.:is . Y 'i -."' . '':'-.1:,::'' '~~~~~~~~~~~~ ... ....... .. 
.C   mt met  fee                         .--     ; ..                                  i.- .   i;
''"'...:....,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~... ...-.,           .... .''",. .''  .'.'.':":  ..'''' '",'..'.".
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.,...                            .   ..  .  ...
XYemmen of ~~~~~~~~~~~~~. B.r,                         a,1 .   .:. . .,...,-.-;.   ................   .. .. . .
:'Cotinanciers. (priv,..ate f', s.) -..-''"':  ,-''"'"" 
IBm ' " ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.'                       . '... ... ...   .. ... ....    -...   ...    :....   ....: 
. -a     ive 115 4. f.-                                           15 i       . :
ill
hand4g P                                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. . ...
111~ ~~~7:,....



I



Block A: Project Description
1. Project development objectives
The objective of the project is to improve the overall performance of Brazil's science and technology
sector by undertaking activities that promote scientific research and technological innovation in an
efficient manner. It will support reform efforts and finance investments designed to: (a) stimulate private
sector financing and execution of research and development; (b) increase and improve the stock of S&T
human capital; and (c) supply support services required to increase the efficiency of public and private
investments in S&T activities. To accomplish its objecctive, the project will:
*     Promote cooperative research and development and nonroutine engineering (R&D&E) activities
between firms and the S&T community;
*     Improve the quantity, quality, and relevance of S&T research and advanced training;
*     Reduce the regional disparity in S&T capacity;
*     Rationalize public investments in S&T;
*     Strengthen IPR (intellectual property rights) administration and MSTQ (metrology, standards,
testing, and quality) services to foster a favorable environment for investment in R&D by firms.
Priority will be given to subprojects of social and economic relevance; at least 10 percent of the funds of
the Technology Development and the Science and Technology research components will be allocated to
subprojects that, in addition to meeting the technical merit and social relevance criteria, also can
contribute to strengthening S&T capacity in the less developed regions of the country. These and the
other criteria and principles for subproject selection are described in the project implementation plan
(PIP) or the operational manual (MO), or both.
2. Project components
Component                         Categories        Cal       ital
(USSM)      (M)
1. Technology development to stimulate R&D&E activities   Physical         147       41
in the private sector, focusing, inter alia, on innovations1 by  investment
small- and medium-scale enterprises (SMEs), on ways to  and institution
streamline access to public incentives for R&D (such as tax  building
exemptions programs) and on greater productive use of
scientific and technological resources (both human and
physical) by firms. It will support subprojects competitively
selected and co-financed by firms.
1 Innovation includes research, development, and nonroutine engineering and is abbreviated by the
acronym R&D&E. Nonroutine engineering involves activities connected with new products and processes;
for example, retooling or detailing designs and/or specifications, introducing Total Quality Management or
ISO 9000 programs, reorganizing production plants, and readapting mechanisms.
1



Component                         Categories        Gos        Total
(US$m)      (N)
2. Science and technology research to increase and improve  Institution-    147      41
the stock of high-level human capital, focusing, among other  building and
things, on investments on scientific research and graduate  project
training under improved procedures and policies, including  management
incentives mechanisms aimed at shifting scientists' and
technicians' focus toward areas more relevant to the productive
sector.
3. Sectoral support to improve efficiency and quality   Physical           44.4      12
throughout the S&T system. This will support portfolio  investment
reforms, improved monitoring and evaluation systems,    and institution
protection of intellectual property rights, and provision of  building
metrology, standards, testing, and quality (MSTQ) services.
These activities will provide important quasi-public goods (such
as the strengthening of the intellectual property rights regime)
required for greater private sector investment in technological
innovation.
(Unallocated plus contingencies plus project management)                   21.6      6
Total             $360      100%
3. Project strategic management
See Annex 3 for a summary of the project's administrative structure; the details are in the project
implementation plan (PIP) and in the operational manual (MO).
4. Benefits and target population
The proposed project is expected to have (a) financial benefits, because it will improve the efficiency of
the Government of Brazil's (GOB's) portfolio of investments in the sector; (b) economic benefits,
because it will increase the private sector's investment in R&D; and (c) institutional benefits, because it
will introduce performance criteria for public institutions that provide services to the S&T and R&D
communities. The immediate beneficiaries will be (a) firms that will have greater access to more
relevant research and development capacity, including an improved stock of human capital for S&T; (b)
graduate students in S&T-related fields who will receive advanced training through their work with
principal investigators on original research; and (c) scientists who will work in a system with greater
capacity to interact with private firms and to produce world-class research. Firms and scientists will also
work together more efficiently, since the project will bundle funding instruments which would otherwise
be fragmented (such as funds for equipment, maintenance, consumables, and graduate students). Until
now, fragmented resources and excessive bureaucratic requirements of different funding agencies have
delayed and disrupted research. Long-term development benefits are expected to accrue to the general
society through advances in specialized fields (such as health and agriculture) through increased
economic productivity, and through the public sector's improved performance in managing funds.
2



5. Institutional and implementation arrangements
The organizational framework for the project is presented in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP) and
is detailed in the Operational Manual (MO). Both documents were produced by Brazil's Ministry of
Science and Technology (MCT). The PIP and MO are the basic reference documents for the project.
MCT will have the coordinating role, while separate agencies will implement component activities.
Most S&T activities will be implemented by Brazil's funding agencies for higher education (CAPES),
research (CNPq), and technology (FINEP). Initially, the Technology Development Component will be
implemented primarily through FINEP and SEBRAE. Other activities will be located in: (a) science
policy-making councils, such as the National Council for Science and Technology (CCT), Brazil's
highest-level S&T policymaking body (which is chaired by the President of Brazil); (b) agencies with
special responsibilities, such as the Brazilian Bureau of Census (IBGE) and the National Institute for
Industrial Property (INPI); and (c) universities or foundations that manage S&T research funds.
Block B: Project Rationale
6. CAS objective(s) supported by the project
Document number: 16582-BR          Date of latest CAS discussion: June 12, 1997
The project's development objective is to improve the performance of the Brazilian S&T sector and
thus contribute to the GOB's national development strategy to accelerate private sector-led economic
growth (that is, growth financed and generated primarily by firms). The World Bank supports this
strategy, which "gives high priority to raising the private sector's productivity and international
competitiveness [by] ... increasing investments in human capital; and developing the country's
capacity to innovate through investments in the science and technology sector" (6/27/97 CAS: para.
27). Project activities support several important CAS objectives: (a) The rationalization of MCT's
portfolio and improved sectoral monitoring and evaluation will contribute to the objective of public
sector reform aimed at "improved fiscal performance at the national and subnational level (para. 24).
(b) The matching grant subcomponent is designed to remove information and other barriers to
technological investments via improved cooperation between firms and the S&T sector, thus leading to
productivity and competitiveness gains, which are explicit CAS goals (para. 27). (c) Improved IPR
administration and strengthened MSTQ services should also improve productivity and
competitiveness, especially in export-oriented firms. (d) Technology assistance to SMEs will
contribute to the CAS objective of improving the efficiency and competitiveness of SMEs. The SME
sector is an important part of the economy but "lags in modernization, product quality, and production
efficiencies" (para. 42). Most nations fund R&D because these activities generate important
externalities and help overcome market imperfections associated with the creation and dissemination
of knowledge. The cooperative nature of activities in this project will both increase the volume of
private sector R&D funding and maintain a focus on the areas where potential externalities are
greatest.
3



7. Main sector issues and government strategy
Sector Issues
Underinvestment by the private sector in R&D. Brazil spends comparatively little of its gross
domestic product (GDP) on R&D: it spent about 0.5 percent in 1992, which is only slightly more than
the Latin American and Caribbean (LAC) regional average of 0.4 percent. This figure is significantly
lower than expenditures of the newly industrializing countries (NICs) in Asia, which were on average
1.3 percent of GDP during the same period. Moreover, the public sector provides about 75 percent of
Brazilian R&D funding, compared to 25 percent in the NICs. However, such patterns can be changed
fairly quickly. Only two decades ago, the Republic of Korea had levels of R&D spending and patterns
of funding similar to those in Brazil.2 Since then, R&D investment in Korea increased significantly,
and it is believed that the substantial growth of private sector involvement in innovation contributed
to a dramatic rise in productivity.
Protected far too long by trade barriers, Brazilian industry has neither invested substantially in R&D,
cultivated links with the S&T community, nor engaged in activities that promote long-term
competitiveness. The current economic stabilization, trade liberalization, and regulatory reform
(including the new intellectual property rights law) have improved the economic environment for
innovation, and there are already signs of increased private sector interest in R&D&E activities.
However, the institutional structure for joint R&D activities is still weak: information exchange is
poor, and firms have little experience cooperating with public entities.
Limited science and technology capability. Although pockets of international-quality research exist
in Brazil,3 in general, the quantity produced is smaller than would be expected and generally does not
have the quality and relevance it should, given Brazil's ambitions and economic importance. With
respect to quantity, Brazil is the world's seventh largest economy, accounting for 2.2 percent of
global GDP, yet it produces only 0.73 percent of the world's published scientific research.4
Conversely, Korea has almost four times the number of researchers to total labor force (32 versus 9
per 10,000). With respect to quality, citations of Brazilian research in international journals and
patents granted to Brazilians are still quite low. With respect to relevance, very few researchers work
in the private sector Oust 2.5 percent, compared with 50 percent in Korea).
Inefficient use of public resources for S&T research and human capital formation. Public
investment in S&T has been fragmented and uneven; it also has lacked continuity and client
orientation. The Bank-supported PADCT I & II projects helped create an atmosphere that facilitated
the production of international-level research by promoting the principles of transparency,
competition, peer review, and client responsiveness. With the new project, efficiency should improve
even more, as the principles will be operationalized throughout the sector. In particular, the project
will streamline client access to MCT services by promoting a "one-stop shop" approach to finance
innovations.
2 Korea had one corporate R&D laboratory in 1971; it had 455 by 1987 (Kim, Linsu, "National Systems of
Industrial Innovation: Dynamics of Capability Building in Korea" in National Systems of Innovation, R.
Nelson, editor).
3 Partly due to the PADCT I & II projects, both of which were cofinanced by the World Bank.
4 T. Schott, University of Pittsburgh, manuscript. Figures based on analysis of ISI data for 1993-95.
4



Lack of reliable information to guide policymaking. Databases of sectoral data exist - but these
are limited, not highly reliable, and often ad hoc in their timelines and institutionalization. While data
collection has improved in recent years, overall M&E is seriously deficient for a sector in which
roughly US$2 billion is invested annually and for an economy of the size and complexity of Brazil's.
The M&E data produced under the project will be a critical input to a midterm review, during which
the progress of both the project and sector reform will be judged, on the basis of reliable S&T
indicators to be routinely produced within MCT. At that point, the World Bank will reassess its
support to the sector; continued support for the post-midterm review phase of the project will be
determined, among other things, on the basis of information generated by the project-supported
M&E.
Regional disparities in S&T capacity. S&T capacity, especially of an international quality, is
concentrated in the south and southeast, as is illustrated by the geographic distribution of the research
groups that receive funding under MCT programs. For example, the PRONEX program rigorously
reviews the performance and credentials of applicant research groups and awards multi-year "core
funding" grants to those deemed outstanding. Of these, 97 percent are in six states of the south and
southeast - Minas Gerais, ParanA, Rio de Janeiro, Rio Grande do Sul, Santa Catarina, and Sao Paulo.
Government Strategy
The government's multi-year plan (O Plano Plurianual 1996-2000) seeks to raise the percentage of
GDP invested in S&T to a level more comparable to that of economically advanced countries: from
the currently estimated level of 0.7 to 1.5 percent5. For the S&T sector, the priorities are to:
a) increase the percent of R&D by the private sector (from its current 20 to 40 percent) while
expanding the overall amount of resources available for S&T;
b) improve the efficiency of resource allocations and integrate existing programs to promote more
S&T;
c) monitor program impacts more closely;
d) increase university and industry cooperation;
e) increase the number of qualified scientists, engineers, and technicians, according to the needs of
the economy;
f) provide essential support services for the S&T sector, such as protecting intellectual property
rights and providing metrology, standards, testing, and quality (MSTQ) services;
g) introduce greater stability and continuity in the flow of resources to academic and technological
research;
h) decrease the regional disparity between R&D in the south and southeast, which currently obtain
most of the funds for this purpose, and the north, northeast and center west, which receive very
little;
i) redefine the role of S&T agents and institutions within the context of a more efficient public
administration;
j) improve tax and fiscal incentives to foster more private firm-led R&D;
k) improve the management performance and improve the client orientation of the country's
technological institutes; and
I) expand the national role in the space and military fields.
5For comparison, the OECD average is 2.2 percent.
5



This strategy was developed through dialogue among various national and international agencies,
including the OECD, IADB, World Bank, SRI, and various universities and private consulting firms.
Over the past two and a half years, many jointly sponsored fora for discussion were organized. These
included: (a) a conference on the direction of S&T policy in Brazil (summarized as WB Discussion
Paper No. 325 "Institutional and Entrepreneurial Leadership in the Brazilian Science and Technology
Sector: Setting a New Agenda"); (b) a series of sector studies, including "Estudo da Competitividade
da Industria Brasileira" (L. Coutinho, editor), "Science and Technology in Brazil: A New Policy for a
Global World," and "Ciencia e Tecnologia no Brasil: Politica Industrial, Mercado de Trabalho, e
Instituic6es de Apoio" (S. Schwartzmann, editor); (c) a "Logical Framework" workshop attended by
key stakeholders (Brasilia, June 3-5, 1996), at which critical issues for the sector were discussed; and
(d) the compilation and analysis of all the GOB's investments in the sector, in "An Overview of
Brazilian S&T Portfolio."
As a result of this dialogue, the government committed itself to a six-year program of reform and
investment in the sector. The GOB's intentions are stated in a summary of sector policies, attached as
Annex 1, which describes the nature of the reform the MCT is spearheading. The project will support
the first phase (four years) of this reform. During the midterm review of the project, the Bank may
consider supporting the second phase, assuming the objectives of the four-year PADCT III will have
been achieved. The GOB has stated that it intends to carry out phase two of the reform program, even
if alternative sources of financing need to be sought.
8. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices
The project will directly address priorities (a) through (h) listed in the Government of Brazil's
strategy. That is, it aims to help the GOB in its goals to:
a) Increase private R&D expenditure from its current 20 to 40 percent of the total investment;
b) Improve resource allocation and integrate existing programs for S&T;
c) Monitor program impacts more closely;
d) Increase university and industry cooperation;
e) Increase the numbers of qualified scientists, engineers, and technicians in Brazil, according to
the needs of the economy;
f) Provide essential support services, such as strengthening intellectual property rights and
providing metrology, standards, testing, and quality (MSTQ) services;
g) Improve stability and continuity of resources for academic and technological research;
h) Decrease the regional disparity in R&D capacity (relative to economic capacity) in the richer
south and southeast regions, and the north, northeast, and center west.
These issues fall directly under the project's three main goals: (a) fostering more R&D investment by
firms, (b) improving advanced training (via, among other things, improved quality of research
output), and (c) providing the support services needed for (a) and (b) to materialize..
Priorities (i) through (k) will not be directly targeted, but may nevertheless be indirectly and
positively influenced as a result of the project activities. While they are important adjuncts to the
objectives, the project is considered meritorious and its objectives attainable without them. The GOB
is also addressing these priorities through other means. Priority (I) will not be addressed by the
project.
6



9. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
Providing technical assistance for policy reform only. Improvement of the policy environment for
innovation is needed, but by itself is not sufficient to create a more efficient sector. Most constraints to
R&D are institutional or regulatory, or both: constraints include: fluctuating and fragmented S&T
resources, bureaucratic delays that interrupt research, and lack of transparency. Increased investments
in scientific research, coupled with improved funding mechanisms, are critical to overcome these
constraints. In the same way, private sector input is essential to the relevance of the R&D agenda, and
can be accelerated with proper incentives, which will be supported by PADCT III.
Reforming federal and state technological institutes. Many Brazilian public research and
technological institutes are isolated from their intended clients in industry. They concentrate on
publishing research rather than technical problem-solving, do not produce leading research, and are
generally overstaffed and inefficient. However, in the most important cases, reform is already
underway. For example, EMBRAPA, the largest federal agricultural research institute, was
reorganized recently to improve its client orientation; it is receiving World Bank support for an
operation that will decentralize and diversify the national agricultural research system. The Instituto de
Pesquisas Tecnol6gicas (IPT) in Sao Paulo reduced its staff by more than 1,000, while increasing its
annual revenue from outside sources from $10 million in 1994 to $24 million in 1996. The Instituto
Nacional de Tecnologia (INT) is also undergoing a self-initiated reform. It was decided not to make
reform of state-level institutes (where the bulk of the inefficiencies exists) a major project focus
because, as they are state rather than federal entities, they are not under the jurisdiction of the MCT.
Any "outside" top-down attempt to reform them could be impeded by complex issues (about
employment and related regulations) surrounding state and federal authority. Nonetheless, it is hoped
their reform will be promoted through the general rationalization of the sector that will occur under the
project and through their participation in some of the project activities (for example, in the area of
MSTQ).
Promoting R&D through venture capital. Private sector R&D may be constrained by lack of access
to venture capital. However, preliminary investigations suggest that the project should not focus on
financial institutions; rather, it should first address other bottlenecks in Brazil's innovation system.
This decision was based on indications that external financing is not the major constraint, and that
strengthening the financial markets was a substantial task unsuited for this project. Private sector
cofinancing of matching grants is expected to be raised internally within the firms or consortia
executing the grants. Moreover, studies indicate that developing capacity in the private financial
services industry for R&D funding will require strengthening of the intellectual property rights regime
(to be supported by the current operation). This is a necessary condition if venture capital initiatives
focused on innovation are to succeed.
Establishing a foundation to develop technology. Initially, the idea of creating a special foundation
to promote and market technology for strategically selected areas of national comparative advantage
(patterned after the Fundaci6n Chile model) was considered. However, it was decided that a broader
technology promotion program would be more suitable to Brazil's large and differentiated economy.
7



Focusing only on technology or research. This project intervenes in the innovation process on both
the demand side, by working with firnns, and the supply side, by working with research institutions.
Alternatively, the project could concentrate on either supply or demand, depending on the nature of the
constraints. In Brazil, however, both supply of R&D workers and the demand for them have been
depressed for some time. Thus, the project will help the economy move to a higher level of R&D by
influencing both sides of the innovation process.
10. Major related projects financed by the World Bank or the IADB
(completed, ongoing, and planned)
Latest Form 590 ratings
Sector issue                           Project                     IP    DO
*  Bank-financed
Competitive fumding mechanisms         Brazil: Science and Technology  2  1
Project (2489-BR: closed
12/31/91)
Support for S&T areas of critical relevance to Brazil: Science Research and  S  S
Brazil's development                   Training (3269-BR: closed
12/31/96)
Agricultural research and technology   Brazil: Agricultural Technology  n/a   n/a
development                            Development
Reform of technological institutes    India: Industrial Development   S   S
Project (2064-CR: ongoing)
Science and technology infrastructure  Mexico: Science and Technology S   S
Infrastructure Project (3475-MX:
ongoing)
Science and technology research       Korea: Universities Science and  S  S
Technology Research Project
(3203-L: closed 12/31/95)
Science education                      Korea: Program for Science and  S  S
Technology Education (2437-L:
closed 06/30/89)
* IADB-filnanced
Technological modernization for firms  IDB Brazil: Science and
Technology Program (880/OC-
BR 9/95: ongoing)
Research funding and technology        IDB Brazil: Science and
development                            Technology Development
Program (BR-0217 2/91:
ongoing)
8



11. Lessons learned and reflected in the proposed project design
Several lessons were learned from two previous Bank-supported S&T projects in Brazil (PADCT I &
II) and in other countries. Those from the Brazil projects include:
*  Macroeconomic stabilization must occur before the productive sector will invest in R&D. The
PADCT I & II projects were implemented during a period of persistent high inflation and
macroeconomic imbalance. Firms could earn high returns on liquid assets and therefore had no
reason to undertake riskier investments in R&D.
*  Specific incentives targeted to firms must be in place to induce private sector cooperation and
cofunding of R&D activities. PADCT I & II did not achieve significant private sector involvement
in setting research priorities and directions or in executing research, in part because firms, which
usually are unaware of the benefits from R&D, were not offered any direct incentives to change
their behavior.
*  Maximum autonomy should be given to principal investigators (PIs) to control research funds; also,
any agencies involved in disbursing project funds to researchers should be required to adhere
strictly to performance criteria. Fragmented funding and excessive bureaucratic control of resources
create delays that impede high-quality research. For example, the inability of PIs to modify
equipment requests during the life of a project (based on initial research results) can halt an
investigation and make research output irrelevant or meaningless. Thus, grant awards should allow
for the funding via a single grant to finance all items (including equipment, training, and access to
state-of-the-art scientific information) required for the carrying out of scientific research. The PI,
who has the greatest stake in the output of the project, is the logical custodian of these funds.
*  Monitoring and evaluation of the sector, protecting intellectual property, and providing metrology,
standards, testing, and quality (MSTQ) services are specific subfields within the S&T domain. They
may require individually designed, longer-term, and programmatic funding and administrative
structures. They should not be funded in the same manner as scientific investigations, as occurred
under PADCT I & II.
Lessons from projects in other countries include: (a) clear and objective criteria must be established for
including institutions in the project and for deciding on research projects to be financed, in order to
create a selection process that stakeholders see as equitable and in which private institutions are more
apt to participate (Korea: Universities S&T Research Project, OED Report No. 15754); and (b) a
coordinator is needed for specific tasks related to subcomponents (preparation plans through ICR) for
multi-ministerial initiatives like science education (Korea: Program for Science and Technology
Education, OED Report No. 9569).
An evaluation of the 1996 Industrial Technology Development Project for India cited several pre-
conditions for reforming technology institutions: (a) committed leadership within the institutions and
parent organizations; (b) a "hard" budget from the government; and (c) autonomy for the institutions,
which would allow them to implement changes and hire and fire staff. As these are lacking at the
Brazilian state-level technology institutes, it was decided not to directly reform them under this project.
They will, however, be indirectly influenced as they compete for funds under its components.
9



12. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership
Within the S&T sector, the GOB has engaged in an active program of growth and reform, providing
significant funding for research and innovation in recent years, and developing an extensive policy
agenda. With respect to this project, the GOB has demonstrated commitment and ownership by
(a) strongly promoting the project; (b) citing the operation as a top priority in the September 1995
CPPR meeting and similar meetings held afterwards; (c) cooperating with the Bank for the past two
years on the S&T policy agenda and sectoral analyses required for project preparation; (d) producing
the "Overview of the Brazilian S&T Portfolio" (a detailed synopsis of all federal investments in S&T)
and other substantial nonformal sector work; (e) devoting substantial time and resources to revising the
project proposal; and (f) sponsoring a participatory "Logical Framework" workshop to plan the reform
activities the project would involve. Also, the Government has stated its intention to continue the
reform and the investment program into a second phase, after the project is completed, even if funding
must be sought from sources other than the World Bank. Phase one (this project) and phase two
together constitute a six-year program of reform and investment in the sector.
13. Value added of World Bank support
The Bank has substantial experience in the Brazilian S&T sector as the result of two previous
successful operations (PADCT I & II) over the past twelve years; also, it has been an integral partner in
the evolving dialogue on S&T policies. In addition, the Bank has expertise in the areas of technology
development, private sector incentives for R&D, science funding, and sources of M&E technical
assistance. It will continue to facilitate high-level exchange on S&T policy with appropriate
international counterparts (for example, the OECD/DSTI, the US NSF, the German National
Foundation, and the South African Council of Scientific and Industrial Research). This exchange is
essential to defining and implementing a policy agenda commensurate with international best practices.
Also, the presence of the Bank as an impartial body helps unify a fragmented sector that has many
institutional stakeholders representing various interests and diverse levels of influence over
policymakers.
10



Block C: Summary of Project Assessments
14. Economic assessment
There are several major reasons why the GOB is working with the private sector to increase the level of
private R&D&E activities in the country. First, the new macroeconomic environment, which increased
competition and monetary stability, has created incentives for greater private sector innovation. Thus, the
public sector can accelerate the rate of innovation by improving the market for R&D&E. This includes
correcting market information failures and creating institutional mechanisms for bringing together firms and
potential R&D&E workers and infrastructure. Second, many innovations have social returns that far exceed
their private returns. Finally, the public sector involvement can help correct for the underinvestment in
innovation from a social perspective, such as those in S&T for improvements in preventive medicine.
The net present value (NPV) and internal rate of return (IRR) will vary with the project's impact on the
growth and efficiency of private sector R&D&E investments. Calculations were made for a range of values.
The project would have a positive NPV even at extremely modest levels of impact (0.6 percent growth in
investment); at larger rates of growth, it could generate returns in the range of US$0.5 billion. See Annex 5
for the complete economic analysis.
15. Financial assessment
Annexes 4 (Estimated Project Costs) and 6 (Financial Summary) provide a detailed financial assessment of
the project. The recurrent costs are well within the capacity of the federal budget for S&T. The project is
expected to generate efficiency gains in federal support to the sector, which will contribute to its
sustainability.
16. Technical assessment
The project is technically sound. The Science and Technology Research and Sectoral Support Components
draw on 12 years of project experience. Several major structural changes, as well as scores of procedural
changes, have been introduced based on analyses of previous project performance. The Technology
Development Component draws on successful pilot initiatives by the GOB. Project components and
performance objectives were also formulated on the basis of international experience and tailored to regional
and local conditions.
11



17. Institutional assessment
The project involves significant cooperation among the coordinating agencies in MCT and various
implementing agencies, some of which are not administratively linked to MCT. As a result of considerable
dialogue, the various sets of actors defined their roles and responsibilities, and created innovative
implementation procedures to solve the main institutional difficulties encountered in previous projects, such
as disbursement delays and excessively bureaucratic requirements on PIs. Under the new procedures, if
delays of more than 30 days occur in either contracting or disbursing funds, principal investigators can alert
the SCG, which will resolve the issue at the Colegiado da Secretaria de CoordenaVdo e Gerenciamento
(CSCG)'s monthly meeting. Among other things, the CSCG (but not the principal investigators) can initiate
the transfer of a grant to a different administrative agency. It should be emphasized that these strict criteria
were self-imposed, that is, devised by the implementing agencies themselves. The financial management
stems from the two previous projects; the existing system is undergoing significant improvements aimed at
adding expediency, reliability, and accountability. The system was assessed and the Bank is satisfied with the
project's internal control, accounting and staffing procedures, and audit arrangements as well as its capacity
to produce reports in a timely manner. In addition, project management indicators were established.
18. Social Assessment
n.a.
19. Environmental assessment
Environmental Issues:                         Major: None
Other:                                        Appropriateness of guidelines for handling
laboratory reagents and for enforcing biosafety.
Environmental Category:                       B
12



20. Participatory approach
Preparation         Implementation    Operation
Beneficiaries/community groups       IS, CON, COL         IS, CON, COL      IS, CON, COL
Intermediary NGOs                    IS, CON              IS, CON, COL      IS, CON, COL
Academic institutions                IS, CON, COL         IS, CON, COL      IS, CON, COL
Private sector                       IS, CON              IS, CON, COL      IS, CON, COL
Local government                     IS, CON, COL         IS, CON, COL      IS, CON, COL
(State)
Other donors                         IS, CON
21. Sustainability
Sector reform will be sustained by the project fostering changes in attitudes and expectations within the S&T
community and the private sector. In the case of the former, the new procedures will impose transparency and
free the researchers from bureaucratic impediments. The project's operating manual will include procedures
that mandate larger grants and direct allocation of resources to principal investigators, and new peer review
processes that will allow, for example, the use of international peers, as necessary. With respect to the private
sector, subsidies will gradually be eliminated, as firms will begin earning returns from their R&D
investments. Moreover, the project addresses the problems experienced during the transition to a more
knowledge-based, internationally competitive economy. As a one-time investment in the sector, it would
achieve the objective of helping firms adjust their investment in R&D behavior to the new open market
conditions.
13



22. Critical Risks
(see also fourth column of Annex 2)
Risk                                    Risk-     Risk Minimization Measure
Rating
1. Insufficient ownership of project by some   MR  Past consultation and information sharing among
implementing agencies and limited consensus      representatives of 14 S&T-related agencies;
on project goals could lead to implementation     participation of these representatives in a series of
delays and inconsistencies.                       policy and procedure seminars; additional
workshops and consultations are planned with
project support.
2. Deterioration of the macroeconomic   MR/NR   In the event of a serious macroeconomic
situation could limit the private sector's        deterioration, cancellation of the uncommitted
willingness to invest in R&D, as well as halt     part of the project would be sought through
contracting and payments.                        standard Bank remedies.
3. Project complexity could hinder or slow  MR    The task team and supervisory committee would
implementation.                                   cooperatively restructure, modify, or cancel
affected subcomponents.
4. Administrative capacity of the project  MR     Implementation progress will be closely
coordination unit and/or implementing             monitored via milestones in the Project Indicators
organizations could weaken, if staff turnover     Matrix and through management contracts. If
(so far almost non-existent) occurs.              problems are minor or isolated, administration/
implementation would be transferred to other
institutions. If problems are significant or
widespread, restructuring would be sought.
5. Inadequate response by the private sector to  MR/NR   Incentives to the private sector would be adjusted
the incentives included in the project.           as appropriate, and the regulatory framework
would be revisited.
23. Possible controversial aspects
This project provides for public involvement in private sector investment decisions on R&D&E. In particular,
it allows public funds to be used for proprietary research, which is not necessarily deemed desirable.
However, market imperfections in R&D&E activities are a major justification for these public expenditures,
and their long-run impacts on the Brazilian economy suggest they are worthwhile and necessary if R&D&E is
to become more innovative and efficient.
14



Block D: Main Loan Conditions
24. Effectiveness conditions
The following conditions to effectiveness were agreed upon during negotiations:
a)    That each of the agreements between MCT and (i) CAPES; (ii) CNPq; and (iii) FINEP,
respectively, have become effective;
b)    That the project management unit in MCT (SCG) has been established;
c)    That the Annual Operating Plan for the first year of project implementation has been
furnished to the Bank;
d)    That the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by Banco Central.
25. Other:
None.
Block E: Compliance with Bank Policies:
This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Task Manager: Alcyone Saliba, LCSHD     Country Director: Gobind T. Nankani, LCC5C
15



ANNEX 1: SUMMARY OF SECTOR POLICIES
This section describes the Government's program in the science and technology (S&T)
sector, including its objectives and proposed reforms and the specific steps that will be taken to
ensure its implementation. To assist in its implementation, the Government of Brazil has
requested financial and technical assistance from the World Bank.
A. Science and Technology In Brazil
1.    Over the last four decades, Brazil has invested a significant amount of resources to build
its S&T capacity. A relatively large S&T system and a broad array of institutions and policies
evolved during this period. These years were also characterized by an inward-oriented strategy of
development and chronic high inflation, which were not conducive to innovation or the building
of efficient public S&T-related institutions. With notable exceptions, the ability of Brazil's S&T
system to produce top quality research and develop high-level human capital that could promote
innovation remained relatively weak despite significant public investment in these activities.
2.    Over the last few years, however, Brazil's macroeconomic environment and trade
policies have improved significantly. Under the Plano Real, inflation has declined to less than 2
percent per month for most of the period since July 1994, eliminating the bias against long-term
investment (hence innovation) by the private sector, and uncertainty, fluctuation, and erosion of
real budgets for public S&T institutions. At the same time, pressure on the private sector to
innovate in order to raise productivity and maintain competitiveness has increased substantially
with the opening of the trade regime. Finally, the regulatory framework has been modified to
provide incentives to industrial research and development. Technology transfer controls,
including, among other things, restrictions to import computer software, have been virtually
eliminated. The new Intellectual Property Rights Law, which was introduced in May 1997, now
provides protection to innovation. In addition, better fiscal incentives to R&D are now available
through Law 8661 of 1993 and Law 8248 of 1991 (the latter for computer software).
3.    The reform of the S&T sector is a priority because of its potential to increase
competitiveness in Brazil's productive sector. Brazil performs relatively poorly in R&D&E
when compared to developed countries. Official data indicate that the country spends
comparatively little of its GDP on these activities (close to 1 percent). Moreover, the public
sector still provides an excessive share of the R&D&E funding- 75 percent compared to 25 to
50 percent in the newly industrialized countries. The scientific and technological community is
growing and strengthening. However, further strides are needed in the quality, quantity, and
relevance of research and researchers to industry for Brazil to reach international standards. The
ratios of scientific production to economic output, of researchers to total labor force, and of
researchers in the private sector to researchers in the public sector all fall below the levels
generally deemed appropriate for an economy of the size and complexity of Brazil's. Other
constraints to companies' investments are: limited experience of the productive sector in R&D;
lack of a tradition to cooperate with the scientific community on a customer-contractor basis;
insufficiently supportive S&T public policies and programs; and fiscal incentive regulations that
are not well suited to small firms. The reform efforts being spearheaded by MCT also seeks
solutions to these problems.
16



B. Government Strategy
Objectives and Principles
4.    The Government of Brazil has embarked on an ambitious reform effort to create an
environment conducive to increased and better-focused S&T expenditures. The objective of this
reform, as described in the multi-year program (1996-00), is to improve the competitiveness of
Brazilian industry by stimulating R&D and the commercialization of research results. With
these, the GOB hopes to raise the share of GDP invested in S&T from close to 1 percent
currently to 1.5 percent, and to increase the share of R&D expenditures by the private sector
from 20 to 40 percent of total expenditures by 2000.
5.    This will be achieved through a mix of policy reforms and investment programs aimed at
transforming the current S&T system into one that can better innovate and adapt, and which is
based on international best practices. This will be achieved by significantly increasing the
participation of the private sector in the financing and execution of publicly funded R&D;
fostering a better regional balance of S&T expenditures; promoting access of small firms to
technology; reorienting human capital formation in S&T to better provide for the personnel
needs of industry and academia; establishing adequate mechanisms for sector regulation,
oversight, monitoring, and evaluation; and strengthening technology support infrastructure and
services.
6.    Reform of public spending in S&T will be guided by the principles of client
responsiveness and attentiveness to demand; promoting partnerships between public and private
entities in defining research priorities and funding measures to encourage competition,
transparency, and fairness in resource allocation; widening the use of peer reviews; protecting
intellectual property of research results; and sharing the financial benefits of research between
public and private participants in the form of royalties and dividends, if commercialized
products, processes, and patents turn out to result from MCT-funded partnerships between public
and private entities.
(a) Reorientingfederallyfunded research
7.    With respect to federally funded scientific research executed by the scientific community
in response to government-established priorities, reform will aim at increasing its internal and
external efficiency and relevance to a level comparable with best international practice. This will
be achieved by:
* Concentrating investments on economically relevant areas (avoiding dispersion of efforts),
and ensuring continuity in their funding;
* Rationalizing government programs by coordinating and eliminating overlaps between
programs and funding sources;
* Streamlining client access to services of the Ministry of Science and Technology (MCT) and
its agencies, by removing bureaucratic bottlenecks in contracting processes and establishing
performance criteria for funding agencies;
* Strengthening regional scientific capacity by: (a) promoting platforms of regional interest and
financing projects emerging from them; (b) supporting young researchers willing to establish
themselves in research groups outside traditionally strong universities; and (c) encouraging
twinning relationships;
17



* Changing criteria and procedures for awarding scholarships for graduate prograns, to make
their allocation more responsive to academic and industrial demands, and to supply better
trained researchers.
(b) Promoting partnerships between public research institutions and private firms
8.    MCT intends to substantially expand its programs to finance needed research and
development, executed with the scientific community and cofinanced by firms, with MCT
playing a catalytic role to bring the productive sector and academia together, by:
* Providing demand-driven, co-financed, matching grants to public institutions (universities,
public R&D centers, or technological institutes) that enter into partnerships with private
enterprises, to carry out proprietary and non-proprietary R&D oriented toward commercial
application;
* Seeking to increase the private sector's share of the financing of the partnership to 50 percent
of total global costs of cooperative projects by the end of the program's first phase (the end of
the year 2000); and promoting the recovery of the funding by the public sector sharing in
royalties, dividends, or other fees that result from research, or other mechanisms, such as
recovering equipment and material costs or transforming public grants into loans, where
projects produce commercial successes;
* Supporting special programs for SMEs, such as technology assistance, dissemination
activities, and outreach programs of SEBRAE, CNI/SENAI, and universities' business
offices; using these agencies to get small entrepreneurs to participate in defining research
priorities for publicly funded programs, and to promote information-sharing on technological
opportunities suited to small businesses.
(c) Building a regulatory environment and research support infrastructure
9.    Costs and risks of innovation may also be reduced through better regulations and support
infrastructure. These are expected to increase incentives to research, improve access to
researchers and research results, and protect the property of research results. In this respect, the
government intends to:
- Review on an ongoing basis the remaining regulatory and bureaucratic constraints to private
R&D investmnent, and propose changes for the National Council for Science and Technology
(CCT) to consider. For example, such reviews might lead to identifying fiscal incentives that
will encourage SMEs to conduct R&D, which are in addition to those already adopted in tax-
exempt areas; or, designing better mechanisms to permit inventors in public institutions to be
financially rewarded;
* Administer the compliance with the new law on intellectual property rights by strengthening
the institutions involved;
* Continue to improve the country's metrology, standards, and testing services and
infrastructure.
(d) Improving monitoring, evaluation, and information services
10.   Finally, it has become essential to establish mechanisms that can measure the impact and
evaluation of government policies and programs and establish reliable international comparisons.
To that effect, MCT will:
18



* Pursue efforts to establish a comprehensive system of M&E with the technical assistance of
internationally experienced institutions. It is expected that the system will be established and
functioning satisfactorily by mid-1999;
* Promote information exchanges on research programs and results, and help the productive
sectors and research community identify new business opportunities that could emerge from
them.
C. Institutional Mechanisms to Promote Sectoral Reform
11.   The GOB has created institutional mechanisms at the highest level to promote ongoing
regulatory and institutional reform and needed changes in the S&T sector. An Inter-Ministerial
National Council for Science and Technology (CCT) was established (Law 9257 of January 9,
1996) as an advisory body to the President of the Republic. The CCT has a broad legal mandate
to: (a) propose national S&T policy; (b) coordinate government plans, goals, and priorities for
S&T, including instruments and resources; (c) evaluate the implementation of S&T policy; and
(d) advise on matters related to the development and regulation of S&T. The CCT is chaired by
the President of Republic and is composed of seven ministers and seven representatives of
producers and users of S&T.
12.   In that context, CCT will establish an inter-ministerial Working Group on Sector Reform
to identify and propose legal and regulatory changes, and initiate and promote inter-ministerial
reform of research programs. This group (whose membership and agenda will be defined by
CCT) will also benefit from the work of a Policy Advocacy Group composed of experts invited
to perform relevant policy-oriented studies requested by CCT. MCT, as the Executive Secretariat
of CCT, will provide budgetary and administrative support to both groups, in particular through
its PADCT Coordination Secretariat.
13.   Proposals for rationalizing programs managed by MCT and its agencies will be prepared
under the leadership of MCT's Coordinating Committee (MCT-CC). This committee has the
authority to approve or reject the proposals and mandate their implementation. MCT-CC is
presided over by the Minister of Science and Technology and composed of MCT's secretaries
and presidents of MCT's agencies (FINEP and CNPq).
D. Costs of the Program
14.   It is estimated that implementation of the entire reform and investrnent program will
require funding in the order of about US$700 to US$800 million over six years. The actual first
phase of this program (a total of US$360 million) began in mid- 1997. This first phase is
expected to last about three years. The second phase would begin in the year 2001, after results
of the first phase are evaluated and adaptations are made, if deemed necessary.
15.   It is understood that full implementation of this program presupposes stability of the
current macroeconomic and regulatory frameworks. Significant changes would necessarily imply
a reorientation of the sector's priorities and the curtailment of allocations to components.
E. World Bank Participation
16.   The World Bank has been invited to participate in both phases of the program. It has
agreed to provide funding for the first phase to support all its elements. It will have the
opportunity to decide on its possible commitment to the second phase after the midterm review
of the first phase; this review is planned for mid-1999.
17.   The Government is firmly committed to these reforms and believes World Bank
assistance would contribute significantly to their success.
19



ANNEX 2: PROJECT DESIGN SUMMARY6
Narrative Summary          Key Performance          Monitoring and       Critical Assumptions
Indicators7             Supervision             and Risks
1. Growth of the Brazilian   GDP increases         IBGE, Central Bank      Risk: factors outside
economy sustained                                  IMF, WB Data            the control of the GOB
negatively influence the
macroeconomic
performance
2. Social conditions      Statistics in the relevant   FIOCRUZ (health and
(health, sanitation,      sectors show             sanitation), IBAMA
environment, transport,    improvements            (environmental
etc.) improved                                     conditions), IBGE
(social conditions)
Improved technological    Number of fully           Occasional specific    Risk: benefits from
performance in Brazil     commercialized            studies                increased productive
innovations increased                            R&D&E investments
and improved S&T
capacity could be
outweighed by
deterioration in one or
several other internal
factors which bear on
economic performance
(such as exchange rate
policy or stability of the
banking system)
Innovations become       Occasional specific
commercialized more      studies
rapidly.
6 See Appendices 3 and 5 of the Project Implementation Plan (PIP) for descriptions of M&E activities.
These appendices include specific impact and outcome indicators, as well as milestones for their
production and for the improvement of data collection activities.
7Key performance indicators were defined with reference to the best available baseline data, which are in
many cases deficient. Thus, a principal objective of the project is to improve, among others, the
quality of data collection and reporting. As the M&E activities are satisfactorily implemented and
begin to generate higher quality data and information, adjustments to these indicators may be
necessary.
20



Positive science- and     Occasional specific
technology-related        studies
externalities increase (in
health, sanitation, etc.) or
existing negative
externalities (pollution,
etc.) decrease
1. Private sector          Private sector investment  ANPEI/IBGE Data         Assumption: Results of
investment in R&D&E        in R&D increases 3                                 increased R&D&E
activities increased       percent more per year                              activities will be
than GDP rates increase8                           successfully
commercialized by
firms
Rate of growth of         IBGE/CNPq Data
employment of scientists
and engineers in the
private sector grows 2.5
percent per year faster
than total private sector
employment9
2. Number and quality of   Enrollment of students in   CAPES/CNPq data        Assumption: Students
scientists and engineers   Master's and Ph.D.                                 respond to increased
trained increased          programs in PADCT-                                 opportunities for
supported disciplines                              advanced training in
increases at 1.1 times the                         scientific and
overall rate of increase of                        technological
Master's and Ph.D.                                 disciplines
enrollment. Graduation
rates show corresponding
increase within appropriate
time.
8   As adjusted for privatization of state-owned enterprises. That is, accounting transfers of R&D
activities from the public to the private sector due to privatization of the enterprise conducting R&D
will not be counted as fulfilling project objectives of increasing private sector R&D. An increase in
the rate of R&D expenditure in an enterprise on or after privatization would be so counted.
9   Idem.
21



3. Quantity and quality of  Increased number of  Initially outsourced to
S&T research improved    publications and other  firms specializing in
bibliometric measures of   analysis of ISI data
scientific quality and  (while MCT personnel
productivity           are trained in these
methods of analysis)
4. Regional disparity in    Rate of increase in active   CNPq database/  Industry has more
S&T capacity (with respect researchers employed in    National Registry of   regionally balanced
to local economic capacity) less favored regions 5  Scientific Capacity    access to needed S&T
decreased               percent above national                      capability; students
average                                     have more equitable
access to advanced
training opportunities
Enrollment of students  CAPES/CNPq data
from disadvantaged
regions in Master's and
Ph.D. programs in
PADCT-supported
disciplines increases at 1.2
times the rate of increase
of total Master's and Ph.D.
enrollment
Graduation rates show   CAPES/CNPq data
corresponding increase
within appropriate time
5. Efficiency gains to  Annual Report on the State Secretariat of the  Greater orientation and
public support for S&T  of Science and Technology Brazilian National  relevance of public
in Brazil; milestones from   Council on Science    investment to ultimate
Indicators Matrix       and Technology (CCT) use of S&T capacity by
the productive sector
Pwojeet opnen                                                     (C-oet to (htpt
1. Technology          US$4 million committed   Project Monitoring  Assumptions:
Develpment              and disbursed to        Unit                Information barriers
(a) "Platforns" which   meritorious proposals, as                   within firms and the
provide a forum for    judged by the GCCT                           R&D&E community
R&D&E stakeholders to                                               reduced or eliminated
identify problems
amenable to technological
solutions and to establish
cooperative R&D&E
agendas
22



(b) Matching grants for    US$36 million committed  Project Monitoring  Economic conditions
nonproprietary cooperative and disbursed       Unit                continue to be
R&D&E activities                                                   conducive to increasing
rates of long-term
technological
investments by firms
(c) Matching grants for    US$73 million committed  Project Monitoring
proprietary cooperative    and disbursed       Unit
R&D&E activities
(d) Technology assistance  US$33 million committed  Project Monitoring
for R&D&E activities in   and disbursed        Unit
SMEs
2. Science and Technology  US$132 million committed Project Monitoring    Improved competitive
Research               and disbursed           Unit                funding mechanisms
Competitive funding of                                             and procedures lead to
S&T research in traditional                                        improved S&T research
disciplines through                                                and training
improved procedures and
mechanisms
Special grants, including   US$15 million committed  Project Monitoring    (a) Increased number of
targeted postdoctoral  and disbursed           Unit                qualified researchers in
fellowships and "twinning                                          scientifically
arrangements," to                                                  underdeveloped
strengthen S&T capacity at                                         regions, which in turn
universities in less favored                                       increases S&T capacity
regions                                                            (b) Long-term links
between strong and
emerging research
groups improve
research quality and
relevance
3. Sectoral Support    US$9 million committed   Project Monitoring    (a) Undue duplication
(a) Rationalization of the   and disbursed     Unit                of effort, fragmentation
sector undertaken by task                                          of resources, and
forces with links to                                               unproductive public
National Council on                                                investments identified
Science and Technology                                             and reduced
(CCT)
23



(b) Sectoral M&E:        US$11 million committed  Project Monitoring    (b) Policymakers
technical assistance,    and disbursed            Unit                  demand timely, reliable
training, and coordination                                              information about the
of activities to improve                                                sector
data collection,
dissemination, and analysis
(c) Transitionalfund for    US$5 million committed    Project Monitoring  (c) Productive physical
maintenance of existing    and disbursed          Unit                  capital maintained
scientific equipment
4. Technology Investment
Environment for Firms
(a) Administration of    US$4 million committed    Project Monitoring   (a) Clear and user-
intellectual property rights  and disbursed       Unit                 friendly legal protection
by INPI: technical                                                      of research results
assistance and institutional                                            encourages private
strengthening                                                           R&D&E activities
(b) MSTQ: training,      US$16 million committed                        (b) Timely, adequate,
development and          and disbursed                                  and accessible
dissemination of                                                        standards and
(industrial) standards,                                                 metrology and testing
updating and                                                            services promote rapid
strengthening of national                                               commercialization of
and regional accreditation                                             research results
system for testing
laboratories
24



ANNEX 3: PROJECT COMPONENTS SUMMARY
PURPOSE
The project will help transform the Brazilian S&T infrastructure into a system that
promotes technological innovation or adaptation, or both. This will be accomplished by support
to ongoing sector reforms and by investing in: (a) technology development (TD) activities that
will encourage the private sector to expand its funding and execution of R&D&E and promote
the role of SMEs in modem innovation systems; (b) S&T research and high-level training, based
on, among other things, improved peer-review mechanisms and funding mechanisms; and (c)
sectoral support activities to strengthen the enabling environment for R&D&E and the overall
efficiency of public support for S&T.
To promote S&T capacity in regions of Brazil where it is weak (in relation to economic
activity), the project will fund S&T initiatives that strengthen interactions between well-
established groups in the south and southeast and nascent groups in the north, northeast, and
center west regions of Brazil. It will also provide fellowships to attract recent graduates from
Brazil's doctoral programs to establish themselves in research groups in these regions. Each
general Request for Proposals (RFPs) issued under components A and B below will reserve a
minimum of 10 percent of resources for projects that promote this development of regional S&T
capacity.
COMPONENTS
A.    The Technology Development Component (US$147 million, or 41 percent of total
project costs). This component has three subcomponents:
(1)    Platforms (US$4.2 million): Support for cooperative pre-competitive research to foster
partnerships among industries, universities, technological institutes, and appropriate
government agencies through which economically and socially relevant problems
amenable to technological solutions can be identified, and preliminary strategies for
solving these problems through cooperative research projects can be formulated.
Activities: The project will fund meetings and other fora that will bring together relevant
stakeholders to devise R&D agendas to solve technological problems. Platforms will
focus on broader research areas and macro-level problems such as health, transport, and
communications, as well as specific topics, such as pest management for the orange juice
agro-industry. Both types will be expected to produce proposals for cooperative R&D
projects (the former tend toward publicly-led and the latter toward private sector
projects). Proposals for platforms will be competitively selected.
Implementation procedures: Requests for proposals will be issued by the Strategic
Group for Planning and Management (Grupo de Planejamento e Gerenciamento
Estrategico - GPGE). Proposals will be selected by an advisory committee (Comite
Assessor [CA], appointed by the GPGE), according to their potential economic and
social relevance, technical assessment of their amenability to R&D&E-based solutions,
and indications of the proponents' ability to unite a "critical mass" of appropriate
stakeholders. Initially, grants will range from US$50,000 to US$250,000 and will cover
the direct cost of the meetings, but not the time of the participants (which will be in-kind
contributions from their firms or institutions). The meetings and conferences are to occur
from three to six months after a grant is awarded.
25



(2)    A matching grantfacility, providing two types of grant programs.'
(a) Publicly-led cooperative projects (US$36.2 million) to foster partnerships between
the public and private sectors for the financing and execution of R&D.
Activities: This subcomponent will partially fund socially and economically relevant
research and development projects that involve public and private sector cooperation
and will be cofinanced with matching funds from participating firms. It is expected
that proposals generated by the Platforms will be submitted for funding under this
subcomponent, but all proposals which meet the guidelines may compete, regardless
of whether they were conceived with findings from the platforms.
Implementation procedures: GPGE will issue Requests for Proposals (editais) for
projects. To ensure competition, transparency and fairness, all proposals will be
appraised and selected by advisory committees (CAs) through a competitive process
that reviews both technical and business merits. All editais are subject to the World
Bank prior review and approval. The matching grant component will finance up to 77
percent of project costs, up to a maximum of $750,000. The implementing agency
(FINEP) will contract with grantees and monitor and evaluate the projects.
(b) Privately-led cooperative projects (US$73.2 million) to foster cooperation between
individual firms and public sector R&D entities with the purpose of producing
proprietary R&D outputs.
Activities: This subcomponent will partially fund R&D projects executed by one or
more public sector R&D entities cooperating with individual firms or consortia of
firms. These projects will be cofinanced with matching funds from the participating
firms and the outcomes will be proprietary.
Implementation procedures: This subcomponent will be implemented according to
procedures similar to those for publicly-led projects, with minor adjustments to the
selection process to protect confidentiality and emphasize intellectual property
contracts. It will finance up to 50 percent of project costs, up to a maximum of
US$400,000.
(3)    Assistancefor technology adoption by SMEs (US$33.4 million) to enhance their capacity
to innovate.
Activities: This subcomponent will fund the existing federal SME program (Programa
de Apoio Tecnico aos Micro-Empresas - PATME).1 1 The PATME program currently
provides small grants for initial technological problem-solving in SMEs. Its expansion
will augment overall program funding and add follow-on financing for initial projects
that produce promising results.
10 According to Brazilian law, private firms cannot directly receive grants funded by the project; grants to
benefit firms will be mediated by their academic partners.
PATME has been appraised and will be the initial conduit for SME support. If in the future, the GOB
decides to choose another program to deliver the SME subcomponent of the project, the new program
would need to be appraised by the World Bank, which would focus its appraisal on the capacity of the new
program to yield the results expected of PATME under PADCT 111.
26



Implementation procedures: Initially this subcomponent will be implemented by F1NEP
and SEBRAE, with slight modifications to current operating procedures. Initial grants
could be up to US$12,000, and follow-on grants up to US$75,000 for 6-month projects.
B.    Science and Technology Research Component. (US$147 million, or 41 percent of
total project cost.This component will award grants for scientific research and for
developing regional S&T capacity. It will consolidate the positive accomplishments of
PADCT I & II by funding research and graduate training in scientific and technological
areas of relevance for economic and social development. This will expand Brazil's
human resource and knowledge bases in S&T, and provide trained personnel in areas
relevant to industry. Initially six scientific disciplines will receive funding (see Annex
4).
Activities: This subcomponent will finance peer-reviewed, competitively awarded grants
for scientific and technological research in priority S&T disciplines.
Implementation procedures: Proposals will be submitted to advisory (selection)
committees (CAs), in response to RFPs issued by corresponding GPAs (planning and
evaluation groups). The first set of editais was approved in August 1997, and five more
sets are expected to be issued before the midterm review. Editais will permit
"spontaneously generated" cooperative proposals to be received at any time of the year;
however, evaluation and selection will only occur quarterly. The CAs will select
grantees on the basis of peer reviewers' rankings. Implementing agencies will administer
grant agreements and monitor and evaluate the projects.
C.    Sectoral Support Activities. (US$54.3 million, or 41 percent of total project costs).
This component will have five subcomponents.
(1)    Support to working groups involved with sectoral reform (US$8.9 million). The reform
of the sector is an indispensable activity for the new operation. It is to be based on the
principle of rationalizing the system through coherent planning (to avoid duplicating
efforts) and management. These activities will be carried out by several working groups,
including, among other things:
(a)    The MCT Working Group on Sector Reform (the CSCG). At the level of the
MCT, the Colegiado da Secretaria de Coordenacdo e Gerenciamento (CSCG-
an operations-level management and advisory group for the Secretaria de
Coordenacao e Gerenciamento, the project coordinating unit) will have the
added responsibility of developing a plan to reform institutions and programs
directly under MCT's control. The CSCG will submit this plan as an annual
report to the MCT's Coordinating Committee (chaired by the Minister of
Science and Technology).
(b)    The Policy Studies and Advocacy Group. At the level of the entire federal sector,
a Policy Studies and Advocacy Group will support the Conselho Nacional de
Ciencia e Tecnologia (CCT - the GOB's high-level group for S&T policy
composed of ministers whose ministries are responsible for S&T issues and
private sector representatives). The CCT is presided over by the President of the
Republic. This group will actively recruit and engage the experts required as
inputs into the policymaking process, convene public fora and meetings on
policy issues, and commission studies on relevant topics. It will solicit relevant
policy-oriented studies as requested or required by the CCT agenda, and will
27



monitor implementation of the emerging policy recommendations. The group
will consist of ad hoc members selected by the CCT Secretary, and will solicit
studies through bidding and direct contracting.
(2)    Supportfor improving sectoral monitoring and evaluation (US$10.4 million) to improve
the quality, coverage, and accessibility of information about the performance of the S&T
sector.
Activities: This subcomponent will support initiatives among the main agencies with
M&E responsibilities in the sector (for example, CNPq, CAPES, IBGE, state FAPs) to
accomplish the following: (a) more accurately determine Brazil's gross expenditure on
R&D (GERD), and a number of related indicators; (b) develop and implement standards
for reporting by federal S&T institutions; (c) complement the existing national database
of active research groups and researchers with more complete information on
employment patterns for S&T graduates (to be done with tracer studies of the graduating
cohorts); and (d) support periodic and routine evaluation of the quality and relevance of
Brazilian research output, using bibliometric indicators and other tools for assessing
research productivity.
Implementation procedures: A Technical Coordinating Group (TCG) will oversee and
direct the activities of this subcomponent. It will be composed of directors of the main
institutions with M&E vocations or responsibilities (CNPq, IBGE, IPEA/MINIPLAN,
CAPES, CCT Subcommittee on Information) plus three non-Brazilian M&E specialists.
The TCG will analyze and approve the technical content of all proposed initiatives,
determine (and allocate) the required resources for these initiatives, establish a strategy
for integrating and/or making M&E efforts compatible, and plan the long-term
sustainability of sectoral M&E at internationally acceptable levels of quality.
(3)    Supportfor administering and enforcing the intellectualproperty rights regime (US$4
million).This activity will support part of the ongoing restructuring efforts of INPI,
which is aimed at preparing the institution for effective enforcement of the new (1996)
industrial property law. It includes (a) dissemination efforts focused on the new IPR
regime and its benefits; (b) training human resources in intellectual property rights; (c)
developing local agencies that specialize in providing industrial property technical
assistance and information services; and (d) developing national indicators for
trademarks and patents. The PIP contains explicit plans for an independent analysis of
the INPI, similar to the recently completed study, which will serve as the baseline.
(4)    Supportfor metrology and standards services (US$16.3 million).This subcomponent
will fund several activities that will improve the quality of the metrology, standards, and
testing services available to the Brazilian productive sector. These will involve: (a)
enhancing the National Metrology Laboratory and the Brazilian system of reference
laboratories; (b) developing certification of reference materials; (c) enhancing the
Brazilian Network of Calibration Laboratories; (d) training professionals in metrology;
(e) modernizing the Brazilian Association of Technical Standards; (f) consolidating the
Brazilian Network of Testing Laboratories; and (g) disseminating technology
management tools within firms.
(5)   Interim Fund to provide for the maintenance ofscientif c equipment (US$4.8 million). A
small fund will be available to which researchers can apply for maintenance funds for
equipment acquired under PADCT I & II. To avoid the continuous need for a separate
equipment maintenance fund, the system will change to one where maintenance funds
28



are included within the budget proposals for purchasing equipment under PADCT III:
under this project, all maintenance funds for new equipment will be included in the
grants for purchases. Other S&T research funding programs managed by MCT and its
agencies are expected to adopt this system as well. The transitional fund will be
managed by the chairs of the GPAs (Grupos de Planejamento e Avaliagao) for each
discipline, with the technical support of one staff of the SCG.
PROJECT ADMINISTRATIVE STRUCTURE
The project will be implemented by MCT with the administrative assistance of FINEP,
CNPq, and CAPES, plus the contracted services of numerous entities, including private firms,
universities, nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) (such as SEBRAE), and state governmental
agencies (such as FAPs). Overall monitoring and coordination of the project will be the
responsibility of SGC, a unit within MCT, which will include staff with the required expertise,
including experience in the execution of Bank-financed projects. At agreed intervals, SGC will
receive counterpart funds from the Treasury. Funds will then be transferred to the respective
implementing agencies for ultimate disbursement to the beneficiaries. The implementing
agencies will enter into contracts with the beneficiaries that will spell out the responsibilities,
conditions, and obligations of both parties. An operational manual, detailing procedures and
responsibilities, was submitted to the Bank in draft form, as a condition of negotiations.
Within the MCT, the new operation will be administered by a Management and
Coordination Secretariat (SCG). The responsibilities of the SCG will include (a) overseeing
project implementation according to the guidelines and by-laws of the basic document and
operating manuals; (b) defining and initiating the overall program and strategic planning; (c)
providing assistance (including operational) to the project's normative ("supervisory
commission"), strategic ("executive groups"), and other decision-making bodies and technical
advisory groups; and (d) mobilizing and deploying resources for all aspects of program
management. The Project Implementation Plan (PIP) contains descriptions of all administrative
and management structures as they relate to each of the three project components; the routine
implementation details are in the Manual Operativo (Operational Manual). The SCG will be
supported by several committees and agencies. The most prominent ones are listed below.
(a) Supervisory committee (Comite Supervisor [CS]). The CS will provide overall
strategic direction for the project. This committee is presided over by the Executive
Secretary of the Ministry of Science and Technology. Its vice president is the Executive
Secretary of PADCT, who also functions as the secretary for the CS. Other Committee
members are the heads of the three federal implementing agencies (FINEP, CNPq, and
CAPES); one representative of the FAPs; one representative each (for a total of four)
named by ABC, CNI, ANPEI, and SBPC; two other S&T experts named by the Minister
of Science and Technology; and one representative named by the CCT (Conselho
Nacional de Ciencia e Tecnologia). Members should be individuals with records of
distinguished scientific, technological, and/or related policymaking experience; they are
to bring a balanced perspective to decisions on allocating resources across scientific and
technological disciplines. In this new framework, the CS will (a) recommend to the MCT
the appointment of GTG members selected from three lists prepared by the SCG
collegiate, with input from the S&T community; (b) approve the members proposed by
the other groups; (c) examine and ultimately approve the PADCT III annual plans
submitted by the SCG; (d) examine and comment on the Annual Monitoring and Evaluation
Report, to be produced by the SCG; (e) approve revisions in the Manual Operativo, based
on proposals submitted by the GPAs and the SCG; (f) approve the constitution of
29



cooperative programs; and (g) submit to the Minister of Science and Technology, after due
consideration by the GCCT, proposals for reallocating resources among the PADCT III
subprograms and project components, at the project midterm review.
(b) Strategic groups and advisory committees. In most cases, projects will be selected
through competitive peer review processes organized and administered by strategic
groups (GPAs) and carried out by advisory councils (CAs). Detailed procedures for the
functioning of these groups are contained in the Manual Operativo.
(c) Implementing andfinancial agencies. The Science and Technology Research
Component will operate principally with the three federal implementing agencies that
worked for PADCT II: FINEP, CNPq, and CAPES. These agencies are responsible for
contracting, disbursing funds, and monitoring projects that fall within their jurisdiction.
As a rule, CAPES administers projects that focus principally on human resource training,
CNPq administers projects that focus on science and technology research, and FINEP
administers projects that focus on technological development. In the Technology
Development (TD) Component, FINEP and SEBRAE will administer most of the
projects. State science funding agencies (FAPs) will be encouraged to help implement
both SR and TD projects which pertain to regional development. FAPs may become
accredited as implementing agencies by making formal agreements with the SCG.
(d) International Consultative Oversight Group (GCCT). Like PADCT I & II, the new
operation will have an independent advisory council composed of Brazilian and
international members. This group, tentatively named the Grupo Consultivo de Ciencia e
Tecnologia (GCCT), will meet annually to review and discuss the broad directions of the
program and make recommendations to the minister and the World Bank on program
performance. It is a new version of the GEA (Grupo de Especial Acompanhamento),
which advised the Bank and MCT on the performance of the PADCT I & II projects. The
GCCT will provide strategic advice on all components of the new operation. The new
mandate and composition reflect the emphasis on technology development and the
increased relevance to the productive sector of scientific and technological research. The
terms of reference for the GCCT are in the Manual Operativo.
30



ANNEX 4: ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
Table 4-1 Estimated Project Costs (in US$ millions)
Project component                         Local   Foreign    Total         %          %
foreign     total
Technolo  -             t:                                                         . . -.:119.:  ::   1.0   -. 4
Platforms                                      4.2       0.0        4.2
Matching grant facility
Publicly-led cooperative projects           28.4        7.8      36.2
Privately-led cooperative projects          62.5       10.7      73.2
SME focused projects                        23.9        9.5      33.4
Science adTcn)   eea                          90.       561 _ 7.84
Chemistry/chemical engineering                23.7      17.1       40.8
Geoscience/mineral technology                 18.6       9.5       28.1
Biotechnology                                 16.7      10.1       26.8
Applied physics                                7.4        3.1      10.5
New materials                                 14.2       11.2      25.4
Environmental science                         10.3        5.1      15.4
Setoral Support Activitie.    .               3            . :-- :
Working Group on sectoral reform               8.2       0.7        8.9
Support for sectoral M&E                       7.9       2.5       10.4
Support for the IPR regime.                    3.0        1.0       4.0
Support for MSTQ services                     12.5       3.8       16.3
Equipment maintenance fund                     3.6        1.2       4.8
je-tm      n   m    t90.. ...................
Total 'Bie Cst .. .....4                                 3 .  9  348.3.
Physical contingencies                         0.7       0.0        0.7
Price contingencies                            1.0       0.0        1.0
- , ., - . ..~~~.......  -. .... ..   .... -. .,  ,.,......  ...- .    ..     ..    ...  ..   ..   ...    --.... ---.-
naikocated00.... :-:0-:.:- -::    -:    - -
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.       , . , ..,.   . ... .  . .. . . ...  .... ....
31



Table 4-2: Project Financing by Component (in US$ millions)
Component               GOB        IBRD      Private       Total
sector
1. Technology development              44.0       53.0       50.0        147.0
2. Science and technology research      70.0      77.0                    147.0
3. Sectoral support                     30.0      16.0                     46.0
4. Project management                    6.0       4.0                     10.0
5. Unallocated                           5.0       5.0                     10.0
Total      155.0      155.0       50.0        360.0
32



ANNEX 5: ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Recent economic reforms in Brazil have been followed by a stabilization of
macroeconomic indicators and the opening of the private sector to both domestic and
international competition. The real GDP growth rate has risen from -0.8 percent in 1992 to 4.2
percent in 1995. Increased growth and stronger competition have created greater demand for
investment in the Brazilian economy, as shown in Table 5.1. Growth of investment by more than
2 percent of GDP within five years is a remarkable achievement.
Table 5-1: Selected Critical Macroeconomic Indicators
Year    1991        1992       1993       1994        1995
GDP growth rate                  0.3       -0.8         4.2        5.8         4.2
Investment as percent of        19.2       19.5        20.0       20.8       21.6
G D P                    I  _ _ _   I  I__   _    I__   _    I__    _    I__   _
Source: Banco Central do Brazil.
Although there is increased demand for investment in the Brazilian economy, a number
of constraints limit the opportunities for the type that fosters innovation. In this new economic
environment, Brazil's Science and Technology (S&T) Reform Project will facilitate the
country's economic growth through increased and higher-quality innovations. It will accomplish
this with a number of related interventions at the level of the S&T community and the private
sector that will increase both the capacity for economically relevant research and the rate of
investment by the private sector in Research and Development and Non-Routine Engineering
(R&D&E).
In order to evaluate this project, the following issues are particularly relevant. First, what
is the impact of the project on the Brazilian economy? To measure this, it is necessary to
determine the outcomes of the project and how these outcomes affect the economy. Second, it is
important to assess to what extent the project can play a legitimate public sector role in the
economy. If project activities merely replace potential private sector activities, then the project
will be of limited value.
This project can be characterized as an investment in future well-being through increases
in the level or the quality of technologic innovation in Brazil. With this investment orientation,
the economic value of the project can be evaluated on the basis of the return on investment. The
specific outcomes of the project which are assumed to have an impact on Brazilian income could
be classified into three general categories:
* An increase in the levels of publicly-funded fundamental and applied scientific research, with
an increasing emphasis on the economic value of the research;
* An increase in the level of private sector funding of R&D&E activities in cooperation with
public sector research institutions, including universities;
* A strengthening of the S&T infrastructure, which will improve information flows in the
sector. These activities include policy reform, strengthening intellectual property rights,
improving institutional linkages, and improving MSTQ services.
33



In economic terms, the project can be characterized as improving both the supply and
demand for innovation-related activities. The supply of human capital useful for innovation will
be increased through publicly-funded research. At the same time, the private sector will gain
greater access to the type of innovations that public sector researchers can provide. An important
public sector activity here will be improving the conditions and institutions necessary for an
efficient marketplace for R&D&E. As supply and demand expand, and as the conditions of the
marketplace improve, the production of R&D&E will become easier and less costly.
International comparisons provide a perspective on the size of R&D in Brazil. National
expenditures are about 0.88 percent of GDP, higher than most of Latin America, but lower than
the Asian newly industrializing countries (NICs), and less than half the rate of most industrial
nations. Government remains responsible for the bulk of these expenditures, while the private
sector accounts for only 25 percent. This is a similar percentage to that of Argentina, India, and
Mexico, but much lower than that of Japan (79 percent), the Republic of Korea (81 percent), the
United States (52 percent), and West Germany (61 percent). In human resources, Brazil had
approximately 35,600 scientists and engineers in research in 1993, which represented 0.05
percent of the work-force, and 235 workers per million population. This is a smaller proportion
than that in Argentina (360 per million), the Republic of Korea (804 per million), Singapore (960
per million), and Taiwan, China (1,426 per million), but is similar to that in Mexico (216 per
million).
The Economic Rationalefor Public Sector Involvement
Increased private sector innovation will inevitably have private firms as drivers of the
process. However, there are important reasons why it is important for the public sector to be
involved.
First, the new economic environment in Brazil is conducive to increased innovation.
Intensifying competition has increased the incentives for innovation, and a stable
macroeconomic environment has reduced the risk of making long-term investments. The
problem, however, is that adjustment to these new conditions will take time. Public sector
interventions may be economically justified if they can accelerate the rate of innovation growth.
Appropriate public sector roles would include correcting information failures, creating new
institutional pathways, and generally promoting the conditions for a marketplace conducive to
innovation.
Second, strong evidence shows that the social returns from innovation are higher than
the private returns because of the positive externalities from expanding the knowledge base of
society. These spillovers of knowledge from one firm to another can be significant, and occur
because knowledge is a "quasi-public" good. Once created, firms are not able to fully control the
use of knowledge because of the difficulty of enforcing property rights. To the extent that the
rest of society benefits from innovation, and given the difficulties faced by the private sector in
appropriating these benefits, public policies play an important role in fostering innovation.
Both arguments are likely to be pertinent in the Brazilian case, and they are not mutually
exclusive. However, they lead to different implications for project activities. The first rationale
for public intervention is to correct a transitory problem, and it will therefore provide a
justification for such action only for a limited time. The second argument, however, is not
limited by time: it is appropriate for the public sector to correct externalities by providing a
public good at all times, and most governments fund some level of research and development.
This implies a larger impact for the project during this transition period, and a lower but constant
stream of benefits from public expenditures in the future.
34



Economic Issues for Project Evaluation
As already noted, the economic analysis of this-project requires two types of questions to
be addressed. The first group of questions deals with the overall value of the project output. This
is the standard cost-benefit analysis. For a public sector project such as this, not only must the
size of the net benefit of the project be measured, but the analysis must also determine whether
this is an appropriate public investment. It must have benefits beyond those that private markets
would produce, and the benefits should be greater than alternative public investments.
If it is shown that the outcomes of the project are desirable and appropriate for public
investments, a second set of issues must address the question of the least cost method of
achieving this outcome. In standard cost effectiveness analysis, project activities are compared
with alternative ways of achieving the same outcome. Rather than generate alternative
approaches, this analysis examines if project activities are efficient in producing project
outcomes by employing appropriate economic principles and incentives.
Cost-Benefit Analysis
The cost-benefit analysis consists of the following steps. The outcomes. of the project are
defined, and the economic value of those outcomes is calculated and compared to the costs. In
determining the outcomes, however, it is important to identify the changes that can be attributed
to the project and separate them from those that would have occurred without the project
activities. In part, the comparison of the project impacts with the "counterfactual" of what would
have occurred without the project is a measure of the public sector relevance of the project, since
it compares the project with what would have happened without public sector involvement.
The first step is to define the outcomes of the project, which intervene on both the
demand and supply side of the market for innovations. Figure 5.1 provides a schematic
illustration of its probable impacts. The project invests in various activities, including training,
matching grants, intellectual property rights, and MSTQ. The expected results of these actions
are listed in the first level of the graph: more research, better S&T skills, greater private sector
investment, and a generally stronger innovation infrastructure. These activities will have a direct
effect on the rate of commercial applications of R&D&E, as well as a strengthened innovation
system that will create more research output of higher quality, and more economic relevance.
Ultimately, this will translate into higher productivity in the Brazilian economy and a shift
toward better quality goods and services.
35



Figure 5-1: Probable Impacts of the S&T Reform Project
Increased levels of                                      Increased private R&D&E
fundamental and applied                                 through matching grants,
research, increase in skills of                          better information, stronger
S&T researchers                                          S&T infrastructure
Strengthened national innovation system:
- Research more focused on economically relevant areas
- More commercial applications developed
- Better quality research output
Increased income for Brazilian economy:
- Greater output from existing firms and production
- Shift of economy to higher quality products
- Improved socioeconomic performnance
To estimate the economic value of the project, this analysis uses a two-step approach.
First, Brazilian data is used to estimate the value of innovation. With this value, the analytical
methodology predicts the changes in both the quantity and quality of R&D&E that can be
attributed to this project. This allows calculating a rate of return for the project, the net present
value (NPV) of the project investment, and the internal rate of return (IRR). Because predictions
are always inexact, the analysis provides a range of possible outcomes.
The Value of Innovation in Brazil
Information on both the rate of R&D&E in Brazil, and on its value for the private sector
is sparse. One large data set that contains total costs of the largest 1,000 industrial firms is
included in the Conjuntura Economica - Fundacao Getulio Vargas (Dec. 1993). However, there
is no comparable data on R&D expenditures. A recent survey by ANPEI (the National
Association for Economic and Industrial Research) is being used to build a database of annual
figures about R&D among a subset of Brazilian firms.12 Since 1992, ANPEI has conducted three
surveys, with the most recent in 1995. These annual surveys were sponsored by PADCT II. The
database includes information provided by 651 firms on a voluntary basis, including most large
industrial firmns in Brazil and several hundred micro, small-, and medium-scale firms that engage
in significant R&D&E activities. ANPEI estimates that their sample covers about half the
industrial GDP of Brazil (it does not include service industries or extractive industries, however),
and covers the majority of R&D&E activities occurring in the country.
There are several methodological difficulties with the ANPEI data, including the
interpretation of the sample selection bias. The analysis performed here is based solely on the
most recent innovation survey by ANPEI. Within the survey, the type of information sought
12 For more informnation, see R. Sbragia, and I. Kruglianskas, "R&D in Brazilian Industry: Recent
Indicators," in Research Technology Management, Vol. 39, No. 3, May-June 1996.
36



makes it impossible to determine whether returns from new and improved products come from
applying new knowledge, or whether it can be attributed to marketing a new version of an old
product. Nevertheless, the survey provides an indication of the value of innovation in the current
economic environment of Brazil.
ANPEI's figures for expenditures include not only R&D, but also engineering, involving
those for nonroutine engineering services, technological support services, and technology
acquisition, as a measure of innovation efforts. The impact of R&D&E expenditures is evaluated
by the increase in revenue accruing from the generation of new products and improvements in
the existing ones. Moreover, it is noteworthy that there may be cost reductions from the
introduction of new and/or improved processes.
The ANPEI data show that within firms that engage in R&D&E activities, revenues from
new and improved products represent 37.7 percent of all revenues. It was assumed that these
products also produced 37.7 percent of profits. Firms also report that costs have fallen by 1.2
percent as a result of innovation. In addition, they report expenses on innovation equal to about
9.1 percent of profits (and 1.3 percent of revenues). Selected parameters calculated with the
ANPEI data are provided in Table 5.2.
Table 5-2: ANPEI Survey Data from 1996
Number offirms                             651
Shipments                              147,562
Gross profit                            21,311
R&D&E expenditures                       1,943
Revenues from new products              55,587
Savings in operational costs               847
INP (%)                                  37.67
IEC (%)                                    1.16
Contribution of R&D&E (REV)              8,914
Return from R&D&E (%)                     4.59
Note:
INP = Revenue from new products over shipments.
IEC = Savings in operational costs over gross profit.
REV = Gross profit (INP + IEC).
Return from R&D&E = REV over R&D&E expenditures.
Source: ANPEI calculations.
The ANPEI data indicate that the return to investment in R&D&E may be about 4.59
times larger than expenditures. However, these returns do not occur until some time after the
investment takes place, and therefore must be discounted to compare with the costs. The lag
between investment in R&D&E and return has been the subject of considerable research. Among
37



the best known is work by Edwin Mansfield.13 Using a sample of US firms, Mansfield estimates
that the average lag is about seven years.
In this analysis, it is also assumed that the benefits of R&D&E occur on average about
seven years after expenditure. It is likely that Brazilian firms are much smaller than the US firms
used by Mansfield, but other researchers have found much longer lags in the benefits.'4 When
returns of about 4.59 percent are lagged by seven years, the IRR for these investments can be
calculated to be about 24 percent. This is in the same general range of returns found by
Mansfield for US firms.
The survey asks firms for the expenses and returns from all innovation activities. ANPEI
claims that the data cover at least 70 percent of all R&D&E activities. Each firm will almost
surely make use of knowledge and innovations produced by others. On this basis, the analysis
assumes that it is capturing most investment in innovation wherever it occurs, and most returns
wherever they occur. Thus, the estimate of a 24 percent rate of return is more closely associated
with the social rate of return than with the private rate of return by firms.
What Is the Project Contribution to Innovation?
Innovation in Brazil appears to have a high return. Nevertheless, the ANPEI data show
that a very small proportion of Brazilian firms are innovating. Thus, the low level of activity in
R&D&E is indicative of possible constraints on the ability of firms to become involved. Market
imperfections are commonly observed in R&D&E,15 and have been used to explain why, despite
the seemingly high returns for these activities, most firms do not engage in the expected amount.
In general, the argument is that firms make investment decisions based on their
expectations of the returns. There are a number of reasons why those expectations may differ
from actual returns. The primary problems include the following:
- Inadequate information. Firms may have misinformed expectations about the returns from
innovation. This may be due to the recent changes in the economic climate, and the resulting
uncertainty about the future. In addition, to the extent that the Brazilian industry was shielded
from competition until recently, this may have reduced the need to keep current on
information about innovations.
* High costs of innovation. Firns may face unusually high costs or risks to innovate. This may
occur because of limited contact with the research community, inadequate protection of
intellectual property rights, poor sectoral support (including metrology, standards, testing,
and quality), and adverse policy conditions (including high real interest rates).
* Difference between social and private returns. Although firms may have accurate
expectations of their returns from investing in innovation, these often are less than the total
See Edwin Mansfield, "Academic Research and Industrial Innovation," in Research Policy, vol. 20,
1991.
For example, James Adans, "Fundamental Stocks of Knowledge and Productivity Growth," Journal of
Political Economy, V. 98, No. 4, 1990, finds that engineering studies have a lag of 0 to 10 years, but
science studies have a lag of about 20 years.
I For example, see Paul Romer, "Endogenous Technical Change," in Journal of Political Economy, V. 8
No. 5, 1990, or Zvi Griliches, "The Search for R&D Spillovers," Scandinavian Journal of Economics,
supplement, 1992, or Paula Stephan, "The Economics of Science," Journal of Economic Literature,
V. 34, Sept. 1996.
38



return that society receives from the new knowledge. This "public good" aspect of innovation
is a common argument for why private firms engage in a suboptimal (for society) level of
R&D&E.
While the shape of the distribution of expected rates of return from potential R&D&E
investments is unknown, what is observed is that a small tail of the distribution is in the range of
expected returns above which firms will commit to an investment. For the reasons listed above, it
is assumed that the distribution of actual returns will lie to the right of the expected distribution:
that is, there are firms for which the expected rate of return lies below the cutoff rate that
justifies investing, but for which the actual rate of return (at least the social rate of return) is
above the cutoff level.
In addition, two other biases affect the firms' expectations. The first is referred to as
anchoring,16 which results from firms systematically underestimating the variance of a
distribution. Such estimates are anchored by the mean of the distribution, so that the size of the
distribution extremes is underestimated. Second, there is a conservatism bias,17 in which firms
will not revise their estimates of the probability of successful investments as much as new
experience would deem appropriate. In this case, new economic conditions may change the
expectations on an investment, but firms may continue to operate on the basis of previous
expectations.
The public sector in general, and this project in particular, can affect this distribution
through changes in information, reduced costs for a given quality of innovation, and
subsidization of innovations with high social benefits. By doing so, the project is designed to
shift the distribution of expected rates of return for R&D&E to the right by some amount. The
result is that an increasing number of Brazilian firms will initiate or increase their levels of
investment in R&D&E, as illustrated in Figure 5.2.
6 See A. Tversky and D. Kahneman, "Judgment Under Uncertainty: Heuristics and Biases," in Kahneman,
Slovak, and Tversky, Judgment Under Uncertainty: Heuristics and Biases, Cambridge University
Press, 1982.
17 See Ward Edwards, "Conservatism in Human Information Processing," in Kahneman, Slovak, and
Tversky, Judgment Under Uncertainty: Heuristics and Biases, Cambridge University Press, 1982.
39



Figure 5-2: Distribution of Expected Rates of Return for R&D&E
Firm s
D istribution of Expected Rates of R eturn for R& D & E
Post project
Pre proj t istribution
distributio
Cutof' Rate of Return Rate of Return
for Firm s to invesst
In short, the project will improve the level of innovation in the Brazilian economy by
shifting the expected distribution closer to the actual distribution of returns from R&D&E. In
part, this will be done by improving the level of information in the sector, both in general
awareness of the benefits of innovations, and in specific information needed to establish links
with potential researchers. Project activities in the S&T infrastructure area and general S&T
reform will lower the cost of conducting R&D&E. Increasing the supply of S&T researchers will
be an important part of reducing costs for innovation. Finally, matching grants will bring the
private returns from innovations with major social benefits more in line with their social value.
Measuring the impact of these interventions is difficult. It will depend on the size and
efficiency of project interventions and the size of innovation activities. In general, however, the
impact will be transmitted through two main channels:
- By correcting expectations, lowering costs, and reducing institutional barriers, the
project will foster an increase in private R&D spending on innovation;
* By improving human capital, redirecting fundamental research, improving S&T
infrastructure, and reducing institutional barriers, the project will promote an increase
in the difference between (return-cost) of all R&D.
The size of each of these impacts can be estimated by making reasonable assumptions
about the degree to which the project will stimulate private investment or improve the quality of
Brazilian S&T researcher output. These assumptions are based on the relative size and type of
project interventions.
The size of the current level of R&D&E activities can be estimated from data by ANPEI
and the MCT. Earlier estimates put annual expenditures at about 0.5 percent of GDP. As shown
earlier, investment overall has grown significantly in recent years, and ANPEI estimates that the
addition of nonroutine engineering to conventional R&D places expenditures at about I percent
of GDP. Also, ANPEI estimates that the addition of engineering raises the private portion of
expenditures from about 20 to 30 or 40 percent. Given these estimates, the analysis uses the
following assumptions:
40



Size of Brazilian economy:           US$600 billion
Total R&D&E:               US$6 billion
Private R&D&E:              US$2 billion
Project Impacts
4     Many of the project interventions, such as improving the information base and the S&T
infrastructure, will have an impact on both the growth of private R&D&E and on the efficiency
of all such activities. Although it will be difficult to estimate the effects of these activities in
isolation, they form the necessary basis for efficient operation of the R&D&E marketplace. As
such, their operation will be crucial for all aspects of the project, and will likely serve as a
multiplier of the effectiveness of other interventions.
Matching grant activities presumably will have a more direct impact on private
investment growth. In addition to the work supported directly by the grants, it is expected that
the four years of project activities will introduce the private sector to cooperative research and
increase their comfort level, thus shifting their expectations of costs and returns. This
demonstration effect, combined with a selection of projects with significant spillovers for the
remainder of the industry, is expected to spur significant sector-wide investment. Although the
matching grant activity itself will operate at the level of about US$25 million per year, very
small impacts on total private sector activity could have large results. Given the size of the
private sector R&D&E, an increase in total investment of only 1 to 3 percent, for example,
would result in additional annual investment of US$20 million to US$60 million.
In addition to the private sector R&D&E activities, the project will also continue the
earlier (PADCT I & II) investments in scientific research, which was the major activity of the
PADCT I & II projects. While this activity does not contribute directly to private sector
activities, it is expected to have a major impact indirectly by increasing the efficiency and quality
of all R&D&E in Brazil through improvements in the human capital. The two earlier projects in
the S&T sector have resulted in important increases in the skills of the S&T community. A
recent PADCT report estimated that project funding was instrumental in more than 6,000
national and international papers, and in the training of 796 Ph.Ds and 2,273 Master's degrees.
This represents a significant increase in the level of science research skills and human capital
formation.
The current project will fund basic research in major areas of the Brazilian economy by
providing grants for a significant portion of researchers in several fields that are considered most
economically relevant to Brazil. The science research component will maximize its economic
relevance by focusing on the following six major areas of research related to the Brazilian
economy:
*  Chemistry and chemical engineering This is among the largest of Brazil's
industries. More than 70 percent of chemistry graduates go to work for industry.
* Geoscience/mineral technology. Minerals are the largest export category. The
country has large mineral reserves and a strong need for modern technology.
*  Biotechnology. This is an emerging area in Brazil in which production is already
growing rapidly. This sector will have a high demand for trained researchers.
41



* New materials. This is an interdisciplinary activity which made significant progress
under the previous PADCT II project. The current project will benefit from the
momentum created in this sector.
* Environmental science. This is an important area for protecting Brazil's natural
resources. More than 1,000 groups are currently working in this sector, which was
also supported by PADCT II.
* Appliedphysics. This subcomponent will work on applications involving physics and
engineering groups in areas including optics and optical communications, electronic
devices and systems, applied classical phenomenology systems and processes,
sensors, and control systems.
While science research has a less direct and timely impact on the economy than does
applied research, the work in these six areas is expected to improve the skills of researchers in
subject areas that represent a major portion of Brazilian research activities now and in the future.
The increase in human capital in critical areas, combined with the sectoral support activities
discussed above are expected to increase the quality and efficiency of all research. The size of
this impact is difficult to estimate. Science research and sectoral support will involve
expenditures of about US$200 million over the four-year life of the project. As these researchers
move throughout the S&T community, their increased skills will influence the return on all
investments. Given the US$6 billion size of the sector, if the quality and efficiency of R&D&E
activities is increase by only 0.5 to 2.5 percent, this will increase returns to R&D&E by US$30
million to about US$150 million annually.
Under these assumptions, Tables 5.3, 5.4, and 5.5 provide estimates of the potential
effect of the project on the economy. Table 5.3 lists the major assumptions used in calculating
the net benefits. Using the same 24 percent rate of return from innovation, the net present cost of
the project is about US$211 million.
Table 5-3: Economic Analysis Calculations
Cost ofproject
Total return from innovation:          4.59    Year      Cost   Discounted
Time from investment to return:          7             0      30           30
Discount rate:                         0.24             1     30      24.1935
2     120     78.0437
Priv. RDE:                   2,000                     3     150      78.6731
Total RDE:                   6,000             Total         330       210.91
Because of the uncertainty of predicting the rate of change, the analysis provides
calculations for the range of values assurned earlier in this section. Conservative values of
private sector investment growth from 0.5 to 3.5 percent and R&D&E efficiency improvements
of 0.5 to 2.5 percent were used to calculate the NPV of the project under various levels of
impact. These are shown in Table 5.4, and the IRR shown in Table 5.5.
42



The potential net benefit of the project is illustrated by the calculations shown in Table
5.4. Annual benefits of the project are calculated in two parts. Private sector growth is found by
multiplying the current size of the private sector R&D&E by the assumed output value from the
ANPEI data, and by the range of growth rates shown across the top of Table 5.4. At the current
size of the sector, this would require an annual increase in private research of US$ 10 million -
US$70 million, which is in the range of growth expected by the project matching grant
component. Increase in the efficiency of R&D&E is found by estimating the potential change in
the net rate of return, shown here limited at 0.5 to 2.5 percent. The present value of this annual
flow of benefits is found by dividing the annual flow of benefits by the discount rate. Project
costs are subtracted from this benefit estimation to obtain the net benefits shown in Table 5.4.
Table 5-4: Project Net Present Value
Change   Growth in private R&D&E
in return    0.50%    1.00%     1.50%    2.00%    2.50%    3.00%    3.50%
0.50%       105      297      488       679       870     1062      1253
1.00%      230       422      613       804      995      1187      1378
1.50%      355       547      738       929      1120     1312      1503
2.00%      480       672       863     1054      1245     1437      1628
2.50%1     605       797       988     1179      1370     1562      1753
Notes: Annual benefit = (growth rate of priv RDE) * (return from RDE) + (total RDE) *
(rate of increase in return from RDE).
Total benefit = (annual benefit)/discount rate.
Net benefit = total benefit - total cost.
Rate of discount: 0.24.
The project has a positive net value throughout the ranges of growth of private
investment and R&D&E efficiency used in these calculations. In separate calculations, it was
found that the project would break even with a 0.6 percent impact on the growth of private sector
investment alone, or with a 0.9 percent impact on the rate of return for all R&D&E. At larger
rates of growth, the project rapidly generates large returns for the economy, with Table 5.4
showing US$1.7 billion dollars in value for the most generous assumptions. Table 5.5 converts
these flows into measures of the IRR. These rates are illustrated graphically in Figure 5.3. For
the range of impacts expected, the project will generate an IRR as high as 40 percent.
Table 5-5: Internal Rate of Return (percent)
Change    Growth in Private RDE
in return       0.50      1.00     1.50     2.00      2.50     3.00      3.50
0.50        0        9        16       21        26       30        33
1.00       6        14       20        24       28        32        35
1.50       12       18       23        27        31       34        37
2.00       16       21        26       29        33       36        39
2.50       19       24        28       32        35       38        40
43



Table 5.5 also shows the sensitivity of the results to the various assumptions used.
Because the range of major assumptions about the project impacts are arrayed along the rows
and columns, it is possible to determine the sensitivity of the project to these variables. In
addition, it should be recalled that background assumptions on the size of the R&D&E activity,
and the average rate of return from individual projects, will greatly affect the size of the NPV
and the IRR of the project. In most cases, the analysis provides a conservative set of
assumptions, which increases the probability that the analysis does not overstate the value of the
project.
Figure 5-3: Internal Rate of Return
Internal Rate of Return
45%l
40%
35% -
30%
4450%/o0 i    g                   u        i 
25%        .
2.50%
x 00/ a
10%                
-5%                             ~~~~~~~~~~~1.00%
0.50  1.0% 1.0% 200%2.50%  3.00%  3.50%
Priv. sec. RDEgrowth
The 'without project' scenario: It is difficult to project the status of Brazilian industry
without this project for two major reasons. First, the economy is rapidly changing, making any
projections problematic. Second, the analysis presented here examines the impact of the project
over a wide range of assumptions, making it difficult to compare it to a baseline projection.
Nevertheless, it seems clear that economic growth would be significantly slower without the
project. Moreover, the inability of firms to adequately capture all the externalities generated by
R&D&E would imply that the rate of innovation without the public intervention of this project
would consistently be lower than optimal.
Sustainability: Many of the project activities can be considered initial investments to
create an environment more conducive to increased innovation and growth. As these activities
have the desired effect, the private sector is expected to increase its levels of investment in
R&D&E, so that much of the project becomes self-sustaining. However, many areas of
44



cooperative research, where the benefits are shared throughout a sector, will continue to be
appropriate areas for public investment. These "public good" innovations would be difficult to
fund solely through the private sector; most countries continue to make these public investments.
In addition, many of the programs from SMEs are likely to continue to use public expenditures
for equity reasons.
Cost Effectiveness Analysis
A classic cost effectiveness analysis would compare various alternatives for achieving
the same project outcome to find the lowest cost method. Because the alternatives are not
precisely defined in this case, the analysis simply considers the economic logic of the project and
whether the activities of the project generate the appropriate incentives.
Overall, the project uses a sound economic approach to spurring increased innovation. It
intervenes only in ways that address problems with the market for innovation. There is an
additional question of the absorptive capacity of the sector, but the preceding analysis indicates
the project is quite compatible with the dimensions of the Brazilian S&T sector.
Because the project approaches the problem of increased innovation from several
directions, with both supply and demand interventions, the question of separability of the
components arises. Although each component appears as a discrete endeavor, the logic of the
project is that all components of the "innovation marketplace" must be developed and in place
for growth to take place. Thus, it requires simultaneous involvement in spurring demand,
increasing supply, and creating appropriate levels of information flow and protecting intellectual
property rights. In this sense, each component depends on the others.
Nevertheless, several questions of cost-effectiveness arise when considering any project
of this type. Promoting innovation in the private sector is a difficult and delicate task, in which
the public sector must tread carefully. In a paper promoting self-organizing industry investment
boards,18 Paul Romer argues that "even after admitting all of the deficiencies of economic
markets, one must acknowledge what experience has so clearly demonstrated - that most of the
familiar political alternatives are far less efficient mechanisms for allocating resources than the
market is." He concludes that rather than trying to focus on "critical technologies," the public
sector should work to ensure "the underlying processes that lead to effective institutional
arrangements."
Just how any project can stay focused on efficient processes is the major question for
cost effectiveness. Most of the common mechanisms for doing so are included in the structure of
this project. For example, a study of the transfer of government technology19 lists six approaches
that government R&D managers have found promising: contracting R&D to industrial partners,
working with industrial consortia, licensing to industry, influencing key decisionmakers,
working with broker organizations, and generating end-user demand. The activities of this
project are consistent with the approaches discussed in this study.
8 Paul Romer, "Implementing a National Technology Strategy with Self-Organizing Industry Investment
Boards," Brookings Papers: Microeconomics 2, 1993.
19 M. Brown, L. Berry, and R. Goel, "Guidelines for Successfully Transferring Government-Sponsored
Innovations," Research Policy, V. 20, 1991.
45



The project also aims to effectively blend both applied and basic research in the most
cost-efficient manner. A recent study20 discusses a survey of 650 US industrial research
executives who were asked to rank the relevance of basic research; respondents noted that it was
important for efficient applied research, and that "Industrial scientists and engineers almost
always need training in the basic scientific principles and research techniques of their field, and
providing this training is a central function of universities."
Finally, the project will work with a number of decisionmakers in the research
community and the private sector. For maximum effectiveness, these actors will be offered the
proper incentives for high quality R&D&E, and have sufficient ability and information to act
appropriately. The government agencies executing this project will also be given incentives to
orient their funding toward commercial applications of research. To this end, it will be important
to design the selection criteria for grants to favor commercial applications, and to have
significant private sector representation on the selection boards. These considerations have
influenced the suggested composition of such committees, increasing private sector participation
vis-a-vis the experience of PADCT.
For private firms to use the services of the project and invest in R&D&E, the incentives
must be consistent with the private sector goal to maximize profits. The value of such
investments will depend on the expected cost, level of return, and the amount of risk involved.
To encourage greater private sector commitment, the project will carefully consider the
incentives of the private sector in structuring several components. For example:
* If platforms require sharing of information, firms may consider the cost high and the returns
low (since they can get the information without participation). The project will carefully
consider appropriate incentives that will encourage private sector firms to participate in the
platform activities.
* Since R&D is somewhat speculative, it is likely that some projects will be known not to be
commercially viable before the end of the grant-funded research. If firms are committed to
complete their funding of the R&D regardless, they will consider the risk of participation
much higher. As experience accumulates in the project, mechanisms for minimizing this risk
will be developed.
* Researchers also have a choice of research opportunities. If their options include project
funding for fundamental research or applied research with firms, there may be some danger of
the two project components competing with each other. The fundamental research component
will be carefully structured to minimize this competition.
Monitoring and evaluation (M&E) of the project's inputs, processes, and outputs will be
vitally important to keep the project on track. Coupled with the M&E, there is a need for
appropriate feedback mechanisms that will indicate the incentives and decisions being made by
all participants in the project activities. As such, it is significant that the M&E activities of this
project are such a prominent component.
20Keith Pavitt, "What Makes Basic Research Economically Useful?" Research Policy, V. 20, 1991.
46



ANNEX 6: FINANCIAL SUMMARY
This project represents a substantial, but manageable, demand on Brazilian resources.
Table 6.1 provides estimates of the annual expenditures of the project and its size relative to
measures of the size of the economy.
By the final year of the project, expenditures are expected to reach as high as US$150
million, which is about 0.023 percent of the economy in that year. If total R&D spending in the
economy is estimated to be only 0.88 percent of GDP, this project would add 2.6 percent to total
R&D spending that year. If all project expenditures are considered additions to gross domestic
investment, then in its final year the project will be shifting gross investment from 21 percent of
the economy to about 21.02 percent. This is likely to be within the economy's absorptive
capacity.
In terms of the project's fiscal impact on the government, total project expenditures are
about 0.136 percent of the government consumption in the final year. Because this project
replaces the PADCT II project, which ended in 1996, much of this spending does not represent
new claims on government resources; instead it is a continuation of spending in this area.
Moreover, by the end of the project period, it is expected the private sector will be covering an
increasing portion of the project's expenditures, thereby reducing the burden on government
resources.
Table 6-1: Project Expenditures and the Economy
1998     1999      2000      2001 Total
Project expenditures                   (millions) (millions) (millions) (millions) (millions)
S&T research                             US$16    US$15    US$50    US$66   US$147
Technology development                   US$12    US$14    US$49    US$72   US$147
Sectoral support                          US$7      US$6    US$26    US$17    US$56
Unallocated                              US$2.5   US$2.5   US$2.5   US$2.5    US$10
Annual total (US$ millions)             US$37.5  US$37.5 US$127.5 US$157.5   US$360
Project as percent of:
General government consumption             3.2%     3.2%     12.1%     14.9%
Gross domestic investment                  2.6%     2.5%      1.0%     12.2%
: :~~~~~~~.     .. : ...   ..........  ...   .!.           ..-... - .
Brazil economy                          (billions) (billions) (billions)  (billions)  (billions)
General government consumption   17%     US$103   US$105   US$107   US$110   US$425
Private consumption             62%     US$374   US$382   US$392   US$400  US$1,522
Gross domestic investment       21%     US$127   US$130   US$132   US$135   US$524
47



ANNEX 7: SUMMARY OF PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
ARRANGEMENTS
Procurement of Goods and Consulting Services
Procurement of all goods and services will be carried out in accordance with the Bank's
Procurement Guidelines (Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, version
dated January 1995, revised January and August 1996). Specialized scientific equipment costing
each US$100 thousand equivalent or more and obtainable from a limited number of suppliers
may be procured through Limited International Bidding (LIB), up to an aggregate amount of
US$13.9 million. For the execution of the LIB processes, purchasers will use the Bank's
Standard Bidding Documents, which have been modified to exclude the provision on the margin
of domestic preference, which will not be applicable. To the extent possible, other scientific
equipment may be packaged, and contracts for such packages estimated to cost in excess of
US$350,000 will be procured under International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures using
the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents. Generic scientific equipment and other goods which
have numerous local suppliers and cost each less than US$350,000 but more than US$100,000
may be procured under National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures using standard bidding
documents acceptable to the World Bank. The aggregate ceiling for goods to be acquired via
NCB has been set at US$59 million. International or local shopping procedures will be used for
the purchase of goods estimated to cost less than US$100,000, up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed US$24.2 million. Direct contracting procedures may be used for the purchase of spare
parts and goods of a proprietary nature obtainable from a single source, up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed US$24.6 million.
Consultant services will be procured in accordance with Quality- and Cost-Based
Selection (QCBS) procedures. Complex or highly specialized assignments may be procured
under Quality-Based Selection (QBS) procedures. Simple assignments not exceeding the
equivalent of US$200,000 that can be precisely defined may be selected under a fixed budget.
Assignments of a standard or routine nature not exceeding the equivalent of US$100,000 or less
may be procured under least-cost selection procedures. Individual consultants will be selected on
the basis of their qualifications. These procedures are described in the Bank's Guidelines: Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency, dated
January 1997.
Major civil works are not contemplated in this project; minor renovation and
refurbishing will be entirely financed with counterpart funding.
Tables 7.1, 7.2, and 7.3 summarize the above-described procurement arrangements
agreed for the project, which are detailed in the project's Manual Operativo.
48



Table 7- 1: Summary of Project Cost by Procurement Arrangements (US$ million)
Procurement method
Expenditure category      ICB    NCB   Other   NBF    Total cost
Goods                      27.2   59.0   62.7                 148.9
(27.2)  (41.3)  (43.2)            (111.7)
Consultant services                        44.5                44.5
(33.0)             (33.0)
Training                                   43.8                43.8
(10.3)             (10.3)
Operating costs                                   122.8       122.8
Total    27.2   59.0    151   122.8    !Syntax
(27.2)  (41.3)  (86.5)            Error, (
(155.0)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are amounts financed by the World Bank.
Table 7-2: Detailed Project Cost Estimates by Procurement Arrangements (US$ million)
Expenditure category                     Procurement method (detailed)
ICB     LIB    NCB   IS/LS    DC    Other   NBF    Total
cost
Goods                      27.2   13.9   59.0   24.2    24.6                       148.9
(27.2)  (13.9)  (41.3)  (17.0)  (12.3)                 (111.7)
Consultant services                                                44.5             44.5
(33.0)          (33.0)
Training                                                           43.8             43.8
(10.3)          (10.3)
Operating costs                                                           122.8    122.8
Total   27.2    13.9   59.0   24.2   24.6   88.3  122.8  !Syntax
(27.2)  (13.9)  (41.3)  (17.0)  (12.3)  (43.3)         Error, (
(155.0)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are amounts financed by the World Bank.
49



Table 7-3: Consultant Selection Arrangements (in US$ million)
Category                                Selection method
QCBS   QBS    SFB        LCS1   Other   NBF    Total cost
A. Firms                    10.8     9.2     6.0     4.0                          30.0
(9.0)   (8.2)   (3.8)   (1.5)                       (22.5)
B. Individuals              n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    14.5                  14.5
(10.5)               (10.5)
Total                       10.8     9.2     6.0     4.0    14.5   (0.0)          44.5
1  (9.0)   (8.2)   (3.8)   (1.5)  (10.5)                (33.0)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the amounts financed by the Bank.
Prior Review by the Bank
Details of such review arrangements are in Table 7.4 below.
Table 7-4: Threshold for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure category        Type ofprocurement              Prior review
1. Works                   Not contemplated            Not contemplated
2. Goods
< US$100,000                Shopping                   None'
> US$100,000               NCB or LIB                  None'
<US$350,000
> US$350,000               ICB or LIB                  All
3. Consulting Services
(a) Individuals
< US$50,000                Qualification-based'        None'
> US$50,000                Qualification-based'        TOR, CV, draft contract
(b) Firms
> US$200,000               QCBS or QBS                 TOR, cost estimate, short list,
LOI, technical evaluation report
(QCBS), final evaluation report,
draft contract
< US$200,000 and           QCBS, QBS, or SFB           TOR, cost estimate, short list,
> US$100,000                                           LOI, final evaluation report, draft
contract
< US$100,000               Variable3                   None'
Notes: 1. Random ex post review.
2. As per Section V of the Consultant Guidelines for the selection of individual consultants.
3. To be determined on the basis of the nature of the task.
50



Disbursement
The proposed loan will disburse over a period of four years. It will finance 100 percent
of foreign expenditures and 70% of local expenditures. The actual allocation of loan proceeds by
category of disbursement is shown in Table 7.5.
Special Account
During negotiations, assurances were provided by the Borrower that it will open and
maintain a Special Account in a commercial bank for disbursement of the loan proceeds. The
authorized allocation will be US$20 million. The initial deposit will be limited to US$10 million
until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the loan account plus the total amount of
outstanding special commitments shall be equal to or exceed US$35 million. After that point, the
authorized allocation of the Special Account will be US$20 million. The Special Account will be
operated by FINEP, the project's financial agent. FINEP operated the Special Accounts of
PADCT I and II, both of which were also co-financed by the World Bank. The loan proceeds
will be disbursed against full documentation for goods contracts above US$350,000, for
consulting service contracts with firms above US$100,000, and consulting service contracts with
individuals above US$50,000. All other expenditures, including disbursement for research
grants, will be disbursed on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs).
Retroactive financing. Project expenditures made after June 1, 1997, or 12 months prior
to loan signature, whichever occurs later, not to exceed US$15.0 million, will be eligible for
retroactive financing from the loan.
/
51



Table 7-5: Allocation of Loan Proceeds by Expenditure Category
Project component                       Description'                     Allocation (in US$ million)
(A) Technology                            Goods                                         40
Development
Consultant services                                   18
(including studies and
training)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. .. i....S. i.!i  .-.  - '.:.:.!. E.i. E '. 'g!i-
(B) Science and                           Goods                                         58
Technology Research
Consultant services                                   17
(including studies and
training)
........ .......-g    g E, -     .... .......... ............................
* ......NSSubtotal
(C) Sectoral Support                         Goods
Consultant services                                   8
(including studies and
training)
.0.0..,    . E., ... . , t .;... .. .. .. .........,.,.       ... .
Project management                           Goods
Consultant services                                   4
(including studies and
training)
''''-T,"""..'..l-:,'-,''" '  '   '"''''''""'"":l''g' .......... ..................................................
Unallocated
Note: 1. Distribution of funds between goods and services is an estimation; given demand-driven nature of
the project, actual breakdown cannot be known at this point. For this reason, for the purposes of the
disbursement of the loan (Schedule I of Loan Agreement), no discrimination was made between goods and
services.
52



Accounting, Financial Reporting, and Auditing
Project expenditures will be recorded in such a way that all related sources of funds and
types of expenditures are clearly identified. Each implementing agency and the financial agent
will supply financial information on project execution on a quarterly basis to the SCG for
consolidation into annual reports due to the Bank. SCG has established a uniform and consistent
financial accounting and reporting system for the project. Each implementing agency will
maintain all required information and supporting documentation for the preparation of the
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). FINEP will be responsible for receiving disbursement
information and documents from the implementing agencies; it will aggregate the data and
prepare, sign, and submit to the Bank all withdrawal applications regarding expenditures to be
financed with the loan proceeds.
Annual audits of the project accounts and the Special Account will be carried out by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. As part of the audit, a separate opinion by the
auditor on the proper use of SOEs will be required. The auditor's report will be forwarded to the
Bank no later than six months after the end of each fiscal year of the Borrower.
53



ANNEX 8: PROJECT PROCESSING, BUDGET, AND SCHEDULE
A. Project Budget (US$131,000)                    Planned"             Actual
(LENP+LENA+LENN)
US$361,400          US$381,755
B. Project Schedule
Planned22            Actual
Time taken to prepare the project                 24 months           24 months
Strategic planning international workshop          May/95              May/95
Concept paper                                      Nov./95             Nov./95
Formal identification (in DC)                      May/96              May/96
Carta-Consulta approval by COFIEX                  June/96             June/96
Preparation mission                                Sept./96            Sept./96
Technical meetings (in DC)                         Nov./96             Nov./96
Initial preappraisal                               Dec./96             Dec./96
Final preappraisal                                 Mar./97             Mar./97
Appraisal completion                               June/97             June/97
Planned negotiations                               Oct./97             Nov./97
Planned Board presentation                         Nov./97             Dec./97
Planned effectiveness date                         May/98
Planned midterm review                            Oct./2000
C. Prepared by:  The Brazilian Ministry of Science and Technology (MCT), with technical
assistance from several national and international consultants, and in close
coordination with the Brazil Science and Technology Assistance and Reform
(S.T.A.R.) team, LCSHD.
21  At draft PAD stage.
22  At draft PAD stage.
54



ANNEX 9: SELECTED DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
BRAZIL
Science and Technology Reform Support Project
(See project file for additional documents and references)
A.    Basic documents for project implementation
* MCT: Project Implementation Plan, dated November 1997
* MCT: Draft Manual Operativo, dated November 1997
B.    PADCT I & II documents
*  WB: PADCT I: SAR, January 1985; and PCR, July 1994
*  WB: PADCT II: SAR & MOP, October 1990; and ICR, draft of August
1997
*  MCT: PADCT I: Documento Basico and Manual Operativo
*  MCT: FINEP/PADCT II "Loan Agreement," February 1991
C.    Related Projects
*  Indonesia: Higher Education Support Project - Development of
Undergraduate Education: Project Implementation Plan, April 1996 and
SAR
*  Argentina: Higher Education Reform: SAR plus Operational Manual and
Guide for the Presentation of Project Proposals (Spanish)
D.    Federal Science and Technology Agencies and Institutions
*  MCT: Relat6rios de Atividades, 1995 and 1996
*  MCT: Relat6rio Estatistico 1985 - 1995
*  CNPq: Relat6rios de Atividades 1995 and 1996
*  CNPq: Relat6rio Estatistico 1993
*  FINEP: Relat6rios de Atividades 1995 and 1996
*  FINEP: A Experiencia da FINEP 1967 - 92 (Interbusiness, January 1993)
*  EMBRAPA: Gestao em Ciencia e Tecnologia: Pesquisa AgropecuAria
(Goedert: EMBRAPA reorganization plan: 1994)
*  EMBRAPA: II Plano Diretor da EMBRAPA 1994 - 1998 (Brasilia, 1994)
*  FIOCRUZ: Relat6rio de Atividades 1993/94
*  FIOCRUZ: Politica Nacional de Ciencia e Tecnologia em Saude (Synopsis
of 10/94 conference proceedings)
*  INPI: Panorama da Tecnologia "Nova lei preve patentes farmaceuticas"
(Various articles; 12/93)
* INMETRO: Plano do Moderniza9ao do INMETRO 1995/96
* INMETRO: Brasil e a Certifica9ao ISO-9000 (INMETRO; 1996)
55



* INMETRO: Special Programs: PACTI, PBQP, National Quality Award,
Science and Technology Policy Studies Program
E.    State Systems
* Or9amento dos Estados para Ci8ncia e Tecnologia (CNPq, 1994)
* "Participacao das FAP's na Gestao dos Recursos do PADCT e na Operacao
de seus Subprogramas" (A. Carvalho da Silva, 1995: Brasilia)
* FIRJAN: Investments in RJ (15 pp.) / Cadastro Industrial de RJ
* Fundacao Bio Rio: Relat6rio de Atividades & other information
F.    Background: Brazil Research and Development Incentive Laws
*  0 Mecanismo de Renzuncia Fiscal no Processo de Estimulo ao Investimento
Privado em Desenvolvimento Tecnol6gico (E. Stal, Subprograma PGCT
/PADCT, Sao Paulo, Oct. 1995)
*  Manual de Orienta,do Para o Preenchimento de Formuldrios de
PDTI/PDTA (A FINEP and Instituto UNI/EMP Publication)
G.    Background: Brazil University/Industry Cooperation
*  Dossie Universidade-Empresa (Several authors, Revista USP, No. 25,
March, April, May 1995)
* Andlise e propostas de mecanismos que possibilitem a intera,cao adequada
entre o setor academico e a induistria de bens e servi,os (J. de Souza Neto,
Preparado para o PADCT, Ministerio da Ciencia e Tecnologia, Oct. 1995)
H.    Firm-Level Research and Development/ Intellectual Property Issues
In Brazil
*  National Systems Supporting Technical Advance in Industry: The Brazilian
Experience (Frischtak & Dahlman, in Nelson)
-  Estudo da Competitividade da Induistria Brasileira (Coutinho & Ferraz,
1994)
-  Senado Federal: Projeto de Lei da Cdmara no. 115 de 1993 (De iniciativa
do Presidente da Republica, Centro Grifico do Senado Federal, Brasilia DF)
In General
* Intellectual Proper-ty Protection, Foreign Direct Investment, and Technology
Transfer (E. Mansfield, IFC Discussion Paper #19, 1994)
* Intellectual Property, Trade and Economic Development: A Road Map for
the FTAA Negotiations (Sherwood and Braga, 1996)
I.    Technology and Research Institutes
*  Memoria Anual, Fundaci6n Chile (Published by Fundaci6n Chile in Dec.
1994, Ivan Lavados, President)
*  Anais do Semindrio Internacional - The Role of Industrial Technology
Research Institutes (Multiple authors, collection of essays, printed by IPT,
Instituto de Pesquisas Tecnol6gicas, May 1995)
*  Relat6rio da Comissao de Supervisao de Avalia,do dos Institutos do MCT
(Bevilacqua, Dias, Taralli, Krieger, Silva, Marcovich, Ferreira, Leal,
Nussenzveig, Dec. 1994)
56



J.    Sectoral Policy and Measuring Returns to R&DlS&T (Brazil)
*  Simp6sio Sobre Engenharia de Materiais: 23 - 25 Aug. 1995:
*  Departamento de Engenharia de Materiais, Universidade Federal de Sao
Carlos
*  Science & Technology in Brazil: A New Policy for a Global World
(Schwartzmann, ed., 1995)
K.    Science Research, Advanced Training, and Higher Education
* Brazil Higher Education Reform (October 1993)
* Reforming Higher Education Systems: Some Lessons to Guide Policy
Implementation (Eisemon & Holm-Nielsen, ESP Discussion Paper # 60,
4/95)
L.    Methodology
* How to Communicate with the LogFrame (M. Thompson with Team
Technologies Inc. May 1996)
* Team UP Marco L6gico: Melhores Times, Melhores Projetos (Team
Technologies, Inc. 1996)
57



ANNEX 10: STATUS OF WORLD BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                    end actual
disbursements a/
Loan or   Fiscal
Project ID      Credit      Year                Borrower                        Purpose
No.
IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed         Orig  Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 192
Active Loans
BR-PE-35728   IBRD42320    1998   STATE OF BAHIA                        BAHIA WTR RESOURCES              51.00         0.00            0.00         51.00         0.00       0.00
BR-PE-39197   IBRD42110    1998   STATE OF RIO DE JANEIRO               RJ ST.PRIV.                     250.00         0.00            0.00        250.00       250.00       0.00
BR-PE-6474    IBRD42380    1998   STATE OF SAO PAULO                    LAND MGT 3(SP)                   55.00         0.00            0.00         55.00         0.00       0.00
BR-PE-34578   IBRD41650    1997   RIO GRANDE DO SUL                     RGS HWY MGT                       70.00        0.00            0.00         70.00        70.00       0.00
BR-PE-38896   IBRD41200    1997   STATE OF RGN                          R.POVERTY(RGN)                    24.00        0.00            0.00         22.80        22.80       0.00
BR-PE-39196   IBRD41390    1997   STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO SU             RGS ST.REFORM                   125.00         0.00            0.00          75.00       75.00       0.00
BR-PE-42566   IBRD41220    1997   STATE OF PERNAMBUCO                   R.POVERTY(PE)                     39.00        0.00            0.00         36.35        36.35       0.00
BR-PE-43868   IBRD41480    1997   STATE OF RGS                          RGS LAND MGT/POVERTY            100.00         0.00            0.00        100.00       100.00       0.00
BR-PE-43871   IBRD41210    1997   STATE OF PIAUI                        (PIAUI)R.POVERTY                  30.00        0.00            0.00         28.50        28.50       0.00
BR-PE-43873   IBRD41690    1997   FED.REP.OF BRAZIL                    AG TECH DEV.                      60.00         0.00            0.00         56.01        56.01       0.00
BR-PE-46052   IBRD41900    1997                                         CEARA WTR PILOT                    9.60        0.00            0.00           9.60        0.00       0.00
BR-PE-48870   IBRD41890    1997   THE STATE OF MATO GROSSO              MT STATE PRIV.                   45.00         0.00            0.00         45.00        45.00       0.00
BR-PE-6475    IBRD41470    1997   FED. REP. OF BRAZIL                   LAND RFM PILOT                    90.00        0.00            0.00         75.05        75.05       0.00
BR-PE-6532    IBRD41880    1997   FEDERAL GOVERNMENT                    FED HWY DECENTR                 300.00         0.00            0.00        300.00       300.00       0.00
BR-PE-6562    IBRD41400    1997   STATE OF BAHIA                        BAHIA MUN.DV                    100.00         0.00            0.00          94.98       94.98       0.00
58



Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                  and actual
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                       disbursements a/
Project ID    Credit      Year               Borrower                       Purpose
No.
IBRD       IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed       Orig  Frm Rev'd
BR-PE-37828   IBRD40600    1996   STATE OF PARANA                    (PR)R.POVERTY                  175.00       0.00            0.00        175.00     175.00       0.00
BR-PE-40028   IBRD40460    1996   FEDERATIVE REPPUBLIC OF BR        RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURG            350.00       0.00            0.00       159.53      159.53       0.00
BR-PE-6512    IBRD39240   1996   CVRD                               ENV/CONS(CVRD)                   50.00       0.00            0.00         35.87      35.87       0.00
BR-PE-6554    IBRD40470   1996   FED. REP. OF BRAZIL                HLTH SCTR REFORM                300.00       0.00            0.00        261.09     261.09       0.00
BR-PE-35717   IBRD39170    1995   GOVT OF BRAZIL                    RURAL POV. (BAHIA)              105.00       0.00            0.00         69.52      69.52       0.00
BR-PE-388S2   IBRD39150   1995   FED REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL             RECIFE M.TSP                    102.00       0.00            0.00         98.72       98.72      0.00
BR-PE-38884   IBRD39180   1995   GOVT OF BRAZIL                     RURAL POV.- CEARA                70.00       0.00            0.00         54.55       54.55      0.00
BR-PE-38885   IBRD39190    1995   GOVT OF BRAZIL                    RURAL POV.-SERGIPE               36.00       0.00            0.00         24.27      24.27       0.00
BR-PE-6436    IBRD37890    1995   STATE OF CEARA   ZIL              CEARA UR.DV/WATER CO            140.00       0.00            0.00        115.65      115.65      0.00
BR-PE-6564    IBRD39160   1995   FED REPUBLIC/BRAZIL                BELO H M.TSP                     99.00       0.00            0.00         83.69       83.69      0.00
BR-PE-6452    IBRD36630    1994   MINISTRY OF EDUCATION             NE BASIC EDUC III               206.60       0.00            0.00         88.21       88.21      0.00
BR-PE-6522    IBRD37670    1994   ST.OF ESPIRITO SANTO              BSP.SANTO WATER                 154.00       0.00            0.00         94.65       94.65       0.00
BR-PB-6524    IBRD36390    1994   ST.OF MINAS GERAIS                MINAS MNC.DEVELOPMT             150.00       0.00            5.00         43.82       48.82      0.00
BR-PE-6543    IBRD37330   1994   GOVERNMENT                         M. GERAIS BASIC EDUC            150.00       0.00            0.00         83.06       83.06       0.00
BR-PE-6546    IBRD36590    1994   GOVERNMENT                        AIDS CONTROL                    160.00       0.00            0.00         22.33       22.33       0.00
BR-PE-6555    IBRD37130    1994   STATE GOVTS                       STE HWY MGT II                   54.00       0.00           18.00         20.10      204.10     42.96
BR-PE-6555    IBRD37140    1994   STATE GOVTS                       STE HWY MGT II                   87.00       0.00            0.00          4.43      137.43     42.96
BR-PE-6555    IBRD37150   1994   STATE GOVTS                        STE NWY MGT II                   79.00       0.00           18.00         18.43      177.43     42.96
BR-PE-6558    IBRD37660    1994   REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL                PARANA BASIC EDUC                96.00       0.00            0.00         38.03       38.03       0.00
BR-PE-6378    IBRD35470    1993   STATE GOVERNMENTS                 STATE HWY MGMT                   50.00       0.00            0.00          5.58       43.58     14.09
BR-PE-6378    IBRD35480    1993   STATE GOVERNMENTS                 STATE HWY MGMT                   38.00       0.00           18.00          8.53       76.53     14.09
BR-PE-6427    IBRD36040    1993   MIN. OF EDUCATION  N              NE BASIC EDUC II                212.00       0.00            0.00         64.00       64.00       0.00
BR-PE-6540    IBRD35540   1993   MINAS GERAIS ST.                   WTR Q/PLN(MINAS GERA            145.00       0.00            5.00         33.35       38.35      33.34
59



Difference Between
expected
and actual
original Amount in US$ Millions
disbursements a/
Loan or   Fiscal
Project ID    Credit      Year               Borrower                       Purpose
No.
IBRD       IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed       Orig  Frm Rev'd
BR-PE-6541    IBRD35030   1993   S.PAULO/PARANA STS.                WTR Q/PLN(SP/PARANA)              9.00       0.00            0.00          6.25     242.25       0.00
BR-PE-6541    IBRD35040   1993   S.PAULO/PARANA STS.                WTR Q/PLN(SP/PARANA)            119.00       0.00            0.00         39.93     165.93       0.00
BR-PE-6541    IBRD35050   1993   S.PAULO/PARANA STS.                WTR Q/PLN(SP/PARANA)            117.00       0.00            0.00         50.75     178.75       0.00
BR-PE-6547    IBRD36330   1993   FED.REP.OF BRAZIL                  METRO TRANSP. RIO              128.50        0.00            0.00        47.83       47.83       0.00
BR-PE-6368    IBRD34420   1992   GOVERNMENT                         WATER SECTOR MODERNI           250.00        0.00            0.00        76.61       76.61       0.00
BR-PE-6379    IBRD34570   1992   GOB            BRAZI               METRO TRANSP.SPAULO            126.00        0.00            0.00          5.20       5.20       0.00
BR-PE-6505    IBRD34920   1992   GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL               MATO GROSSO NAT RES            205.00        0.00            0.00         95.38      95.38       0.00
BR-PE-6364    IBRD33750   1991   STATE OF SAO PAULO                 INNOV BASIC ED                 245.00        0.00            0.00        58.24       58.24       0.00
BR-PE-6492    IBRD33760   1991   PETROBRAS         BRAZI            HYDROCARBN TRNSP/PRO           260.00        0.00            0.00         16.66      16.66       0.00
BR-PE-6403    IBRD31350   1990   FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BR          NE BASIC HLTH SRV II           267.00        0.00           50.00         11.93      61.93      12.31
BR-PE-6442    IBRD28831   1990   ELETROBRAS                         ITAPARICA                       100.00       0.00            0.00          1.68      33.68       1.86
BR-PE-6446    IBRD31730   1990   FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BR          NAT ENVIRONMT                   117.00       0.00            0.00         29.61      29.61       0.00
BR-PE-6453    IBRD31700   1990   FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BR          NE IRRIG I                      210.00       0.00           69.00        41.00      110.00      39.49
BR-PE-6473    IBRD31600   1990   STATE OF SANTA CATARINA            LND MGMT II-S. CATAR             33.00       0.00            0.00          7.84       7.84       0.00
BR-PE-6370    IBRD30130   1989   FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BR          NE IRRI JAIBA                    71.00       0.00            0.00          5.91       5.91       0.00
BR-PE-6414    IBRD30430   1989   COMGAS, SAO PAULO                  NTRL GAS DIST                    94.00       0.00            0.00          7.55       7.55       0.00
BR-PE-6360    IBRD29500   1988   GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL               IRR SUB-SECTOR                  195.00       0.00           26.00           .46      26.46        .44
BR-PE-6431    IBRD28100   1987   FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF BRAZI          SKILLS FORMATION                 74.50       0.00           58.90           .11      59.01      -1.99
Total                                                                                            6,978.20        0.00          267.90     3,374.64   4,576.94    242.51
Active Loans        Closed Loans            Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):              3,335.67          14,962.96           18,298.63
of which has been repaid:                   399.40          11,942.37          12,341.77
60



Difference Between
expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions
disbursements a/
Loan or   Fiscal
Project ID    Credit      Year               Borrower                       Purpose
No.
IBRD       IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed       Orig  Frm Rev'd
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:              6,310.89           3,087.65            9,398.54
Amount sold           :                          0.00              45.83               45.83
Of which repaid                                0.00              45.83               45.83
Total Undisbursed        :                   3,374.64              67.09            3,441.73
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance
(ARPP), a letter based system will be used (HS - highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed
Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
61



ANNEX 11: BRAZIL AT A GLANCE                                                                                                W2&V7
.. .................... .............                             ove  opmen dbmond .
,.,,,.f................................ ... ......                                           ...
'"'                                      ''.    it   -C.>a>C~~~~~~~~~W.:.SuS>. .................-''"'' ............1
......'.1.. ''            1'                                                                     . GNP  /Gro
Poverty:' -e dcout        ...... .  ,-   , .      . iDdm                                                                          .,.:a.,.o-n.d'--
Child . afnutrttio r ,%   of .h   r .    -  .   .  ::   J    . ..          18... .  -  ..P.....
,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                            . . . . . . . . . . . ..,,,,,,,.,,,, .
.  ., ...., .,.., .   .    ,, .   . 2  .                                  .. . .. .
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                     . . . . . . . . .  .   , ,   . .    ..,,,,,U-
, ,, ,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..,......    ,          ,  ,,,,  , ..   , ,,,,,,,
lifiteracyg'%ofpoputationege 1&l~~~~~~~~~~~~)Li17ex13tan3
* b.  S.  .*  ..................... - ....                              ...                        ....   *. ...   .
G" ' ' ' 'd 0 , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                  . . . . . . . . . . ........,..Opnedeo.
.,G, ' ' d ,k X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .'... . . . . . . . . . . . ......-,.-,''.......  
Gross pulmaryenrolimenq%  otschooAagepcyiulatAm)  114          110          .........7 GNP                                        Gros
,,G,''..             . n                                                                                                                  .
a,,...... . . . . . . . . . . .''  iS*  
......marlriar
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                       T. eS. . . . . .   . .... . . . . . . . . . . . . .   ..-t- 
..  ......... .. .                    .......                 ., , ...... .....                                                                      enr ll   en
it ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ,  .                                     @.. ,,. . .........     ..  =
STUCEEY           f h ECONOMICYTO-n  ON-EMTED
1876    19865             199S    1996                 trbootuadneiet%
AgrbulturesiSS                                               121t       222.5         716.1         14A            0
.......... n                                              303         3..38..                                  o            _        t   
Grss        estciviestmn          O                          26.7    43149.2        420             1sn95 ss
CPrrent con ti                                                                                                                 Aclanto Pa6f e wa ter2
Generalstovemmental onsmto                                    107 6        9             15.2        167         SaGag                                  O nvetDP
Tmotah d febt     san serv    icexor s                        11.5        391           47 6            i7 9
Present value of debt/GOP                    ..         ~~~ ~~~~~~~....  2...1
Prset aleofdetfxors                                            .           .         7.7lnton
966197S68S   19s96                  1986   1997.0
(ave,gannualf8iorwth)                                                                                                 -fBxprisazilit%
Indsb                                                          3D1    -1 41              219          4.8K 
G      .nP faterin cap20 f8 21                                                                      4-                       .-Jc e grup
EService       andseres                           10           2 6.5       Z8.            53          7..
Pconsumptlon 30 ~197                                      1105      419             19/96
Gros do me GOP)          mn                                   2rwt  rae -0                                                          oupu  an  Inves ent-20
Indusrysdodsnse                                               -40.        46.           368.        36.                      -    E                      mot
Servnaices      po c                                         47.          431t          49.         4929
Pre consmpti                                                     .        6.8e          64.9265.7               .10
General~~l goenm       . consuptio                       10.6          9.9          15.9.16.
Manuactr.n.2..-15.21..
General govemmer       .... cosupto                     1.2         0.7           2.4m0.
Impo      ...ts ofpoadnanesevicsf-.0c.9n8.8my
Gross national product                            2.6          11            4.2         2.9                            Eir............o..
aote  1996. daaaep..iayetmts   iue   nialc   r  o   er   te  hntoeseiid
Th.. mnd..wfur.yidcaosi.hecuty.I   od   omae    it  t  nom-ru.veae  fdaaaemssn,ted.mn    i
be incomplete.~~~~~X.
............ ~~~~6



Brazil
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975    1985      1995    1996
Domestic prices                                                                  Inflation (#)
(% ct1)                                                                        3.0300 
Consumer prices                            25.0   226.9       67.0    15.5                              12
Implicit GDP deflator                      33.9   231.7       74.9    11.1    t030 .                      '4.
Govwnment finance
(% o GDP)                                                                          o      ,    ,     ,    ,
Current revenw                                ..      ..      31.5    32.4               91   92   93   94   95   9S
Primary surplus/deficit                      ..       ..       0.4    -0.1               -GW  dd    O  CF1
Operational surplus/deficit                  ..       ..      -4.8    -3.9
TRADE
1975    1965      1995    1996
(mtilns USS)                                                                     Export and Import levels (mill. USS)
Total exporis (fob)                           ..  25,638    46,508   47,746     e
Coffee                                      ..   2,607      1,970    2,059
Other food                                  ..   2,545      3,896    4,685
Manufactures                                 ..  13,356    25,568   26,247     40.030
Total imports (cif)                           ..  13,153    49,663   53,286                                      F
Food                                         .       ..     3,535    6,044     20.0MD
Fuel and energ                               .    6,176     4,649    5,752
Capital goods                               .. 2.480    19,688   19,804           0_____________
Export price index (1987-100)                 ..      97       128      126            90  91  92  93  94  95  96
Import price index (19875100)                 ..      79       124      125                   ExpoEts   aImpoft
Terms of trade (1987=100)                     ..    123        103      101
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975    1985      1995    1996
(mirlions USS)                                                                   Current account balance to GODP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services              9,418   27,713    47,960   49,558
Imports of goods and services             14,323   16,928    54,306   59.355
Resource balance                          -4,905   10,785    -6,346   -9,797
Net incomne                               -2,106  -11,213   -15,419  -17,402                  92  93         95  m9
Net current transfers                       -10       16     3,973    2,899
Current account balance,                                                        -2
before official capital transfers       -7,021    -412   -17,792  -24,300
Financing items (net)                      5,956    1,826    30,779   32,935
Changes in net reserves                    1,065   -1,414   -12,987   -8,635 6   4
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mill. USS)       4,166   11,613    51,469   59,663
Conversion rate (locatJUSS)              3.OE-12  2.3E-09       0.9      1.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975    1985      1995    1996
(mtJillns USS)                                                                  ComposIion of total debt. 1995 (mill. USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      27,329  103,601   159,130  178,131                     A   C
IBRD                                     1,045    5,274    6,038    5,876                      A G
IDA                                         0        0         0        0              G      6038 1420D
30494           3327
Total debt service                         4,320   11,470    22,328       * |                                 E
IBRD                                       98      796     1,868    1,638                                 195'
IDA                                         0        0         0        0
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                             9       34        64
Official creditors                       1,069     935    -1,378
Private creditors                       4,213      149     9,827
Foreign direct investment                1.302    1,348    4,859
Portfolio equity                            0        0     4,411       ..                        F
World Bank program
Commitments                               538    1,525       404      858      A-ISRD                    E - SbAmal
Disbursements                             249      765       838    1 50       8 -IDA    D - Othw rnultwal  F - Pria |
Principal repayments                       26      406     1,377    1,222      C-IMF                     G - 9t%term
Net flows                                 224      359      -539      278    _                                       9
Interest payments                          72      391       491      416
Nt tnsfers                                152      -32    -1,031     -138
Develpment Economics                                                                                            8/28197
63



