Report No. PIC5205
Project Name                    Brazil-Science and Technology Reform Operation
Region                          Latin America and Caribbean
Sector                          Education
Project ID                      BRPE38947
Borrower                        Federative Republic of Brazil
Government                      Dr. Luis Antonio Barreto de Castro
Secretario Executivo do PADCT
Ministerio da Ciencia e Technologia
Esplanada dos Ministerios - Bloco E - Sala 316
70 067 900 - Brasilia-DF, BRAZIL
Telephone: (55-61) 226-5949
Fax: (55-61) 317-7881
Implementing Agency             Ministry of Science and Technology (MCT)
Date this PID Prepared          March 21, 1997
Appraisal Date                  April 1997
Expected Board Date             August 1997
1.      Country and Sector Background. Brazil spends comparatively
little of its GDP on science and technology (S&T) as well as on
research and development (R&D). About 0.5 percent of its GDP went
to R&D in 1992, slightly more than the LAC region average of 0.4
percent. This is significantly lower than the newly industrialized
countries (NICs) in Asia, which were spending 1.3 percent of their
GDP on R&D. Moreover, the public sector provides about 75 percent
of Brazilian R&D funding, compared to 25 percent in the NICs. These
patterns are amenable to relatively fast adjustment; only two
decades ago, the Republic of Korea had levels of R&D spending and
patterns of funding similar to present-day Brazil. (Korea had one
corporate R&D laboratory in 1971; it had 455 by 1987). The
significant increase in R&D investment and, particularly,
substantial growth of private sector involvement in innovation has
contributed to the dramatic productivity growth in the NICs over
the last four decades.
Brazilian industry, long protected by a closed economy, has
very weak traditions of investing in R&D, cultivating links with
relevant knowledge producers in the S&T community, or engaging in
similar activities that promote long term competitiveness. Economic
stabilization, trade liberalization and regulatory reform
(including the new intellectual property rights law) have improved
the macroeconomic environment for innovation in Brazil. There are
already some signs of increased interest in R&D activities by the
private sector. However, there remains a weak institutional
structure for joint R&D activities, poor information exchange, and
inexperience in cooperation with the public sector.
While pockets of internationally-comparable research exist
(in part due to support from the Bank-supported PADCT I&II



projects), in general research and researchers in Brazil are
lacking in quantity, quality, and relevance. With respect to
quantity, Brazil is the world's seventh largest economy, accounting
for 2.2 percent of world GDP, yet it produces only 0.73 percent of
the world's published scientific research. Korea, for example, has
almost four times the ratio of researchers to total labor force (32
versus 9 per 10,000). With respect to quality, citations of
Brazilian research in international journals and patents granted to
Brazilians outside Brazil are disproportionately low. With respect
to relevance, very few researchers currently work in the private
sector (only 2.5 percent in Brazil compared to 50 percent in Korea).
Public investment in the S&T sector in Brazil has been
characterized by fragmentation, fluctuation and discontinuity of
resources and programs and, particularly, lack of client
orientation. The Bank-supported PADCT I&II projects have made
strides toward creating an atmosphere that supports the production
of international-level research through promotion of the principles
of transparency, competition, peer-review, and client-
responsiveness. Additional efficiency gains stand to be made
insofar as these principles become generally adopted and
operationalized throughout the sector, as the new project intends.
Timely, good quality data necessary for informed policy-
making in the sector do not exist. Collection of basic data (e.g.
numbers and fields of active researchers or the employment patterns
for S&T graduates) is incipient if it exists at all. While
monitoring and data collection have improved in recent years,
overall M&E is seriously deficient for a sector in which over US$2
billion is invested annually and for an economy of the size and
complexity of Brazil's. The monitoring and evaluation data produced
will be a critical input to the midterm review, during which the
progress of both the project and the sector reform will be judged.
The Bank will reassess its support at this point, and may opt to
cancel individual subcomponents which are not performing.
Responsibility for sectoral M&E efforts would be assumed gradually
by the Government of Brazil (GOB) over the life of the project.
Production of reliable S&T indicators is expected to become a
routine feature of the sector.
S&T capacity in Brazil, especially international-level S&T
capacity, is disproportionately concentrated in the South and
Southeast. This is illustrated by the geographic distribution of
the research groups which receive funding under the PRONEX program
for financing research. PRONEX conducts an extensive and rigorous
review of performance and credentials and awards multi-year "core
funding" grants to research groups which are deemed to be
outstanding; 97 percent of the recipient groups are located in the
six states of the South and Southeast (Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro,
Minas Gerais, Rio Grande do Sul, Parana, and Santa Catarina).
The current Government's multi-year plan (O Plano Plurianual
1996-2000) seeks to raise the percent of GDP invested in S&T to
levels more commensurate with those of economically advanced
countries (i.e. from the current 0.7 to 1.5 percent; OECD average
- 2 -



is 2.2 percent) . For the S&T sector the priorities are to: (1)
increase the percentage of R&D expenditure by the private sector
(from its current 20 percent to 40 percent) while expanding the
overall amount of resources available for science and technology;
(2) rationalize (improve the efficiency of resource allocation) and
integrate existing programs for the promotion of S&T and to monitor
program impact more closely; (3) increase university/industry
cooperation; (4) increase the numbers of qualified scientists,
engineers, and technicians in Brazil according to the needs of the
economy; (5) provide essential support services for the S&T sector
(such as administration of intellectual property rights protection
and provision of metrology, standards, testing, and quality (MSTQ)
services); (6) introduce greater stability and continuity in the
flow of resources to academic and technological research; (7)
redefine the role of S&T agents and institutions within the context
of a more efficient public sector; (8) improve tax and fiscal
incentives to encourage R&D; (9) increase the performance and
increase the client orientation of the country's technological
institutes; and (10) achieve national goals in the space and
military fields.
The Bank has helped define this strategy through a
cooperative policy dialogue over the last two and a half years
which has included: (a) a Bank-sponsored conference on the
direction of S&T policy in Brazil (summarized as WB Discussion
Paper No. 325 "Institutional and Entrepreneurial Leadership in the
Brazilian Science and Technology Sector: Setting a New Agenda");
(b) a series of studies commissioned by the Bank, including "Estudo
da Competitividade da Industria Brasileira" (L. Coutinho, editor)
and "Science and Technology in Brazil: A New Policy for a Global
World" and "Ciencia e Tecnologia no Brasil: Politica Industrial,
Mercado de Trabalho, e Instituic3Xes de Apoio" (S. Schwartzmann,
editor); (c) a "Logical Framework" workshop attended by key
stakeholders (BrasUlia, June 3-5, 1996), at which critical issues
for the sector were defined and discussed; and (d) the compilation
and analysis of "An Overview of Brazilian S&T Portfolio," a piece
of non-formal sector work produced jointly by the Ministry of
Science and Technology (MCT) and the Bank which contains
information on all the GOB's investments in the sector.
As part of this policy dialogue, the World Bank recommended
in September 1996 a large operation supported by a sector
investment loan with a policy component. That is, the
recommendation was for a sector investment loan accompanied by a
policy letter in which the GOB spells out the nature of the reform
which the MCT is spearheading (with or without WB assistance) and
which would be supported by this operation. This recommendation
(that is, the policy letter) was not accepted by MCT or SEAIN and
is a pending issue.
2.      Project Objectives. To support the GOB in its ongoing effort
to make the current S&T system more efficient for technology
innovation and adaptation. Such a system would be characterized by
(i) significantly increased participation of the private sector in
the financing and execution of R&D; (ii) more efficient support for
- 3 -



human capital formation to provide for the S&T personnel needs of
industry and academia; and (iii) the existence of adequate
mechanisms for sectoral oversight, particularly monitoring,
evaluation, and appropriate regulation.
More specifically, the project would directly address priorities
1-6 listed above.
Priorities 7-9 would not be directly targeted, but may nevertheless
be indirectly and positively influenced as a result of the project
activities. Issues 10 will not be addressed by the project.
3.      Project Description. The project, whose total cost is
estimated at US$300 million, would be implemented over a five-year
period starting in 1998 and would have three components. The Bank
would finance activities in each component, as would the
cofinanciers (private sector). The components include: (A)
Technology Development to stimulate private sector R&D investment
and to strengthen cooperation between the private sector and the
S&T community. This component would support R&D demanded, co-
financed, and co-executed by firms through a competitive process
that would emphasize (i) the social and/or economic relevance of
the research; and (ii) its amenability to technological solutions
involving cooperation between industry and the S&T community
(mostly in academia, and technological institutes). It would be
comprised of three subcomponents, namely: (1) Platforms or
cooperative fora through which stakeholders in the R&D process
(firms, entrepreneurs, scientists, engineers, technologists, etc.)
would identify technological problems facing firms and generate
research agendas for these areas. These activities are intended to
mitigate information failures among firms concerning potential
benefits of using available R&D infrastructure, ways of executing
R&D with public partners, and producing innovations in specific
areas; (2) a Matching-Grant Facility for pre-competitive and
proprietary research carried out in cooperation with research
institutes and universities. The grants would lessen the high
transaction and information cost currently borne by firms which are
doing R&D for the first time. The subsidy element of the grant
would decrease over time, as transaction and information costs
decrease; and (3) an R&D Technical Assistance initiative focusing
on Small- and Medium-Sized Enterprises (SMEs). SMEs generally are
unable to benefit from the existing fiscal incentives for R&D in
Brazil which were designed for large firms. The TA would help SMEs
lower bureaucratic barriers they face to using existing incentives
(by creating "a one stop shop" and by restructuring incentives) and
providing more appropriate financing arrangements for the
particular needs of SMEs. (B) Science and Technology Research for
higher-level human capital formation. This component would increase
the size and quality of the human capital stock available in Brazil
by allocating resources to science research and graduate training
according to improved funding procedures. The procedural
improvements, which are based on internationally accepted good
practice for the funding of research and advanced training, would
remove several key obstacles to formation of high quality human
capital: (i) fragmentation of resources (too many very small grants
to scientists); (ii) lack of transparency and insufficient use of
- 4 -



competitive, peer evaluation award mechanisms; and (iii)
cumbersome, unnecessary bureaucratic procedures and lack of
autonomy for principal investigators (PIs) to spend funds as they
see fit. The investment would promote higher-quality training for
scientists and technologists in areas more relevant to the needs of
the productive sector as well as economically and socially useful
research output. This component would operate through two
subcomponents: (1) Support for science research in traditional
disciplines. The component would consist of awards for basic
research competitively granted based on peer evaluation. Grants
would be administered through a revised funding mechanism which
would increase the autonomy of and decrease the dilatory
bureaucratic requirements on PIs; and
(2) Support for improved S&T capacity in less favored regions,
through university-based twinning arrangements between weaker
research groups in less favored regions and their stronger
counterparts in Brazil and abroad. This would include regionally-
targeted post-doctoral fellowships. (C) Sectoral Support for
improving efficiency and quality throughout the S&T system. This
component would support, inter alia, two working groups responsible
for sector reform (inter- and intra-ministerial), improved
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E), administration of intellectual
property rights protection, and provision of metrology, standards,
testing, and quality (MSTQ) services, and improvement of science
instruction at all levels.
4.      Project Financing. Project costs are estimated at US$300
million. Bank financing would be US$150 million; cofinanciers
(private sector) would finance US$50 million; and the Government
would cover the remaining US$100 million.
5.      Project Implementation. The executing agency will be the
Ministry of Science and Technology.
6.      Project Sustainability. The sustainability of the project is
contingent on funds from the GOB (in addition to loan counterpart
funds) being injected into the project beginning in its third year.
Prior to appraisal the GOB would submit a plan to assume funding
responsibility for all components (with due consideration for the
evolutionary nature of the program) by the loan's completion. The
desired level of investment in the sector will be sustained via (i)
GOB reallocations from other areas within the sector (higher
education ); (ii) other external financiers (IDB, Japanese,
Canadians); and/or (iii) efficiency gains resulting from the
rationalization of the portfolio of programs within the sector
(savings of 10-12 percent of operating overhead would be
generated).
With respect to policy, the sector reform will be sustained through
creating demand for the results of the reform: (i) among the S&T
community as the result of consolidating transparency and autonomy
from undue bureaucratic procedures (e.g., procedures mandating
larger grants and direct allocation of resources to principal
investigators will be part of project's operational manual, as will
new peer review procedures which permit, for example, the use of
- 5 -



international peers for review of proposals); and (ii) among firms,
through gradually eliminating subsidies as they overcome previous
information problems and earn returns from their R&D investments.
7.      Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector.
There are several key lessons from the two previous Bank-supported
S&T loans in Brazil (PADCT I and II):
-- The macroeconomic environment must stabilize before the
productive sector will invest in R&D. The PADCT I&II projects
were implemented during a period of persistent high inflation
and macroeconomic imbalance. Firms could earn high returns on
liquid assets and therefore had no reason to undertake riskier
investments in R&D. Under such unfavorable conditions, a main
achievement of the project was to protect Brazil's scientific
community from further problems.
-- Specific incentives targeted to firms must be in place to induce
private sector cooperation and co-funding of R&D activities.
PADCT I&II did not achieve significant private sector
involvement in setting research priorities/directions or in
executing research partially because firms, which generally lack
capacity for and information on potential benefits from R&D,
were not offered any direct incentives to change their behavior.
-- Maximum autonomy should be given to principal investigators
(PIs) to control research funds and strict adherence to
performance criteria should be required of any agency involved
in disbursal of project funds to researchers. Fragmentation of
resources and excessive bureaucratic control of research funding
decisions and administration may cause persistent delays which
impede quality research. For example, the inability of PIs to
modify equipment requests during a life of a project (based on
initial research results) can halt an investigation and destroy
research output. It is better to increase a grant award by 10
percent of equipment costs for annual maintenance and 4t for
scientific information than to create or maintain separate
bureaucracies to perform these functions, since it is the PI who
has the greatest stake in the output of the project.
-- Sectoral support activities require individually designed
program structures. They should not be funded in the same manner
as scientific investigation, as was the case under PADCT I&II.
Monitoring and evaluation (M&E) of the sector, administration of
intellectual property protection, provision of metrology,
standards, testing, and quality (MSTQ) services are specific
subfields within the S&T domain and may require longer-term,
more programmatic funding and administrative structure.
Lessons learned from projects in other client countries are
that: (a) the development of clear and objective criteria for the
inclusion of institutions in the project and for research projects
to be financed results in an efficient selection process that is
viewed as equitable by stakeholders as well as a higher level of
participation by private institutions (Korea: University S&T
- 6 -



Research Project, OED Report No. 15754); and (b) the existence of a
coordinator for specific tasks related to subcomponents
(preparation plans through ICR) is needed for multi-ministerial
initiatives such as science education (Korea: Program for Science
and Technology Education, OED Report No. 9569).
8.      Poverty Category. N/A
9.      Environmental Aspects. The execution of the components of the
project will not cause any negative environmental impact. The
project therefore is rated "C."
10.     Program Objectives Category. The primary category is human
resources (RR).
Contact Point:           Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 458-5454
Fax No.:   (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending May 30, 1997.
- 7 -



