                                    Document of
                                   The World Bank




                                                               Report No: 31601

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                     (CPL-42660)

                                        ON A

                                        LOAN

                          IN THE AMOUNT OF US$155.0 MILLION

                                       TO THE

                            FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL

                                        FOR A

         SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY REFORM SUPPORT PROJECT - PADCT III




                                    March 3, 2005




Human Development Sector Management Unit
Country Management Unit for Brazil
Latin America and Caribbean Region

                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        (Exchange Rate Effective March 3, 2005)

                                 Currency Unit = Real (R$)
                                         R$2.58 = US$ 1.00
                                       US$ 0.38 = R$1.00

                                        FISCAL YEAR
                                 January 1 -      December 31

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAPES            Coordenação de Aperfeiçoamento de Pessoal de Nível Superior (Coordinating Agency for
                 Graduate Education)
CAS              Country Assistance Strategy
CCT              Conselho Nacional de Ciência e Technologia (National Council for Science and Technology)
CSCG             The Colegiate of the Grupos Técnicos
CNPq             Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Científico e Tecnológico (Brazilian National Council
                 for S&T Development)
FAP              Fundação de Amparo à Pesquisa (State Foundation for the Advancement of Research)
FINEP            Financiadora de Estudos e Projetos (Brazilian National Foundation for Technology
                 Development)
FNDCT            Fundo Nacional de Desenvolvimento Científico e Tecnológico (National Fund for Science and
                 Technology Development)
GCCT             Grupo Consultivo de Ciência e Tecnologia (International Consultative S&T Group)
GDP              Gross Domestic Product
GOB              Government of Brazil
IBGE             Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estatística (Brazilian Bureau of Census)
ICT              Information and Communication Technology
ISO              International Organization for Standardization
INPI             Instituto Nacional de Propriedade Industrial (National Institute of Industrial Property)
IPR              Intellectual Property Rights
LCSHD            Human Development Sector Management Unit, Latin America and Caribbean Region, World
                 Bank
MCT              Ministério da Ciência e Tecnologia (Ministry of Science and Technology)
MSI              Millenium Science Initiative
MSTQ             Metrology, Standards, Testing, and Quality
NSF              National Science Foundation
MTR              Mid-term Review
OECD             Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development
PADCT            Programa de Apoio ao Desenvolvimento Científico e Technológico (Program to Support
                 Scientific and Technological Development)/Science and Technology Reform Support Project
PEA              Project Executing Agency
R&D              Research and Development
R&D&E            Research and Development and Non-routine Engineering
SEBRAE           Serviço Brasileiro de Apoio às Micro e Pequenas Empresas (Brazilian Support Service for
                 Small Businesses)
SME              Small- and Medium-size Enterprises
S&T              Science and Technology


                               Vice President:         Pamela Cox
                            Country Director           Vinod Thomas
                  Director/Sector Manager              Evangeline Javier / Eduardo Velez Bustillo
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:               Lauritz B. Holm-Nielsen

                                           BRAZIL
                Science and Technology Reform Support Project - PADCT III


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            13
6. Sustainability                                                                14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 14
8. Lessons Learned                                                               16
9. Partner Comments                                                              17
10. Additional Information                                                       17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             24
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             26
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                27
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            28
Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution                                                 30

Project ID: P038947                                                  Project Name: BR- SC. & TECH 3
Team Leader: Lauritz B. Holm-Nielsen                                 TL Unit: LCSHE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: March 3, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: BR- SC. & TECH 3                                         L/C/TF Number: CPL-42660
   Country/Department: BRAZIL                                                             Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Tertiary education (41%); Micro- and SME finance (41%); Central
                            government administration (12%); Law and justice (6%)
                  Theme: Small and medium enterprise support (P); Technology diffusion (P);
                            Education for the knowledge economy (P); Infrastructure services for
                            private sector development (P); Law reform (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 11/27/1995                                     Effective: 06/15/1998                06/15/1998
     Appraisal: 04/30/1997                                         MTR: 06/30/2000                  12/12/2000
      Approval: 12/18/1997                                      Closing: 05/31/2002                 07/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL/MINISTRY OF SCIENCE AND
                                           TECHNOLOGY
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:               Vinod Thomas                                   Gobind T. Nankani
Sector Manager/Director:        Evangeline Javier                              Patricio Millan
Team Leader at ICR:             Lauritz B. Holm-Nielsen                        Alcyone Saliba
ICR Primary Author:             Jette Samuel Jeppesen and
                                Kristian Thorn


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The objective of the Science and Technology Reform Support Project (PADCT III) was to improve the
overall performance of Brazil's science and technology sector by undertaking activities that promoted
scientific research and technological innovation. The project would support reform efforts and finance
investments designed to: (a) stimulate private sector financing and execution of research and development;
(b) increase and improve the stock of Science and Technology (S&T) human capital; and (c) supply
support services required to increase the efficiency of public and private investments in S&T activities.

Assessment
The project's objective was consistent with the Government of Brazil's (GOB) national development
strategy to accelerate private sector-led economic growth (financed and generated primarily by firms) and
the World Bank Group's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS, June 1997), which supported the strategy to
give high priority to raising the private sector's productivity and international competitiveness by
increasing investments in human capital and by creating innovation through investments in the science and
technology sector. The project was a continuation of two previous World Bank-financed projects (PADCT
I and PADCT II, ICR Outcome ratings: Satisfactory) and the PADCT III Project was intended to continue
to improve management and decision-making processes through open competition for research grants,
interaction between government agencies and the scientific community, and greater continuity and
integration in the financing of research projects.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objective was not revised, yet the project was simplified during the Mid-term Review (MTR). The
GOB decided to finance the institutional development subcomponents out of the Government budget and
through the newly-established sectoral funds (see Section 3.4).

3.3 Original Components:
The project had four components financed with a US$155.0 million IBRD Loan, a GOB counterpart of
US$155.0 million and an indirect private sector contribution of US$50.0 million for a total cost of
US$360.0 million.

Project Component A ­ Technology Development (US$147.0 million; IBRD US$58.0 million). This
component would finance technology development to stimulate Research and Development (R&D)
activities in the private sector, focusing on (i) innovations by small- and medium-sized enterprises, (ii) ways
to streamline public incentives for R&D and (iii) greater productive use of scientific and technological
resources by firms. There were three subcomponents:

A1. Platforms (US$4.2 million). Support for cooperative pre-competitive research to foster partnerships
among industries, universities, technological institutes, and appropriate government agencies through which
economically and socially relevant problems amenable to technological solutions could be identified, and
preliminary strategies for solving these problems through cooperative research projects could be
formulated. The project would finance meetings and conferences to bring together relevant stakeholders to
devise R&D agendas to solve technological problems.

A2. A matching grant facility, providing two types of grant programs: (i) Publicly-led cooperative projects
(US$36.2 million) to foster partnerships between the public and private sectors for the financing and
execution of R&D. This subcomponent was established to fund socially and economically relevant research
and development projects that would involve public and private sector cooperation and be co-financed with



                                                       - 2 -

matching funds from participating firms. Proposals would be appraised and selected by advisory
committees through a competitive process reviewing both technical and business merits; and (ii)
Privately-led cooperative projects (US$73.2) to foster cooperation between individual firms and public
sector R&D entities with the purpose of producing proprietary R&D outputs. This subcomponent was
designed to fund R&D projects executed by one or more public sector R&D entities cooperating with
individual firms or consortia of firms. The selection procedure was similar to that for publicly-led projects
with minor adjustments to protect confidentiality and emphasize intellectual property contracts.

A3. Assistance for technology adoption by SMEs (US$33.4 million) to enhance their capacity to innovate.
This subcomponent was established to fund the existing federal SME program, which provided small
grants for initial technological problem-solving in SMEs.

Project Component B ­ Science and Technology Research (US$147.0 million; IBRD US$75.0 million).
This component was designed to support science and technology research and increase the stock of
high-level human capital in S&T, focusing, among other things, on investments in scientific research and
graduate training and improvement of procedures and policies, including incentive mechanisms aimed at
shifting scientists' and technicians' focus towards areas more relevant to the productive sector. The
component awarded grants for scientific research and for developing regional S&T capacity. Advisory
committees selected grantees on the basis of peer reviewers' rankings.

Project Component C ­ Sectoral Support Activities (US$44.4 million; IBRD US$15.0 million). This
component was designed to improve efficiency and quality throughout the S&T system by supporting
portfolio reforms, improving monitoring and evaluation systems and ensuring protection of intellectual
property rights and provision of metrology, standards, testing and quality (MSTQ) services. There were
five subcomponents:

C1. Support to working groups involved with sectoral reform (US$8.9 million) to ensure that
rationalization of the system was based on coherent planning and management. The working groups would
among others include: (i) The MCT (Ministry of Science and Technology) Working Group on Sector
Reform (the CSCG) would have the responsibility of developing a plan to reform institutions and programs
directly under the MCT's control; and (ii) The Policy Studies and Advocacy Group. Representing the
entire federal sector, this group was established to recruit and engage the experts required as inputs into the
policy making process, convene public fora and meetings on policy issues as well as commission studies on
relevant topics.

C2. Support for improving sectoral monitoring and evaluation (US$10.4 million) to improve the quality,
coverage, and accessibility of information about the performance of the S&T sector. This subcomponent
was intended to support initiatives by the main agencies with monitoring and evaluation (M&E)
responsibilities in the sector [for example the Brazilian Council for S&T Development (CNPq), the
Coordinating Agency for Graduate Education (CAPES), the Brazilian Bureau of Census (IBGE), and the
State Foundations for the Advancement of Research (FAP)] in order to (i) more accurately determine
Brazil's gross expenditure on R&D, (ii) develop and implement standards for reporting by federal S&T
institutions, (iii) complement the existing national database of active research groups and researchers with
more complete information on employment patterns for S&T graduates and (iv) support evaluation of the
quality and relevance of Brazilian research output. The activities would be overseen and directed by a
Technical Coordinating Group, with three non-Brazilian M&E specialists as members.

C3. Support for administering and enforcing the intellectual property rights regime (US$4.0 million).
This subcomponent would support part of the ongoing restructuring efforts of the National Institute of



                                                      - 3 -

Industrial Property (INPI), aimed at preparing the institution for effective enforcement of the 1996
industrial property law.

C4. Support for metrology and standards services (US$16.3 million) to improve the quality of the
metrology, standards, and testing services available to the Brazilian productive sector. This would involve
(i) enhancing the National Metrology Laboratory and the Brazilian system of reference laboratories, (ii)
developing certification of reference materials, (iii) enhancing the Brazilian Network of Calibration
Laboratories, (iv) training professionals in metrology, (v) modernizing the Brazilian Association of
Technical Standards, (vi) consolidating the Brazilian Network of Testing Laboratories, and (vii)
disseminating technology management tools within firms.

C5. Interim Fund to provide for the maintenance of scientific equipment (US$4.8 million). This fund was
intended to supply researchers with maintenance funds for scientific equipment acquired under PADCT I &
II (Program for the Advancement of Industrial Technology). Under PADCT III, maintenance funds were
included in the grants for purchases so institutions that had received grants for scientific equipment
automatically received funds for maintenance.

Project Component D ­ Project Management (US$9.9 million; IBRD US$2.0 million). This component
would finance project management activities such as overall planning and coordination of project activities,
including the preparation of the relevant Annual Operating Plan. The project was implemented by the
Ministry of Science and Technology (MCT) with administrative assistance of the Brazilian National
Foundation for Technology Development (FINEP), the Brazilian National Council for S&T Development
(CNPq) and the Coordinating Agency for Graduate Education (CAPES), plus contracted services from
several entities, including private firms, universities, non-governmental organizations and state
governmental agencies.

Institutional Project Structure
The organizational framework of the project was a complex structure involving a number of players within
the S&T sector. The Ministry of Science and Technology had the coordinating role, while separate agencies
implemented component activities. The Technology Development Component (Component A) was
implemented by FINEP; the Science and Technology Research Component (Component B) was
implemented by the three federal implementing agencies: FINEP, CNPq and CAPES. These agencies were
responsible for contracting, disbursing funds, and monitoring projects that fell within their jurisdiction.
FINEP administered projects that focused on technological development, CNPq administered projects that
focused on science and technology research and CAPES administered projects that focused on human
resource training. Further, the State science funding agencies (FAPs) were encouraged to cooperate during
implementation of projects pertaining to their respective state.

Assessment
The project design reflected the ambitious development objective of the project and was built on the
positive experiences from the two first investments under the Program to Support Scientific and
Technological Development (PADCT). The design addressed all of the significant issues facing the GOB in
its efforts to improve the performance of the science and technology sector. In the aftermath of the financial
crisis in 1998, the MTR played an important role in working with the Government to simplify and
streamline the project in order to accelerate implementation and meet the objective. Discussions on
simplifying the project were based on the Ministry of Science and Technology's "Proposal for Project
Revision at Mid-term Review" (see Section 3.4).




                                                    - 4 -

3.4 Revised Components:
Implementation progress was reviewed during the MTR in 2000 and since the level of disbursement was
low, the Bank considered cancelling the remaining loan balance. However, the GOB presented a proposal
to revise and simplify the project, which did not affect the overall project objective. The reasons for the
simplification of the project were: (i) implementation slow-down during the first three years of the project
due to the severe fiscal crisis of 1998 and lack of sufficient counterpart funding; (ii) a devaluation of the
Real to approximately a 30 percent value against the US$, and consequently much lower local expenditures
as measured in US$; (iii) mobilization of funding from the private sector through a series of new sectoral
funds, which were established by law during the second and third year of project implementation, and
which reduced the need for Bank financing. The establishment of these funds was supported by the PADCT
Component C; and (iv) restructuring of the MCT and the integration of all budget lines under the
multi-year budget planning process for the national budget, which eliminated the special budget line for the
PADCT.

Amendment

At the MTR, the GOB and the World Bank agreed to simplify the project (Amendment dated August 2001)
to ensure successful implementation. The Federal Government had overcome the fiscal crisis of 1998 and
was capable of resuming its role as a key funder of S&T research. The cost of doing research in Brazil was
greatly reduced due to the devaluation. In addition, the Government, with support from the PADCT, had
developed a long-term strategic plan for research. The plan included the establishment of a number of
sectoral funds, which would raise money from companies working in sectors such as biotechnology, energy
and fuel. These new funds would be used to finance research in each specific sector. About US$400.0
million per year was raised through these funds since 2001, and thus provided a substantial new investment
from the private sector into science and technology research. Thus, the sectoral funds reduced the need for
funding through the PADCT III. Finally, the restructured ministry took on more of the policy and
framework conditions for the sector, which in general reduced the need for external financing of specific
policy and framework related components.

As a result, several project activities were taken over by the Government and phased out of the project: C1.
Support for strengthening of intellectual property rights law enforcement in conjunction with the Ministry
of Justice, C2. Support for Metrology, Testing, Standards and Quality (MSTQ) services and C3. Special
fund for maintenance of existing equipment. At the same time, it was recognized that the original
implementation plan included a top-heavy and expensive committee structure for project management and
oversight. Four high-level committees (the Supervisory Committee (CS), the Technical Advisory
Committee (GTC), the International Consultative S&T Group (GCCT) and the Colegiate of the Grupos
Tecnicos (CSCG), were reduced to two, namely the CS and the GCCT in an effort to simplify the project
management and oversight mechanisms and create a less complicated and more efficient structure. In
addition, the number of Project Executing Agencies (PEAs) was reduced from three (CNPq, FINEP and
CAPES) to two by transferring CAPES's PADCT activities to the CNPq. The CNPq, FINEP and CAPES
contracted and administered subprojects in their respective field of expertise: science research, technology
development and human resources development. Yet, in most cases, no clear distinction existed between the
science research and human development projects, and therefore it was agreed that the CNPq could take on
these responsibilities for the Government. Finally, the Millennium Science Initiative (MSI) (appraised in
June 2000) was included in the PADCT III Project. The central concept of the MSI was to concentrate
resources on a select number of the country's best researchers, which was also central to the development
objectives of PADCT's research and science component. The integration of the MSI helped to achieve the
project's objective, basically by strengthening the review procedure for science research projects.




                                                     - 5 -

Extensions of the closing date

The original closing date was May 31, 2002. This date was first extended seven months to December 31,
2002, and then to July 31, 2004. The extensions were justified by the financial crisis itself, delays in
implementation due to insufficient counterpart funding during the crisis, and the simplification of the
project after the MTR.

Cancellation of funds

The final closing date extension was combined with the cancellation of US$88.8 million. As a result, the
total IBRD investment was reduced from the original US$155.0 million to US$66.2 million. The remaining
balance was directed at completing activities under the Science and Technology Research Component (B)
and thereby ensuring full disbursement of the remaining funds.          The cancellation of funds for the
Technology Development Component (A) was a response to both the devaluation of the Real, which
reduced the cost of local activities to between one third and half of the original price estimate; and the
introduction of the 14 self-sustaining government sectoral funds for technology research in 2001, which
greatly reduced the need for the project to co-finance technology R&D at that point in time. As mentioned
above, the establishment of sectoral funds raised resources at the level of US$400.0 million per year from
the productive sector. The development and passage of this law complex in the Brazilian congress were
major tasks for the MCT. This innovation was in part supported by the PADCT, and it has greatly
enhanced the sustainability of funding for Brazilian technology research.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project's quality at entry is rated satisfactory. The PADCT III was a follow-on project to two
successful previous operations (PADCT I & II) and the project fully supported the CAS approved by the
Board in June 1997. The project activities supporting the CAS objectives were: (i) the rationalization of
the MCT's portfolio and improved sectoral M&E were intended to contribute to the objective of public
sector reform aimed at improved fiscal performance at the national and subnational level; (ii) the
matching grant subcomponent was designed to remove information and other barriers to technological
investments via improved cooperation between firms and the S&T sector, thus leading to productivity and
competitiveness gains; (iii) improved Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) administration and strengthened
MSTQ services would improve productivity and competitiveness, especially in export-oriented firms; and
(iv) technology assistance to SMEs would contribute to improvement of the efficiency and competitiveness
of the SMEs.

The project was in line with the Brazilian Government's reform program in S&T, which was intended to
develop the country's capacity to innovate through investments in the science and technology sector. The
Bank had substantial experience in the Brazilian S&T sector through PADCT I & II where it had been a
key partner in the evolving dialogue on S&T policies. Through these earlier projects, the GOB had also
demonstrated entrepreneurship and commitment by strongly promoting the process and providing
significant funding for research and innovation as well as developing an extensive policy agenda.

The lessons learned from the PADCT I and II Projects were incorporated into the design of this project.
Special focus was given to: (i) the regional aspect in order to encourage cooperation with less advanced
regions, and (ii) the establishment of high-level peer review committees consisting of independent prominent
national and international professionals. However, as recognized at the MTR, the organizational framework
was too complex and the committee structure too heavy. The project appropriately identified the main risks
and included actions to mitigate these risks. The possibility of an eventual need for cancellation of
uncommitted loan funds in the event of a serious macroeconomic deterioration was foreseen in the project
appraisal document.



                                                      - 6 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project's overall performance is considered satisfactory. There were positive results in creating a
conducive environment for Brazil's S&T sector. The project stimulated and increased private sector
financing by supporting the establishment of 14 sectoral funds, and execution of R&D by developing
technology transfer capabilities, improving and expanding R&D capabilities in the least developed regions
of the country, developing a culture of cooperation and partnerships, increasing and improving the stock of
advanced human capital for S&T and simplifying and prioritizing Brazil's efforts to become a high
value-added economy. The project's objective was met even in the context of a severe macroeconomic
crisis and consequent budget constraints for the Federal Government. During implementation, the GOB
integrated funding for the project in its Plano Plurianual (PPA), which ensured that the PADCT activities
were completely integrated into the range of the MCT's activities, and increased the likelihood of
sustainability of the PADCT III-financed activities beyond the term of the project. The MCT's PPA for
2004-2007 includes continued funding of (i) the Millennium Science Initiative; (ii) basic science; and (iii)
industrial R&D; and the full range of other activities envisaged under PADCT III.

The project contributed to the following sector outcomes:

Investment increase in R&D. Despite the financial crisis, the project contributed to a sustained focus on the
R&D sector by the GOB. Investment in R&D increased from 0.77 percent of GDP in 1996 to a little more
than 1 percent in 2000 and then decreased again in 2002, but still maintained the 1996 level (World Bank
2004). The private sector showed a keen interest in investing in R&D and, in addition to the new
substantial sectoral funds, invested more than the annual US$50.0 foreseen at appraisal. The commitment
and involvement of the private sector was essential to the development of scientific and technological
outputs and for the process of technology transfer.

Improved technology transfer. The technology capabilities of research institutes and universities and the
absorptive capacity of private companies were improved. Partnerships established during the project helped
stimulate universities and research institutes to create technology transfer offices and companies to open
new R&D divisions. Close to 60 percent of the partnerships developed during the project were maintained
either informally or formally. A study based on data from "Indicators of Technological Innovation in
Companies" shows that cooperation between companies, universities and technological institutes rose
sharply between 1997 and 2000. Of the 108 companies included in the sample, 27 percent of companies
carried out R&D activities with universities or technological institutes in 1997. In 2000, this share had
risen to 44 percent (Sbragia 2002).

Increase in number of Master's and PhDs degrees. The number of PhDs and Master's degrees awarded
grew from 12,000 Master's and 3,800 PhDs in 1997 to 18,500 and 5,500 respectively in the year 2000.
The total number of PhD holders grew from 18,724 in 1997 to 34,349 in 2002, which indicates a
remarkable growth in research over the life of the project (OECD 2004).

Increase in number of published articles. The increase in publications in scientific journals of international
reputation was extraordinary and shows an impressive progress of Brazilian science. The number of
articles published increased from 4,362 in 1997 to 7,205 in 2001 (NSF 2004). The citation of Brazilian
S&T articles in foreign scientific research publications increased from 0.26 percent worldwide in 1996 to
0.45 percent worldwide in 2001 (NSF 2004), which implies that the quality and relevance of research in
Brazil increased significantly during project implementation.



                                                     - 7 -

Brazil has also strengthened its foreign scientific cooperation. During implementation, the CNPq
(Brazilian National Council for S&T Development) signed cooperation agreements with 29 countries,
involving 53 research development agencies. Several of the agreements and programs are recognized for
their social significance and scientific excellence. It is important to note that various private sector national
companies are involved in many of these projects, particularly those that have greater technological content
(CNPq 2004). The increase in international collaboration is revealed in the number of articles coauthored
with foreign researchers. Between 1994 and 2001, the number of U.S. research articles coauthored with at
least one Brazilian increased more than a hundred percent from 1,624 articles to 3,369 articles.

Strengthening science research. The inclusion of the Millennium Science Initiative (MSI) under the project
in 2001 consolidated the institutional model for publicly funded research. The project was successful in
supporting world level research groups that were capable of acting as a catalyst for a national network of
laboratories (OECD 2004). The formalized networks helped improve research methodology by encouraging
professionals to think in terms of viable proposals and long-term sectoral strategy.

The 14 sectoral funds are a new tool to strengthen technological research. The funds are financed by levies
on income of privatized sectors, royalties and taxes on imported technology, and thus do not depend on
traditional sources of budgetary revenue. Since 2001, the sectoral funds brought a major increase in
funding of approximately US$400.0 million per year for technological research. Research and other
activities financed by the sectoral funds are aimed at eliminating knowledge-based and technical bottlenecks
in the sector from which each fund draws its finance. The sustainability of the funds is secured by a law
approved by the congress in 2000. Each fund has a board and operates under the rules and regulations set
forth in the legislation. The mobilization of private funding through the sectoral funds is a major
accomplishment by the Government, which has reduced the pressure on the federal budget.

Increased participation of the least developed regions. The participation of the least developed regions of
the country in R&D activities was increased through targeted investment. In 1997, the share of investment
in R&D of the North and the North East region represented 2.33 percent and 12.14 percent respectively.
By the year 2002, the share was 3.46 percent and 13.39 percent. This signals an important shift in absolute
terms of a 60 percent increase in the Northern region and almost a 20 percent in the North Eastern region.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Project Component A ­ Technology Development Component
This component was welcomed by the private sector and its overall implementation was satisfactory,
considering the difficult macro environment and changing sectoral legislation. In 2002, it was agreed to
conclude the activities under this component since the establishment of the 14 sectoral funds made it
unnecessary to continue the component. More than 140 subprojects covering SMEs, cooperative research,
regional research and pre-competitive research platforms were implemented, prior to the establishment of
the sectoral funds. Valuable experience was obtained, and was used by the MCT in the launch of the
sectoral fund activities. The concrete results of the component were reduced due to the lack of initial
funding and delays in the import of equipment. Yet, the project did provide research laboratories with
imported equipment that would otherwise have been impossible to get. Independent external evaluations of
each subcomponent (Passos 2002, Furtado 2002, Plonski 2002, Terra 2002) conclude that the instruments
used under the component had a high impact in the sector:

Platforms. This subcomponent is considered satisfactory. Twenty-one S&T platforms were created, which
helped identify and resolve specific problems in the technology sector. Previously, the lack of cooperation
had been a major obstacle to technological development. The platforms helped create confidence and



                                                      - 8 -

facilitate communication among the main actors in the technology sector by organizing a large number of
networking events, such as meetings and workshops. Through the platforms, 94 articles were published in
Brazil and seven were published overseas. The subcomponent contributed to reaching the objective of a
more equitable regional distribution of research funds. A total of 12 platforms were established outside of
the larger cities in South-eastern Brazil.

Publicly-led cooperative projects. From a policy point of view, this subcomponent was a major success in
piloting what later led into the design of the sectoral funds. Yet, from a disbursement point of view, this
subcomponent is considered unsatisfactory. This subcomponent helped develop a large number of
partnerships (45) and had an important multiplier effect in terms of diffusion of technology. The technology
transfer generated by the project resulted in innovation both in public institutes and private companies.
Fifty-three percent of the projects transferred technology to their partners and 39 percent of the projects
were commercialized. Companies not directly involved also gained from the technology development
generated by the project. In a specific case, 33 companies were using a new technology and ten of these had
not participated in the project. A total of 141 publications (66 published abroad) also demonstrated an
increase in research activities. The concentration of projects was in universities and public institutions yet,
strong linkages were created with industry. The partnerships contributed to both a qualitative and
quantitative increase in R&D activities as well as institutional changes in the participating institutes and
companies. Experienced researchers achieved a higher degree of qualification and new graduates were
incorporated in the research teams, ensuring a larger and more qualified pool of researchers in the
institutes. A large number of professionals were allocated to the projects with a total of 86 PhDs, 65
masters, 69 graduate students and 23 technicians. Universities developed new cooperation mechanisms and
new research strategies were created. Companies opened R&D departments, which increased the demand
for qualified labor and extended research cooperation with external partners. Also, after the conclusion of
project-financed activities, companies continued contracting R&D in cooperation with universities and
technological institutes. Two-thirds of the partnerships were maintained beyond the PADCT funding.
Although the level of concentration of initiatives followed the pattern of regional development, the
Northeastern and Northern regions accounted for 30 percent of the initiatives.

Privately-led cooperative projects. This subcomponent is considered unsatisfactory. Disbursement fell
significantly short of the amount foreseen in the Project Appraisal Document. Nevertheless, piloting
activities under this subcomponent also contributed in a substantial way to making the case for a larger
investment by the GOB in the 14 sectoral funds. Thirty-seven partnerships were developed and private
companies showed a high commitment by contributing significant amounts of money to each subproject. In
several cases, private companies even lent money to their public partners while their funding problems were
resolved. Collaboration between public and private sector organizations proved very successful in the
Information and Communication Technology (ICT) industry, which led to the establishment of the
Information Society Program, financed by one of the sectoral funds. Two other projects also attracted
special attention from the private sector ­ one in the citric industry through a publication for the citric trade
organization and another in the metal mechanic sector. In total, 65 percent of the projects transferred
technology to their partners and 20 percent of the projects were commercialized. A total of 178
publications (65 published abroad) also demonstrated an increase in research activities. Fifty-two percent
of the companies strengthened links with their partners and planned on developing new projects in the
future. In most of the companies, researchers were committed part-time to new R&D initiatives. In total,
seven PhD students and 33 students in masters programs were able to complete their degrees and more than
90 percent of the companies improved and expanded their facilities and laboratories. The more developed
regions of Brazil received the most support under this component. The North East only received about 6
percent of the funding. This distribution reflects a concentration of the largest companies with the capacity
to participate in R&D partnerships in the most developed regions of the country.


                                                     - 9 -

Assistance for technology adoption by SMEs. This subcomponent is considered satisfactory. Private
institutions initiated 13 of 37 subprojects and public research institutes and federal agencies prepared the
remainder. This subcomponent generated a significant number of technological innovations. On average,
one technological product, service or process was developed per subproject. Financed subprojects led to the
publication of 37 published articles (14 were overseas). The modest public disclosure of achievements in
technology adoption may reflect a concern that publication would hinder patenting. The organizational
results in participating SMEs and public research institutions were considerable. Financed subprojects led
to 13 important organizational changes, including S&T infrastructure installation such as technology
transfer offices, intellectual property commissions, incubators, creation of associations and R&D
departments in SMEs linked to universities. The formation and continuation of technology networks
between SMEs and public research institutions was an important achievement under this subcomponent.
More than 11 of the partnerships maintained formal links after the end of the subprojects. The human
resources designated to the projects came primarily from the initiating institutions. Hence, the actual
contribution in personnel from co-financing SMEs was relatively low. Nonetheless, the personnel
development during the relatively short project duration was high. Due to support through subprojects, 13
people were able to complete their degree (4 PhDs, 4 MAs, 3 BAs and 1 specialist), demonstrating a
satisfactory level of university-industry interaction in subproject implementation. Subprojects were
concentrated in the most developed regions and only four were executed in the Northeastern part of Brazil.


Project Component B ­ Science and Technology Research Component
The implementation of this component was highly satisfactory. Between 1998 and 2000, four competitions
were completed and the interest among researchers and research institutes was huge ­ the demand exceeded
twofold what had been projected at appraisal. Six thousand researchers participated in the formulation of
proposals, which led to the selection of more than 300 subprojects for support. Thus, the component
reached its objective of a bottom-up activity and the concentration of funds to the most competitive and
innovative researchers. Following a reorganization of the project in 2001 after the MTR, the Millennium
Science Initiative (MSI) and new review procedures for research projects were added to this component.
This led to the establishment of 17 MSI institutes. These institutes played an important role in research
areas such as medicine, nanotechnology, bioengineering and land-use changes in the Amazon, all with
important implications for Brazil's social and economic development. The MSI simplified and refocused
the efforts and priorities of the sector with the best resources available.

Competitive grants. This subcomponent was highly satisfactory. The institutional impact of the science
and technological research component was substantial. Transparent procedures for the award of grants
were established and high-level expert committees were created in order to ensure a fair and professional
selection of subprojects. The system worked well. Prior to the call for proposals, an internet-based system
was set up to increase the efficiency of the selection process and allow a proper peer review process. High
priority issues were addressed through the competitive grants, covering themes such as: diagnostic and
treatment of colon and uterus cancer, vaccine against Dengue fever, and examination of cycles of energy,
water, carbon, and nitrogen in different kinds of vegetation providing relevant data for fragile ecosystems in
the country.

Millennium Science Initiative. The initial stage of the Brazilian version of the MSI was highly satisfactory.
The introduction of the MSI enhanced the science research component, narrowed the scope of the areas to
be researched and raised the level of scientific and technological competitiveness. Scholarships were
included as well as internet-based follow up systems. Two types of Millennium Science Institutes were
established: (i) MSI Group I: institutions of exceptional scientific and/or technological level within their



                                                       - 10 -

field or fields, which had a key role in achieving new standards of national competence within these fields;
and (ii) MSI Group II: institutes operating in strategic fields as defined by the Science and Technology
Program of the Ministry of Science and Technology. After a rigorous selection process of more than 200
proposals submitted ­ controlled by a high-level committee consisting of foreign and Brazilian scientists ­
15 institutes were selected in Group I and two institutes in Group II. Group I was granted Brazilian Real
(BRL) 60 million and Group II BRL 30 million. A total of BRL 15 million was granted in the form of
scholarships to young researchers (BRL 10 million for Group I and 5 BRL millions for Group II). The 17
institutes established by the MSI represented all science and technology fields. The MSI institutes
contributed to regional development by creating scientific and technological networks formed by research
institutions from different regions. Examples of MSI scientific networks include:

      Network of Global and Integrated Advancement of Mathematics in Brazil. A MSI institute led a
      network of 27 centers and fostered the integration of mathematics with scientific disciplines such as
      climate prediction and applied medicine as well as productive sector oil extraction and electrical
      energy optimization. The institute also contributed to the teaching of mathematics at levels ranging
      from secondary to graduate school. Finally, the institute also promoted cooperation with renowned
      mathematical institutes overseas.

      Network of Integration of Genetic Breeding, Functional and Comparative Genome of Citrus. A MSI
      institute established a network of six centers, which provided industry with a solid basis for further
      technological development in several regions of Brazil. The institute succeeded in integrating science
      (classic genetic improvement, genomics, functional genomics, pathogens genomics) with the needs of
      citrus agrobusiness by developing new varieties of disease-resistant citrus.

      Network for Integrated Strategies for Research and Control of Tuberculosis (TB) in Brazil: New
      Drugs and Vaccines, Diagnostic Tests and Clinical-Operational Evaluation. A MSI institute led a
      network of 17 research centers that were successful in developing new technologies for the control and
      treatment of tuberculosis and in training high quality human resources through multidisciplinary and
      multi-institutional networks.

In terms of human capital, the MSI institutes provided talented young doctoral students with new research
opportunities under the guidance of a principal investigator of international repute. As such, the institutes
made an important contribution to the development of a new generation of world-class researchers in
Brazil. The initiative was innovative since it aimed to consolidate the institutional model of high quality
research through the formation of networks focused on generating knowledge that responds to national
problems and increases the competitiveness of the Brazilian economy (CNPq 2004). The MSI provided a
considerable increase in competence in important areas of national and regional research.


Project Component C ­ Sectoral Support Activities
Disbursements under this component were unsatisfactory, yet in real terms, the component was successful
because the Government decided to consolidate its policy and framework activities for the sector. The
GOB developed a completely new strategic plan during the first years of the project, established the
sectoral funds, established capacity for S&T forecasting, and improved coordination across the
Government.      In addition, financial support of IPR activities, sectoral M&E and strengthening of
metrology, testing, standards and quality (MSTQ) services were included in the Plano Plurianual. This
component was reduced to a minimum during the simplification of the PADCT Project because the
Government decided to finance the necessary activities out of GOB-budgets (PPA). The component was
however, instrumental in improving the capacity of the MCT for sectoral oversight and multi-year


                                                    - 11 -

planning. A concrete example was an automated Internet system for soliciting research proposals, which
enhanced the transparency of review procedures and reduced government red tape.

The main achievement of this component was its contributions to the establishment of the 14 sectoral
funds. The funds are financed by levies on income of privatized sectors, royalties and taxes on imported
technology, and thus do not depend on traditional sources of budgetary revenue. Research and other
activities financed by the sectoral funds are aimed at eliminating knowledge-based and technical bottlenecks
in the sector from which each fund draws its finance. Twenty percent of the resources of the 14 sectoral
funds are transferred to finance the modernization of the public R&D infrastructure through two additional
funds: The Green and Yellow Fund and the Infrastructure Fund. The first fund promotes the interaction
between Academia and Industry and the second ensures adequate research infrastructure. The sustainability
of the funds is secured by a law approved by the congress in 2000. About US$400.0 million was raised
each year for the funds. The new funding model represented an increase of approximately thirty times the
budget of the National Fund for Science and Technology Development (FNDCT) (it increased from about
US$20.0 million in 1999 to about US$500.0 million in 2002). Each fund has a board and operates under
the rules and regulations set forth in the legislation. The mobilization of private funding through the
sectoral funds is a major accomplishment by the Government, which has substantially reduced the pressure
on the federal budget.

Project Component D ­ Project Management
This component is considered satisfactory. The resources of this component were used to finance project
management activities such as, overall planning and coordination of project activities, including the
preparation of the relevant Annual Operating Plan as well as project implementation activities. The
Management and Coordination Secretariat (SCG) within the Ministry for Science and Technology (MCT)
was responsible for the management of the project with administrative assistance of the Brazilian National
Foundation for Technology Development (FINEP), the Brazilian National Council for S&T Development
(CNPq) and the Coordinating Agency for Graduate Education (CAPES) plus contracted services from
several entities, including private firms, universities, nongovernmental organizations and state
governmental agencies. Bank funding was mainly used for the advisory services of the international
scientists of the Millennium Science Initiative. The project management was instrumental in organizing the
transition from the original more complex project design to the simplified design of the second half of the
project, and the Project Director played a pivotal role in introducing the sectoral fund law complex in
congress.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
An exact account of economic costs and benefits of the project is not feasible given time lags and
difficulties in measuring the use and commercialization of scientific output. Nonetheless, evidence at the
macro-level suggests significant returns to R&D investments, notably in a resource-dominated economy
such as Brazil. At the micro-level, findings show that investments in the science base (Component B)
provide the foundation for advances in applied research and contribute to the development of advanced
human capital. Moreover, efforts to stimulate private sector R&D (Component A) show private returns of
about 25-30 percent and estimated social returns of almost 100 percent (See Annex 3).

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project's institutional development impact was substantial. The science and technology sector became
more structured, achieving its strategic goals through the funding and technology transfer capabilities of the



                                                    - 12 -

Millennium Science Initiative, the Sectoral Funds and the new capabilities acquired by companies and
research institutes. The Millennium Science Initiative organized a network of institutes of excellence with
highly qualified scientists doing high-level R&D, which had an important impact on the country's
development priorities. The institutional funding capabilities of Brazil's Science and Technology sector
were improved and expanded. The sectoral fund concept first introduced in Brazil in 1997 for the oil and
natural gas industry was extended to other industries. During the years 2000 and 2001, the model was
expanded to more industries such as Electricity, Mineral Resources, Water Resources, Space,
Transportation, Aeronautics, Health, Agrobusiness, Biotechnology, Telecommunications and Information
Technology in addition to the Green and Yellow Fund and the Infrastructure Fund. Each of the funds is
established by law, which allows them to operate and ensures a constant flow of funds for R&D. The new
funding model represents an increase of approximately thirty times the budget of the National Fund for
Science and Technology Development (FNDCT) (about US$20.0 million in 1999 to about US$500.0
million in 2002). The sectoral funds supported the objective of the Technology Development Component
and other substantial elements of the PADCT Project, and by establishing these funds, the Brazilian
Government reached many of the PADCT's goals ahead of time and a significant amount of the Bank loan
was cancelled.

Companies, academic and research institutes developed both new capabilities and were transformed
institutionally. Now they are able to absorb and transfer technology through new R&D departments and
external relations offices. The formation of networks and partnerships was also part of their institutional
development. Over 50 percent of the partnerships funded by the Technology Component were continued,
indicating that a culture of partnerships was developed. The project facilitated the use of best-practice
competitive mechanisms in the Brazilian S&T system. In particular, the Millennium Science Initiative
strengthened the use of transparent, merit-based resource allocation principles for advanced research. The
establishment of an International Advisory Committee and obligatory peer review of funding proposals
were important, with a likely long-term impact in the sector. The Brazilian Government's Plano
Pluriannual (PPA) includes the continuation of PADCT III activities in its list of priority activities with
full funding in each of the coming years, which ensures the sustainability of PADCT III activities beyond
the term of the project.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The 1998 financial crisis affected the availability of Federal Government counterpart funds during the first
three years of the project, and slowed down the initial stages of implementation. However, the simultaneous
devaluation of the Real of approximately 70 percent reduced the cost of local expenditures in US$ terms.
This macro shock probably accelerated the reforms of the MCT and its programs, which in turn led to the
establishment of the sectoral funds and the integration of the MCT activities, including the PADCT, in the
budget law and the Plano Plurianual. Such major changes were not foreseeable at the time of project
preparation. Yet, the Government and the Bank responded in a timely manner, simplified the operation and
reduced the loan to the amount needed at that time (from the original US$155.0 million to US$66.2
million).

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The MCT's response to the financial crisis was to restructure its portfolio, consolidate programs, and
extend the sectoral fund model developed by the oil and gas industry in 1997 to other industries of the
Brazilian economy. New sectoral funds laws were approved between the years 2000-01 and 14 sectoral and
two transversal funds were established. The sectoral funds raised about US$400.0 million each year and
the GOB was able to achieve the project objectives with reduced support from the Bank.



                                                     - 13 -

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The MCT decided to restructure in response to the external crisis. This led to some instability in project
management, which could have become a major problem because of the complex nature of the project.
However, this risk was mitigated by reducing the complexity of the project (for example, by concentrating
S&T policy functions in CNPq) and FINEP would retain its role in technology development projects.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The project cost was originally estimated at US$360.0 million with IBRD financing of US$155.0 million.
At the original closing date of May 31, 2002, disbursements were only US$35.0 million. During project
implementation, the GOB and the Bank agreed ­ due to slow disbursement in the initial stages of the
project and the reduced need for external financing ­ to cancel US$88.8 million of the undisbursed balance
of the loan. The cancellation reduced the total IBRD investment in S&T from the original US$155.0
million to US$66.2 million. The remaining loan proceeds were concentrated in the most effective
components for which the new resources from the sectoral funds were not available (see Section 3.4).


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the project achievements is likely. The Millennium Science Initiative, the sectoral
funds, and the improved interaction between companies and research institutes in the S&T sector are likely
to become permanent features of Brazil's national innovation system. These factors will increase the
demand for highly qualified workers, thus encouraging the stock of highly qualified human capital. The
networks developed under the MSI have a high relevance for the development of the country. The Brazilian
S&T sector became more structured, strategic goals were defined and the quality of research increased. The
improvement of the institutional R&D capabilities of companies and research institutes to transfer
technology and demand are likely to be sustainable. About 50 percent of participants in projects showed
interest in maintaining the partnerships in future new projects.

The main achievement of the project was its contribution to the establishment of the 14 sectoral funds. The
objective to increase the private R&D efforts was achieved through these new funds. The GOB made an
important effort and commitment through the MCT to fulfill this objective, and match the Bank's funds
through this instrument. From 2000-01, nine different laws were approved to make the sectoral funds
operational. Since 2001, the sectoral funds brought a major increase in funding of approximately US$400.0
million per year for technological research. The sustainability of the funds is secured by a law complex.
The mobilization of private funding through the sectoral funds is a major accomplishment of the
Government, which has substantially reduced the pressure on the federal budget.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The restructuring of the MCT is completed and the laws that will secure the funding and operation of the
sectoral funds were enacted in 2001. Further, the pluriannual plan of the MCT for the years 2004-07
includes continued funding to the MSI, basic science and basic industrial R&D as well as sector-wide
framework activities supported under the PADCT. This pluriannual budget is to be approved under the
yearly budget law.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Satisfactory. The project was well prepared with extensive consultations and stakeholder discussions, and



                                                     - 14 -

was based on international experience tailored to local conditions. The preparation was supported at the
highest levels both in Brazil and within the Bank and responded well to the Government's reform strategy.
The project was expected to generate efficiency gains in federal support to the sector, which would
contribute to its sustainability. The Science and Technology Research and Sectoral Support Components
drew on 12 years of project experience (PADCT I and II). Several major structural changes were
introduced based on analyses of previous project performance. The Technology Development Component
drew on successful pilot initiatives by the GOB.

7.2 Supervision:
The supervision of the project was satisfactory. The Bank provided consistent and timely supervision with
regular supervision missions and a comprehensive MTR mission in December 2000. The technical quality
of the supervision was very high using the best combination of Bank specialists and international experts.
Two task managers were in charge of the lending operation and led supervision missions. The second task
manager was a team member during project design, which provided for continuity on the part of the Bank.
The Project Status Reports (PSRs) were realistic and informative and responded promptly to the project's
disbursement problems. During the MTR, the Bank team worked in close cooperation with the Government
to simplify the project under the new macro conditions in the aftermath of the financial crisis and the result
was an Amendment to the Loan Agreement (see Section 3.4).

The Bank team responded positively to the Government's request to extend the loan closing date, but
recommended a two-step approach to ensure that agreed milestones were met before a second extension of
the closing date. The milestones were not met and the Bank requested that a second extension be combined
with a partial cancellation of funds. However, the GOB requested a further extension of the project to avoid
the cancellation of funds from PADCT III. The Bank maintained the final closing date and in response,
suggested consideration of a possible follow-on project based on successful implementation of PADCT III.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall Bank performance was satisfactory. There was continuity of staff throughout the preparation
and supervision of the project. The Bank responded promptly to the project's disbursement problems and
took action to bring the project back on track and ensure a satisfactory implementation.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's preparation process was comprehensive and highly satisfactory. The GOB devoted
substantial time and resources to revising the project proposal and sponsored a participatory "Logical
Framework" workshop to plan the reform activities for the project. The GOB had cooperated actively with
the Bank on the S&T policy agenda and sectoral analyses required for the project preparation. The
Government's analytical background work was impressive and included numerous stakeholders from across
the sector, and it involved the Bank's task team in site visits, and visits to businesses and institutions in
many states. Further, the Government proactively provided extensive materials for consideration for the
project Implementation Plan and prepared a very complete Operational Manual for this complex project.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government was supportive and committed throughout implementation and its performance was
satisfactory. However, the financial crisis, changes in Governments, restructuring of the MCT, and
introduction of sectoral funds placed the project in a new context and made it necessary to simplify the
project, extend the implementation phase and cancel part of the undisbursed balance. The Government
showed its commitment by approving a new law complex as a foundation for the sectoral funds and by
incorporating funding for project activities in its pluriannual plan (Plano Plurianual).



                                                      - 15 -

7.6 Implementing Agency:
MCT provided satisfactory implementation capacity at ministry level. At all phases of the project, the
administration and processing of documentation for project management was conducted effectively by the
implementing agencies (CNPq, FINEP, and CAPES). Progress reports provided prior to supervision
missions were of high quality and allowed terms of references to be targeted at pressing issues.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The Borrower's overall performance was satisfactory, especially considering the difficult macroeconomic
framework under which the project was implemented. The different Governments were highly committed to
reform the S&T sector and participated actively in the simplification of the project.

8. Lessons Learned

Public-private partnerships in the Technology Development Component proved to be a highly effective
mechanism to benefit the Brazilian S&T market. These partnerships fostered the effective interaction of
companies and academia and the majority of supported activities delivered concrete outputs. The success in
delivering outputs, such as publications, services and products, encouraged the partners to acquire further
technology transfer capabilities. For that purpose, companies created R&D units and universities and
research centers formed incubators and technology transfer units. The institutionalization subsequently
increased the demand for highly trained workers. These partnerships also reinforced the Brazilian S&T
market, from both the demand and supply side.

Private funding and partnership commitment secured technology transfer in most cases. Funding
mobilization and a commitment from private companies were key drivers in the fulfillment of the
objectives. For example, in some cases when public funding was not available, companies lent the
remaining portion to the research institute. The projects that were most successful in transferring
technology were those with a high level of private sector involvement and funding.

Competitive funding in both the Technology Development and the Science and Technology Research
Components was an important factor in the level of commitment and the quality of output generated. In all
of the competitions, the demand for funds outnumbered the resources available by an important margin.
This highly competitive environment was a critically important factor in the consolidation of quality
research activities, and very important for medium- to long-term sustainability of the country's innovation
system.

Complexity in project design is exacerbated during times of crisis, and may de facto create blocks of
consolidation around critical core functions and programs. This operation was ambitious and somewhat
overdesigned with a relatively high number of subcomponents. In addition, the organizational structure
directly involved too many players within the S&T sector. To address these issues, the project was
simplified during the MTR.

Suggestions for future programs in Brazil. In order for Brazil to become fully competitive with other
advanced countries in terms of science, technology and innovation, it would be necessary to further improve
the MCT's capacity for policy formulation, and in particular to reach the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development (OECD) country level of monitoring and evaluation of the country's
innovation system. It would be important to reinforce critical bench marking, and to make further strategic
investments. Brazil has reached its intermediate target of 1 percent of GDP for R&D, however the next



                                                    - 16 -

goal would be to reach beyond 2 percent, mostly by increases in private sector R&D. The results from the
PADCT III Project and Brazil's other programs provide an excellent foundation for embarking on the next
phase of a program to improve Brazil's global competitiveness and the value added of its production. One
immediate task would be to articulate the individual sectoral funds with Brazil's system for advanced
human capital formation, its science base and the knowledge-based productive sectors, and to create a
transversal program.

Brazil faces two gaps - the external gap with the more advanced economies and the internal gaps between
individual states in the country. Within Brazil, the disparity of development indicates an increased focus on
regional development. Although some components of the PADCT allocated funds in the least developed
areas of the country, and the gap with the more developed areas was reduced, the breach between regions is
still significant. The disparity is not only reflected in the number of R&D centers, the availability of
companies and universities, but also in the institutional capabilities and the amount of resources mobilized.
For that reason, it is important to develop new strategies and there are good national and international
examples that can be used as models.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower's Contribution to the ICR is included in Annex 8.

(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A

10. Additional Information

N/A




                                                     - 17 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

                                 Outcome / Impact Indicators:
           Indicator/Matrix                           Baseline                 Actual/Latest Estimate
Investment in R&D as a percentage of      Baseline: 0.77% (1996)             Indicator: 1.05% (2000)
GDP (SIMA 2004)                                     0.77% (1999)                        0.77% (2002)
Number of published Science &             Baseline: 2,885 (1993)             Indicator: 7,205 (2001)
Engineering articles (NSF 2004)                     4,362 (1997)
Number of articles per 100,000            Baseline: 3.1 (1992)               Indicator: 9.1 (2002)
inhabitants (RICYT 2004)                            5.5 (1997)
Citation of Science & Engineering         Baseline: 5,132 citations (19920   Indicator: 17,365 citations
articles (NSF 2004)                       0.19 percent of world share (1992) 0.45 percent of world share
                                                                             (2001)
                                          8,630 citations (1996)
                                          0.26 percent of world share (1996)
Internationally coauthored articles (NSF  Baseline: 85 (1994)                Indicator: 102 (2001)
2004)
U.S. international articles coauthored    Baseline: 1,624 (1994)             Indicator: 3,369 (2001)
by at least one Brazilian (NSF 2004)
Average number of publications/           Baseline: 5.0 (1998)               Indicator: 6.2 (2001)
products per researcher (MCT 2003)
Average number of publications/           Baseline: 2.45 (1998)              Indicator: 2.69 (2001)
products per student (MCT 2003)
Export ­ import of technology (MCT        Baseline: US$54 million (1992)     Indicator: US$350 million (2002)
2003)                                               US$ -668 million (1997)
Share of companies which carry out        Baseline: 27% (1997)               Indicator: 44% (2000)
R&D activities together with
universities and technological institutes
(Sbragia 2002)


                                  Output Indicators:
           Indicator/Matrix                           Baseline                 Actual/Latest Estimate
Patent applications (RICYT 2004)         Baseline: 10,909 (1992)             Indicator: 23,995 (2002)
                                                  20,354 (1997)
Residents applying for patents in        Baseline: 49% (1992)                Indicator: 42% (2002)
percent of total (RICYT 2004)                     35 % (1997)
Granted patents (RICYT 2004)             Baseline: 2,548 (1992)              Indicator: 8,864 (2002)
                                                  3,156 (1997)
Patents awarded in the United States     Baseline: 57 (1993)                 Indicator: 110 (2001)
(MCT 2003)                                        62 (1997)
S&T Personnel (RICYT 2004)               Baseline : 106,024 (1995)           Indicator : 157,384 (2000)
Master graduates (RICYT 2004)            Baseline: 7,272 (1992)              Indicator: 23,421 (2002)
                                                  10,783 (1997)
Doctorates/ PhD (RICYT 2004)             Baseline:1,759 (1992)               Indicator: 6,843 (2002)
                                                  3,497 (1997)
Number of scholarships awarded for       Baseline: 26,539 (1992)             Indicator: 34,567 (2002)
Master graduates and PhD (MCT 2004) Master: 18,863
                                         PhD: 7,676                          Master: 18,645
                                                  35,498 (1997)              PhD: 15,922
                                         Master: 21, 694
                                         PhD: 13,804
Number of ISO 9000 series                Baseline: 18 (1990)                 Indicator: 17,319 (2004)
certifications (MCT 2004)                         2,647 (1997)
Number of ISO 14000 series               Baseline: 2 (1999)                  Indicator: 589 (2004)
certifications (MCT 2004)




                                                           - 18 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                      Component                           US$ million   US$ million
Technology Development                                     147.00          16.39                9
Science and Technology Research                            147.00         108.48               73
Sectoral Support Activities                                 44.40            5.60              12
Project Management                                           9.90            2.20              22
Unallocated                                                 10.00

Total Baseline Cost                                        358.30         132.67
 Physical Contingencies                                      0.70
 Price Contingencies                                         1.00
                         Total Project Costs               360.00         132.67
                  Total Financing Required                 360.00         132.67


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          27.20            59.00        62.70         0.00         148.90
                                 (27.20)          (41.30)      (43.20)        (0.00)      (111.70)
2. Goods                           0.00             0.00        44.50         0.00         44.50
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (33.00)        (0.00)      (33.00)
3. Services                        0.00             0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Training                        0.00             0.00        43.80         0.00         43.80
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (10.30)        (0.00)      (10.30)
5. Operating Costs                 0.00             0.00         0.00        122.80        122.80
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                          27.20            59.00       151.00        122.80        360.00
                                 (27.20)          (41.30)      (86.50)        (0.00)      (155.00)




                                                - 19 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                   1
                                                         Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                               Other
   1. Works                                0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   2. Goods                                2.43              14.39             94.78             0.00             111.60
                                          (2.43)             (5.26)           (52.92)            (0.00)           (60.61)
   3. Services                             0.00               0.00             12.32             0.00             12.32
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (5.59)            (0.00)           (5.59)
   4. Training                             0.00               0.00              8.75             0.00              8.75
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   5. Operating Costs                      0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                               2.43              14.39            115.85             0.00             132.67
                                          (2.43)             (5.26)           (58.51)            (0.00)           (66.20)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
1. Technology                 53.00        44.00        50.00        7.20         9.19                  13.6      20.9      0.0
Development
2. Science and Technology     77.00        70.00                    58.30         50.18                 75.7      71.7
Research
3. Sectoral Support           16.00        30.00                     0.60         5.00                   3.8      16.7
4. Project Management          4.00         6.00                     0.10         2.10                   2.5      35.0
5. Unallocated                 5.00         5.00                     0.00         0.00                   0.0      0.0




                                                          - 20 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Economic analyses consistently show high social and economic rates of return to research and development
(R&D) and innovation. It is well established in the literature that a broad definition of technological
progress accounts for a large part of economic growth. For example, Esterly and Levine (2000) using the
growth regression methodology, estimate that up to 80 percent of cross-country variation in economic
growth can be attributed to technological progress. For the Latin American and Caribbean region, the
World Bank study "From Natural Resources to the Knowledge Economy" finds that knowledge and
technology is a critical determinant for growth in the region, especially because of the countries'
dependence on natural resources.

Lederman and Maloney (2003) estimates returns for a panel of countries explaining economic growth by
control variables ­ capturing the impact of initial development, physical capital and labor growth ­ and by
policy variables related to the national innovation system. They find that the size, function and efficiency of
the innovation system strongly influence economic performance. The table below presents the findings.

     Returns to R&D at country level
      Table 1: Returns to R&D
      Dependent Variables: Growth of GDP (constant PPP (purchasing power parity), five-year from 1960-2000
      Methodology: Generalized Method of Moments (GMM) system estimator
      Observations                                  53          43              43               43          43          43
      Countries                                     162         107             107              107         107         107

      Initial level of GDP per capita               0.03461***  0.00059         -0.0088**        0.00026     0.00116     0.0877***
      Investment/GDP                                1.29895***  0.18948***      0.32838***       0.23743***  0.2713***   0.88322***
      Labor growth                                  0.50922***  0.59981***      0.49541***       0.7535***   0.48368***  0.7708***
      R&D/GDP                                       3.19316***  1.39194***      0.51829***       1.02247***  9.62216***  9.29019***
      Tertiary Enrollment ratio                                                 0.05567***       0.02778*    0.05302**   0.02258**
      NR-Leamer                                                                                  0.00106**   -0.0059***  -0.0056***
      R&D*(GDP per capita)                          -0.3***                                                  -1.09***    -0.9924***
      R&D*(NR-Learmer)                                                                                       0.37071***  0.32784***
      Investment/GDP*(GDP per cpita)                -0.1307***                                                           -0.0792***
      Wald test for joint significance (p-value)    0           0               0                0           0           0
      Sargan Test (p-value)                         0.326       0.437           0.703            0.372       0.485       0.917
      1st order serial correlation                  0.002       0.007           0.005            0.005       0.005       0.004
      2nd order serial correlation                  0.23        0.984           0.625            0.721       0.798       0.885
     Source: Lederman and Maloney (2003)


Three findings are key for the Brazil Science and Technology Reform Project:

   l Social Returns to R&D exceed by far the return to investment in physical capital by a factor 6 to
         10 depending upon the initial level of income per capita.

   l Returns to R&D increase with the intensity of natural resources in the economy. Brazil, and other
         countries that rely heavily on natural resources, enjoy higher returns on R&D than more
         manufacturing-dominated economies.

   l Formation of advanced human capital as measured by tertiary education is a prime driver of
         technical progress, and appears to be more important than basic education. Quality basic
         education, however, is a precondition for tertiary education and for equitable growth.

Returns to component on strengthening Brazil's science base. Efforts to strengthen the science base do
not inevitably reflect macro-growth findings. The most common methodologies usually measure either (i)
the impact of publications and citations resulting from public research or (ii) the economic value of outputs
of research, in terms of production function analysis or social rates of return. However, the best available
methodologies are often unable to measure completely the outputs from fundamental research (Popper,
1995) which include:



                                                                   - 21 -

   l Training new scientific and technical workers;
   l Enriched expertise and experience of current researchers;
   l Development of "schools" of researchers who represent an informal community focused on a
         particular system;
   l Exploration of new experimental designs, instrumentation, and research protocols;
   l Increased numbers of "guesses" about the nature of the system being explored;
   l Lowering the notional price of an "option" on a prospective technological application which may
         or may not have some value in the future and for which the basic research finding provides an
         input;
   l Negative results which are important in more effectively directing subsequent efforts which may
         then lead to positive results; and
   l Intangible benefits conferred on society and the public imagination by the search itself, and/or its
         contribution to a culture of science that will facilitate future discoveries.

Some of these outputs are not amenable to empirical testing, or are only amenable to certain forms of
qualitative assessments. In addition, time frames for the appearance of output from fundamental research
are idiosyncratic and non-linear. Important findings from fundamental research have remained unused for
decades until being "discovered" by coincidence. Even when results are utilized immediately after
publication, time horizons for the development of applications can run ten years or more.

Private returns on private sector component. Jones and Williams (1998) review estimates of the
economic gains of firm expenditure on research and development of new products and production
techniques. Although, these kinds of calculations simplify the innovation process ­ by for instance
discounting the company's stock of core-competencies prior to the measured R&D expenditure ­ they
quantify the potential of R&D in building market power, productivity increments and profits. Table 2
below shows that most studies suggest gains from firm R&D investment to be around 25-30 percent. This
compares to the average return on capital of seven percent.

Table 2: Estimates of return on R&D investments in private firms in the US
                                                Year             Private return       Social return
                                                                      (in %)            (in %)
  Sveikauskas                                   1981                    17
  Griliches                                     1994                    30
  Griliches and Lichtenberg                     1984                    34
  Terleckyj                                     1980                    25                107
  Scherer                                       1982                    29                103
  Griliches and Lichtenberg II                  1984                    30                71
  Jones and Williams                            1998                    35
Source: Jones and Williams (1998)

Social return on private sector component. Taking into account the impact of one firm's R&D on the
entire economy through knowledge spillovers improving other companies' products and production
techniques through copying, adapting and learning, the return to R&D rises several fold. Available
estimates suggest a social return of about 70 to 100 percent. This is only an estimate, given the difficulties
in mapping and quantifying knowledge spillovers. Nevertheless, even an over-estimation in the magnitude
of two implies that investments in S&T carry a return substantially above the price of the resources
provided through this project. Further, the finding demonstrates the important impact of market failure on



                                                     - 22 -

the market for knowledge, which ­ if left without public regulation, intervention and financing ­ would
produce around one-forth to one-fifth of the social optimal knowledge for the economy.

Conclusion. An exact account of economic costs and benefits of the project is not feasible given time lags
and difficulties in measuring the use and commercialization of scientific output. Nonetheless, evidence at
the macro-level suggests significant returns to R&D investments, notably in a resource-dominated economy
such as Brazil. At the micro level, evidence suggests that investments in the science base (Component B)
provide the foundation for advances in applied research and contribute to the development of advanced
human capital. Efforts to stimulate private sector R&D (Component A) show private returns of about
25-30 percent and estimated social returns of almost 100 percent.




                                                    - 23 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              06/14/1996                4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY
                                             SPECIALIST (2);
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              09/17/1996                5    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY
                                             SPECIALIST (2);
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              11/19/1996                3    SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY
                                             SPECIALIST (2);
                                             CONSULTANT (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              12/22/1996                6    SENIOR ECONOMIST (1);
                                             SCIENCE &
                                             TECHNOLOGY
                                             SPECIALIST (2);
                                             CONSULTANTS (3)
              03/22/1997                3    SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (1);
                                             ASSISTANT TO TASK
                                             MANAGER (1)
              05/05/1997                2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             TASK MANAGER (1)

 Supervision
              12/04/1998                7    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             ECONOMIST/DEPUTY TM
                                             (1); SCI RESEARCH
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             TECHNOLOGY DEV.
                                             EXPERT (1); SCI & TECH
                                             POL. EXPERT (1);
                                             INDUSTRIAL ENGINEER
                                             (1); ECONOMIST (1)
              02/04/1999                2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             DEPUTY TASK MANAGER (1)
              04/22/1999                2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1); SCI        S               S
                                             & TECH. SPECIALIST (1)
              09/24/1999                3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             INFORMATION MANAGER
                                             (1); SCI & TECH. SPL (1)
              03/19/2000                1    SCIENCE & TECH. SPL (1)          S               S
              12/12/2000                2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1); SCI        U               S
                                             & TECH. SPECIALIST (1)



                                              - 24 -

               06/09/2001              2    LEAD EDUCATION                    S    S
                                            SPECIALIST (1); SCI & TECH.
                                            SPECIALIST (1)
               02/21/2002              2    SCI & TECH. SPECIALIST (1);       U    U
                                            TASK MANAGER (1)
               07/25/2002              2    TASK MANAGER (1);                 U    U
                                            CONSULTANT (1)
               03/18/2003              1    TASK TAM LEADER (1)               S    S
               07/02/2003              1    TASK TEAM LEADER (1)              S    S
               09/30/2003              1    TASK TEAM LEADER(1)               S    S

 ICR
               05/07/2004             1     TASK TEAM LEADER (1)              S    S



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation             NA                            N/A
  Appraisal/Negotiation                  NA                      411,838.00
  Supervision                              47                    481,022.00
  ICR                                       4                      8,804.00
  Total                                                          901,664.00




                                            - 25 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

CNPq (2004), www.cnpq.br

Easterly, W and R. Levine (2000). Its not factor accumulation: stylized facts and growth models,
Washington D.C.: World Bank Economic Review 15: 177-219

Ferranti, David, Guillermo E. Perry, Daniel Lederman, William F. Maloney (2002). From Natural
Resources to the Knowledge Economy. Washington D.C.: The World Bank

Furtado, Andre Tosi , Adriana Gomes de Freitas and Mirian Hasegawa (2002). Relatório de Avaliação do
Subcomponente Projetos Cooperativos Regionais e Setoriais do CDT/PADCT III, Departamento de
Política Científica e Tecnológica, UNICAMP

Jones, Charles I and John C. Williams (1998). Measuring the Social Return to R&D, Quarterly Journal of
Economics 113: 1119-35

Lederman, Daniel and William F. Maloney (2003). R&D and Development, Washington D.C.: The World
Bank (forthcoming)

MCT 2003. www.mct.gov.br/estat/ascavpp/default.htm

MCT 2004. www.mct.gov.br. Indicadores do setor

Ministry of Science and Technology (2002). Brazilian Millennium Institutes, The Brazilian Government

OECD (2004). University Research Management ­ Meeting the Institutional Challenge, edited by Helen
Connell

Passos, Carlos Alberto dos Santos (2002). Relatório de Avaliação do Subcomponente Plataforma do
CDT/PADCT III/MCT

Plonski, Guilherme Ary and Conceição Vedovello (2002), Relatoria PADCT III, Componente de
Desenvolvimento Tecnológico (CDT), Sub-componente Projetos Cooperativos entre Consórcios
Específicos (CE)

Popper (1995). S.W. (1995). Economic Approaches to Measuring the Performance and Benefits of
Fundamental Science, RAND, Critical Technologies Institute, Washington

RICYT 2004. www.RICYT.org/indicadors

Sbragia, Roberto, Isak Kruglianskas and Tales Andreassi (2002). Innovative Firms in Brazil as Part of the
National System for Innovation: Recent Evolution and Prospective, International Conference on
Technology Policy and Innovation, Kansai City, Japan, August 12-15, 2002

National Science Foundation (2004). Sciences & Engineering Indicators, Washington D.C.: National
Science Board

SIMA, World Economic Indicators (2004)


                                                 - 28 -

Terra, Branca Regina Cantisano, Elaine Borin and Sebastiana Cristina de Carvalho Macedo (2002). An
Assessment of Médium and Smal Firms finance by the partnerships between the Science and Technology
Ministry and the World Bank through the Brazilian S&T Development Support Program ­ PADCT III,
Rio de Janeiro State University




                                              - 29 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution

MINISTRY OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY

The Science and Technology Reform Support Project ­ PADCT

I. INTRODUCTION

Loan Agreement No. 4266-BR, March 17, 1998 between the World Bank and the Brazilian Government to
finance the third phase of the Science and Technology Reform Support Project ­ PADCT III was executed
under a technical cooperation agreement between the Ministry of Science and Technology, the Brazilian
National Council for S&T Development (CNPq), the Brazilian National Foundation for Technology
Development (FINEP) and the Ministry of Education through the Coordinating Agency for Graduate
Education (CAPES) in accordance with directives to strengthen Brazil's scientific and technological
competitiveness in strategic areas and expand the building of technological skills in the production sector.

In January 2003 US$88.8 million of the US$155 million initially agreed to was canceled. This reduced the
value of the Agreement to US$66.2 million, all of which has been disbursed.

The initial closing date was May 31, 2002. Two extensions of the closing date were granted, extending it
to July 31, 2004.

The World Bank then granted a "grace period" until November 30, 2004 to allow time for documentation
of the funds used. On November 24, 2004 the Bank approved the final expense report and thus determined
that the entire revised amount of the Agreement US$66.2 million had been disbursed.

The basic objectives of PADCT III were as follows:

§Contributiontothecreationofanenvironmentfavorabletocooperationbetweentheprivatesectorand
the various levels of government (federal, state, and local) by establishing and operating the partnership
arrangements necessary and appropriate to implementation of activities to be financed by the program (as
instruments of stated sectoral policy); and an increase in S&T investments by the private sector and by
other areas of government.
§Traininghumanresourcestomeettheneedsofacademiaandtheproductivesectorsbymoreeffectively
applying scientific and technological knowledge in areas relevant to the country's development. This would
be achieved by financing R&D activities, including expenditures for laboratory infrastructure, overhead,
and developing the private sector and other areas of government with a view to achieving the best possible
adaptation of those activities to factors that determine the competitiveness of the productive sector and the
best possible socioeconomic appropriation of the results produced.
§ContributiontobetteroverallperformancebytheS&Tsectorthroughrefinementofproceduresand
resources essential to accomplishment of the tasks of planning, management, monitoring, and assessment of
S&T activities at both the sectoral and programmatic level. The objective is continuous identification of
available opportunities and competencies as a basis for project financing and the provision of systemic
elements in support of project execution, such as information services, maintenance, and other elements.

Program activities were distributed among three components:




                                                      - 30 -

         Component 1 - Technology Development ­ CDT

         Component 2 - Science and Technology Research ­ CCT

         Component 3 - Sectoral Support Activities

Beginning 2001 some changes were made in the original structure of the PADCT III. Among these were
inclusion of the Millennium Science Iniative under the Technology Development Component and
strengthening of the Biotechnology Subprogram by extending it to include the Genome Project (Projeto
Genoma).

II. ASSESSMENT BY THE EXECUTING AGENCIES

(a) Ministry of Science and Technology ­ MCT

We would like to highlight the Millennium Science Initiative, which was developed to assist research
institutions in the various S&T fields implement Brazilian S&T policy and ameliorate Brazil's performance
in a sector which is strategic to its social and economic progress.

The Millennium Science Initiative was launched in March 2001. It was created as a new institutional model
for S&T operations using research networks and invitations for participation issued in the form of
Announcements.

Projects implemented at the millennium institutes achieved their goals to a significant extent, thereby filling
a void in this field by performing work that made an impact. Some of the activities received awards.

Other objectives of the Millennium Institutes are to:

§fosteraconsiderableincreaseincompetitivenessinimportantS&Tfieldsbytakingwide-rangingaction
in the national, regional, and international arenas;
§promoteintegrationoftheprincipalfieldsinwhichtheinstitutionsworkwithotherS&Tareas;
§developresearchprojectsthataremorecomprehensivethanthetopic-specificprojectsnormallycovered
by other programs;
§contributetothecountry'ssocialoreconomicprogressandtoanunderstandingandsearchforsolutions
to major global problems that have significant implications for Brazil;
§promotetrainingofnewresearchersandencourageretentionofyoungresearcherswhoarerecognizedas
talented;
§promotethecoordinationofnetworks,involvingemergingresearchgroups.


During the past three years, the Millennium Institutes achieved favorable results such as: the integration of
17 institutions of higher learning situated along Brazil's coastline; adoption of the practice of working as a
network, overcoming the "rhetoric of the network"; the implementation of interdisciplinary approaches that
result in the understanding and solution of problems; support for the human resources training program;
strengthening the infrastructure of the institutions by purchasing equipment for setting up the research
networks and fostering exchanges of knowledge, new methodologies, and the analyses of problems on a
national, rather than local or regional scale.




                                                     - 31 -

The impressive scientific results obtained by the 17 institutes convinced us that the decision to implement
the Millennium Initiative based on the Millennium Science Initiative, composed of chains of researchers
working in groups at different institutions throughout Brazil, was a wise one. Individual projects adhered
closely to the original goals as approved in 2001 and in general, exceeded those targets.

Scientific contributions, presented in the form of essays published in international scientific journals, in
some cases, stand at the frontiers of knowledge. In all fields where immediate application of the projects
was possible, cooperation from the public or private sector was obtained.

The mechanisms used to teach, train and disseminate the sciences varied in importance under the Program,
but in no case were these activities overlooked and the results were always recorded.

The reports also showed that Brazilian problems can be approached by S&T research and that the
scientific community involved with the Millennium Institute has world-class capability to try to resolve
both fundamental matters and some of the challenges posed by the problems that were initially proposed.

One of the most innovative and positive aspects was the energizing of the work and the progress made in
research because the researchers worked in groups. The entire program demonstrated significant
accomplishments toward ambitious goals. In most of the cases, however, it is clear that additional time is
needed to obtain more pertinent results and to transfer the knowledge into applications that could increase
the scientific and social impacts of the Millennium Initiative.

The Evaluation Council (Conselho de Avaliação) notes with satisfaction that in most cases the working
groups included new researchers working in less developed regions of Brazil. It is clear that the work
groups are integrated and are part of a problem recognition organization.

We enthusiastically recommend that the Millennium Science Initiative be extended to a second phase with a
higher funding level including both the budget allocated to the S&T Ministry as well as funds for other
ministries and agencies that have an interest in the subject in question.

The Evaluation Committee understands that the funds available for this initiative are limited. This is why it
emphasized that improvements must be made in the way that the funds are spend. The "Millennium
Institute" has become a sign of quality and relevance. The initiative should be maintained, regardless of the
level or even the existence of funds. Furthermore, the success of the program should be given greater
visibility in the Brazilian society.

(b) The Brazilian National Council for S&T Development - CNPq

The PADCT project afforded this excellent opportunity to conduct research that should be given priority in
Brazil, i.e., to support areas important for the country's sustainable development.

Support for the continuity of the program is vital, since it has facilitated the drafting of a significant
number of theses and dissertations and provided excellent opportunities for training and instruction in
priority fields.

The principal criticism that can be made of the PADCT relates to the irregularity in funds transfers. This is
bound to have negative effects on the conduct of the projects.

The main problems identified by the agencies executing the projects lie in the areas of project contracting,
release of funds, and import of equipment.




                                                     - 32 -

The difficulties encountered were delays in the transfer of financial resources, as well as in the import of
equipment; vagueness in procedures for project monitoring and evaluation; inflexibility in the types of
grants; and the duration of the project - it took almost a year to make the network operational.

Given the success of the Millennium Science Initiative supported by the Loan Agreement, it is suggested
that the program be better institutionalized within the MCT/CNPq by continuing its activities, adhering to
disbursement timetables, extending the present three-year deadline for execution to five years, and adopting
suitable procedures for project assessment (Example: Pronex and the NSF).

Performance Report ­ PADCT/CNPq Import Sector

During 2004 all efforts were devoted to closing down the arrangement with the World Bank. This proved to
be an arduous task with respect to imports, since guidance had already been given by the Executive
Secretariat of the MCT/PADCT as to deadlines for finalizing this.

As completion of the imports was made a priority, we had to consider the short time frame for acceptance,
processing, and finalizing the imports. We notified all coordinators and institutions of the need to submit
and finalize the imports, including all the deadlines for the procedures

The need to observe World Bank rules and finalize complementary data for purposes of the actual import
were the problems we faced during this period.

In light of all the issues already mentioned, such as deadlines and nonobservance of the specifications
necessary to actual importation, it became hard to assure the coordinators that all the items supported by
the PADCT/CNPq for their projects would be purchased.

Although the PADCT/CNPq coordinating office had been faced with this situation, imports in 2004
achieved significant figures. Goals were reached, all unexpected problems circumvented as best they could
be, and the quality of service to the coordinators and their teams was maintained.

Lastly, we would stress that the impossibility of monitoring the project coordinators more closely ended up
creating extra problems as regards satisfactory progress of the procurement of items supported by the
PADCT/CNPq. Note that the need to provide training at the institutions in compliance with World Bank
rules is a constant. The absence of this has caused the coordinators in question serious problems.

(c) Coordinating Agency for Graduate Education - CAPES

The Ministry of Education, through CAPES, partnered with the S&T Ministry in projects related directly
to graduate studies. It took responsibility for awarding study grants and promoting the graduate school
infrastructure at the institutions of higher learning with which agreements had been signed.

During this period, 90% of the contracts were signed directly with researchers, which favorered
decentralization in terms of agility and flexibility in resource management. The external expenses for the
projects were recorded in CAPES. They were disbursed by FINEP, which was the financial agent for the
program and responsible for paying the suppliers directly for imported equipment. At the end of Phase III
execution on June 30, 2001, CAPES had executed 100% of the disbursements to contracted projects.
Imports were pending on only 15 projects and those payments were made and completed by FINEP/RJ by
December 31, 2003.




                                                      - 33 -

In terms of PADCT III management, CAPES used three computerized systems to maintain records on the
control, monitoring, execution and assessment of PADCT III. The first system is SIAFI ­ Financial
Administration Integrated System, which had been developed by SERPRO and was used to process all
disbursements under the Program. This enabled CAPES to meet the demands of the contracted projects on
a timely basis.

The second system is the SISPC, a complementary system developed by CAPES technical staff that
permitted analysis, preparation of fact-finding tasks, control over internal handling of financial and
technical opinions, as well as approval of the statements of account furnished by the arrangements and
assistance agreements signed by CAPES with managers of PADCT III projects.

Another system was developed by the team at CESAR-PE, a company associated with the Federal
University of Pernambuco ­ UFPE. It worked in concert with the executing agencies and was monitored by
the S&T Ministry, which had assumed responsibility for all program monitoring and was consolidating the
data from the three agencies.

Assessment of World Bank Performance

Despite the difficulties the Brazilian Government encountered in maintaining Loan Agreement No.
4266-BR with a view to continuing more than one phase of PADCT, it should be taken into consideration
that World Bank participation as an encouraging force in various extremely needy areas in this country is
widely recognized. Most of our educational, scientific and technological indicators have improved
significantly because of financial support from the World Bank.

One of our project coordinators criticized the failure to pay for the stable isotopes analyses that were
supposed to have been performed directly by the World Bank outside Brazil. The fact that this did not
happen impaired the project in technical terms, as reported, besides putting the Bank in somewhat of a bad
light.

Assessment of Performance by the Executing Agencies

The research project initially was intended to run from September 8, 1999 to September 8, 2001 (and later
extended to December 31, 2001). According to the Announcement, contracting was scheduled to begin in
October 1998. However, contracts were not signed until a year later. Despite the uncertainty caused by the
one-year delay in the formal startup of the project, which had obviously negative impacts on its execution,
it was possible to accomplish a good part of the work programmed for 1998 and 1999, thanks to
cooperation agreements maintained with research institutions in both Brazil and abroad. The financial
resources for the Brazilian part of the project were transferred in October 1999 and January 2000. This
made it possible to purchase computer hardware and software (bought in Brazil) and to carry out scheduled
field trips for meetings (initial and subsequent) as well as for complementary data collection and sampling.

The funds allocated for use abroad (equipment imports) did not, however, begin to be released until
October 2000, and import processing extended until early 2001, when more than half of the project
execution time had elapsed. Funds from outside Brazil to pay for analyses were never released. These
circumstances primarily impaired the execution of Subprogram 2.

On March 15, 2000, the project team received an evaluation visit from the FINEP/PADCT technical team,
composed of Dr. Ronaldo Azambuja and Professor Lydia Lobato. The problems mentioned above and
others were pointed out in an oral and written report on that occasion. On February 28, 2001, we sent


                                                     - 34 -

FINEP technical and financial reports covering the project period up to December 31, 2000, and the
problems were also mentioned in those reports.

Lessons Learned from Program Execution

First, it can be said that the scientific and technological reform proposed by the PADCT did in fact take
place. The financial support and scientific competitiveness installed in this country, especially at the
universities and research centers, are of fundamental importance. The mobilization of a critical mass of
researchers and technical personnel was important to the projects. Also worth special mention is the
managerial format adopted by the program. It concentrated on a decentralized activities model, using a
financial agent--FINEP/RJ in this case--that made it possible to provide researchers with timely funding,
especially for procurement via imports.

Other achievements took the form of publications that resulted directly from the project (see complete list in
the Final Report), specifically:

(1) Ten books, chapters of books, theses and dissertations were completed;

(2) Nine complete articles were published in journals that are highly regarded internationally;

(3) More than 30 complete papers and expanded abstracts were published in the Proceedings of
international congresses and symposia.

(d) Brazilian National Foundation for Technology Development ­ FINEP

Conduct of activities related to PADCT III under FINEP was guided by the rules established initially, as
well as by a data system designed specifically to record the anticipated stages in the progress of the
projects.

The program provided training to both the administrative and technical teams involved and also enabled
them to identify new areas in which the agency could take action. This resulted in support for correlated
initiatives through other funding sources.

The length of the program implementation period meant that different teams would pass through the
project, whether from the point of view of management--more than one board of directives was in charge
of the FINEP while PADCT activities were under way, with consequent changes in coordinator--or from
the technical standpoint, entailing replacement of the consultants and technical personnel who were
responsible for each project.

FINEP's activities were also heavily influenced by the pace at which counterpart funds were allocated by
the Brazilian Government which, in turn, had repercussions for the allocation of World Bank funds. This
resulted in discontinuities in project execution and consequently. in the releases of funds for research and
therefore on FINEP's monitoring of the projects.

The computerized system created specifically for the PADCT posed several problems for FINEP
throughout that period. The agency decided to accept delivery of some opinions from consultants on paper,
because it was not thought suitable to continue indefinitely to insist that these people include their opinions
in that system. This meant that alternative procedures had to be created to ensure implementation of certain
activities and only later, when possible, would the necessary changes in the system be made. For example,


                                                     - 35 -

the technical personnel responsible for the projects were not necessarily those whose names appeared in the
system, since on a number of occasions it was impossible to update the names when people were replaced.

In conclusion, we can say that the experience with PADCT enabled FINEP to further develop its
capabilities and to create, internally, all the conditions needed to participate in similar operations that may
be undertaken in the future by the Brazilian Government in the fields of science, technology, and
innovation.

Evaluation of the World Bank

Based on financial data, we can say that all the requests for action and other requests made to the World
Bank by the Financing Agent/FINEP/DCOF were responded to with fully satisfactory solutions and within
appropriate time frames.

One of the criticisms made by our project coordinators related to studying and adhering to the complex
Normas de Licitação Internacional e Processos de Importação do Banco Mundial [World Bank
guidelines for international competitive bidding and import procedures]. However despite the difficulties
and the limitations they encountered, they were able to satisfy all the requirements of those rules and the
process of purchasing equipment and materials from foreign sources was a success.

Lessons Learned from Program Execution

Although Brazilian society has evolved rapidly in its recognition of the importance of projects in
technological innovation, when we began the PADCT project in July 1998, this was still a rather recent
project methodology.

Therefore, the broad outlines of the PADCT project and its strategic components, such as technological
innovation allied with a scientific level of excellence, the training of personnel at various levels of expertise,
the interaction between the project and high-tech companies in Brazil and abroad, the socioeconomic
contribution, etc. certainly were the major contributions to the evolution of the technological innovation
scenario in this country.

Furthermore, we would point out that there is significant demand in the scientific community for support
for projects (especially in earth sciences). If financing is available, they will bear fruit. The development of
basic and applied research, and especially the training of skilled human resources, is a necessity for any
country that desires to achieve or maintain progress, not only in the sciences but also in its socioeconomic
conditions. Under this scenario, I believe that the work of academia is important and that academics, in
turn, need induced actions such as those related to the PADCT.

Following is a list of the PADCT projects, supplied by the CNPq, CAPES, and FINEP:

Controle estrutural e geocronologia das mineralizações de Au e W nas Faixas Seridó e Cachoeirinha,
NE do Brasil [Structural control and geochronology of gold and tungsten mineral deposits in the Seridó
and Cachoeirinha seams in Brazil's Northeast]. The project was carried out in a multidisciplinary,
harmonious fashion among its various levels of approach. Usually, three fronts of approach to the topics on
which the project focused were always present: (i) bibliographic research, both geographic area-specific
and topic-specific; (ii) the kind of field work that is essential to this type of project; and (iii) laboratory
work.




                                                      - 36 -

Besides maintaining several researchers who pursued the selected line of research, the project made
possible an always desired interaction between students at various levels and those about to obtain their
degree, through tasks planned at the novice, master's and doctoral levels. Two holders of doctoral degrees,
two holders of master's degrees, and three candidates for graduation were assisted by the project. About 30
scientific papers were published in specialized literature.

The project also led to interaction with international institutions in countries such as France and Australia.
Researchers were able to use laboratories and researchers and students exchanged experiences.

Gerenciamento Integrado dos Aqüíferos da RMR ­ UFPE [Integrated management of the aquifers in
the Recife Metropolitan Region ­ UFPE]. The proposal was to establish a data system to assist
decision-making for the integrated management of the aquifers in the Recife Metropolitan Region (RMR).

Estudo Isotópico e Geoquímico dos Aqüíferos do DF ­ UnB [Isotopic and geochemical study of the
aquifers in the Federal District ­ University of Brasília]. This study deals with the demand for water
resources in the Federal District.

Distritos Mineiros de Calcário do Paraná - UFPR [Limestone Mining Districts of Paraná ­ Federal
University of Paraná]. This project was designed to increase the geological and prospecting knowledge of
the layers of Proterozoic limestone found in the First Plateau of the State of Paraná. This project is a
shining example of partnership between the public and private sectors.

Determinação da erosão/deposição de solo pela medida da redistribuição do conteúdo (UEL)
[Determination of the erosion/deposition of soil by measuring the redistribution of content (State University
of Londrina)]. The group worked with the Federal University of Rio Grande do Sul in gathering samples
from erosion experimental parcels; furnishing of erosion data using conventional methodologies.

Desenvolvimento de Sondas de Visualização e Medida de Vazão para Aplicações em Escoamentos
Bifásicos - USP [Development of visualization and flow measurement probes for applications to two-phase
drainage ­ University of São Paulo (USP)].

Transformações Catalíticas Estereosseletivas ­ UFRGS [Stereo-selective catalytic conversions ­ Federal
University of Rio Grande do Sul]. The project made it possible to develop a multidisciplinary approach to
molecular and macromolecular chemistry, starting from synthesis and description of the catalysts,
proceeding to their application in conversions of industrial interest and then to descriptions of the materials
thus obtained.

Modernização da Infra-estrutura de Informática e Atualização do Acervo da Biblioteca Principal de
Química e Engenharia Química ­ USP ­ [Modernization of the information technology infrastructure and
updating of the collection of the main chemistry and chemical engineering library at the University of São
Paulo]. The objective here is purchase of equipment to expand the main chemistry and chemical
engineering library, since the project has already updated the library and supplemented the collection with
reference works; restructured and expanded the cooperative network of computers; enabled creation of a
room, 40 m2 for training the users; and created a website for the library.

Medições, análise e simulações da variedade sazonal, anual e interanual dos ciclos de energia, água,
carbono e nitrogênio na Região Amazônica - UFV [Measurement, analysis and simulations of seasonal,
annual, and interannual variety of the energy, water, carbon and nitrogen cycles in the Amazon Region ­



                                                     - 37 -

Federal University of Viçosa - UFV]. This project calls for continuous measurements of the flows of
energy, CO2, and water vapor in mangrove, forest and agriculture (caupi) ecosystems in Bragança, Pará.

Detecção de Hepatoxinas de Cianobactérias ­ Caruaru ­ UnB [Detection of hepatoxins in
cyanobacteria ­ Caruaru ­ University of Brasília]. This project proposes to make new contributions to an
issue that is important to environmental and human health, i.e., the presence of cyanobacterial toxins in the
water supply owing to increasing use of fertilizers in farming and the discharge of household and industrial
effluents into bodies of water. These have enriched the nutrient content of those waters and in various
cases, the eutrophication of water sources.

Desenvolvimento de Materiais para Supressores (ZnO) de Surtos de Voltagem [Development of
materials (zinc oxide) for voltage surge suppressors]. The objective of this project is to develop methods for
classifying protection devices used to reduce disconnections caused by disturbances in electrical systems,
while gaining the ability to produce and characterize the class of ceramic materials of which they are made.

Utilização de Rejeitos da Serragem de Granitos para Uso como Matéria Prima Cerâmica - [Utilization
of granite-cutting waste in the manufacture of ceramic raw material]. This project deals with the use of
waste from cutting of ornamental granites to make alternative ceramic raw material in ceramic masses for
red ceramics (brick, roofing tiles, rustic brick, and hollow elements) and white ceramics (sanitary fixtures).

Características Molecular de Estoques Pesqueiros - UFRJ [Molecular characteristics of fisheries stocks
­ Federal University of Rio de Janeiro - UFRJ]. The results achieved from this project could be used in
developing fish management polices, since it has enabled researchers to become familiar with the
population structure of various marine groups of commercial interest (fish, oysters, and shrimp).

Mecanismo de Formação e manutenção de lesões em Leishmaniose: Envolvimento de moléculas de
adesão no recrutamento e interações celulares ­ UFMG [Mechanism of formation and maintenance of
lesions in leishmaniasis: Evolution of adhesion molecules in the cellular recruitment and interactions ­
Federal University of Minas Gerais ­ UFMG]. The results achieved by the project helped explain aspects
related to the role of adhesion molecules in the development and maintenance of lesions caused by
leishmaniasis, in an effort to gain a better understanding of the mechanisms and elements involved in the
formation and maintenance of the lesions resulting from an leishmania infection.

Depósitos de Zinco e Chumbo das Bacias Proterozóicas do Craton do São Francisco: Estudos
Integrados Isotópicos e de Inclusões Fluidas, Correlações e Modelos Metalogenéticos [Zinc and lead
deposits in the Proterozoic basins of the São Francisco Craton: Integrated isotopic studies and studies of
liquid inclusions, metalogenetic correlations and models]. The main objective of the project was to increase
the knowledge, for mineral exploitation purposes, of a geological environment that has proven
metalogenetic potential.

Desenvolvimento Tecnológico do Setor Sericícola [Technological development of the silk-making
industry]. PADCT funding made it possible to implement a project designed to assist the silk-making
industry in the state of Paraná, with significant emphasis on technical cooperation between the productive
sectors and academia.

Desenvolvimento de Preforma de Sílica Vítrea para Fibra Óptica pelo Método VPD. [Development of
a vitreous silica preform for optical fiber using the VPD method]. In accordance with the lines of PADCT
III program activities, execution of this project concentrated on the following basic objectives: (1)



                                                      - 38 -

technological innovation. (2) training personnel in advanced technology. (3) development of special optical
fibers to replace the imported product, and (4) patent protection of the technology developed.

Mastery of the technology of nanostructured silica preforms using the vapor phase axial deposition method
(VAD) made it possible to cut the production cost of silica per kilometer of fiber from US$10.00 (MCVD
method now used in Brazil) to US$1.00. The contribution that had the greatest impact was the possibility
of using the knowledge generated under the project to develop amplifying optical fibers and other kinds of
special fibers that have a high value-added.




                                                    - 39 -

- 40 -

