Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4266-BR
Loan Agreement
(Science and Technology Reform Support Project - PADCT III)
between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated March 17, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4266-BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 17, 1998, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and Federative Republic of Brazil (the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements” of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
Page  2
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be 
made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of 
any country which is not a member 
of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) 
for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such 
payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security 
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.”
(c)
In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (l) and a 
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
“(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further 
withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the 
provisions of Article III, Section 
3 of the Bank’s Articles of Agreement.”
(d)
 Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended with 
respect to any amount of 
the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) at 
any time, the Bank determines, 
after consultation with the Borrower, that an amount 
of the Loan will not be required to 
finance the Project’s costs to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any 
time, the Bank determines, 
with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan, that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or the execution of 
such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to 
the Bank to remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of 
such contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of  the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank 
determines that the procurement of any contract to be 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or 
referred to 
in the Loan Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of 
such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan shall remain 
unwithdrawn from 
the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank shall have received notice from 
the Guarantor pursuant to  Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank 
may, by notice to the Borrower 
and the Guarantor, terminate the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to 
such amount.  Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount of the Loan shall be canceled.” 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Annual Operating Plan” means each plan referred to in Section 3.05 (f) 
of this Agreement;
(b)
“Banco Central” means Banco Central do Brasil, the Borrower’s Central 
Bank;
(c)
“Beneficiary” means any individual or entity or entities eligible 
pursuant to the criteria set forth in the PIP (as hereinafter defined), to carry out a 
Subproject (as hereinafter defined);
(d)
“CAPES” means Coordenação de Aperfeiçoamento de Pessoal de Nível 
Superior, the Borrower’s Ministry of Education Coordinating Agency for Advanced 
Training of Higher Education Personnel;
(e)
“CNPq” means Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Científico e 
Tecnológico, the MCT’s (as hereinafter defined) National Council for Scientific and 
Technological Development;
Page  3
(f)
“FINEP” means Financiadora de Estudos e Projetos, MCT’s Agency for the 
Financing of Science and Technology Studies and Projects;
(g)
“GCCT” means Grupo Consultivo de Ciência e Tecnologia, the International 
Consultative Oversight Group referred to in Section 3.01 (b) (iii) of this Agreement;
(h)
“Grant” means a grant to be provided by the Borrower, through a Project 
Executing Agency (as hereinafter defined) pursuant to a PEA Agreement (as hereinafter 
defined), to a Beneficiary for the partial financing of goods and consultants’ 
services under a Subproject;
(i)
“Grant Agreements” means any of the agreements referred to in Section 
3.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(j)
“MCT” means Ministério da Ciência e Tecnologia, the Borrower’s Ministry 
of Science and Technology; 
(k)
“Operational Manual” means a document dated March 1998, containing, inter 
alia, the description of the detailed procedures for the overall carrying out of the 
Project, including a description of the Project’s decision-making bodies and their 
corresponding procedures;
(l)
“PIP” means Project Implementation Plan, a plan dated March 1998, 
delivered by the Borrower, through MCT, to the Bank, containing, inter alia, a summary 
of the Borrower’s policies for its science and technology sector, a program of actions 
to introduce reforms in such sector, strategies,  implementation indicators and 
targets, and the general implementation framework for the execution of each of the 
Project’s activities;
(m)
“Project Executing Agency” means aany of the following agencies: (i) 
CNPq; (ii) CAPES; and (iii) FINEP and any other entity acceptable to the Borrower, 
through MCT, and the Bank;
(n)
“Project Executing Agency Agreements” or “PEA Agreements” means any of 
the agreements referred to in Section 3.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(o)
“PMU” means the Project Management Unit referred to in Section 3.01 (b) 
(i) of this Agreement;
(p)
“SMEs” means small and micro enterprises, as the defining criteria in 
respect of the size of such enterprises is set forth in the Operational Manual;
(q)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(r)
“Subproject” means a project selected by the Borrower pursuant to the 
criteria and procedures set forth in the Operational Manual and in conformity with the 
PIP, consisting of investments and consulting services as described in Parts A and B 
of the Project, which will be carried out by a Beneficiary and financed by a Grant; 
and
(s)
“Supervisory Committee” means the Committee established pursuant to the 
MCT’s Portaria No. 246 of June 26, 1997.
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of one hundred fifty five 
million Dollars ($155,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the 
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a)  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
Page  4
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment.  Deposits into and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be May 31, 2002 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest 
Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued 
on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated 
at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately 
preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning 
with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
“Cost of Qualified Borrowings” means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the 
Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the 
outstanding borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions 
thereof as the Bank has allocated 
to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) 
loans which may be made by 
the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates 
determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
“Semester” means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar 
year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months’ notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
“(a)
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%).  On each of the dates specified 
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower 
shall pay interest accrued 
on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest  Period, calculated 
at the rates applicable during such Interest Period.”
“(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify  the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of 
such Quarter.”
“(c)
(iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period commencing on January 
1, April 1, 
July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year.”
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on 
Page  5
February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. The Minister of Science and Technology of the Borrower, and the 
person or persons designated in writing by such Minister, are designated as 
representatives of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or 
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement and 
Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through MCT, and in respect of Parts A and B of the Project with the 
assistance of the Project Executing Agencies and the participation of the 
Beneficiaries, all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with: (i) the 
PIP; (ii) the Operational Manual; (iii) the relevant Annual Operating Plan; and (iv) 
appropriate administrative, financial, scientific, technological and ecological 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project.
(b)
The Borrower, through MCT, shall:
(i)
establish and thereafter maintain, until the completion of the 
Project, a 
management unit (the PMU) with responsibilities, 
structure and functions as 
set forth in the relevant sections of 
the PIP and the Operational Manual, and 
with staff in adequate 
numbers and with adequate qualifications, for the 
purposes of 
assisting MCT in the carrying out of the Project, the structure of 
PMU to include, inter alia, a coordinating instance to assist MCT in 
integrating the activities under the Project with the other actions and 
programs of the Borrower in its science and technology sector;
(ii)
maintain, until the completion of the Project, a supervisory 
committee (the 
Supervisory Committee) with structure, composition 
and functions as set forth 
in the relevant sections of the PIP and 
the Operational Manual, such Committee 
to be chaired by the Executive 
Secretary of MCT, for the purposes of, inter 
alia: (A) advising the 
Borrower with respect to Project implementation; (B) 
providing the 
Borrower with policy guidance on issues related to the Project; 
(C) 
approving the relevant Annual Operating Plan; (D) approving any 
modifications to the PIP or the Operational Manual; and (E) evaluating Project 
results; and
(iii)
establish by not later than June 1, 1998 and thereafter maintain, 
until the 
completion of the Project, an international consultative 
oversight group (the 
GCCT) with structure and functions 
satisfactory to the Bank, comprised of 
experts with 
qualifications and experience as set forth in the relevant 
sections of the PIP and the Operational Manual, for the purposes of, inter 
alia, providing MCT with strategic advice on issues related to the 
Project and 
to the Borrower’s science and technology sector, such group 
to: (A) hold 
periodic meetings, during Project implementation, as 
set forth in the 
Operational Manual, the first of such meetings 
to be held by not later than 
November 30, 1998; and (B) by not later 
than sixty days after each of the 
meetings referred to in 
(A) above, prepare and furnish to MCT and the Bank a 
report of such scope 
and in such detail as the MCT and the Bank shall 
reasonably 
request, and consistent with the terms of reference set forth in 
the 
Operational Manual.
Section 3.02. For the purposes of carrying out Parts A and B of the Project, the 
Borrower shall, through MCT:
Page  6
(a)
in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Operational Manual and 
the PIP and the procedures set forth therein, ensure that: (i) Subprojects shall be 
selected on a competitive basis satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) any call for 
proposals for Subprojects (editais) shall have the prior approval of the Bank;
(b)
enter into an agreement (the PEA Agreement) with each Project Executing 
Agency, satisfactory to the Bank, to act as the Borrower's agency for providing Grants 
under Parts A and B of the Project, such agreement to provide, inter alia, that the 
Project Executing Agency shall enter into a grant agreement (the Grant Agreement) with 
each of the Beneficiaries, satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include, inter alia: 
(i)
the terms and conditions set forth in the Operational Manual and 
the PIP for 
the carrying out of the corresponding Subproject (including 
the obligation of 
the Project Executing Agency to carry out its 
respective obligations under the 
relevant Grant Agreement, in accordance 
with management performance indicators 
satisfactory to the Bank, and to 
disburse funds to the Beneficiary in 
accordance with the 
procedures and expediency prescribed in the PIP and 
Operational 
Manual);
(ii)
the obligation of such Project Executing Agency to exercise its 
rights and 
comply with its obligations under the relevant Grant 
Agreement in such a 
manner as to protect the interests of 
the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the 
Loan, and not to assign, amend, abrogate, waive 
or fail to enforce 
the relevant Grant Agreement or any provision thereof; and
(iii)
the obligation of MCT, through the PMU, to provide assistance to 
the 
Beneficiary in the procurement of goods and services under 
the Subproject.
(c)
exercise its rights and comply with its obligations under the PEA 
Agreements in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank 
and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan and, except as the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the 
PEA Agreements or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall implement, during the execution of the Project, 
a technological support program for SMEs satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.05. Without limitation or restriction to the provisions of Section 
9.01 and 9.07 of the General Conditions the Borrower shall, through MCT:
(a)
not later than thirty days after the issuance of each of the reports 
prepared by the GCCT in accordance with Section 3.01 (b) (iii) (B) of this Agreement, 
furnish to the Bank  a report on the progress in the implementation of the Project, 
which shall, based on the indicators and targets set forth in the PIP, be of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request;
(b)
on the date falling on the second year after the date of this Agreement, 
or when an amount of the Loan equivalent to 40% thereof shall have been disbursed by 
the Borrower to pay expenditures under the Project, whichever comes first, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for approval the terms of reference of the review 
referred to in paragraph (c) below;
(c)
on the date falling on the second and a half year after the date of this 
Agreement, or when an amount of the Loan equivalent to 60% thereof shall have been 
disbursed by the Borrower to pay expenditures under the Project, whichever comes 
first, the Borrower and the Bank shall review (the mid-term review), on the basis of 
the terms of reference referred to in paragraph (b) above, the progress achieved in 
the execution of the Project;
Page  7
(d)
for the purposes of the review referred to in paragraph (c) above, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank one month prior to such review a report, which 
shall include the comments of the Supervisory Committee and the GCCT thereon, on the 
progress and achievement of the objectives of the Project by such date;
(e)
not later than June 30 of each year during the execution of the Project, 
beginning in 1998, prepare and send to the Bank a report in respect of the previous 
year, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the sources and uses of 
funds, and allocation of funds and expenditures in the areas of science and technology 
research in Brazil, including funds provided by this Loan; and
(f)
in the month of December of each year during Project implementation, 
except for the first year, furnish to the Bank an annual plan satisfactory to the Bank 
(the Annual Operating Plan), duly approved by the Supervisory Committee, describing, 
inter alia, the Project activities (including Subprojects) to be carried out during 
the next calendar year, including the cost and financing arrangements thereof.
Section 3.06. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a)  The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project, of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower and the Project Executing Agencies, as the 
case may be, responsible for the carrying out of the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section and 
the records and accounts for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, 
in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable 
to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank monthly certified statements of the Special 
Account; and
(iv)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Page  8
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
that each of the PEA Agreements with: (i) CAPES; (ii) CNPq; and (iii) 
FINEP, respectively, have become effective;
(b)
that the PMU has been established;
(c)
that the Annual Operating Plan for the first year of Project 
implementation has been furnished to the Bank; and
(d)
that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by Banco Central.  
Central Bankof Br
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered 
by Banco CentralCentral Bank of Brazil.
Section 5.03. The date June 17, 1998 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Finance of the Borrower is designated as  representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministério da Fazenda
Procuradoria Geral da Fazenda Nacional
Esplanada dos Ministérios - Bloco “P” - 8° andar
70048-900, Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Page  9
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
With copies to:
Ministério do Planejamento e Orçamento
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco “K” - 5º andar
70040-906, Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
Ministério da Ciência e Tecnologia
Assessoria de Programas Especiais (ASPE)
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco “E”, 3º andar
70067-900, Brasília - D.F.
Brazil
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Brasilia, Palacio do Planalto, Brazil as of the day and year first above written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By /s/ Luiz Carlos Sturzenegger
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Gobind T. Nankani
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
WITNESSES:
/s/ Israel Vargas
/s/ Pedro Sampaio Malan
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
Page  10
(1)
Goods and
  58,000,000
100% of foreign
consultants' serices
expenditures and
(including training)
70% of local
under Subprojects for
expenditures
Part A of the Project
(2)
Goods and
  75,000,000
100% of foreign
consultants' services
expenditures and
(including training)
70% of local
under Subprojects for
expenditures
Part B of the Project
(3)
Goods and
  15,000,000
100% of foreign
consultants' services
expenditures and
(including training)
70% of local
for Parts C.1, C.2, C.3
expenditures
and C.4 of the Project
(4)
Goods and
   2,000,000
100% of foreign
consultants' services
expenditures and
(including training)
70% of local
for Part D of the Project
expenditures
(5)
Unallocated
   5,000,000
TOTAL
 155,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and  
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the amount of 
$15,000,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date 
but after June 1, 1997 or a date twelve months before the date of this Agreement, 
whichever is later.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditures for: (a) training expenditures; and (b) expenditures 
under contracts for: (i) goods costing less than $350,000 equivalent; (ii) services of 
consulting firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent; and (iii) services of 
individual consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent; all under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to improve the overall performance of the 
Borrower’s science and technology sector by undertaking activities that promote 
scientific research and technological innovation in an efficient manner.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Technology Development
1.
Financing of projects (plataformas) for the purposes of: (a) facilitating and 
fostering partnership among stakeholders interested in participating in cooperative 
science and technology projects; and (b) acting as a forum to discuss issues of the 
Page  11
performance of the Borrower’s science and technology system, or to require adjustments 
in the pertinent regulatory framework, such projects to comprise, inter alia, the 
following activities: reports, studies, meetings, conferences and workshops.
2.
Financing of publicly-led projects consisting of: (a) development of 
technologies with a wide range of sectoral applications; and (b) development of 
technologies of regional interest, as defined in the PIP.
3.
Financing of privately-led projects for the purpose of fostering cooperation 
between private firms and universities or technological institutes in the development 
of commercial technological outputs, comprising the following activities: (a) 
development of pre-competitive proprietary technologies; and (b) development of 
commercial technological outputs with substantial market opportunity including 
innovative or improved products and services of specific interest.
4.
Financing of projects for the SMEs in technological development and engineering 
areas.
Part B:
Science and Technology Research
Financing of research projects in selected science and technology areas 
determined by the Borrower to be of relevance for its economic and social development, 
as provided in the PIP and in the Operational Manual, and, included in the relevant 
Annual Operating Plan.
Part C:
Sectoral Support
1.
(a)
Carrying out of an annual report covering the institutions and programs 
under the MCT which shall provide detailed recommendations for the reform of such 
institutions and programs; and (b) carrying out of policy studies related to the 
Borrower’s science and technology sector and monitoring of the implementation of 
emerging policy recommendations adopted by the MCT.
2.
Improvement of the Science and Technology sector’s monitoring and evaluation 
systems through, inter alia: (a) determining the Borrower’s (including its public and 
private sectors) gross expenditure on science and technology and related expenditure 
figures; (b) determining the Borrower’s gross number of graduates and employed 
scientists and engineers; (c) formulating and disseminating standard reporting 
procedures for the Borrower’s science and technology institutions; (d) updating the 
Borrower’s existing database of active science and technology entities and researchers 
located in the territory of the Borrower and their respective output; and (e) 
supporting periodic and routine evaluations of the quality and relevance of the 
Borrower’s science and technology output.
3.
Strengthening of the Borrower’s intellectual property rights regime, through, 
inter alia, the carrying out of the following activities: (a) dissemination efforts 
focused on the Borrower’s intellectual property rights regime and its benefits, such 
efforts to include publications, seminars, workshops and training in intellectual 
property issues; (b) support for the development of entities specializing in the 
provision of intellectual property’s technical assistance and information services; 
and (c) development of national indicators for, inter alia, trademarks and patents.
4.
Improvement of the metrology, standards, testing, and quality services available 
to the Borrower’s entrepreneurial sector through the provision of goods and 
consultants’ services in respect of inter alia: (a) support for metrology 
laboratories; (b) support for the development of certified reference materials; (c) 
human resources development in metrology; (d) support to the modernization of 
technical standards system; (e) support for the consolidation of testing laboratories 
networks; and (f) dissemination among private firms of technology management methods 
and techniques.
5.
Maintenance of scientific equipment purchased under Projects financed through 
Loan Agreements 2489-BR and 3269-BR for the Science Research and Training Project and 
the Science and Technology Project, respectively (PADCT I and PADCT II), between the 
Bank and the Borrower.
Part D:
Project Management
Page  12
Provision of goods and consultants’ services for the purposes of financing 
Project management activities, such activities to comprise, inter alia, overall 
planning and coordination of Project activities, including the preparation of the 
relevant Annual Operating Plan; all as provided in the PIP and in the Operational 
Manual.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by November 30, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
 Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
On each February 15 and August 15
beginning August 15, 2003
through   February 15, 2013
7,750,000
________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective 
dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
The interest rate (expressed as a 
percentage per 
annum) applicable to the 
Loan on the day of 
prepayment 
Page  13
multiplied by:
Not more than three years
0.20
before maturity
More than three years but
0.40
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.73
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not
0.87
more than thirteen years
before maturity
More than thirteen years before
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
(a)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to bid for each contract estimated to cost $10,000,000 equivalent 
or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to large 
contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Preference for Domestically-manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Limited International Bidding Specialized scientific equipment costing $100,000 
equivalent or more per contract and $13,900,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, 
which the Bank agrees can only be purchased from a limited number of suppliers, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of 
the Guidelines. 
2.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more per contract, but less than 
$350,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $59,000,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.  In the procurement of goods under this 
Page  14
Part C.1, bidding documents in a standardized form for the Project shall be used.
Without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this Schedule or the 
Guidelines, the following shall apply to the procurement of goods to be undertaken 
pursuant to this Part C.1:
(a)
contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been determined to 
be the lowest evaluated bid, such evaluation to be based on price and, whenever 
appropriate, to also take into account factors similar to those referred to in 
paragraph 2.51 of the Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid evaluation shall 
always be based on factors that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure for 
such quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid;
(b)
whenever required by the Bank, the invitation to bid shall be advertised 
for at least three consecutive days in a newspaper of wide circulation in Brazil;
(c)
the arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for joint-ventures 
(consórcios) of Brazilian and foreign firms shall be approved in advance by the Bank 
in each case;
(d)
the invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptance of 
bids, minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices; and
(e)
the purchaser shall not, without the Bank's prior approval, issue any 
change order under a contract which would increase or decrease by more than 15% the 
quantity of goods (and related services) without any change in the unit prices or 
other terms and conditions of sale.
3.
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $24,200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international or national shopping procedures acceptable to 
the Bank in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
4.
Direct Contracting
Goods which should be procured as an extension of an existing contract, or must 
be purchased from the original supplier to be compatible with existing equipment, or 
are of a proprietary nature, or must be procured from a particular supplier as a 
condition of a performance guarantee, and costing $24,600,000 equivalent or less in 
the aggregate, may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods procured under: (i) Part B.1 of 
this Section; and (ii) Parts C.1 and C.2 of this Section costing $350,000 equivalent 
or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract procured under Part C.4 of this Section 
costing $350,000 equivalent or more, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a copy of 
the specifications and the draft contract, prior to its execution, and the procedures 
set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
2.
Post Review
The procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part D.
Part E:
Other
Page  15
For purposes of the Guidelines, the term custom duties and other import taxes 
includes the Borrower’s Freight Surcharge for the Renewal of the Merchant Marine 
(Additional ao Frete para a Renovaçao da Marinha Mercante), established pursuant to 
the Borrower’s Decree-Law No. 1,142 of December 30, 1970, as amended on December 31, 
1987, or any other tax, levy or charge that, in the reasonable opinion of the Bank, 
may substitute it, in whole or in part, after January 1, 1988.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.2 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.5 of the 
Consultant Guidelines estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Least-cost Selection
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.6 of the 
Consultant Guidelines estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
Page  16
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$20,000,000, or such other amount as the Bank shall establish, to be withdrawn from 
the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of 
this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $10,000,000 until 
the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed an amount of $35,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
Page  17
of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures.  All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
Page  18
the General Conditions.
