Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3032-SU
SUDAN
WHITE NILE PUMP SCHEMES REHABILITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
February 27, 1981
Eastern Africa Projects Department
Northern Agriculture Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS 1/
Currency Unit    =    Sudanese Pound (LSd)    =    100 piasters
Official Market                               Parallel Market
US$1.00 = LSdO.50                             US$1.00 = LSdO.80
LSdl.OO = US$2.00                             LSdl.00 = US$1.25
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Sudanese Units                 English Units                     Metric Units
1 Feddan (fd)           =  1.04 acres (ac)                    =  0.42 hectares
1 Kantar (K)            =  316 pounds (lbs)                   =  143.5 kilograms (kg)
(seed cotton)
1 Kantar (k)            =  100 lbs                            =  45.4 kg
(cotton lint)
Metric Units                    English Units                       US Units
1 liter                 =  0.22 Imperial gallons (I gal)    =  0.26 US gallons (gals)
1 metric ton (ton)      =  2202.6 lbs
ABBREVIATIONS
ARP   -    Agricultural Rehabilitation Program
BOS   -    Bank of Sudan
CPC   -    Cotton Public Corporation of Sudan
DAPC  -    Dueim Agricultural Production Corporation
EAP   -    Export Action Program
EMC   -    Earthmoving Corporation
GOS   -    Government of Sudan
KAPC  -    Kosti-Renk Agricultural Production Corporation
MAFNR -    Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Natural Resources
MOI   -    Ministry of Irrigation
PAPC  -    Public Agricultural Production Corporation
PDU   -    Planning and Development Unit of WNAPC
SOC   -    Sudan Oilseeds Company
TCU   -    Tenants  Credit Unit of WNAPC
WNAPC -    White Nile Agricultural Production Corporation
Government Fiscal Year
July 1 - June 30
1/   On September 16, 1979, the Government established a dual exchange rate
system. An official rate of US$2.00 per Sudanese pound was adopted along
with a parallel market rate of US$1.25 per Sudanese pound. Valuation
of all imports for customs purposes has been changed to the new official
rate (LSdl = US$2.00) from the previous official rate (LSdl = US$2.50).
On September 21, 1980 the Government moved to the parallel market all
exports except cotton and all imports except wheat, sugar, petroleum
products, medicines and inputs for cotton production.



SUDAN                FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
WHITE NILE PUMP SCHZMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.         BACKGROUND .............................................                1
A. General  . .
B. The Agricultural Sector    .                  .
C. Bank Group Lending             ..                                    2
D. Project Formulation    ..                                            3
II.   THE WHITE NILE PUMP SCHEMES.                                                 4
A. History.                                                             4
B. The Project Area .                                                   4
C.  Agriculture Outside the Corporation Pump Schemes                    9
D. Services and Institutions ..               .                         9
E. Existing Infrastructure .11
F.  Rehabilitation Strategy ............ .                             12
III. THE PROJECT .13
A. General Description    ..13
B. Technical Features    ..14
C. Status of Engineering    .                   .18
D. Irrigation Water Requirements                 .        .            18
E.  Project Cost .......................................               18
F.  Proposed Financing .................                               20
G. Corporation Cash Requirements    .                .21
H. Procurement.                                                        23
I. Disbursement    ..23
J. Accounts and Audit    ..25
K. Environmental Impact    .                   .25
IV.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .26
A. General .26
B. Annual Work Programs .26
C.  White Nile Agricultural Production Corporation                    26
D.  Monitoring, Evaluation and Reparting ...............               27
E. Revised Administrative Setup .27
F. Staffing Training and Maintenance .28
G.  Tenant Aelations .......       ............... ; .........         29
V.         AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES .30
A. Production .30
B. Marketing .31
C. Finaicial Prices .32
This report is based on the findings of two missions which visited Sudan in
September/October 1979 and February/March 1980 in which Messrs. J. Shivakumar,
S. Takahashi, C. Pradithavanij, C. Smith and T. Moe (IDA) and Messrs. R.N. Scott
and W. Beck (Consultants) participated.
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)                                        Page No.
VI.      COST RECOVERY AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS .....32
A. Cost Recovery . ...............                            32
B.  Credit and Debt Recovery               ..35
C. WNAPC Cash Flow    ..35
D. Government Cash Flow .        .. . ...... ...... . ....    36
VII.     BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS.                            36
VIII.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .39
ANNEXES
Annex 1  Chart 1 - Implementation Schedule  ...... ................    41
Chart 2 - WNAPC - Corporate and Departmental
Organization .................... ..... .  ... .42
Chart 3 - WNAPC - Regional Organization ................      43
Table I - Climatological Data ..........................      44
Table 2 - Dueim Agricultural Production Corporation -
Development of Area and Yields ..   .............   45
Table 3 - Kosti Agricultural Production Corporation -
Development of Area and Yields .............. .     46
Table 4 - Irrigation Water Requirements ................      47
Table 5 - Estimated Schedule of Disbursements ......... .     49
Table 6 - Commodity Prices .....     ........................  50
Table 7 - WNAPC Cash Flow ..............................     51
Table 8 - Direct Financial Transactions between
Government (including Bank of Sudan) and
WNAPC   ........................................   52
Table 9 - Government Cash Flow .....    ....................  53
Table 10- Economic Costs and Benefits ................. .    54
Table 11- Sensitivity Analysis .....    ....................  55
Annex 2  Cost Recovery System.                                         56
Annex 3   Annual Work Program .      .     ......................      57
Annex 4  Tenants' Lease Agreement    ..59
Annex 5   Related Documents and Data available in Project File         61
Project's Location Mlap (IBRD No.15119)



SUDAN
WHITE NILE PUMP SCHEMES REHABILITATION PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. General
1.01      The Government of Sudan has requested Bank Group assistance in
financing the White Nile Pump Schemes Rehabilitation Project. The Project
area would cover 174 pump schemes on both banks of the White Nile south of
Khartoum, presently operated by the White Nile Agricultural Production Cor-
poration. The Project would improve levels of productivity of crops grown on
the schemes and expand cotton exports, raise incomes for the tenants working
on the schemes, and place the operation of the schemes by the public sector on
a sound financial footing. It would accomplish these objectives by providing
the means to increase and sustain agricultural production through efficient
use of available land, water, capital and human resources. The Project would
also finance the preparation of longer term investment programs for the area.
B. The Agricultural Sector
1.02      The agriculture sector in Sudan contributes about 40% of the
country's gross domestic product, is the source of virtually all exports,
provides employment for over two-thirds of the labor force, and supplies
inputs for a large proportion of industrial activity. Cotton is the major
cash and export crop, currently accounting for some 56% of all exports;
groundnuts, sesame, and gum arabic.-contribute 10%, 8% and 7%, respectively.
Recent crop diversification has concentrated on import substitution with
considerable expansion in wheat and sugar output, in part at the expense
of cotton.
1.03      Incomes are low in the agr.icultural sector.  Of Sudan's total
population of about 17 million, an estimated 65%, or some 11 million people,
are engaged in agriculture. To augment their incomes, many small subsistence
farmers hire themselves out on mechanized or irrigated tenancies to harvest
cotton, groundnuts, sesame and cereals. They form a mobile labor force of
about one million people. Even so, labor shortages have occurred in recent
years. There are financial and institutional obstacles in the way of payment
of competitive market wage rates needed to enhance supply of labor.
1.04      Sudan's agricultural development has been characterized by the
following features: (a) a continuing emphasis on relatively capital-intensive
projects, particularly in irrigation and mechanized farming; (b) a lack of
maintenance support for ongoing projects in favor of area expansion, notably
(since 1971) of 2.6 million feddans in mechanized farming and some 300,000



- 2 -
feddans under irrigation; and (c) lower emphasis on the traditional and
subsistence subsectors (recently, however, some important measures have been
initiated, directed at helping the small farmer and pastoralist in the west
and south).
1.05      The 1971-75 Five Year Plan, which was extended to 1977, gave high
priority to agriculture with an allocation of 38% of total plan resources.
It sought to increase foreign exchange earnings and reduce imports by a policy
of diversification out of cotton and increased emphasis on food grains and
oil-seeds in both modern and traditional farming. Severe logistical bottle-
necks subsequently led to a greater emphasis on infrastructure development;
the agriculture allocation was reduced to 25% of total allocations in the
public sector (LSd2O9 million). Actual development expenditure on agricul-
ture eventually amounted to LSdl46 million, representing a 70% utilization.
Performance under the Plan was mixed, the major achievement being an average
annual growth rate of GDP of 4.5%. This, however, was mainly obtained as a
result of an increase in cropped area of about 4% per annum.
1.06      The Six Year Plan (1977/78-1982/83) was also designed to give major
emphasis to agricultural development. However, since its publication, Sudan
has experienced severe balance of payments and budgetary problems. In
response, Government has reordered national priorities within the framework of
the Six Year Plan (with planning now being done on a rolling three-year basis)
through Three Year Public Investment Programs. The main objective of these
programs is to concentrate on completion of ongoing projects and on investments
that would contribute fastest to the growth of exports and domestic revenues.
New projects are to be limited to those that rehabilitate existing production
schemes and help alleviate infrastructural bottlenecks. This strategy is
fully supported by the recommendations of an agricultural sector survey
completed by the Bank in 1979 (Report No. 1836a-SU of May 18, 19.79).
1.07      As part of its strategy, Government has embarked upon an Export
Action Program (EAP) designed to achieve an annual increase of 7% in the
volume of cotton production in the Sudan during the period 1979-91. This
program is a package of short and medium term investments with supporting
policy and other actions towards fulfillment of the production target. The
package includes measures designed to evolve an appropriate price-cost-incomes
policy for the irrigated sub-sector and secure the financial viability of
parastatals. The Agricultural Rehabilitation Program (Credit 1000-SU)
operates through the framework of the EAP.
C. Bank Group Lending
1.08      Bank Group commitments to Sudan to date total US$715.1 million.
About 45% of the total Bank/IDA lending has gone into agricultural development:
four irrigation projects including the New Halfa Irrigation Rehabilitation
Project; three rainfed mechanized farming projects; three small-holder develop-
ment projects, two in the southern region and one in the west; a livestock
marketing project, an agricultural research project and the Agricultural
Rehabilitation Program (ARP).



- 3 -
1.09      Physical progress in implementing agricultural projects in Sudan
has been poor. Many projects have difficulty in getting key materials--cement,
fuel, timber, of which there are periodic shortages. Late delivery of equip-
ment and supplies due to transportation difficulties also affects most projects.
The continuing drain of skilled manpower from Sudan to neighboring countries,
where job opportunities are better, takes its toll on effective preparation
and implementation of projects. Beyond these difficulties, there are other
shortcomings traceable to cumbersome Government procedures. For example,
there have been delays in getting parliamentary ratification of agreed develop-
ment projects and, subsequently, in obtaining legal opinions from Government.
There have also been delays in meeting effectiveness conditions, mainly
because of problems in establishing new institutions or project accounts,
hiring key staff, completing necessary legal documentation or concluding
required cofinancing arrangements. Experience of on-going projects emphasizes
the need to establish systems and procedures which would ensure timely and
adequate release of foreign exchange and local currency needs of Projects;
strengthen management and administration; and provide housing in order to
attract technical personnel to work on the Project. These problems would
have to be taken note of while designing new projects.
D. Project Formulation
1.10      IDA support for a Project to rehabilitate the White Nile Pump
Schemes was first suggested by a Bank agricultural sector review mission
which visited Sudan in 1977. It was proposed that such a Project concentrate
on short-term measures to yield quick returns and keep the pump schemes in
operation until a full scale reorganization and modernization could be carried
out. The Government endorsed this idea and preparation of the proposed
Project was completed by the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program in July
1979.
1.11      The Project is designed to support Government's policy of concen-
trating investment in rehabilitation of existing irrigation schemes, where
pay-off is greatest in terms of economic returns, growth of exports and
domestic revenue generation. While the emphasis in the Project is on short-
term measures to raise productivity of export crops, particularly cotton, in
existing schemes, it would also support studies needed to strengthen the base
for longer term investments in the White Nile region and finance preparation
of a possible follow-up Project. Project investment of US$54.7 million would
complement the allocation of US$13.0 million for the schemes under the ARP
Credit.



-4-
II. THE WHITE NILE PUMP SCHEMES
A. History
2.01      The first pump irrigation schemes were established along the White
Nile well before the construction of the Jebel Aulia dam in 1937 raised the
White Nile water level and facilitated pumping over a long stretch of the
river above the dam. This development led to several new private schemes.
Government also set up eight blocks as "livelihood schemes" to resettle
farmers displaced by the Jebel Aulia dam. In the early 1950's, high cotton
prices led to a spurt of investment in new pump schemes.
2.02      The schemes were all heavily dependent on cotton production;
they were adversely affected when world prices of cotton moved downward
and the threat of nationalization grew in the 1960's. The schemes were
neglected by private owners before they were nationalized in 1968/69 and
put under the management of the Agrarian Reform Corporation. In 1975,
management was transferred to the Public Agricultural Production Corpora-
tion (PAPC) and its two sub-corporations, the Kosti-Renk (KAPC) and Dueim
(DAPC) Agricultural Production Corporations. In 1979, PAPC was disbanded
and subsequently the two sub-corporations were upgraded to Corporations.
These two Corporations were merged in May 1980 to form the White Nile
Agricultural Production Corporation (WNAPC).
B. The Project Area
Location and Area
2.03      The proposed Project would be implemented on 174 pump irrigation
schemes operated by WNAPC along the White Nile . These schemes are widely
dispersed along the banks of the river between latitudes 110 and 16 N in
White Nile Province (Map IBRD No. 15119). The total cultivable area commanded
by the irrigation schemes is about 360,000 fd. Almost half of the schemes are
less than 1,000 fd in area, about a third are between 1,000 and 2,000 fd in
area, and, of the remainder, only three cover more than 10,000 fd.
Climate
2.04      Rainfall conditions vary considerably in the Project area.  Mean
annual rainfall is higher in the south; it is 528 mm at Renk, 396 mm at
Kosti and only 272 mm at Dueim. In the southern part of the area near Renk,
the rains begin early in June and continue well into October; in Dueim and
the northern part of the area, rainfall is almost entirely in July, August
and September.   Mean monthly temperatures (Annex 1, Table 1) reach a maximum
in May (31.3 0C - 32.7 0C), just before the rains, and have a secondary peak
at the end of the rains in October.  They then fall to the mean minimum in
January (24.30C - 24.80C).



-5-
Soils and Topography
2.05      The soils, typical of the central plains, are alluvia consisting
mainly of montmorillonite clays. In general they are brown or grey cracking
clays, with the degree of cracking higher in the north than in the south.
They are imperfectly drained, slowly permeable and slightly to moderately
alkaline. Evidence of slight salinity is confined to a few northern schemes.
Before 1956, official soil surveys were required for the schemes before a
pumping license was issued but there have been subsequent extensions onto less
suitable soils, mainly the upper terrace soils. However, with adequate water
and proper irrigation, fertilizers and good tillage practices, almost all the
land commanded by the irrigation systems can produce a reasonable cotton crop.
One of the characteristics of this type of soil is its ability to regulate the
volume of water absorbed in depth. It cannot be "given" water but will "take"
water according to the moisture content and volume of cracks in the soil
immediately prior to irrigation. This property facilitates water management
and saves on pumping costs.
2.06      The Project areas slope gently towatd the White Nile with a short
steep fall at the edge of the main river channel. This fall varies from 1
to 10 m. Individual schemes are flat with slightly higher ground lying just
outside the area commanded by the irrigation system. In the north, these
elevated areas include sand dunes and in the more exposed parts, the irrigation
channels often silt up with wind-blown sand; the Government is tackling this
problem through the establishment of tree shelter belts.
Water Availability and Quality
2.07      The main source of water supply for the pump schemes 3is the White
Nile. It has an average annual flow of about 28,000 millian m . The present
annual water requirements of the pump schemes, based on the existing cropped
area of 119,500 fd (cotton 80,000, sorghum 33,000 and wheat 6,500) or 33%
cropping intensity, is estimated at 830 million m . There are no national or
provincial laws governing the use of water from the river applicable to the
public pump schemes. The water requirements of the schemes are met within
Sudan's share of Nile waters under the 1959 Agreement with Egypt.
2.08      Water quality of the White Nile is good.  Total dissolved solids
and electrical conductivity lie between 120-170 milligram/liter and 150-250
micromhos/cm, respectively. According to the USDA system of classification
of irrigation water, the White Nile water varies from Class Cl-Sl during the
period of higher flow to Class C2-S1 during the period of lower river flow,
and is therefore suitable for irrigation.
2.09      Pumping stations are usually sited at the head of a short inlet
channel from the main river and are not endangered by erosion of the river
bank. The mean total pumping head is about 7.5 m. Pumps can operate only
when river water is high enough to flow into the pump inlet channels, and this
usually does not occur until early August due to a drawdown effect of the



-6-
Jebel Aulia dam located about 30 km downstream from the Project area. Some
sohemes beyond the influence of the dam at the southern end of the Project,
however, start pumping in the middle of July. As groundnuts and cotton
capture agronomically optimal conditions if sown in June and July, the delay
of pumping lowers crop yields in the Project area.
2.10      The Jebel Aulia dam, completed in 1937, was constructed to store
water for early summer irrigation in Egypt as a supplement to the storage of
the Aswan dam.  When the high dam at Aswan was built, the facility for storage
at Jebel Aulia was no longer required and the dam was officially handed over
to Sudan dy Egypt in 1977. The reservoir has a storage capacity of 3,500
million m  and a backwater effect stretching some 600 km upstream.
2.11      The dam regulations have not been changed yet and the reservoir
above the dam is still drawn down in March and refilled in June-July at the
beginning of the rains. This drawdown is to provide water for summer irriga-
tion for private pump schemes along the Main Nile downstream and for naviga-
tion. The drawdown also enables inundated areas along the edges of the
reservoir to be exposed and used for either cultivation or livestock grazing.
With the present system of reservoir operation, the total annual loss due to
evaporation oves the reach of the White Nile is estimated to amount to some
5,000 million m  compared to a lose over the same reach under natural river
conditions of some 2,500 million m . Since complex issues are involved in
revising regulations of river flows, the matter would have to be carefully
studied first before any changes can be proposed.
Canal System
2.12      The pumping units discharge into main canals running at right
angles to the river and the general contours. The main canals have cross-
channel regulators and gated controls to the minor canals which run approxi-
mately parallel to the contours. The minors feed the established system of
field channels ("Abu Ishreen" and "Abu Sitta") common to most irrigation
schemes in the Sudan. All are earth channels.
2.13      Due to lack of funds and equipment, the inlet, distribution, and
field channels have been poorly maintained. They are silted up and overgrown
with weeds; as a result, their sections are presently smaller than originally
designed. They can, however, be rehabilitated without difficulty. Some
structures may have to be modified and additional regulators provided on
minor canals. All schemes need water measuring devices in the major canals.
Drainage problems are not as serious as on other irrigation schemes, since
the land slopes towards the river.
Land Tenure and Farming Systems
2.14      All lands within the schemes belong to Government and tenancies
are alloted by the Government, and by delegation, the managing Corporations.
In practice, however, the right of installing new tenants or dispossessing



- 7 -
sitting tenants is subject to the consent of the Tenants' Unions. Many of the
present tenants have been established for several years and some individuals
or families have acquired more than one tenancy. Most of the tenancies are in
15 fd units but there are schemes where they are in 12 fd units or less. The
standard farming system is a three-year rotation of cotton, fallow, fallow,
but farmers are allowed to grow up to half a feddan of sorghum or groundnut
on the fallow for every feddan of cotton planted. This gives an average
cropping intensity of 50%. However, depending on the availability of water
and machinery, cropping intensity varies from 30% to 100% on the schemes.
During the five-year period 1971/72 - 1975/76, average intensity over the
Project area was 65%. Since then, it has dropped to the current level of 33%.
Responsibilities of Corporations and Tenants
2.15      The "production relationship" between the Corporations and the
tenants broadly follows that originally established in the Gezira scheme
and adopted by other major irrigation schemes. The system clearly allocates
responsibility between the Corporation and the tenants for the production of
cotton, which is the main crop grown in the rotation. In addition to distri-
buting irrigation water, the Corporations undertake land preparation, supply
seeds, fertilizers and sacks, and arrange aerial insecticide spraying for
pest control. The tenants are responsible for all manual operations, such as
irrigating the fields, planting, fertilizing, weeding, picking and transport-
ing the crop to buying stations. The seed cotton is then taken over by the
Corporations for ginning and eventual sale of the seed and lint through the
Cotton Public Corporation of Sudan (CPC).
2.16      At present 1/, a Joint Account System operates in the Corporations
under which all revenues from cotton are shown as receipts, and production
expenses incurred on cotton such as machinery operations, irrigation, pest
control, and weeding are shown as expenditures. The net proceeds are divided
as follows: Tenants - 47-1/2%, WNAPC - 45-1/2%, Social Welfare Fund - 5% and
local Government taxes - 2%.
2.17      The tenant's share of the Joint Account is distributed on the basis
of the quantity and variety of cotton supplied by each tenant. This is credited
to his individual account, to which is debited tenant-specific items such as
cash advances and services for non-cotton crops. The net receipt on this
account is paid in cash to the tenant.
2.18      The Corporation's share of the Joint Account is used to meet the
cost of all overheads and all other expenses not charged directly to the
Joint Account or recovered directly from the tenant's individual account.
Since their establishment in 1974, the Corporations have been unable to
cover expenses out of the4r share of the cotton proceeds. A major
contributing factor was the discriminatory and overvalued exchange rate at
which cotton export proceeds were converted to Sudanese pounds; in addition
export taxes levied on cotton exports depressed receipts.  Though these
1/   On June 11, 1980, Government announced the abolition of the Joint
account and its replacement by individual accounts for each crop. These
changes would be implemented from 1981-82 onwards. See para. 6.08.



8-
factors have to some extent been corrected, Corporation assets are run down
and any improvement in their financial situation will depend, among other
things, on new investments being made, past losses being written off and the
discriminatory exchange rate being eliminated.
2.19      For wheat, sorghum and groundnuts, which also appear in the standard
rotation, the Corporation provides irrigation water, which is charged against
the cotton crop. For the cultivation of these crops, some services are
provided by the Corporations, although tenants are mainly left to their own
devices and revenues are not shared with the Corporation.
Tenant Incomes and Farm Labor
I
2.20      Some tenants have more than one tenancy; most tenants have off-
tenancy income sources, such as rainfed sorghum production in the south
and livestock activities in the north. Presently, most tenants do not earn
enough from cotton to repay their cash advances and therefore default; their
income from cotton is thus limited to the cash advance of about LSd47.
Income from the non-cotton crops, on the average, does not exceed LSd5O per
tenancy. So tenants who have only one tenancy are forced to supplement
their incomes from outside their own tenancy.
2.21      Farm labor is supplied by migration from adjacent rainfed areas in
the southern half of the project. The northern areas depend on local labor.
Labor for picking operations is in short supply, but for all other operations,
labor availability is adequate. Statistics on the labor force are not avail-
able, but estimates show that one and a half million man-days of hired labor
is currently needed annually on the schemes. The daily wage for hired labor
varies with the season, but on the average, it is LSdl. There is evidence to
suggest that the shortage of labor for cotton picking results because current
piecework rates for the operation by the Corporation do not yield this level of
daily wage.
Farm Machinery Operations
2.22      In the recent past, the number, type and reliability of the units
in the farm machinery fleet have been inadequate to carry out the tillage
operations required in the area of the KAPC and DAPC. The machinery available
at KAPC has been 20-25% of requirements and, at DAPC 30-40%. Some of the
machines should be scrapped; other units are idle simply from lack of spare
parts. Their general condition is poor. Routine servicing and preventive
maintenance are unsatisfactory and operators lack training and supervision.
Consequently, operating costs are high and the reliability of the machinery
low. As a result of these factors, there has been a sharp decline in the
area cropped. Poor preparation of land has led to low yields.
2.23      Machinery operations are limited to tillage for seedbed preparation.
Planting and weeding are done by hand since planting and interrow cultivation
periods coincide with the wet season when the ground is often too wet to allow
operation of machinery. Poor planting and weeding practices also contribute
to low yields.
2.24      Farm machinery services available from the private sector are
not as developed as in Gezira but still make a significant contribution,
particularly for non-cotton crops.



- 9 -
Cropped Area and Yields in the Project Area
2.25      Annex 1, Tables 2 and 3, show the cultivated area and yields for
different crops in the KAPC and DAPC areas. Both area and yield for cotton
peaked in the early seventies and thereafter declined. Lack of foreign
exchange and local currency, compounded by rising petroleum, fertilizer and
pesticide prices, created this situation. Besides, the switch to medium
staple cotton in 1976/77 was expected to raise yields, but actually yields
were sharply lower. This was because the medium staple variety, being more
sensitive to water management and timely inputs, has to be supported by strong
management, organization and extension services. However, these were not
available. Further labor scarcity during December, when picking peaks for
this variety, compounded difficulties. Even the elimination of cotton from
poorer soils in the Dueim area did not help arrest declining yields. In the
1978/79 season, the total area under cotton was approximately 81,000 fd
compared with 143,000 fd in 1972/73; and yield 261 kg/fd compared with 335
kg/fd. Wheat has been grown with varied results but yields have been poor.
Sorghum has been grown on a large area but yields are low.
C. Agriculture Outside the Corporation Pump Schemes
2.26      Crops:  Outside the Corporation schemes, there are numerous river-
side market gardens; rainfed sorghum is also raised. In addition, there
are some irrigated blocks of cotton and sorghum which were too small to be
nationalized in 1968/69. They lie between or adjacent to the schemes managed
by the Corporations and account for about 5,000 fd of cotton in the Dueim area
and 7,000 fd in the Kosti/Renk area.
2.27      Livestock:  There is a large population of sheep, goats and cattle
in the area. The tenants keep some stock on the schemes year-round but most
of the cattle are moved seasonally with the availability of feed and water.
Since many of the tenants were formerly nomadic herdsmen, there are still
close relationships with the nomads and it is difficult to determine ownership
and management patterns. Livestock, nevertheless, represent substantial
capital accumulation for the tenants and provide an important source of food
and income. Cattle are used for transport and to a limited extent for land
preparation.
D. Services and Institutions
The White Nile Agricultural Production Corporation (WNAPC)
2.28      The Corporation was set up in May 1980 by the merger of DAPC and
KAPC.  It has been endowed with functions and responsibilities previously
vested in PAPC and carries central responsibility for relations with the
Government, for overall planning, budgeting and financial control and for
procurement and distribution of major supplies such as imported equipment and



- 10 -
spares, fertilizers and fuel. At present, the Corporation is strong in numbers
and weak in skills. It lacks office accommodation, transport facilities,
housing for staff and communication facilities. Management is weak and opera-
tions are over-centralized. Staff morale is low, and lacking motivation them-
selves, the staff is unable to motivate tenants to improve their productivity.
The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Natural Resources (MAFNR)
2.29      The Minister of Agriculture is directly responsible for supervising
the Corporation. The Minister also supervises the Agricultural Research
Corporation, responsible for all research undertaken in the Sudan. The
Ministry is directly involved in supplying seeds, providing extension services
and implementing tree shelter belt programs.
The Ministry of Irrigation (MOI)
2.30      This Ministry has so far been responsible for the irrigation system
except the field distribution channels which the Corporation has maintained.
Like the Corporation, the MOI has a surplus of unskilled staff. There is a
lack of coordination between the MOI and the Corporation to the detriment of
water users; cost-effectiveness in irrigation operations is not given enough
importance. These drawbacks are expected to be overcome since WNAPC has taken
over full responsibility for all irrigation operations in the Project area.
It would continue to use supervisory staff seconded by MOI, until such time as
its own cadre of staff is established.
Input Supplies
2.31      Fuel.  Diesel and petrol are imported by Government under bilateral
arrangements and distribution is by approved companies which operate according
to quotas and prescribed cost and profit margins. The supply situation in the
Project area is unsatisfactory and lack of fuel often holds up cultivation
work or the pumping of irrigation water. This is largely due to overall fuel
shortages caused by a lack of foreign exchange, but administrative difficulties
in the distribution system and transport problems are also limiting factors.
2.32      Seeds.  Seeds for cotton and wheat are obtained by the Corporations,
from the Seed Propagation Department of the Ministry. Farmers normally use
their own seed for the sorghum and groundnut crops.
2.33      Fertilizers.  Urea, which is virtually the only type of fertilizer
used in the Project area, is distributed to tenants through the Corporations.
Because overall supply is limited, each tenant is given only enough for the
area he has under cotton. Consequently, tenants who wish to fertilize sorghum
or vegetables do so by diverting a part of their supply at the expense of the
cotton crop.
2.34      Pesticides.  Insect pests in cotton are controlled by aerial spraying
about seven times per season. Contracts are made for the bulk supply of pes-
ticides and for spraying services. Both the delivery of pesticides and the
spraying are adequate.



- 11 -
Extension Service
2.35      There is no separate extension service in the Project area.  All
production decisions for the cotton and wheat crops are taken by the Corpora-
tion and the farmers implement their part under supervision. Tenants do not
receive any advice or assistance for crops other than cotton and wheat.
Produce Marketing
2.36      Seed cotton is delivered by tenants to the Corporations at local
collecting stations and ginned at the KAPC ginnery at Rabak or a private
ginnery at Kosti. Adequate ginnery capacity exists. From the ginneries,
cotton seed is sold to oil millers at officially fixed prices. Cotton lint
is consigned to Port Sudan and delivered to the CPC for export. The tenants,
having received a series of cash advances to cover some portion of their
production costs, receive their final settlement of account more than a year
after delivery of their crop, when the eventual sales proceeds and the joint
account costs have been determined. This has not met with any opposition
from tenants in recent years, since sale proceeds seldom cover crop advances.
However, once production rises under the Project, proceeds are likely to
exceed costs and tenants can be expected to demand a more expeditious way
of settling accounts.   Government has recently announced ex-ginnery cotton
prices and would make prompt payments through the Corporations to the tenants
from the current year onwards.
2.37      Wheat is marketed by the Corporations at officially fixed prices;
some production is sold directly by tenants in the open market.
2.38      Sorghum and groundnuts are purchased by traders from the tenants
at open market prices. Most of the output of sorghum is used for family
consumption.
E. Existing Infrastructure
2.39      The Project area has recently been connected by an all-weather
road from Kosti to Khartoum and Port Sudan. Another all-weather road would
be ready by mid-1982 under the Highways II Project (Credit 882-SU) which
finances the road from Dueim to Jebel Aulia on the east bank of the White
Nile; Jebel Aulia is already connected to Khartoum. This project also finances
detailed engineering for upgrading the road from Dueim to Rabak (on the east
bank of the river, opposite Kosti town which lies on the west bank), and
external financing for this investment has been arranged. Within the Project
area, the various schemes are linked by dirt roads, which are unpassable
during the two-month raiay season, but are otherwise quite satisfactory.
There is, however, a need to improve maintenance of these roads.
2.40      Kosti is connected by rail to Khartoum and Port Sudan, but the
railway system is unreliable at present; efforts are underway, with external
assistance, to improve performance. River traffic on the White Nile has
considerable potential, but little progress has been made to tap it so far.
River transport is used only to move part of the oil needs of the Project,
by barge, from Jebel Aulia to Kosti.



- 12 D
2.41      The Project area has not yet been electrified; electrical supply is
confined to major urban centers like Dueim and Kosti. There are no programs
for extending electricity to this area during the next few years. However,
preliminary analysis shows that investments necessary to provide 35 MW of
electrical power in order to electrify all irrigation pumpsets would be
attractive in terms of economic and financial returns.
2.42      Malaria, bi'lharzia and            ala:.L..cLz; aL-; c3mnaoi irn the FrojecL
area. The provincial admin4stration has a preventive and curative network
operating in the area and re :eives financial support from the social welfare
fund of the Corporations.  M.'st of the villages in the Project area do not
have safe drinking water facilities, but a phased program to provide this is
under implementation by the provincial administration.
2.43      The Project area is served by a network of schools which conform
to the average level elsewhere in the country. There are also a number of
Social Education Centers which are provided with community TV sets. While
a start has been made on beaming agricultural extension programs through the
medium of TV, such programs have as yet no significant impact on the tenant
community at large.
F. Rehabilitation Strategy
Background
2.44      At present, WNAPC lacks the physical and financial resources to
meet its responsibilities adequately. The area under cultivation has declined,
yields are depressed, tenant indebtedness has increased and the Corporations
have incurred substantial financial deficits. This situation is the result of
a number of adverse developments, the most important of which are:
-    fiscal burdens on cotton production imposed by export taxes
and discriminatory and overvalued exchange rates;
-    increases in the price of vital inputs for the import-
intensive cotton crop, such as fuel, fertilizers and
pesticides;
-    scarcity of foreign exchange and local currency budgetary
resources at the national level; and
-    poor management and weak administration.
These factors have caused financial losses for the Corporation and reduced
incomes for the tenants. This in turn has led to neglect of maintenance
and replacement needs and demoralization of Corporation staff and tenants
alike. The result is shortages of farm machinery and irrigation equipment
and poor performance all around. On a wider scale, the lower level of cotton



- 13 -
production has further aggravated Sudan's already difficult balance of payments
position. Government has recently initiated measures to arrest the downward
trend by undertaking fiscal policy actions and organizational reforms; some
backlog of maintenance investment would be cleared by the ongoing Agricultural
Rehabilitation Program. The stage is therefore set for project intervention.
Strategy
2.45      The recent Nile Waters Study, financed by IDA, estimated the invest-
ment needed to rehabilitate and modernize the White Nile Pump Schemes at
LSd283 million over the period 1980-2000. A time slice approach is therefore
inevitable and a second project has to be envisioned.  Consistent with the
short term investment strategy for the agricultural sector of Sudan, the first
project in this area would provide WNAPC with resources to bring it back to
full production in the most effective way and increase foreign exchange
earnings as quickly as possible. This would require renovating the existing
irrigation system, strengthening farm machinery operations, revamping manage-
ment and administration of the Corporations, and motivating tenants.to improve
their productivity. It would also build the base for medium and long term
development by supporting studies and preparation of detailed investment
proposals for a follow-up project. A future project would upgrade technology
in order to exploit fully Sudan's comparative advantage in respect of agricul-
tural products. Resiting of pumpsets and/or revision of Jebel Aulia regula-
tions in order to permit pumping of water to begin in June, electrification of
pumpsets, changes in crop areas, intensity and mix, and organizational reforms
would receive focus under the follow-up project.
III. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
3.01      The Project would be designed to increase crop yields and stabilize
water supply on the pump schemes operated by WNAPC through rehabilitation,
and where necessary, replacement of existing machinery and equipment and
through strengthening of infrastructure, management and support facilities.
A feasibility report on a possible follow-up project would be prepared as
part of Project activities and a base for long-term development planning
would be established through supporting studies and detailed investment
proposals. The Project would be implemented over five years and would have
the following components:
(a) Rehabilitation of pumpsets and pumphouses;
(b) Rehabilitation of irrigation distribution systems;
(c) Provision of agricultural machinery, equipment, and spare parts;



- 14 -
(d) Establishment of workshops and fuel storage arrangements;
(e) Provision of road maintenance equipment;
(f) Provision of motor vehicles;
(g) Installation of a telecommunication network;
(h)  Construction of buildings for offices, stores and staff housing;
(i) Measures to strengthen management, administration, maintenance,
and training;
(j) Studies for further development of the White Nile area and
preparation of a follow-up project;
(k) Supply of incremental annual farm inputs.
B.  Technical Features
Rehabilitation of Pumpsets and Pumphouses (US$5.4 million)
3.02      In order to ensure an adequate water supply to crops, the Project
would provide funds to rehabilitate and, where necessary, replace pumps and
engines in unsatisfactory condition. The total replacement required is
estimated to be 20 diesel pumpsets of about 75 hp each, 30 pumps, 30 engines
with 22-49 hp range, 20 engines of about 75 hp each and 3 engines of 300 hp.
Some equipment will be supplied under the ARP. The remainder would be provided
under the Project at a cost of US$2.4 million. The purchases would consist of
eight diesel pumpsets (about 75 hp each), 12 pumps, 12 engines with a 22-49 hp
range, 8 engines of about 75 hp each and 3 engines of 300 hp each.
3.03      The Project would also provide US$1.9 million for the rehabilitation
of existing pumpsets through purchase of spare parts. Together with earlier
purchases under the ARP, these spare parts would fulfill estimated needs
during the five year implementation period.
3.04      Civil constr,irtion relating to pumphouses would be provided under
the Project at a cost if US$1.1 million. Ninety-two pumphouses would be
improved.
Rehabilitation of Irrigation Canals (US$4.6 million)
3.05      The Project would provide US$3.8 million for work executed by the
Earth Moving Corporation (EMC) to restore the major and minor canal network
and pump inlet channels to original standards. The estimated work required
to be carried out would involve excavation of 4.5 million cubic meters of earth
in the canals and 0.2 million cubic meters in the inlet channels. The work
would be carried out during the first three years of the Project using EMC



- 15 -
equipment already available. In addition, repairs to canal structures would
be carried out by force account at a cost of US$0.8 million under the super-
vision of WNAPCGs civil engineers.
Agricultural Machinery and Equipment (US$6.1 million)
3.06      To ensure that land preparation and other field machinery operations
are provided on time and to standard, WNAPCGs tractor fleet needs to be aug-
mented. The total need is estimated at 310, of which 134 will have been
already procured under the ARP. The remainder would be provided under the
Project together with the necessary spare parts. Spare parts for the existing
fleet will be provided under the ARP. Ploughing, levelling, fertilizer
spreading, ridging and green ridging would be done by machine for cotton.
The area for groundnuts would be ploughed, levelled, ridged, green ridged
and dug using machines. Sorghum land would be ploughed, levelled and ridged
mechanically. The necessary items of equipment to carry out these operations
would be provided under the Project.
3.07      In order to ensure that field channels would be able to carry the
required amount of water to crops, eight tractor drawn ditchers would be
required. At present, WNAPC has three tractors and will have acquired five
additional new units under the ARP. The ditching equipment would be provided
under the Project. It would take approximately three months to clean all
field channels in the schemes and tractors would therefore be used for deep
ploughing during the rest of the working season.
3.08      The Project would also provide for the purchase of water measuring
equipment and for installation of water measuring structures in the main
channels in order to improve water management and irrigation efficiency of
the schemes.
Workshops and Fuel Storage (US$3.5 million)
3.09      In order to service the proposed fleet of agricultural machinery
and vehicles, five regional workshops would be established. In addition,
27 field machinery camps (one camp per block) with minimum maintenance and
repair facilities would be constructed for tractors and agricultural machinery.
The present main workshop at Kosti would be upgraded into a major overhaul
and repair center and would also serve as the main spare part supply center.
These measures would cost about US$0.9 million and would be provided under
the Project. Workshops would also be established to service the irrigation
pumps and engines. The facilities would consist of a main workshop at Kosti
and two sub-workshops, one at Dueim and one at El Renk. These too would be
provided under the Project at a cost of US$1.4 million.
3.10      In order to aLleviate the problem of fuel supply shortages, the
Project would provide in total US$0.9 million for two 25,000 gallon tanks,
seven 1,500 gallon tankers, ten delivery trailers as well as twenty-seven
field fuel trailers, the latter to supply the machinery camps. Fuel storage
at the pumphouses would also be improved by the provision of additional
storage capacity for some 130,000 gallons. The cost of this would be
US$0.3 million.



- 16 -
Road Maintenance Equipment (US$1.2 million)
3.11      Seven motor graders and related spares would be provided under the
Project. These would enable the Corporation to maintain the existing dirt
roads within the Scheme area.
Motor Vehicles (US$2.3 million)
3.12      The Project would provide for 87 four-wheel drive pickups, one
four-wheel drive station wagon, eight lorries, 27 field service trailers
and 27 water tankers, together with the necessary supply of spares needed
to satisfactorily operate the fleet. These purchases would ensure adequate
mobility for the increased number of field staff operating at the block and
regional level and strengthen arrangements for timely input supply.
Telecommunications (US$0.5 million)
3.13      Telecommunications would be improved by installing a VHF radio
telephone system, comprising a base station at Kosti and solar-powered sub-
stations at each of the regional offices. The base station would have a
range of 200 km. The same system, but with a shorter range, would also
be provided between the region sub-stations and their corresponding field
machinery camps.
Buildings for Offices, Stores and Staff Housing (US$8.0 million)
3.14      The Project would provide ten small separate offices at the various
regions at a cost of US$0.2 million. Stores would also be constructed both
at Headquarters and in the Regions for spare parts and pgricultural and
other supplies. The additional storage area of 6,100 m would consist of
six stores and ten block sheds. The Project would provide these at a cost
of US$2.5 million.
3.15      The Project would resolve WNAPC-s most urgent housing problem by
providing 113 houses (US$5.3 million) so that each of the seven Regions and
twenty seven Blocks would have the minimum housing requirements to appoint
and deploy the field staff needed to operate the Project in the field. Four
grades of housing would be constructed with minor modifications to standard
designs already in use in the Project area. These designs are austere. Yet,
because of soil conditions which necessitate strengthened foundations and         2
additional construction materials, the cost is high, estimated at LSd280 per m
plus 20% for infrastructure. However, the designs or total requirements could
not be reduced without seriously impairing the Project capacity to appoint and
retain the minimum field staff needed for implementation. This is because
private housing is scarce in the Project area and it would be difficult to
attract qualified technical personnel to work in the Project, unless housing
is provided, particularly at regional headquarters.



- 17 -
Management, Administration and Training (US$2.1 million)
3.16      WNAPC's project management and administrative capabilities would be
strengthened by the establishment of a new Planning and Development Unit (PDU)
which would include four internationally recruited specialists, one each in
the fields of agricultural management (for 42 months), farm machinery operation
(for 42 months), agricultural economics (for 30 months) and mechanical engineer-
ing (for 26 months). In addition, the two departments of Finance and Treasury
and Stores and Commercial would be strengthened by having one internationally
recruited specialist as the head of each for periods of 42 man-months and 18
man-months, respectively. The total man-months required would be 200 at a
cost of about US$2.1 million. The average man-month cost (based on the
individual's fees, international travel and local allowances) is expected to
be about US$10,000 per man-month. The total estimated cost also includes
provision for training programs. Assurances on the employment of these
specialists, on terms and conditions and with qualifications and experience
satisfactory to IDA, were obtained from Government during negotiations.
Government also agreed to appoint the head of the Finance and Treasury Depart-
ment, by international recruitment, no later than July 1, 1981 (para 8.02 (a)).
Studies (US$2.3 million)
3.17      Consultant services would be provided as part of Project activities
to carry out studies on the further development of the White Nile area,
including the detailed preparation of a possible follow-up project. Aerial
and ground surveys would be made as part of these studies. The consultants
would also study the relationship of river regulations to the long-term
requirements for expanding and modernizing the White Nile irrigation systems.
The study will require about 100 man-months of consultant services at an
estimated total cost of US$1.0 million. The average man-month cost, including
salary, international travel and subsistence, is expected to be about US$9,500.
In addition to these personnel costs, the contract cost also includes the cost
of vehicles, local transportation and local office operating expenses. The
funds needed for air photo maps and soil surveys are also provided. Assurances
were obtained from Government during negotiations that Consultants satisfactory
to IDA would be employed (para 8.02 (b)).
Incremental Annual Farm Inputs (US$2.1 million)
3.18      The Project would finance incremental annual farm inputs such as
seeds, sacks, fertilizer and insecticides during Project years 2 to 4. The
items of significant expenditure would be insecticides US$1.3 million and
fertilizers US$0.5 million.



- 18 -
C. Status of Engineering
3.19      The basic maps and photographs of the Project area are available
at the Sudan Survey Department, and consist of 1:100,000 maps with 1.0 m
contours based on survey conducted in 1964, and 1:50,000 scale aerial photo-
graph mosaics prepared in 1963 and 1966. MOI also have detailed topographic
maps (1:10,000) with 0.50 m contours for most of the Government pump schemes.
Soil maps with the scale of 1:100,000 are available for the Project east bank
area. They are based on reconnaissance surveys made from 1962 to 1966. The
west bank however has only limited survey maps.
3.20      During the Project preparation study, MOI made a sample survey on
nine irrigation schemes of different sizes to obtain data on cross-sections
and length of main and minor canals of each scheme. The amount of earthwork
involved in canal rehabilitation was then computed based on these representa-
tive samples. MOI also surveyed pumps and engines in each scheme and pre-
pared a detailed list of required spare parts and replacement of pumps and
engines. The list was reviewed by the FAO/CP preparation mission and used
as the basis for the project cost estimates on pumps and engines. Regarding
farm machinery, PAPC and the two sub-corporations (KAPC and DAPC) made detailed
inventory of all their tractors and farm implements which was later reviewed
and modified by the FAO/CP mission and used for estimating the project needs
for the farm machinery component. The ARP Procurement Committee under the
Ministry of Finance has been recently strengthened and has drawn up detailed
specifications for the procurement of irrigation and agricultural machinery
and motor vehicles under that program. The Committee, therefore, is in a
position to undertake procurement of similar goods under the Project with
minimum administrative lead time.
D. Irrigation Water Requirements
3.21      Under the Project, the annual cropped area would increase from
119,500 fd to 219,500 fd (cotton 127,000, groundnuts 28,000, sorghum 58 3000
and wheat 6,500).  The water requirement would be about A,400 million m
annually as against current consumption of 830 million m (Annex 1, Table 4).
This calculation is based on the Penman formula applicable to Sudan. The
period of water requirement would be between lid-August and mid-March with
the peak monthly requirement at 290 million m in October. There would be no
shortfall of water availability as the flow of the White Nile during these
periods far exceed crop requirements.
E. Project Cost
3.22      Total Project cost is estimated at US$54.7 million with a foreign
exchange component of US$35.0 million (64%). Estimated costs are summarized
in Table 1. Taxes and duties amount to US$6.0 million.



- 19 -
Table 1
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange L'
-----LSd Million              US$ Millionl/-----
Project Component
Rehabilitation of Pumpsets
and Pump houses                  1.2     3.1      4.3     1.5      3.9     5.4       72
Rehabilitation of Irrigation
Canals                           1.3     2.4      3.7     1.6      3.0     4.6       65
Agricultural Machinery and
Equipment                       0.8      4.1      4.9     1.0      5.1     6.1       84
Workshops and Fuel Storage        1.1     1.7      2.8     1.4      2.1     3.5       60
Road Maintenance Equipment        0.2     0.7      0.9     0.3      0.9     1.2       78
Motor Vehicles                    0.5     1.3      1.8     0.6      1.7     2.3       74
Telecommunications                0.1     0.3      0.4     0.1      0.4     0.5       79
Buildings for Offices Stores
and Staff Housing                3.2     3.2      6.4     4.0      4.0     8.0       50
Management, Administration
and Training                    0.2      1.5      1.7     0.2      1.9     2.1       90
Studies                           0.6     1.3      1.9     0.7      1.6     2.3       68
Incremental Annual Farm Inputs  0.5       0.9      1.4     0.7      1.4     2.1       67
Total Baseline Costs        9.7    20.5    30.2    12.1    26.0    38.1          68
Physical Contingencies            1.0     2.2      3.2     1.3      2.8     4.1       68
Total Baseline Costs
and Physical
Contingencies             10.7    22.7    33.4    13.4    28.8    42.2          68
Price Contingencies               5.0     4.9      9-9     6.3      6.2    12.5       50
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS        15.7    27.6    43.3    19.7    35.0    54.7          64
1/ Conversion rates at bSdl.O = US$1.25, except for part of the foreign exchange
component of incremental annual farm inputs which is converted at LSdl.O = US$1.5
2/ Percentage calculated on the United States dollar equivalent.



- 20 -
The above cost estimates are based on February 1980 prices updated to September
1980 estimated baseline price levels and are derived from recent quotations
and appraisal estimates. A 10% physical contingency has been provided on
all new items except the irrigation component where 15% has been adopted.
Price escalations for all components have been estimated at the following
inflation rates:
Table 2
Price Contingencies
1981-82     1982-83     1983-84       1984-85     1985-86
(Year 1)    (Year 2)    (Year 3)      (Year 4)    (Year 5)
_______________  _________  %             ---------------------------
Equipment, Civil
Works and Services
1. Local currency   35.0 1/      15.0       10.0           7.0         7.0
2. Foreign exchange 12.5 2/       8.0        7.0           7.0         7.0
component
F. Proposed Financing
3.23      Project costs would be shared in the following amounts and proportions:
Table 3
Financing Plan
------------------- US$ Million-/ --------------------
Local   Foreign              % of Total     % of Net
Cost    Exchange   Total   Project Cost   Project Cost
IDA Credit               -         35.0     35.0         64              72
Government of Sudan     13.7         -      13.7         25              28
Net Project Cost        13.7       35.0     48.7          89            100
Taxes and Duties         6.0        -        6.0         11
Total Project Cost      19.7       35.0     54.7         100
Net project investment cost works out to US$1,729 per tenancy or US$135 per
feddan.
1/   Includes 12.5% from date of cost estimates (September 1980) to 1981.
2/   Includes 3.5% from date of cost estimates (September 1980) to 1981.
3/   Amounts include contingencies.



- 21 -
3.24      Project financing by category of goods or services is set out in
Table 4.  The proposed IDA Credit would be on standard terms to the Government
and would be the subject of a Subsidiary Agreement between Government and the
WNAPC. This agreement would specify that all Credit funds and Government's
contribution to Project investment costs would be passed on to WNAPC as a
loan, repayable at 9% interest over twenty years including a grace period of
five years. The ratification of a Subsidiary Agreement acceptable to IDA
would be a condition of Credit effectiveness (para 8.03(i)).
Table 4
Project Financing by Category of Goods or Services 1/
------------ US$ Million ------------------
Category of Goods or Services                   GOS      IDA       Total
Irrigation Pumps and Services 2/                1.4      4.5        5.9
Machinery and Equipment 3/                      3.0      9.5       12.5
Transport Vehicles 3/                           1.3      3.2        4.5
Civil Works                                    11.0     11.0       22.0
Technical Assistance and Consultancy 4/         1.7      4.8        6.5
Annual Farm Inputs                              1.3      2.0        3.3
19.7     35.0       54.7
G. Corporation Cash Requirements
3.25      WNAPC's losses and excesses of cash outflows over cash inflows
during Project implementation would occur in the first two years and would be
caused by low cotton production which in turn would generate insufficient
revenue to cover the costs of preparing land, providing farm inputs and
irrigation water, maintaining Corporation staff and providing other services.
The funds to maintain the solvency of the Corporation would have to be provided
until Corporation revenues and debt and cost recovery mechanisms produce an
excess of cash inflows over cash outflows. The year-end net cash requirements
during the first two Project years, assuming fulfillment of the Project
assumptions, would be as follows:
1/   Amounts include contingencies.
2/   Including spares for existing engines.
3/   Including spares for existing vehicles.
4/   Includes $0.1 million in local costs for Sudan Public Telephone
Corporation s administration of Telecommunications component.



- 22 -
Table 5
Net Cash Requirements
(Current LSd Millions)
Total Cash          Total Cash       Net (Surplus)
Project Year                   Outflows 1/      _  Inflows 2/   Cash Requirements
1   -  Foreign Exchange      9.4                14.5              ( 5.1)
Local Currency       13.9                0.1                13.8
Total                23.3               14.6                 8.7
2   -  Foreign Exchange    16.0                 34.3              (18.3)
Local Currency       24.4                0.2               24.2
Total                40.4               34.5                 5.9
Total - Foreign Exchange    25.4                 48.8              (23.4)
Local Currency       38.3                0.3                38.0
63.7               49.1               14.6
1/   Consists of annual farm inputs, costs of supplying irrigation water, cash
advances (for labor) to tenants, and the costs of operating WNAPC to
provide agricultural, engineering and administrative services to tenants.
2/   Consists principally of cotton revenues (as foreign exchange).
3.26      The Corporation would also have to provide cash advances to tenants
for labor in each fiscal year. In Project years 1 and 2, the Corporation
would have to outlay LSd2.4 million and LSd3.9 million respectively, for
periods of up to nine months within each fiscal year. These short-term
outlays would therefore be in addition to the net cash requirements outlined
above.
3.27      In order to ensure that the Corporation is provided with sufficient
cash to finance its operations until such time as cash inflows exceed cash
outflows, an Annual Work Program would be prepared, which would include
detailed estimates of the financing required to meet Project expenses and
the cash requirements outlined above. The PDU would monitor the Corporation's
cash needs in relation to these estimates and amend quarterly the estimates
if necessary. A condition of Credit effectiveness would be that an account in
the name of the Project would be opened, and a line of credit would be arranged
from the Bank of Sudan through this account of not less than LSdl.O million
to meet Project startup expenses (para 8.03 (ii)). Thereafter, during the
execution of the Project, Government would arrange for transfer of funds to
this account quarterly, based on the estimates contained in the Annual Work



- 23 -
Program as updated from time to time (para 8.02(c)). Estimates of anticipated
financial flows between WNAPC, on one hand, and the Government and the Bank of
Sudan, on the other, during the first three Project years, show that the
cumulative net outflow from Government would be LSd22.6 million, while during
the five-year Project implementation period the cumulative net outflow would
be LSd5.8 million (Annex 1, Table 8).
H. Procurement
3.28      Contracts for supply of irrigation pumps and engines, machinery,
equipment and transport vehicles exceeding US$100,000 would be subject to
international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with World Bank guide-
lines. The items would be aggregated in order to attract major contractors and
suppliers. Thus, about 75% of the IDA credit would be utilised through ICB.
Contracts less than US$100,000 and in aggregate totalling no more than
US$3,000,000 would be procured through local competitive bidding (LCB) in
accordance with standard Government of Sudan procedures, which were reviewed
at appraisal and found acceptable to IDA.  Local procedures permit foreign
participation. For contracts under US$10,000, comparative shopping or
purchasing off-the-shelf would be used. Local suppliers would qualify for
15% domestic preference under ICB procurement. Spare parts for vehicles and
equipment would be procured directly by negotiated contract from the principal
manufacturer or by quotations from dealers, as appropriate.
3.29      The above procedures would, with a lower limit for ICB of US$500,000
also apply to contracts for civil works. Civil works would qualify for 7-1/2%
domestic preference under ICB. Canal rehabilitation works would, however, be
contracted to EMC at rates established by the Government, as in other projects
in Sudan. Foreign and local firms are not likely to be interested because of
the dispersed nature of the works. EMC has been provided equipment under the
ARP and Rahad projects and is capable of carrying out the rehabilitation
works efficiently. The construction of pumphouses and renovation of canal
structures being small and located in areas where access is difficult, would
be carried out by force account. Fertilizers, sacks and pesticides would be
procured over the project period of five years, using normal existing pro-
cedures of the Government, or other appropriate procedures, in consultation
with IDA.
3.30      The qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employ-
ment of internationally recruited experts and consultants would be satisfactory
to IDA.
I. Disbursement
3.31      The proceeds of the Credit would be disbursed over six years, on
the basis of the foreign exchange cost of each category of goods or services
described below:



- 24 -
Table 6
Disbursements
Amount of Credit Allo-   % of Expenditures
Category No.  Goods or Services           cated (US$ million)    to be Financed
1 (a)      Irrigation pumps and                   4.1           100% of foreign
engines including spares                             expenditures or 75%
(b)      Machinery and equipment               8.5            100% of foreign
including spares                                     expenditures or 75%
(c)      Transport vehicles                     2.9           100% of foreign
including spares                                     expenditures
2          Civil works, including                 9.9           100% of foreign
buildings, irrigation                                expenditures or 50%
structures and canal works
3          Technical assistance and               4.3           100% of foreign
consultancy                                          expenditures
4          Annual farm inputs                     1.8           100% of foreign
expenditures or 60%
31.5
5          An unallocated amount of               3.5
Total                          35.0  1/
3.32      Disbursements would be fully documented.  However, disbursements for
incremental farm inputs and civil works, if undertaken by force account, would
be made against statements of expenditures, the supporting documents for which
would not be submitted for review, but retained by the Corporation for inspec-
tion by IDA supervision missions. These documents would be audited separately
and the audit report in English submitted to the Association within six months
of the end of each fiscal year. As strengthened by the Project, the Corpora-
tion would have adequate staff and controls for the preparation of such
statements of expenditure. A schedule of estimated disbursements is shown in
Annex 1, Table 5.
1/   The Special Drawing Rights equivalent of this amount, as determined
at negotiations, is 27.5 million.



- 25 -
J. Accounts and Audit
3.33      A Presidential Warrant dated May 5, 1980 established WNAPC.  The
Corporation's balance sheet on inception would include only those assets and
liabilities appropriate to its future operations and would not include assets
(e.g., amounts due from tenants) which are unrealizable or liabilities which
relate to activities of WNAPC's predecessor Corporations. Its subsequent
transactions would comprise activities hitherto carried out by PAPC in relation
to the two corporations, KAPC and DAPC, besides items of work discharged by
the two corporations themselves in the past.
3.34      Assurances were obtained at negotiations that WNAPC would keep
a comprehensive set of accounts for the Corporation, including a separate set
of accounts for the expenditure and recovery of Project funds, that are
acceptable to the Association. The accounts would be audited annually by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association. The audited accounts,
together with the auditor's report, would be submitted in English to the
Association annually, no later than nine months after the end of the financial
year. WNAPC's initial audited accounts, relating to its position at the time
it was established, would be submitted along with the Auditor's Report, to
IDA not later than December 31, 1981 (para 8.02(d)).
K. Environmental Impact
3.35      Crop Protection.  Pest control by spraying cotton with insecticide
has been practiced extensively in the Sudan for over thirty years, and would
be used in the Project against whitefly, jassid nymphs, aphids, bollworm
eggs and larvae which are all common cotton pests. All the drugs currently
used, notably Rogor (a dimethoate), Sevin (a carbamate), Aldrin, and DDT,
are tested by residue analysis for compliance with prescribed specifica-
tions which are considered adequate. All drugs are also subjected to field
tests and, if found acceptable, are registered by the Pesticide Committee of
the Ministry of Agriculture, which controls the importation and use of pesti-
cides. Application is normally carried out by aerial spraying by experienced
contractors with well maintained equipment, using efficient techniques which
minimize drift, and the risk of the human population of the area being directly
contaminated is therefore minimal. However, the extensive use of pesticides
will continue to pose long-term risks until safer alternative chemicals become
available at suitable costs. Meanwhile, it would not be profitable to produce
cotton without chemical pest control.



- 26 -
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. General
4.01       The implementing agency for the Project is the White Nile Agricul-
tural Production Corporation (WNAPC). WNAPC is directly supervised by the
Minister of Agriculture.  In order to ensure adequate allocation of resources
for the Project through coordination between the concerned Ministries and
other Public Sector agencies, a high-level Project Steering Committee would be
established, headed by the Minister of Agriculture and comprised of representa-
tives of the Ministries of Finance, National Planning and Irrigation, WNAPC,
Agricultural Research Corporation and the Bank of Sudan. This Committee,
similar to that recently established for the New Halfa Irrigation Rehabilita-
tion Project, would be empowered to approve Annual Work Programs for the
Project on behalf of the Government and would meet once a year for this
purpose. Project procurement would be supervised by the Procurement Unit
established in the Ministry of Finance and strengthened under the ARP.
B. Annual Work Programs
4.02       The Annual Work Program and the criteria upon which it would be
approved by IDA are described in Annex 3. It would facilitate a full annual
review of progress in Project implementation by Government and IDA and make
possible technical, financial, and institutional modifications or adjustments
to the Project as implementation proceeds and experience is gained. It would
also serve as an instrument through which support for the Project, such as
establishment of reasonable cotton prices, budgetary flows from the Govern-
ment, cash flows from the Bank of Sudan and research input from the Agri-
cultural Research Corporation, would be secured. After review, the Project
Steering Committee would submit the program to IDA each year no later than
May 1, and IDA would, within three weeks of receipt of the proposal, inform
the Government of its acceptance or comments. The first Annual Work Program
for the period ending June 30, 1982, would be submitted to IDA within four
months of signing of the Credit. Subsequent programs would be submitted by
May 1, and cover the year commencing the following July 1. Assurances were
obtained from Government during negotiations on their acceptance of these
arrangements (para 8.02 (e)).
C. White Nile Agricultural Production Corporation
4.03       The WNAPC would be strengthened under the Project by provision of
agricultural and irrigation machinery and equipment, maintenance and storage
facilities, transport vehicles, buildings, staff housing, and communication
facilities. Its performance would be improved by strengthening its manage-
ment by internationally recruiting experts to head its departments of Finance



- 27 -
and Treasury and Stores and Commercial and man its newly set up Planning and
Development Unit (PDU). Its administration would be decentralized to seven
regional offices and twenty-seven machinery camps and its operations stream-
lined. Monitoring, evaluation and reporting arrangements would be streng-
thened and training programs implemented. Surplus unskilled staff would
be reduced by natural attrition and by redeployment in semi-skilled positions.
Tenant participation and positive response would be stimulated by financial
reforms, including announcement of cotton prices before harvest and prompt
payment to tenants for cotton delivered by them. WNAPC would enter into new
Lease Agreements and Annual Credit and Service Contracts with tenants in
order to establish Corporation-Tenant relations on a more stable basis.
D. Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting
4.04       To assist the WNAPC to implement the Project and operate the
agricultural and irrigation routines efficiently, the Project would provide
specialist staff to man a newly established Planning and Development Unit
(PDU). This unit would include four internationally recruited specialists -
an agricultural management specialist, an agricultural engineer, a mechanical
engineer, and an agricultural economist and Sudanese counterparts would be
assigned from WNAPC's existing staff. The Unit would:
(a) design and implement a monitoring and evaluation system
and provide Project management with soundly based analyses
and recommendations for improving the Project's efficiency;
(b) provide Project management with economic, financial,
irrigation and agricultural technical assistance;
(c) provide Project management with cost and credit information
and recommendations for their improvement;
(d) prepare Annual Work Programs, quarterly progress reports and
a Project Completion Report; and
(e) supervise training and maintenance programs.
4.05       The PDU would prepare quarterly progress reports for the Project
and submit them to IDA not later than two months after the completion of the
quarter. It would also prepare the Project Completion Report no later than
six months after the completion of the Project. Government assurances were
obtained that these reporting procedures would be followed (para 8.02 (f)).
E. Revised Administrative Setup
4.06       WNAPC would administer the Project through its headquarters office
at Kosti (Annex 1, Chart 2). Its field operation would be implemented through



- 28 -
seven regional offices which would be given more powers. Regional managers
would administer the regional offices which would supervise agricultural
production, agricultural engineering and the irrigation activities (Annex 1,
Chart 3). Each regional office would determine the crop rotations and the
crop to be grown in each tenancy. It would also prescribe agricultural
operations to be carried out by the tenants and their timing. Where necessary,
the Corporation would carry out these operations by force account and debit
the tenants' accounts. It would provide farm inputs such as fertilizers and
organize and supervise the aerial spraying of cotton.
4.07      Twenty-seven machinery camps would operate under the supervision
of Block Inspectors, an Inspector having one camp in his area. Each camp
would consist of an average of 10 tractors and the related implements and
would serve a cropped area of about 8,000 fd. It would be run by a supervisor
and would be equipped with a fuel storage facility, a trailer-mounted workshop
and transport facilities for personnel and supplies. The technical support
for, and overall supervision of, the machinery camp would be the responsibility
of an Agricultural Engineer at each regional office. In addition, each region
would have a sub-workshop to perform major repairs. The major overhaul and
spare parts depot would be at Kosti.
4.08       WNAPC has taken over responsibility for the irrigation aspects of
the Project from MOI and would implement the pumpset replacement and rehabili-
tation component. (See Annex 1, Charts 2 and 3). It would also supervise
the canal improvement component down to the field channels. Earthmoving work
would be contracted to the EMC (para 3.05).
4.09       The Block Inspectors, in consultation with the Regional Engineer
for pumps and engines, would determine pumping schedules at each of the pump.
stations. The Civil Engineering Department would be entrusted with the task
of supervising the construction of offices and housing. It would provide
contract documents for building works, and contract out and supervise the
work. It would also supervise road maintenance operations in the various
regions.
F. Staffing Training and Maintenance
4.10       Upon the commencement of its operations WNAPC had an establishment
(including irrigation) for approximately 3,500 posts, including 200 of degree
standard, 800 diploma holders and clerical staff and 2,500 unclassified staff.
WNAPC is deficient in the managerial and skilled categories, due to their
general shortage in Sudan. The revised organizational setup, decentraliza-
tion of administration, provision of housing for field technical staff and
strengthening of management should improve WNAPC-s performance. The existing
organizations have a surplus of unclassified staff. Over the Project imple-
mentation period, it is envisaged that some staff in this category would be
trained to meet the needs of the Corporation. The total number of unclassi-
fied staff would be reduced in due course, through this redeployment and
through attrition.



- 29 -
4.11      Training courses would be held covering the in-field operational
and mechanical engineering skills required by tractor and harvester drivers.
Other courses would cover workshop skills. These would be conducted at Kosti
with the assistance of the Department of Labor's ILO-supported Vocational
Training Center which is located in Khartoum and at the Farm Machinery Center
at Tozi. The cost of training would be met from the current budget of WNAPC.
Agricultural Field Training would be directed and supervised as at present by
the Agricultural Extension Division, which prepares programs for Block Agri-
cultural Staff to implement mainly through evening classes in the villages.
However, these programs have not been having the required impact, mainly
because farmers are disillusioned by the Corporation's failure to provide
timely and efficient agricultural and irrigation services. As the Corpora-
tion's performance improves under the Project, tenants should become more
responsive. The agricultural management specialist provided by the Project
(para. 3.16) would monitor the training program's impact and recommend
improvements. In addition, three-week courses would be held annually in
Kosti--one for leading farmers, and one for professional Corporation staff.
These would be conducted by senior Corporation staff and visiting lecturers
provided by the Project. Maintenance of agricultural machinery and irrigation
pumpsets would be improved through preparation and implementation of detailed
maintenance schedules under the overall supervision of the internationally
recruited agricultural engineer and mechanical engineer of the PDU. Mainten-
ance would also be strengthened by the establishment of decentralized workshop
facilities and farm machinery camps (para. 3.09). Assurances were obtained
during negotiation that a comprehensive training and maintenance program
acceptable to the Association would be included in each Annual Work Program.
This training and maintenance program would be forwarded to the Association
for its approval no later than December 31, 1981 (para. 8.02(g)).
G. Tenant Relations
4.12      At present, tenancy agreements are not kept up to date.  Under the
Project, the Corporation would enter into a new tenancy agreement with each
of the tenants during the first year of the Project. The agreement would
cover occupancy, land use, cost and revenue sharing, provision of credit
and debt and cost recovery. The agreement would also provide for the exe-
cution annually of a credit and services contract between the Corporation
and the tenant. The main features of the new Tenancy Lease Agreement are
set forth in Annex 4, and the Agreement would be for a period of 20 years.
Government assurances were obtained during negotiations that WNAPC would
issue regulations prescribing the new tenancy lease agreement; assurances
were also obtained that WNAPC would extend services only to tenants who
have a current credit and services contract (para 8.02 (h)).
4.13      The Project would extend a number of incentives to tenants in order
to promote greater participation by them. These include better corporation
services, financial benefits, and accounting reforms, all designed to raise
tenant productivity. An important reform, already implemented by the Govern-
ment is the announcement of cotton prices in advance of the harvest and
payment of such prices promptly by the WNAPC. Previous to this, payments



- 30 -
were made only after the produce was finally sold by the CPC, and this entailed
a delay of a year or two. Further strengthening of the payments mechanism is
now under study by a team set up under the ARP and the team's recommendations
would be available in mid-1981. An assurance was obtained that WNAPC would
issue regulations embodying the details of such a mechanism, satisfactory to
IDA, on or before August 31, 1981 (para 8.02 (i)).
V. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES
A. Production
5.01      Table 7 sets out the area expansion, yield improvement and
additional production anticipated under the Project.
Table 7
Area, Yield and Production
Present Future without Project Future with Project
Year 0            Year 6                 Year 6
Cotton
Area (fd)            80,000            110,000                127,000
Yield (tons/fd)       0.29               0.43                   0.72
Production (tons)   22,960              47,410                 91,186
Groundnuts
Area (fd)              -                10,000                 28,000
Yield (tons/fd)        -                 0.50                   0.90
Production (tons)      -                 5,000                 25,200
Sorghum
Area (fd)            33,000             48,000                 58,000
Yield (tons/fd)       0.36               0.54                   0.72
Production (tons)   11,880              25,920                 41,040
Wheat
Area (fd)             6,500              6,500                  6,500
Yield (tons/fd)       0.36               0.54                    0.81
Production (tons)    2,340               3.510                  5,265
The impact of US$13 million investment under the ARP would be felt from
Project year 2 onwards and contributes to the improvement in area and yields
even without the Project.



- 31 -
5.02      The long-staple variety of cotton has been re-introduced in the
Project area, since experience with medium-staple variety during the period
1975-78 was adverse. Medium-staple variety is more sensitive to poor field
water management, pest infestation, and labor shortages. A shift to medium
staple variety, if justified by international market trends, should therefore
be first made in schemes with stronger management, like the Gezira. Cultiva-
tion of groundnut would be encouraged in the south, where rainfall is early,
adequate and less variable. The drier northern portion of the Project area
is more suitable for sorghum. Wheat areas are being limited to those schemes
where late pumping and spoilation by birds prevent groundnuts and sorghum
respectively from being raised.
5.03      The area expansion would be made possible by rehabilitation of the
water supply system. The area targeted was adequately irrigated in the early
seventies. Farm machinery fleet augmentation would enable land preparation
for the area to be undertaken on time. Improvements in WNAPC performance and
incentives for tenants needed to achieve area expansion are also envisioned
under the Project.
5.04      Higher yields would be achieved through better land preparation,
timely and adequate irrigation, improved agronomic practices and better
supervision of corporation staff and tenants under the Project. Yield esti-
mates are based on judgments drawn from historical performance, research
results, performance in similar areas elsewhere in the Sudan, and discussions
with experienced field staff and representative tenants.
B. Marketing
5.05      WNAPC would continue to be responsible for cotton processing and
marketing, from the time the tenants deliver raw seed cotton to the field
collection centers until it has been processed and accepted by CPC. Ginning
capacity in the Project area is adequate to handle the additional production
anticipated under the Project. Saleable outputs are cotton lint, cotton seed,
and waste cotton. All cotton lint would be sold through CPC - the GOS' mono-
poly cotton marketing agency - and WNAPC receives a "Price to WNAPC, Port
Sudan." Interest cost for holding stocks is deducted before arriving at
this price. Raw seed cotton is stored in the open around the two ginneries,
and lint in WNAPC warehouses until space on rail wagons is available; the
facilities to store both are adequate. Cotton seed not retained for sowing or
sale as seed to other schemes would be sold to oil seed mills at a "delivered"
price determined by the Sudan Oil Seeds Company (SOC), and scarto would be
sold ex-ginnery to a whole range of buyers.
5.06       Private merclants purchase the entire marketable surplus of ground-
nuts directly from tena-nts. They re-bag and haul the shelled nuts by rail
or road to Khartoum or Port Sudan at their risk and cost. Their delivered
prices are fixed by SOC. The operation is adequate to meet the needs of the
Project.



- 32 -
5.07       Reliable data on sales of wheat produced in the Project area
is limited. Estimates suggest that half the production goes to officially
recognized private mills, while the balance is either consumed directly or
enters into the unofficial market where prices are about 25% higher. The
White Nile Flour Mills Co. in Kosti, commissioned recently, with an annual
capacity to process 36,000 tons of wheat, depends mainly on imported wheat,
but would also provide an outlet for wheat produced in the Project area.
5.08      Sorghum would continue to be mainly consumed locally, particularly
around Dueim. In the Kosti area, some surplus would be sold to private traders.
C. Financial Prices
5.09      Goverment has modified the system of cotton pricing for Corporations/
Tenants and will announce henceforth the cotton price before harvesting takes
place. The price is expected to provide adequate incentives for tenants and
sufficient financial returns for the parastatals. Cotton prices have therefore
been derived from IBRD forecasts (January 1980), and estimated at levels
required to continue to fulfill these expectations. Such prices reflect an
implicit exchange rate of US$1.50=LSdl. This rate has also been applied to
cotton inputs.
5.10      Groundnut and wheat prices have been derived from the IBRD forecast
assuming prevailing exchange rates and export taxes. The local market price
has been used for sorghum since the produce, because of local demand and
varietal preference, does not move out of the White Nile area.
5.11      Exports of cotton, groundnut and sorghum are subject to a 5% develop-
ment tax. Besides groundnut and sorghum exports are subject to duty at 15%
and 25%, respectively. A 15% import duty is levied on wheat.
5.12      A summary of prices used is given in Annex 1, Table 6.
VI. COST RECOVERY AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Cost Recovery
General Principles
6.01      The cost recovery system for the Project would enable Government
and WNAPC to recover all financial costs incurred on the schemes - investment,
inputs and services - from Project beneficiaries over the Project life (20
years).



- 33 -
6.02      The basic principles underlying the system would be (a) promotion
of economic efficiency by causing reallocation of scarce resources to different
crops in closer alignment with the economic returns generated by the crop;
(b) distribution of the benefits generated by the Project more equitably
among the three partners in production - the Government, WNAPC and the
tenant; (c) creation of incentives for production agents like the WNAPC
and the tenants; and (d) generation of larger public savings in the economy.
6.03      WNAPC would be able to meet all costs initially by (i) availing
itself of loans from the Government equivalent to US$54.7 million, to meet
fully the Project investment cost, with repayment at 9% interest over a period
of 20 years including a grace period of five years; and (ii) a line of credit
at 9% from the Bank of Sudan to meet its cash requirements during the first
two Project years, which it would repay during the Project implementation
period.
Design of Cost Recovery System
6.04      The system would (i) identify costs and measure them; (ii) establish
systems to recover costs through Project operations and set up cost-effective
administrative and accounting arrangements for cost recovery, and where such
recovery is phased over time, for debt recovery; (iii) determine the amount
and the time frame for recovering costs from beneficiaries, having regard to
their ability to pay; and (iv) ensure that each crop would bear its full costs
of production, including overheads and investment.
Identification and Measurement of Costs
6.05      Costs incurred by WNAPC can be classified as (i) Project investment
costs; (ii) direct costs, such as expenditures on farm inputs, irrigation water
supply and machinery services; and (iii) indirect costs, such as overheads
and interest charges on the cash requirements of WNAPC. Presently, direct and
indirect costs are not accurately costed; the Project would strengthen the
Finance and Treasury Department of WNAPC to enable it to gather cost data and
accurately compute all cost items.
Recovery of Costs through Project Operations
6.06      All costs incurred by WNAPC would be fully recovered over the
*        Project life of 20 years.  Individual Tenant Crop Accounts would be opened
separately for each crop; each crop would bear its full costs of production,
including overheads and investment, under a system of strict crop apportion-
ment.  At present, overheads, including investment costs, are met by the
Corporation's share of the Joint Account; under the Project, these expenses
would be borne by the concerned crop accounts. These accounting changes
would eliminate the deficiency caused by charges relating to non-cotton crops
and overheads being charged to the cotton account, making cotton less profit-
able vis-a-vis other crops. This leads tenants to perceive lower relative
income from cotton compared to other crops even though in economic terms it
is the most attractive crop.



- 34 -
6.07      The principles underlying the cost recovery system are set out in
Annex 2.  Government assurances were obtained at negotiations (para 8.02
(j)) that this system would be adopted in the Project. The rates and recovery
procedures would be laid down in the Annual Credit and Service Contract
between the tenant and WNAPC under the Tenant's Lease Agreement (Annex 4).
6.08      An ARP-financed study of cost recovery and tenant charge systems in
the public irrigation schemes of Sudan has been completed. Government had
announced (June 1980) its decision to abolish the Joint Account and establish
individual accounts for each crop. The study recommendations reflect this
policy decision. The major recommendations of the study have been accepted
by Government and implementation of the new system will begin in 1981-82.
The new system is consistent with the principles laid down in Annex 2.
Tenant Incomes and Ability to Pay
6.09      Cropping intensity is expected to rise from 33% in crop year 1 to 61%
in crop year 5 as a result of ARP and Project intervention. Three different
rotations would be in effect in the Project area viz. cotton-sorghum-fallow,
cotton-groundnut-fallow and cotton-wheat-fallow. The tenant has little or
no choice in crop rotations, since external conditions like climate, pumping
dates, and bird menace, over which he has no control, make crop choice a
function of geographical location. In order to ensure that tenants have
adequate incomes, the full recovery of all WNAPC costs would be introduced in
a phased manner; farm input costs excluding irrigation costs would continue
to be fully recovered; the cost of irrigation services would not be recovered
until year 3; one-third of the charges would be recovered in year 3; two-thirds
in year 4 and full charges in year 5. Overheads would not be recovered until
year 5. Tenant incomes would be as projected below:
Table 8
Tenancy Tncomes
---------------- Constant LSd/Tenancy ----------------
Project Year 1                 Project Year 6
Net Return     Net Return/    Net Return    Net Return/
Man-day of Labor               Man-day of Labor
Cotton/Sorghum       124             1.22              821           3.13
Cotton/Groundnut       52            0.73              855           3.17
Cotton/Wheat           79            0.96              660           3.27
Project year 1 income levels reflect the pre-project situation, since the
impact of ARP investments would be felt from Project year 2 onwards, and that
of Project investments, from Project year 3. The low levels of income not
surprisingly have led to default in settlement of cash advances for cotton
by over 90% of the tenants, since cotton revenues have fallen short of these



- 35 -
advances. The increase in incomes during the Project implementation period
reflects a sharp improvement from currently very low levels of yield, as a
result of ARP and Project investment and improvement in commodity prices.
Post-project tenancy incomes and returns per man-day of labor would be
adequate to motivate tenants to play their part in the production process.
B. Credit and Debt Recovery
6.10      WNAPC would continue to provide seasonal credit to tenants in kind
(machinery services, aerial spraying, fertilizer, seed, sacks and cotton
marketing and processing) and cash (labor advances). All cash advanced for
labor would be against certificates signed by Field Inspectors that the work
had been satisfactorily completed. WNAPC would notify tenants of the unit
costs per operation of machinery services through the Annual Credit and
Services Contract.
6.11      All credit extended to tenants would be recovered through the
individual tenant's account for that particular crop. Pre-project debts of
tenants would be consolidated and rescheduled for recovery over a ten-year
period. Past and future overdues and cash advances for labor would be liable
to interest at a rate of not less than 12% per annum. This rate compares with
the inflation rate in Sudan that is currently about 25% for 1980-81 and is
estimated to decline to perhaps 7% by 1984-85. Management of credit opera-
tions would be the direct responsibility of the Finance and Treasury Department
of WNAPC, strengthened under the Project (para. 3.16). Defaults by tenants
would be referred to the Tenants Credit Unit (TCU) to be established under the
provisions of the Tenant's Lease Agreement (Annex 4). It was agreed during
negotiations that (a) WNAPC would establish a TCU no later than June 30, 1982,
satisfactory to IDA (para 8.02(k)), and (b) that the responsibilities, acti-
vities and effectiveness of the TCU would be reviewed in each Annual Work
Program. Pending establishment of the TCU, the present system of recovering
dues by adjustment against payments due on the Cotton Account would continue.
C. WNAPC Cash Flow
6.12      WNAPC's cash flows have been estimated in Annex 1, Table 7, based
on cotton price assumptions set out in para 5.09. Its cash deficits, esti-
mated at LSdl4.6 million in the first two project years, would be met through
a line of credit extended by the Bank of Sudan; the cash surplus in Years 3
to 5 would enable full repayment of such borrowings. A five-year grace
period has been assumed -or principal and interest payable on borrowings
from the Government. Re.payment of principal and interest over the next
fifteen years in equal annual installments is feasible, since the fore-
cast points to a cumulative cash deficit of only LSd1.4 million over the
twenty-year period, which is well within the margin of error in estimating
values for the various financial parameters over twenty years.



- 36 -
6.13      In order to assist in ensuring the financial soundness of WNAPC
assurances were obtained during negotiations that Government would announce
cotton prices payable to producers before December 1 of each cropping season
after consultation with IDA and would take measures to pay WNAPC promptly for
cotton supplied by it (para. 8.02(1).
D. Government Cash Flow
6.14      Annex 1, Table 9, gives projected Government cash flows. Over
the 20-year life of the Project, incremental cash inflows are estimated at
about LSd446 million and outflows at LSd75 million, giving a surplus of some
LSd371 million. The cash flow is, however, negative for the first 2 years
of the Project to the extent of about LSd34 million, and a cumulative surplus
is only achieved in Project year 5. In terms of direct financial flows
between Government (including BOS) and WNAPC, Government would have a cumula-
tive net inflow from the Corporation of LSd1O3.0 million over the 20-year
life of the Project (Annex 1, Table 8).
6.15      If the Project were not implemented, Government would have to
attempt to continue with the White Nile scheme on its present basis. This
would result in further losses, mainly in respect of continuing operating
losses at the rate of approximately LSd6 million annually.
VII. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
Production and Benefits
7.01      The area expansion, yield improvement and additional production
anticipated under the Project is given in Table 7 (para. 5.01). The Project
would, after full development, generate US$35 million of additional foreign
exchange earnings each year and help improve Sudan's balance of payments
situation. It would contribute LSd371 million to Sudan's public revenues
over the Project life and benefit directly some 28,000 tenant families.
Anticipated tenancy incomes are set out in Table 8 (para. 6.09).
7.02      Opportunities for farm labor supplied by tenant families, local
labor and migrant labor, would expand from 5.9 million man-days to 9.7 million
man-days per year, with a peak of 2.4 million man-days in January-February.
The demand can be met, provided WNAPC and the tenants pay adequate wages and
a fillip is given to labor mobilization measures. It is estimated that half
the labor required would be supplied by tenant families; the balance would be
supplied mainly by migrant labor in the south and local labor in the north.
Information on wage rates in the Project area is limited. Available evidence
suggests that the going rate is LSdl per day. It is expected that competitive
rates would be paid for various labor operations which are costed on piece
work rates, in order to yield this daily rate.
7.03      Income distribution data for the area - in fact for any area in
the Sudan - is scanty. During recent years, income from a tenancy was



- 37 -
limited to the unsettled cash advance received by the tenant of about LSD47,
besides the income from sorghum or wheat, and was unlikely to exceed, on an
average, LSdlOO per tenancy. However, off-tenancy incomes, from rainfed
agriculture in the south and livestock in the north, supplement such incomes.
Reliable statistics are not available, but the best estimate available is
that about 50% of the tenant families have an annual income of less than US$80
per capita, the absolute poverty level in the Sudan. The Project would raise
these 14,000 tenant families above the poverty line and also augment the
incomes of some 80,000 farm laborers.
Economic Analysis, Risks and Project Justification
7.04      The following assumptions have been made in the analysis:
-    Agricultural Rehabilitation Program:  Both the costs and
the benefits of the US$13 million investment made under
this program have been taken into account in the "without"
Project situation.
-    Full Development Period:  all anticipated yield increases
would be achieved by Project Year 6.
-    Project Life:  A period of 20 years.
-    Direct Investment Costs:  The total economic cost of direct
investments expressed in 1980 border price would be LSd27.3
million. This includes physical contingencies.
-    Replacement:  Over the Project period, all equipment would
be replaced at the end of its economic life.
-    Prices:  Export parity prices for cotton, groundnut and
sorghum and import parity prices for wheat, fertilizers,
pesticides, fuel and sacks have been used. Such prices are
based on World Bank Commodity Price Forecasts (January 1980).
-    Exchange Rate:  All foreign costs and benefits are valued
at a uniform exchange rate of US$1 = LSdO.80 (the present
parallel exchange rate).
-    Border Prices:  The local currency component of all
incremental costs and benefits has been converted to a
border price expressed in local currency, using a standard
conversion factor of 0.7, i.e., the parallel exchange rate
of US$1.0 = LSdO.8 divided by the shadow exchange rate of
US$1.0 = LSdl.15.
-    Wages:  The going market wage of LSdl per day would be
applicable to all labor.



- 38 -
Based on the above assumptions, the economic rate of return for the Project
is 57%. This rate reflects large sunk capital, elimination of sizeable
organizational slack, virtual doubling of production, and real increases of
about 25% in the cotton export price during 1980-1990 (World Bank Commodity
Price Forecast, January 1980).
7.05      Some of the Project risks that can be foreseen include (a) threat
to Corporation financial viability and tenant incentives, caused by domestic
cotton prices being in the event lower than that estimated, impinging on
physical performance; (b) shortages of and delays in flow of local currency
requirements of the Project; and (c) shortfalls in non-Project foreign exchange
needed for current operations. The preparation of Annual Work Programs and
their review by a high-level Project Steering Committee would enable a more
effective basis for review of cotton prices, better access to funds from the
banking institutions and adequate foreign exchange allocations for the Project.
In the past, shortages of fuel have handicapped timely and adequate land
preparation. An increase in storage capacity, the provision of transport
tankers and a better inventory planning system should help minimize the risk.
No major risks are expected to arise from technological or social problems.
Logistical problems and administrative slack are, however, real risks, which
the Project handles through the emphasis it gives to strengthening WNAPC
through recruitment of skilled personnel, technical assistance, training,
provision of staff housing and telecommunications, and general improvement of
other physical facilities.
7.06      The risks mentioned above may lead to a shortfall in cultivated
area and/or a reduction in yields. Another risk posed is non-realization of
expected rise in real cotton prices. To estimate how sensitive the Project
would be to such risks the crossover value of different variables - the value
at which the net present values discounted at 10% become zero - has been tested.
The results are presented in Annex 1, Table 10. The conclusions that can be
drawn are that the Project would be justified even if:
(i)  cost increases by 210% or benefits drop by 68%;
(ii)  cotton area at full development drops from 127,000 fd
to 72,000 fd; or
(iii)  cotton yield at full development reaches only 2.75 K/fd
(393 kg/fd), instead of the 5.0 K/fd (718 kg/fd) assumed.
7.07      Sensitivity analysis also shows that if the 25% increase in real
cotton price in 1980-90 does not materialize, the ERR would not drop below
12%, even if cotton yield were to drop to 3.75 K/fd and cotton area to 110,000
fd. It is therefore evident that the economic justification for the Project
is sound, and physical shortfalls and price fluctuations do not pose a serious
threat to it.



- 39 -
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      Negotiations were held with the Government from January 5-7, 1981 in
Washington. The Government team was headed by Dr. Omar Alamin, Minister for
Agriculture, Food and Natural Resources.
8.02      Assurances were obtained at these negotiations that:
(a) WNAPC would employ internationally recruited experts including
a procurement officer, a financial analyst, an agricultural
management specialist, an agricultural engineer, a mechanical
engineer, and an agricultural economist, all with qualifications
and experience and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association (para 3.16) to strengthen management of the Project.
The financial analyst would be appointed not later than July 1,
1981;
(b) WNAPC would employ, in consultation with the Ministry of
Irrigation, consultants with qualifications and experience,
and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association,
to develop an overall long-term plan for full-scale regrouping
and modernization of the pump schemes and detailed preparation
for a follow-up project (para 3.17);
(c) The Government would arrange for the provision of necessary
financial resources for implementing the Project from its budget
or from the Bank of Sudan on the basis of estimates contained
in the Annual Work Program as updated from time to time
(para 3.27);
(d)  WNAPC would keep a comprehensive set of accounts, including a
separate set of accounts for the expenditure and recovery of
Project funds, and would have them audited annually by inde-
pendent auditors acceptable to the Association. The certified
accounts, together with the auditor's report, would be submitted
in English to the Association annually, no later than nine months
after the end of the financial year; WNAPC would submit its
initial audited accounts together with the Auditor's report, to
the Association, in English, no later than December 31, 1981
(para 3.34);
(e) The Government and the WNAPC would prepare and implement Annual
Work Programs., acceptable to the Association (para 4.02);
(f) WNAPC would fvrnish, during the Project implementation period,
a quarterly p'ogress report, not later than two months after
the expiry of each quarter, and a Project Completion Report
within six months after completion of the Project (para 4.05);
(g) WNAPC would forward to the Association, for its approval,
a comprehensive training and maintenance program, on or before
December 31, 1981 (para 4.11);



- 40 -
(h)  WNAPC would issue regulations prescribing new lease arrangements
with its tenants in accordance with the provisions set forth
in Annex 4, and would extend services only to tenants with a
current Credit and Services contract (para 4.12);
(i)  WNAPC would issue regulations not later than August 31, 1981
embodying a new system of payments to tenants for seed cotton
supply acceptable to IDA (para 4.13);
(j)  WNAPC would implement a cost recovery system in accordance
with the principles set forth in Annex 2 (para 6.07);
(k)  WNAPC would establish a TCU, satisfactory to IDA, not later
than June 30, 1982 (para 6.11);
(1)  The Government would announce cotton prices payable to producers
not later than December 1 each year in consultation with IDA
and ensure that payments are promptly made to WNAPC for cotton
(para 6.13).
8.03      The conditions of Credit Effectiveness would be that:
(i)  The Subsidiary Loan Agreement between Government and the WNAPC,
satisfactory to the Association, had been ratified (para 3.24);
(ii) A Project Account had been opened with an initial line of credit
of not less than LSdl million from the Bank of Sudan (para 3.27);
8.04      With the above assurances and conditions, the proposed Project is
suitable for IDA Credit on standard terms of US$35.0 million. The borrower
would be the Government of Sudan.



SUDAN
WHITE NILE PUMP SCHEMES REHABILITATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
ITEM   Fiscal"   |   Yea rO 0                     Year 1                       Year 2                       Year 3                       Year 4                       Year 5
1980                        1981                         1982                        1983                          1984                         1985                        1986
Technical Assistance and Training                  ///    _mmi mmmi iii, ul.j;  mmmi mum..l  mm                                                                           k                        t/i             r          -
Consulting Studies                                 ///                          # ,,,liii lilliG           ll          i                /7/            Mliii         //                l          ///                          // / //
Pumpsand Engines: New                              77/                            A       ,      _e                     -     _          "", I                        /7/ /W/                                                   /7/
Spares//--/7//7///
Farm Machinery:   New                              ///.                         //    z                     ///    _        m _                                                                    "  //  
Spares77,,.'                                                                 *      m       *,//7///
Fuel Storage and Fuel Tankers                      ///A, , ,                                                ,,I    _  _  _              /_,   ,,,                      /,,                         ,
Road Maintenance Equipment                         /                            //                            /7 Z X 77/                                              ///                                                           /
Telecommunications                                  ///                         /                             / /                                                     /7/                            /                              /
Transport Equipment                                 7/7                          -,                    #4V    ,,  w//                                                 77//                                                        7
Workshops:         Tools                            ///                           -/ 0,                                                                                 '                          "//
Buildings                        "i                            i                                                        ,                            "                            /                            /
Offices, Stores and Pump Sheds                      ///                          /7       .
Housing                                            /7/                          /ii                        /7/                           /        _       _           //       _7/                                              j  
Canal Maintenance and Rehabil,tation                 /                          //       _                    //                         /         _/                 /_/                                    _      _"
Wl,'AA 1Procurement Ending                mm. mmaamConsultant Services               __l Installation
w,th Award                                                                                                               ;j'; Rainy Season (July-Sept)                                                                                       15
*    Issues of Tender Documents       U -     mDelivery                                    Construction
1/Fiscal Year: July 1-June 30                                                                                                                                                                                              World Bank -21717



SUDAN
WHITE NILE PUMP SCHEMES REHABILITATION PROJECT
WNAPC Organization Chart - Corporate and Departmental Level
Minister of Agriculture
Chairman and
Board of Directors
Secretary to Board
..                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Managing Director |
Ten~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ Plannin andlcs 
Deoputy Managing Director
Personnel and         Crgopa                Stores and    Pomrocureen                    Pumpsgatind  Cnin il andg       aanrgiclueMcaia
|  and  reasuy    |   |Administration          Prdc L z  <i Soe  n                                                         riainEliering            i                              Agricultural Engineerirng
Entomology |
H -orticulture |.
Offices              SupisEgns                                                            MaintenanceF
World Bank - 21690 C
t'rt



I
SUDAN
WHITE NILE PUMP SCHEMES REHABILITATION PROJECT
WNAPC Organization Chart within Each Region
Regional Manager
Regional Engineer-Pumps             Regional Engineer-Civil                  Regional Engineer                  - Block Inspectors                        Entomologist
and Engines                          and Canal                            Agriculture
Supervising-                        Supervising -                        Supervising -                        Supervising-                          Supervising -
Mechanics                           Sectional Engineers and              Sub-Workshop Supervisor,              Field Inspectors,                    Inspectors and Staff
Pump Operators and Staff            Laborers involved in                 Storekeeper and Staff at             Mechanical Supervisor -               involved in crop
at Pump Schemes                    canal clearance and field            Sub-Workshop                         Machinery Camps and Staff             spraying and protection
civil works                                                               involved in field machinery
operations
Soeepr(Suplies)    | | Senior Officer -Education             |      Livestock Specialist2 /.                HorticulturalistV  
Supervising-                         Supervising -                        Supervising -                        Supervising-
An Assistant and Staff               An Assistant in extension            An Assistant Livestock                Gardeners and Laborers
in storing and supplying             and training to tenants              Specialist and Staff in              involved in advising tenants
farm inputs such as                                                       advising tenants on' off-farm         on off-farm horticulture
fertilizer, seeds and sacks                                               animal husbandry
V] In two Regions only
2/ In five Regions only
World Bank - 21693   ..
rt



- 44                       ANNEX 1
Table 1
SUDAN
WHITE NILE PUMP SCHEMES REHABILITATION PROJECT
Climatological Data .
Dueim
Mean                             Mean
Average            Mean           Monthly           Mean 9
Monthly           Monthly        Relative           Monthly
Month                 Rainfall         Temperature      Humidity        Evaporation
(mm)             (C)             (%)             (mm)
January                   -            24.3 (24.8).3/   27  (35)        209  (205)
February                  -            25.2 (25.9)      27  (28)        213  (211)
March                     -            28.5 (28.7)      21  (23)        240  (236)
April                     -            30.9 (31.5)      21  (21)        248  (235)
May                   4   (13)         32.7 (32.7)      26  (31)        256  (241)
June                  16  (31)         32.0 (31.5)      38  (45)        236  (228)
July                  83  (113)        29.7 (28.9)      52  (60)        209  (211)
August                101 (134)        28.3 (27.5)      61  (71)        213  (204)
September             43  (57)        29.3 (28.5)       54  (76)        206  (190)
October               5   (7)         30.5 (30.1)       42  (47)        225  (214)
November                 -             28.3 (28.6)      27  (35)        221  (219)
December                  -            24.9 (25.5)      27  (36)        209  (201)
Annual Total      252  (355)              -              -          2,685  (2,595)
Period of Record  1909-1974         1964-1970        1964-1970       1964-1970
1/ Source: Meteorological Department
2/ Penman Eo (Equivalent to open water surface evaporation) based on the study by
Van der Kevie and Hussein in 1976.
3/ Figures for Kosti, given in parenthesis.



SUDAN
WHITE NILE PUMP SCHEMES REHABILITATION PROJECT
DAPC - Area and Yields
Net Commandable Area - 137,434 fd
Cotton                  Sorghum             Groundnuts                Wheat
Season      Area        Yield        Area      Yield       Area       Yield       Area      Yield
(Feddans)   (Kg./Fd.)    (Feddans)   (Tons)    (Feddans)   (Tons)    (Feddans)   (Tons)
1970/71    46,032        387         N.A.       N.A.          -          -        1,990      0.09
1971/72    48,989        435        41,125      0.27          -          -        1,604      0.27
1972/73    51,024        343        42,450      0.27          -          -          360      0.13
1973/74    49,641        359        41,097      0.36         -           -        3,684      0.13
1974/75    49,990        281        41,490      0.27          -          -        3,038       0.18              4
1975/76    44,023        192        46,416      0.27          -          -        1,050      0.22
1976/77    27,116        313        34,860      0.36         750       0.45       9,098       0.18
1977/78    33,245        310        23,619      0.36         917       0.31       4,808       0.12
1978/79    20,991        288        32,670      0.27          -          -        3,187       0.12
1979/80    30,525        N.A.       22,647      N.A.          -          -        2,676       N.A.
N.A.:  Not Available



SUDAN
WHITE NILE PUMP SCHEMES REHABILITATION PROJECT
Kosti Agricultural Production Corporation - Development of Area and Yields
Net Commandable Area - 222,173 fd
Cotton                  Sorghum              Groundnuts                Wheat
Season      Area        Yield         Area      Yield        Area      Yield        Area      Yield
(Feddans)   (Kg./Fd.)    (Feddans)   (Tons)    (Feddans)   (Tons)    (Feddans)   (Tons)
1970/71    84,709        420          N.A.       N.A.        N.A.       N.A.        N.A.       N.A.
1971/72    89,628        411          N.A.       N.A.        N.A.       N.A.        N.A.       N.A.
1972/73    92,214        331         44,172      0.45          -          -         1,000      0.29
1973/74    90,209        321         51,909      0.27        2,346      0.4         5,288      0.34
1974/75    91,150        285         32,882      0.45        1,069      0.4         3,703      0.29
1975/76    82,126        181         21,060      0.18        3,581      0.5         1,745      0.38
1976/77    65,814        256          9,461      0.18       11,736      0.2        17,203      0.30
1977/78    70,015        270          7,000      0.36       12,485      0.5         7,000      0.30
1978/79    60,207        252          6,265      0.27        2,685      0.3         4,000      0.30
1979/80    70,000        N.A.         3,151      N.A.       N.A.        N.A.        4,000      N.A.
N.A.:  Not Available
LD N
w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



SUDAN
WHITE NILE PUMP SCHEMES REHABILITATION PROJECT (KOSTI REGION)
Estimated Water Requirements - Year 5
June          July          August      September       October      November       December       January        February         March         April          May
CroP Calendars
Cotton (82,000 fd.)
Groundnut (28,000 fd.)
Sorghum (37,000 fd.)
Penman Evaporation (Eo) mm   1  228               211            204          190             214           219            201            205            211            236            235           241
Effective Rainfall (Re) mm           17            84             98           21              -             -              -              -               -              -              -             2
Cotton
Crop Factor (Cf)                                                  0.50         0.59            0.97          1.17           1.16           1.02   i        0.77           0.68
Consumptive Use                                                     1/                                                              .
(Cu) = Eo x Cf mm.                                            51-          112            208           256            233            209             163             81
Cu (net) = Cu - Re  nm.                                           2            91            208           256            233            209             163             81
Water Requirement
(m3 x 106) =
Cu(net) x total area                                            0.70        31.30           71.55         88.06         80.15          71.90           56.07          27.86
Groundnut
Cf                    mm.                          0.54           0.79          1.06            1.00         0.80                .
Cu                    mm.                        114            161          201             214            881
Cu (net)                                          30             63          180             214            88
Water Requirement
(in3 x 106)                                      3.53          7.41         21.17           25.17        10.35
Sorghum
Cf                    mm.                           OT            0.91          1.05            0.75
Cu                    mm.55                                     186          200             161
Cu (net)                                          13             88           179            161
Wate5 Requirement                                                                                                                
(mW   x 106 )                                    2.02          13.68        27.82           25.02
Total Net Reguirement                                                                                                                                                             I
(m3 x 10)                                       5.55          21.79        80.29          121.74        98.41          80.15    '    71.90            56.07          27.86
GrosS Requirement                                     8.81         34.59        127.44          193.24       156.21         127.22         114.13           89.00          44.22                 |P
(Irrigatior efficiency = 63%)                                                                                                                                                                                      M __  _ __  |   _  _   _____  j X
Total Annual Requirement (m x 106)   894.86
1/ Half of total monthly consumptive use.



SUDAN
WHITE NILE PUMP SCHEMES REHABILITATION PROJECT (DUEIM RE1ION)
Estimated Water Requirements - Year 5
June          July        August       September      October      November      December      January        February        March        April          May
Crop Calendars
Cotton (45,000 fd.)                            ___
Sorghum (20,000 fd.)                                      P _  t                           w   t r-A
Wheat (6,500 fd.)                                                      I
Penman Evaporation (Eo) mn.       236           209           213          206             225          221           209           209             213           240           248           256
Effective Rainfall (Re) ms.         3            41            56            14             _            -
Cotton
Crop Factor (Cf)                                                0.50         0.59    1      0.97         1.17          1.16          1.02            0.77          0.68
Consumptive Use                                                   1                                ,
(Cu) - Eo x Cf        ms.                                   53      I  122             218          259           242            213            164            82 1/
Cu (net)   Cu - Re      mm.                                   25          108             218          259           242           213             164            82
Water Requirement                                                                                                                                                        i
(m3 x 1061)=
Cu(net) x total area                                         4.73        20.41           41.20        48.95         45.74         40.26           31.00         15.50
Sorghum                                                                                |
Cf                                                              0.58         1.06           0.94         0.70                                                                                            op
Cu                       m.                                  124          218             212      I    78 1/
Cu (net)                Tmm.                                  68          204             212           78
Wate Requtrement
(M  x 10 )                                                   5.71        17.14          17.81         6.55
Wheat
Cf                                                                                          0.50   I    0.87           1.15          0.77            0.50
Cu                      mM.                                                          |    56 1/        192           240           161              53 1/
Cu (net)                mm.                                                                56          192           240           161              53
Water Requiremenit                                                  
(m3 x                                                                                    1.53   |    5.24            6.55          4.40           1.45
Total get Reguirement
(m  x 10 )                                                  10.44        37.55          60.54   I   60.74          52.29          44.66          32.45          15.50
Gross Requirement
(m3 x 10 )                                                  16.57        59.60          96.10 |   96.41            83.00          70.89          51.51          24.60
(Irrigation efficiency = 63'h)
Total Annual Requirement                                      _ _
(in3   x   106)__               _ _         _ _  _     _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _    _  _ _ _  __                     _  _ _ jj4                                 8 6
Total Requirement for White Nile Project  .  1,393.54 (498.68 + 894.86)
(Dueim + Kosti) in m3 x 10                     '
1/ Half of total monthly consumptive use.



- 49 -                    ANNEX 1
Table 5
SUDAN
WHITE NILE PUMP SCHEMES REHABILITATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IDA Disbursement -
US$  000 ----------
IDA Fiscal             Quarter             By End of
Year                 Ended              Quarter         Cumulative
1982            September 1981               -               -
December  1981              30              30
March     1982              30              60
June      1982             420             510
1983            September 1982            3,490           4,000
December  1982           2,910           6,910
March     1983           2,620           9,530
June      1983           3,560          13,090
1984            September 1983            5,140         18,230
December  1983           5,000          23,230
March     1984           2,090          25,320
June      1984           1,650          26,970
1985            September 1984            1,600          28,570
December  1984           1,560          30,130
March     1985           1,480          31,610
June      1985             550          32,160
1986            September 1985              550          32,710
December  1985             510          33,220
March     1986             370          33,590
June      1986             350          33,940
1987            September 1986              300          34,240
December  1986             280          34,520
March     1987             250          34,770
June      1987             230          35,000
1/  Expected date of signing:  April, 1981
Expected date of effectiveness: 1 July, 1981
Expected completion date: 30 June, 1986
Expected closing date: 31 December, 1986



SUDAN
WHITE NILE PUMP SCHEMES REHABILITATION PROJECT
Commodity Price Projection
(Constant Prices ESd/Ton)
1/                  2/       Seed Cotton3/                                4/             5/                   Plant      6/
Year       Cotton Lint         Cotton Seed           Etiuivalent         Groundnuts       Sorghum          Wheat          Urea       Protection
1980           1,272                99                   435                 133            102             141           190             34
1981           1,326               129                   463                 166            103             143           192             34
1982           1,435               140                   495                 203            106             146           194            35
1983           1,524               137                   517                 187            109             147           203             37
1984           1,615               133                   538                 173            111             149           213             38
1985           1,705               130                   559                 158            112             150           222            40
1986           1,716               126                   573                 163            113             150           224            40
1987           1,726               128                   585                 166            113             150           225            40
1988           1,737               129                   598                 170            113             150           227            41
1989           1,748               131                   610                 173            113             150           228            41
1990           1,759               132                   623                 178            114             150           230            41
1991           1,759               132                   623                 178            114             150           230            41
1992           1,759               132                   623                 178            114             150           230            41
1993           1,759               132                   623                 178            114             150           230            41
1994           1,759               132                   623                 178            114             150           230            41                        1
1995           1,759               132                   623                 178            114             150           230            41                        o
1996           1,759               132                   623                 178            114             150           230            41
1997           1,759               132                   623                 178            114             150           230            41
1998           1,759               132                   623                 178            114             150           230            41
1999           1,759               132                   623                 178            114             150           230            41
2000           1,759               132                   623                 178            114             150           230            41
2001           1,759               132                   623                 178            114             150           230            41
1/  Price to WNAPC, Port Sudan.
2/  Ex-ginnery price.
3/  Farm-gate price.             - 
4/  Local market price.
5/  Import parity price.                                                                                                                                         O 
6/ LSd/feddan.



SUDAN
WHITE NILE PUMP SCHEMES REHABILITATION PROJECT
WNAPC Projected Cash Flow with Project
(hSd'OOOs Current   If low- and otflowes)
Total
Year 1          Year 2           Year 3           Year 4           Year 5          Year 6         Year 7           Year 8           Year 9          Year 10           Years T - 20
Inf lows -
Self Generatad P-nds
Gross Cotton Revenues                                         14,541          34,321            56,299          74,757           89,729          90,521          91,336          92,127           92,893           92,893              928,930
(Leas): Coteon Growing, Ginning and Selling Costs           (14,001)         (23,277)          (33,901)        (42,977)         (52,901)        (53,247)        (53,558)        (54,101)         (54,588)         (54,915)            (549,150)
Paid out Shares of Net Cotton Revenoes                 (294)         (6,019)         (12,207)         (17,320)         (20,071)        (21,299)       (21,574)         (21,709)         (21,861)         (21,683)            (216,830)
WYAFC Overheads Charseable to Cotton                 (7.752)         (9.239)          (7.756)          (5.862)          (5.2005         (5.200)         (5,200)                                           (5.200)             (52.110)
Sb-Total                                               (7.506)         (4.214)           2,435            8.598          11,557           10.775         11.004           11.117           11.244           11.095              110,950
Tenants Repayasnt of Debts                                     2,513           4,092             5,024           5,906            6,349           6,349           6,349            6,349           6,349            6,349               63,490
(L-ss):  Tenants Cash Advances ....                           (2.376)         (3.872)           (4.752)         (5.588)          (6.007)         (6.007)         (6,007)         (6.007)          (6.007)          (6.007)             (60.070)
Sab-Totel                                                  137             220               272             318              342             342             342             342              342              342                3,420
Net Inflow    r from Cotton                             (7,369)         (3,994)           2,707            8,916           11,899          11,117         11,346           11,459           11,586           11,437              114,370
Net Cash Inflows fron Providing Sorviess to Tenants 
to Grew Other Crops                                         (1.335)         (1.935)           (1.287)              91           1,461           2.487           2.579           2.672            2,665            2.858               28.580
Net Self Generated Ponds                                (8.704)         (5.932)            1.420           9.007           13.360          13.604          13,925          14.131           14.251           14.295              142.950
CapLtal PFnds D
IDA Credit -/                                                  7,494          13,023             5,331            1,395             760                    -                        -                -               -
Gove-n-ent af Sodas for - Project Components                   4,370           5,633             3,631            1,114             971             -              -                -                -                -
- WNMPC Cash Raquirements            S  8.704        5,932              -               -                -                _              _                _                _               _                     _
Total Capital FPnds Inflow                              20,568          24.588             8,962           2.509            1.731            -               -                -               -                -
TOTAL IFLOWS                                            11.,864         18.656            10.382          11.516           15,091          13.604          i3.925           14.131          14.254           14.295              142.950
Outf lows
Ctpital fss,essdftotes -
Projent Components                                            11,864           18,656            8,962            2,509           1,731             -               -               -                -                -
Replacement of Fixed Assets                                     -                -                -                -               -               8,673          7.273           12.230            8,597            6.643               66.430
Total Capital Expenditure Otflowa                       11.864          18.656             8,962           2,509            1.731           8,673           7.273           12.230           8.597            6.643               66,430
Excess (Deficit) of Inflows ovser Outflows
Encess (Deficit) bafore Debt Servicing                          -                -               1,420            9,007          13,360            4,931          6,652            1,901            5,654            7,652               76,520
Debt Servicing - Repayment of Line of Credit extended
at 9% for wNAPC Cash R.quirasents             -               _               (1,420)         (9,007)          (9,362)           -               -                -               -                -
- Repayment of Loan for Project
Compon.nts over 15 years at 9%                -               -                                                                                7 _  _  7,2501  (7,250)  (250) _  (7.250)         (7.250)              (72,500)
Excess (Deficit) of Cash Inflows oner Cash Outflows             -                -                _                _              3,998           (2,319)           (598)         (5,349)          (1,596)             402                4,020
Comolative Exonss (Deficit) of Cash Inflows over                                                                                                                                                                                                                     bn
Cash Outflows                                                 -                -                -                -              3,998            1,679          1,081           (4.268)          (5.864)          (5,462)              (1.442)                       05
Inflation rat-e  (foreign or locel as applicable) have beoo  caed to convert from  co-stant to catreat.  Year 5's foreign and local inflation factors have been used for year 6 and subnequent years.
2S See por.. 5.09.
/  Net coth outflows ariso in the first ehrae years because foll charges for servtoes 00e to be introduced only when tenants ara able to pay.  Thereafter net cash inflows will arise from interest charge. on outstandIng
bola-nos owed by tenants to WNPC.
41 IDA Credit = US$35 million. Conversion tI Sudanese Pounds is at current rates.
5/  See para 3.25



SUDAN
WHITE NILE PUNP SCHEMES REHABILITATION PROJECT
Direct Financial Transactions between Government (including Bank of Sudad and WNAPC
(Current LSd'OOO)
Total
Year 1      Year 2        Year 3       Year 4       Year 5       Year 6       Year 7       Year 8       Year 9        Year 10        Years 11-20
Financial Flow from GOS to WNAPC
Local Currency Portion I/ of Loan
for Project Components from GOS         2,935         3,841        2,630          834          686
Loan for Net Cash Requirements from
Bank of Sudan                            8.704        j2                          -            -            -            -            _             _             _              _
Sub-Total                        11.639        9.773        2,630          834          686           - 8-                                   -             =               _
Financial Flow from WNAPC to GOS
Repayment of Loans to Bank of Sudan
and GOS                                    -            -         (1,420)      (9,007)      (9,362)      (7,250)      (7,250)      (7,250)      (7,250)       (7,250         (72,500
Net Financial Flows from GOS
to WNAPC (from WNAPC to GOS)
- Annually                           11.639         9.773       1.210        (8,173)      (8.676)      (7,250)      (7,250)      (7.250)      (7.250)       (7.250)        (72.500)
- Cumulative                         11.639       21.412       22,622       14.449        5.773        (1.477)      (8.727)     (15.977)     (23,227)      (30.477)       (102.977)
1/ Net of duties and taxes.
H.F



SUDAN
WHITE MILE PUMP SCHEMES REHABILITATION PROJECT
Incremental Government Cash Flow
(Current LSd million)
Total
Year 1       Year 2       Year 3-      Year 4       Year 5        Year 6       Year 7       Year 8        Year 9       Year 10        Year 11-20
Inflows
Crop Taxes                                   -            -            -           3.2          6.7           8.2          8.4           8.5          8.6            8.6            86.0
Exchange Rate Implicit Taxes                 -            -            -           3.1          5.6           7.9          8.0          8.0           8.1           8.2             82.0
Import Taxes, Equipment                      -           1.2          1.3          0.5          0.2           1.4          0.8           1.1          0.4            0.7             7.0
Import Taxes, Other Items                    -            -           0.1          0.2          0.2           0.2          0.3           0.3          0.3            0.3             3.0
Repayment of Loans, WNAPC                    -            -           1.4          9.0           9.4          7.3          7.2           7.3          7.2            7.3            73.0
IDA Credit                                  0.4         10.1         11.1          4.2          1.4           0.8           -             -            -              -                -
Total Inflows                           0.4         11.3          13.9         20.2         23.5         25.8          24.7         25.2          24.6          25.1            251.0
Outflows
Exchange Rate Implicit Subsidies             -            -           0.1          0.4          0.4           0.5          0.5           0.6          0.6            0.6             6.0
Investment in WNAPC                       20.6          24.6          9.0          2.5           1.7           -            -             -            -              -                -
Repayment of IDA Credit                      -           0.1          0.2          0.2           0.2          0.2          0.2           0.2          0.2            0.2              5.0
Total Outflows                         20.6         24.7           9.3          3.1          2.3           0.7          0.7           0.8          0.8            0.8            11.0
Incremental Excess (Deficit)
of Cash Inflows over Cash Outflows        (20.2)       (13.4)         6.    _     17.1          21.2         25.1         24.0          24.4         23.8           24.3            240.0
Cumulative Excess (Deficit) of
Cash Inflows over Cash Outflows           (20.2)       (33.6)       (29.0)        (11.9)         9.3         34.4         58.4          82.8        106.6          130.9            370.9
I/  This has been calculated on the basis of the differential between the implicit exchange rate (para 5.09) and the parallel exchange rate which are US$1.5 = 7Sdl and                               a >
US$1.25 = 1Sdl respectively.  The items covered by the entry are cotton lint, cotton seed and cotton inputs.



SUDAN
WHITE NILE PUMP SCHEMES REHABILITATION PROJECT
Economic Costs and Benefits
(ESd '000, 1980 Constant Terms)
Incremental               Incremental Project Costs 1/
Year      Project Benefits 1/   Capital          0 and M         Total        Net Benefits (Costs)
1                0.0             8,310.0             0.0       8,310.0          ( 8,310.0)
2                0.0            11,868.0        1,389.0       13,257.0          (13,257.0)
3              129.0             4,884.0        3,979.0        8,863.0          ( 8,734.0)
4          22,700.0              1,431.0        7,474.0        8,905.0           13,795.0                 1
5          41,139.0                842.0        8,267.0        9,109.0           32,030.0                >
6          50,816.0              4,466.0        8,562.0       13,028.0           37,788.0
7          52,502.0              3,883.0        8,737.0       12,620.0           39,882.0
8          54,103.0              6.614.0        9,027.0       15,641.0           38,462.0
9          55,779.0              4,814.0        9,190.0       14,004.0           41,775.0
10          57,379.0              1,654.0        9,329.0       10,983.0           46,396.0
11          57,505.0              1,824.0        9,329.0       12,153.0           45,352.0
12          57,505.0              4,555.0        9,329.0       13,884.0           43,621.0
13.         57,505.0              2,917.0        9,329.0       12,246.0           45,259.0
14          57,505.0              5,607.0        9,329.0       14,934.0           42,569.0
15          57,505.0              4,837.0        9,329.0       14,166.0           43,339.0
16          51,505.0              1,632.0        9,329.0       10,961.0           46,544.0
17          57,505.0              4,758.0        9,329.0       14,087.0           43,418.0
18          57,505.0              2,652.0        9,329.0       11,981.0           45,524.0              M M
19          57,505.0              1,885.0        9,329.0       11,214.0           46,291.0              0
20          82,505.0              5,670.0        9,329.0       14,999.0           67,506.0
Economic Rate of Return = 57%.
Net Present Value at 10% = ESd208.6 million.
1/ All cost and benefits are rounded.



- 55 -
ANNEX 1
Table 11
SUDAN
WHITE NILE PUMP SCHEMES REHABILITATION PROJECT
Sensitivity Analysis
Sensitivity Analysis for Present Value
Variable                  Appraisal Value    Crossover Value ./    % Change
Benefits (hSd millions)            307.7                 99.2               -  68
Costs (bSd millions)                 99.2               307.7              + 210
Sensitivity Analysis for Cotton Yield and Area
Variable                  Appraisal Value    Crossover Value.!/    % Change
Yield at Full Development             5.0                 2.75              -  45
(Kantar/Feddan)
Area at Full Development           127                   72                 -  44
( t000 Feddan)
Sensitivity Tests
Test Cases _NPV
Test Cases                 -Test Cases Assumption                  ERR  (hSd Millions)
Base Case                                                          57%       208.5
Test Case 1        No Change in Real Price for Cotton              47%       132,8
Test Case 2         Cotton Yield Down to 3.75 Kantar/Feddan
Cotton Area Down to 110,000 feddan             27%        51.2
Test Case 3         Cotton Yield Down to 3.75 Kantar/Feddan
Cotton Area Down to 110,000 feddan
No Change in Real Price for Cotton             12%         4.7
1/ Value of variable for which net present value
is zero at a discount rate of 10%.



- 56 -
ANNEX 2
COST RECOVERY SYSTEM
The following principles shall govern the cost recovery system
under the Project:
(1) All investment costs and expenditures on services for the tenants
would be recovered in full from the tenants.
(2) The full cost of producing each crop would be charged against
such crop. The WNAPC would, in consultation with the Association,
establish a sound basis for allocating various costs among the
different crops raised in the Project area, based on accurate
unit costing to value all goods, services and cash loans.
(3) In the case of crops marketed through WNAPC, costs attributable
to each crop would be deducted by the WNAPC from the proceeds of
that crop or from the tenants' share of such proceeds; in the
event of costs collectible from tenants exceeding receipts,
the difference would be collected in cash from the tenant.
(4) In the case of crops directly marketed by tenants, the tenants
would make payments in cash to WNAPC to meet costs recoverable
from them for such crop.
(5) The quantum of recovery of cost would be determined during the
five-year Project execution period on the basis of the ability
of tenants to meet such costs from tenancy cash flow, and would
be calculated and embodied in the Annual Work Program. Any
costs not recovered would be capitalized and recovered during
the subsequent years along with interest at 12% per annum.
(6) The Annual Credit and Services Contract would specify the rate of
cost recovery from tenants and the dates by which such payments
by tenants should be made, and would provide remedies to WNAPC
in the event of default by the tenants.
(7) Cases of default would be referred to the Tenants' Credit
Unit. The functions and responsibilities of the Tenants'
Credit Unit would be laid down in Regulations issued by WNAPC
in accordance with the powers conferred on it under Section
20 of the Public Corporations Act 1976, and would, inter alia,
include: (a) review of all cases of failure by individual
tenants to conform with the provisions of Tenants' Lease
Agreement; (b) specific recommendations to the management of
the Corporation on the action to be taken in each case; and
(c) establishment of an efficient debt recovery mechanism.
The recommendations of the Tenants' Credit Unit, as approved
by WNAPC, would be binding on the tenants.



- 57 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1
ANNUAL WORK PROGRAM
A.   Each Annual Work Program would provide documentation, satisfactory to
the Association, with respect to the following:
(i)  a detailed description of the work to be performed, including
the objectives of the work plan for the ensuing fiscal year
commencing each July 1, the schedules of activities, equipment
requirements, staffing arrangements and training plans, and
the distribution of responsibilities for each item included in
the Annual Work Program;
(ii)  a budget for the period covered in respect of each part of the
Project setting forth:
(a) the proposed capital expenditures;
(b) all proposed recurrent expenditures such as salaries,
materials, fuel, repairs and maintenance directly
attributed to activities under the Project, together
with a breakdown of predevelopment and incremental
expenditures;
(c) a comparison of the proposed investment and recurrent
budgets with the proposed budget and actual expendi-
tures for the previous year;
(d) a list of all staff employed or to be employed on a
full-time basis by WNAPC; and
(e) a list of proposed expenditures for technical services,
studies and training;
(iii)  a financing plan, and detailed quarterly cash flow projections
including the Government's contributions to the Project Account.
B.   Each Annual Work Program would be supported by the following information:
(i)  an assessment of the previous year's achievements;
(ii)  a detailed staffing analysis, including a report on previous
staffing and proposed increments or reductions;
(iii)  the proposed training program;
(iv)  a copy of the annual credit and service contract executed
under the Tenants' Lease Agreement for the ensuing fiscal
year commencing each July 1 which would, among other things,
embody details of the cost recovery system to be adopted
and carried out during that year;



-58 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2
(v)  a copy of the current Regulations of WNAPC;
(vi)  a detailed examination of the level of cotton prices necessary
in order to provide adequate tenant incentives and sufficient
financial returns for WRAPC; and
(vii)  a detailed review of the following items which impinge on
Project implementation:
(a)  performance of WNAPC in executing the canal rehabili-
tation program;
(b) progress in establishing the cost recovery system and
determining accurate costs for various recoverable
items of expenditure;
(c) performance of the Tenants' Credit Unit and status of
tenant indebtedness; and
(d)  performance of the Planning and Development Unit.
C.   The criteria upon which the Association's approval of a proposed Annual
Work Program would be based is:
(a) adequacy of such program to implement basic project
objectives consistent with requirements of the Development
Credit Agreement, the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;
(b) adequacy of such program in providing physical, financial
and manpower resources to implement and sustain the
physical targets set for the ensuring fiscal year; and
(c) adequacy of measures to improve performance in areas of
cost recovery, tenant debt management, and channel main-
tenance and project management with particular emphasis
on financial management and training.



- 59 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1
TENANT'S LEASE AGREEMENT
The Tenant's Lease Agreement would, inter alia, specify:
1.   The identity of the tenant or tenants legally responsible under the
agreement and initial registration fee to be paid by the tenant to
the WNAPC.
2.   The period of the lease as twenty years.
3.   The duties, obligations and remedies of the WNAPC under the Agreement.
4.   The duties, obligations and remedies of the tenant or tenants under
the Agreement.
5.   The execution of an annual credit and service contract for each fiscal
year wherein the duties and obligations of both WNAPC and the tenant
or tenants in regard to all services, including credit, extended by
the WNAPC and remedies in the event of default by either party would
also be prescribed.
6.   The annual credit and services contract would, inter alia, specify:
(a) the identity of the tenant or tenants legally responsible to
pay the cost of service provided and repay credit extended by
the WNAPC;
(b) a rate of interest of not less the 12% per annum charged on
tenant overdues and cash advances;
(c) the rate and mode of recovery of costs of investment and
various services provided by the WNAPC during the period of
the contract;
(d) details of cash advances that would be made available by the
WNAPC to the tenant or tenants during the period of the contract,
the mode of their recovery and the terms and conditions that
would determine the tenant or tenants' eligibility to obtain
such cash advances;
(e) a list of operations performed by and the services provided
by the WNAPC during the period of the contract;
(f) a list of operations performed by and the services provided
by the tenant or tenants during the period of the contract;
(g) the form of accounts the WNAPC will maintain and opportunities
available to the tenant or tenants to inspect such accounts;



- 60 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2
(h)  the functions and procedures of the Tenant's Credit Unit in
the management and recovery of tenant debt; and
(i) remedies for the WNAPC and the tenant or tenants in the event
of default by either to fulfill obligations imposed by the
contract.
7.   The power of the WNAPC to revoke a Tenant's Lease Agreement for which
a current annual credit and service contract is not in force.



- 61 -
ANNEX 5
Related Documents and Data Available in Project File
1. Sudan Agricultural Sector Survey,
Document of the World Bank, Report No. 1836a-SU
May 18, 1979.
2. Sudan Agricultural Rehabilitation Program Credit
Document of the World Bank, Report No. P-2731-SU
March 3, 1980.
3. Memorandum on the Economy of Sudan.
Document of the World Bank, Report No. 2652-SU
October 24, 1979.
4. New Halfa Irrigation Rehabilitation Project,
Staff Appraisal Report,
April 24, 1980
5. Memorandum on production relations in Gezira Project.
6. The Public Corporations Act, 1976.
7. Warrant Establishing White Nile Agricultural Rehabilitation
Corporation, 1980.
8. White Nile Pump Schemes Rehabilitation Project,
FAO CP Preparation Report,
July 9, 1979.



I
I
I-



32'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
Omdurmnn                                                               S U D A N
WHITE NILE PUMP SCHEMES
AR/  / 01TOUMC                          REHABILITATION  PROJECT
-/\ - i= r- - Z; = -  Region Limits
-Pump Schemes
Ao  \L                                                            Existing Irrigation Schemes
DA                                                       ______  Primary Roads
" //  Wad Rawah                      Secondary Roads
Railroods
Notionol Capitol                       5
o    Towns and Villages
............. . ~-w-   Rivers
El Qutona,r                                                       Provincial Boundaries
\........\iu. --ch                 0     0      20     0 Ml
25 ,  ;KM
IC                                                  .............::::::::L:::::::::<I   X::::::::::
OF EGYPTT,                                                                         e                                  A     ;     _    <
I    t\< -.-- Xt6 a
i/n          32-f ran                                               =4                             \                                     2
L    5;BYA  t ARAB   g t  U              REx710N  7        AREGION   6 .                                        \ ..__ .
AICENTR                                              .t                                  Thue mapc has been prepared by run Worid Brank s staff extcousmely for the convem,ence n
0~ ~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aflao any-t  =                  bunr ysowdenont o, te leastas of n aretoryor   v an noronnto  
| 5 tGAND)At'ENYA ! = z 330 rt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~coceetance of such boundarwren  4)Iwl5s



