Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY             FILE COPY
Report No. P-2975-SU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
FOR THE
WHITE NILE PUMP SCHEMES REHABILITATION PROJECT
March 4, 1981
This document has a resicted distriWbuin and may be used by recipients only In the performnce of
their official duies. Its eontents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Banlk authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS 1/
Currency Unit          - udanese Pound (LSd)                      100 piasters
Official Market                                Parallel Market
US$1.00  = LSd 0.50                             US$1.00  - LSd 0.80
LSd 1.00 = US$2.00                              LSd 1.00 -  US$1.25
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 feddan (fd)                     =  1.04 acre                 =  0.42 hectare (ha)
1 Kantar (K) (seed cotton)        =  143.5 kilograms (kg)    -  316 pounds (lbs)
1 Kantar (cotton lint)            =  45.4 kg                   -  100 pounds
1 litre                           =  0.26 US gallon            -  0.22 Imperial Gallon
1 metric ton                      =  1000 kg                   8  2202.6 lbs
ABBREVIATIONS
ARP         -   Agricultural Rehabilitation Program
BOS         -   Bank of Sudan
CPC         -   Cotton Public Corporation of Sudan
EAP         -   Export Action Program
EMC         -   Earthmoving Corporation
GOS         -   Government of Sudan
MAFNR       -   Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Natural Resources
mOI         -   Ministry of Irrigation
PAPC        -   Public Agricultural Production Corporation
PDU         -   Planning and Development Unit of WNAPC
TCU         -   Tenants' Credit Unit
WNAPC       -   White Nile Agricultural Production Corporation
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
1/   On September 16, 1979, the Government established a dual exchange rate
system. An official rate of US$2.00 per Sudanese pound was adopted
along with a parallel market rate of US$1.25 per Sudanese pound.
Valuation of all imports for customs purposes has been changed to the
new official rate (LSdl- US$2.00) from the previous official rate
(LSdl - US$2.50). On September 21, 1980 the Government moved to the
parallel market all exports except cotton and all imports except
wheat, sugar, petroleum products, medicines and inputs for cotton
production.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SUDAN
WHITE NILE PUMP SCHEMES REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          Democratic Republic of the Sudan
Beneficiary:       White Nile Agricultural Production Corporation
Amount:             SDR 27.5 million (US$35 million equivalent)
Terms:             Standard
Onlending Terms:   To WNAPC, at 9 percent per annum, for 20 years including
5 years of grace
Project            The proposed project would, over five years, help rehabili-
Description:       tate some 174 pump schemes on both banks of the White
Nile south of Khartoum, where cotton, sorghum, groundnuts
and wheat are grown. The project would improve levels
of productivity of crops, expand cotton exports, raise
incomes for tenants and help place the schemes on a
sound financial footing. It would contribute LSd 371
million to Sudan's public revenues over the project life
and benefit directly some 28,000 tenant families. The
project would accomplish these objectives by providing
agricultural machinery, equipment and spare parts;
workshops and fuel storage facilities; motor vehicles
and a telecommunications network; rehabilitation of
pumpsets, pumphouses and irrigation distribution systems;
incremental annual farm inputs; offices, stores and
staff housing; measures to help strengthen manwagement,
administration and training; studies for furthier develop-
ment of the White Nile area and preparation of a follow-
up project. Among the major risks are shortages and
delays in local currency requirements; realization of
projected yields; shortfalls in foreign exchange needed
for current operations and indequate cotton prices to
producers; administrative shortcomings. Adequate provision
has been made in the project design to mitigate these
risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Summary of Project Costs:
Major Elements                                      US$ Million
Local     Foreign      Total
Rehabilitation of Pumps, Engines,
Pumphouses, Irrigation canals                   3.1         6.9        10.0
Agricultural Machinery and Equipment              1.0         5.1          6.1
Workshops, fuel storage                           1.4         2.1          3.5
Motor vehicles, road maintenance
equipment                                       0.9         2.6         3.5
Incremental Farm Inputs                           0.7         1.4          2.1
Telecommunications                                0.1         0.4          0.5
Office Buildings, Staff housing                   4.0         4.0         8.0
Management, Administration and training           0.2         1.9          2.1
Studies                                           0.7         1.6         2.3
Total Baseline Cost                         12.1       26.0         38.1
Contingencies
Physical                                          1.3         2.8         4.1
Price                                             6.3         6.2         12.5
Subtotal                                    7.6         9.0         16.6
Total Project Cost                          19.7       35.0         54.7
Financing:                                               US$ Million
Local     Foreign      Total
IDA                                            -        35.0         35.0
Government                                  19.7         -          19.7 1/
TOTAL                                 19.7        35.0         54.7
Estimated Disbursements:
US$ Million
IDA Fiscal Year:      1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987
Annual                 0.5   12.5   14.0    5.0    2.0    1.0
Cumulative             0.5   13.0   27.0   32.0   34.0   35.0
Rate of Return: 57 percent
Appraisal Report: 3032-SU, February 27, 1981
Map: IBRD No. 15119
1/   Includes project induced duties and taxes estimated at US$6.0 million
equivalent.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
FOR THE WHITE NILE PUMP SCHEMES REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit for SDR 27.5 million (US$35 million equivalent) to the Democratic
Republic of the Sudan to help finance the White Nile Pump Schemes Rehabilita-
tion Project. The credit would be on standard IDA terms. The proceeds would
be onlent to the White Nile Agricultural Production Corporation for 20 years,
including 5 years of grace, with interest at 9 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic mission visited Sudan in November, 1978 and in mid-1979;
its report (No. 2652-SU) was circulated on October 24, 1979. Major conclusions
are reflected in this report along with the central findings of arn economic
mission that visited the country in January/February, 1981. The report of the
latter mission is under preparation and will be issued in due course. Summary
tables of social, economic and financial data are presented in Annex I.
Background
3.         Sudan, with an area of 2.5 million square kilometers, is the largest
country in Africa. It has a population of about 17 million and is classified
by the UN as a least developed country. Per capita GNP is estimated at about
US$370 (1979 Atlas Methodology) 1/.  Much of the country is unoccupied or very
sparsely populated and there is relatively little population pressure on the
land. Although a large part of the country is desert or semi-desert, the
Sudan nevertheless has great untapped potential for agricultural development.
About two-thirds of the total land area is suitable for crop or pastoral
production, but only a small fraction of this land is under intensive use.
The economy is heavily dependent on exports of cotton, the major commodity
produced on irrigated land, and on groundnuts, sesame and gum arabic. The
manufacturing sector is relatively small and, apart from the processing of
such agricultural commodities as cotton, oil seeds and sugar, is limited to
the production of consumer goods and building materials. A development of
potential significance to Sudan's prospects is the discovery of oil reserves
in the southwestern part of the country. Proven reserves are not large enough
for export production; however, they are large enough to help satisfy part of
the country's domestic need and a development project to meet this objective
is now being considered. The public sector has long been important in the
Sudanese economy. It embraces all modern irrigation facilities, the railways,
virtually all power and water supply and a significant proportion of industry,
commerce and finance. Although some industrial enterprises are being returned
to the private sector, about half of the GDP is still generated w:Lthin the
public sector.
1/   Based on the official exchange rate, which now applies only lto a limited
group of products (ref. para. 18).  Per capita GNP at the parallel rate
of exchange would be about US$220.



-2-
Past Performance
4.        Following the Addis Ababa accord of 1972, which brought an end to
protracted civil war in the country, the Government directed its attention
more to the country's development needs. Government's development objectives
were stated clearly for the first time in 1973 in an Interim Action Program,
which aimed mainly at removing the severe infrastructural bottlenecks, attain-
ing self-sufficiency in a number of consumer goods and expanding agricultural
exports to increase foreign exchange earnings. Prospects for financing this
program through external assistance looked very hopeful, particularly from
Arab oil-exporting countries, which at the time regarded Sudan as the future
"breadbasket" of the Arab world. Government development expenditure did
indeed expand rapidly, from LSd 42 million in 1973/74 to LSd 170 million on
average during the last three years, and it was generally directed towards
high priority sectors. Substantial amounts of foreign capital were forth-
coming -- over the five years 1974-78 total commitments amounted to almost
US$3 billion--but the amounts fell short of requirements while limited absorp-
tive capacity slowed disbursements and delayed completion of projects. Today,
despite several years of an accelerated development effort, GDP is virtually
stagnating and the country is financially much worse off than when the
development thrust began.
The Current Crisis
5.        The most immediate problem facing Sudan is the balance of payments
crisis. Between 1973/74 and 1975/76, the deficit on current account increased
from US$65 million to about US$550 million and remained between US$450 and
US$550 million until 1980 when oil price increases and declining cotton
production pushed the deficit over US$700 million. In spite of high levels of
external aid commitments, disbursements actually declined between 1976 and
1978. Gross official reserves have fallen from a level equivalent to two
months' imports in 1974 to only a few days worth of imports today. External
payments arrears accumulated to a level of about $1.2 billion in September
1979 and there are indications that the figure may have increased since then.
6.        The crisis is largely the consequence of inadequate economic manage-
ment policies compounded by external factors, such as the sharply increased
cost of petroleum imports, which have constrained Government's ability to
respond quickly with effective remedial action. Adverse developments in
foreign trade were accompanied by other adverse forces -- reduced flows of
external capital after 1976, mounting debt problems and absorptive capacity
difficulties.
7.        The rapid increase in the value of imports came about partially
because of the sharp increase in oil prices and the steep rate of interna-
tional inflation, particularly in 1974 and 1975. Although there was a sharp
rise in real terms between 1974 and 1975, imports have increased at a much
more moderate pace since then--about 2 to 3 percent a year on the average.
Exports, however, declined in real terms by some 13 percent between 1970 and
1977. The decline was concentrated in cotton and this was due in large part



- 3 -
to a deliberate decision to shift land from cotton to other crops. Declining
cotton yields also were a factor. The volume of cotton exports today is about
one-third lower than in 1971. Transport difficulties and other infrastructural
problems contributed to this pattern, as did declining maintenance in many
public irrigation schemes and price distortions (ref. para. 11).
8.        The rise in development expenditures after 1973 was financed by
external capital, but because of absorptive capacity problems, disbursement of
this capital declined from $563 million in 1974 to $156 million in 1977.
Because of the slow disbursements and accumulating arrears, external donors
became less willing to make new commitments. Sudan faced a difficult choice:
either to cut back on projects just started or to maintain the projects by
running down foreign exchange reserves and borrowing from banks or other
sources abroad. The Government decided to try to sustain the development
effort by using reserves and by borrowing heavily on relatively hard terms.
Gross international reserves declined from $124 million at the end of 1974 to
$33 million at the end of 1979/80, enough for only a few days of imports. As
foreign reserves ran out, the accumulation of arrears became unavoidable.
Meanwhile, annual external public debt service obligations increased from $55
million in 1973 to about $300 million at present. The debt service burden as
a proportion of exports of goods and services increased in those years from 12
percent to over 30 percent. The reasons were (a) the huge amount of external
borrowing in 1974-77 and (b) the fact that a large proportion of the borrowing
was on relatively hard terms. This unfavorable debt profile has not only led
to a very difficult debt service burden but has critical implications for
future debt service obligations (ref. para. 23).
9.        Sudans balance of payments problems reflect a number of fundamental
deficiencies in absorptive capacity and in economic policies. For example,
the transport system, which in a country the size of Sudan is absolutely
crucial for effective development, remains inadequate and unreliable. Because
of the scarcity of foreign exchange, maintenance of the capital stock has been
insufficient. These problems have been exacerbated by an exodus of qualified
Sudanese managers and craftsmen to the oil producing Arab countries.
10.       A major reason behind Sudan-s current troubles has been the wide-
spread price distortions in the agricultural sector, which have hampered
expansion in output, particularly of cotton. Although the exchange rate has
been adjusted several times in recent years, cotton generally has received
a relatively unfavorable effective rate compared with other products.
11.       The system of explicit and implicit disincentives to growing cotton
also has helped make the situation worse. For example, under the historic
formulae for sharing costs and returns, which have remained in existence in
the main irrigation schemes, the expenses of all crops are generally deducted
from the proceeds of cotton sales alone. Returns from other crops accrue
entirely to the tenant. Thus the tenants have had a strong disincentive
against cotton, despite the fact that the country's international comparative
advantage is greatest in that crop.



- 4 -
12.       The structural weakness in Sudan's public sector finances became
increasingly pronounced during the course of the 1970s. Sharp increases
in expenditures were not matched by increases in revenue. The public sector
turned increasingly to the domestic banking system for liquidity and this led
to a rapid acceleration in the growth rate of the money supply, which peaked
at 43 percent in 1976/77. This, in turn, contributed to an acceleration in
annual price increases from 6 or 7 percent in the early 1970s to over 20
percent in more recent years.
13.       Most of the increases in current expenditures have been for social
and community services, transfers to local government and general administra-
tion. The sharp increases in general administration expenditures are due in
large part to wages and salaries of civilians in the central government, cost
of living subsidies and extra-budgetary expenditures. On the revenue side,
tax revenues have increased over the past few years, but as the tax system
is relatively inelastic this increase has been made possible only by frequent
new tax measures.
14.       Another contributing factor to Sudan-s current crisis is the poor
performance of the public enterprises, which dominate all non-traditional
activities in the country. These enterprises have not contributed to economic
development as expected. Instead of yielding surpluses, they have relied
on the central Government and domestic borrowing to cover their deficits.
A study of the public enterprises was carried out in 1977 by a team consisting
of Government, University of Khartoum, private sector and Bank Group represen-
tatives; the final report was issued in April, 1978. The main shortcomings of
the public enterprises, as portrayed in the report, included poor management,
inadequate internal organization and control, contradictory and unclear
objectives.
Policy Changes
15.       Against this background of serious payments imbalances and general
economic crisis stemming from structural maladjustments in production and
trade, the Government in the last two years has taken several significant
decisions aimed at re-establishing financial equilibrium and restoring the
economy's development momentum. These included (a) financial stabilization
and IMF agreements, (b) export promotion and public investment programs, (c)
changes in public corporations, and (d) improvements in the management of
external debt.
(a) Financial Stabilization and IMF Agreements
16.       In June 1978, a stabilization program was announced as part of an
agreement with the IMF that involved a drawdown of 51 million SDRs from two
support facilities -- the first credit tranche and the trust fund. The
agreement included a devaluation of the Sudanese pound, effectively by 25
percent, and declarations of intent by the Government to keep deficit financing
within certain limits and to limit short and medium term foreign borrowing.
Also, the Government announced that the pricing system in the irrigated



- 5 -
agriculture sector would be reformed and that land and water charges would be
imposed on most crops. In May 1979, agreement was reached on a set of policy
actions to be taken by Government in order to obtain access to resources under
the Extended Fund Facility (EFF) for a period of three years in an amount
equivalent to SDR 200 million. The policy actions involve essentially an
extension of those agreed as part of the Fund standby in June 1978. Simul-
taneously with these developments, the Government has taken steps -- abolition
of the cotton export tax, institution of land and water charges, revamping of
agricultural production relationships -- which should help to recast the
pattern of financial incentives in the agriculture sector along lines that are
consistent with Sudan's comparative advantage in international trade.
17.       On September 16, 1979, the Government enacted additional significant
measures with respect to the exchange rate system. These were aLs follows:
(i) establishment of an official rate of US$2 per Sudanese pound (from $2.50),
with valuation of all imports for customs purposes charged at thLe new official
rate; (ii) abolishment of a special incentive rate for remittances and esta-
blishment of a parallel exchange market with an initial rate of LSd 1 =
US$1.25; and (iii) agreement to allow residents and nonresidents to have
current accounts with Sudanese banks denominated in foreign exchange. Under
the new system, some 90 percent of exports, 70 percent of imports, and all
official invisibles, cash loans and debt service came under the official rate
while all other transactions were under the parallel market rate. On September
21, 1980 Government decided to apply the parallel market rate to all exports
except cotton and all imports except petroleum, wheat, sugar, medicines and
inputs to cotton production; the proportion of exports channeled through the
parallel market has been increased from about 6 percent to aboul: 64 percent
and of imports from about 48 percent to about 56 percent.
18.       On November 11, 1980, the Fund Board approved a second year program
under the EFF. The program includes important measures to improve the incen-
tives for cotton production, to reform further the exchange system and to
limit credit expansion in the economy to a level which is consistent with a
substantial reduction in the rate of inflation. The exchange system reform
involves basically a further widening of the scope of operations under the
parallel market (ref. para. 17). The objective of the second year financial
program under the EFF is to achieve a further reduction in the rate of infla-
tion to about 12 percent by June, 1981. Approval of the second year program
means that Sudan now has access to a total of 176 million SDRs, of which 76
million was disbursed immediately upon approval by the Fund Board with the
remainder to be made available in tranches, depending on Government performance.
(b) Export Promotion and Public Investment Programs
19.       An essential ingredient in the Government's stabilization program
is a concerted drive to increase foreign exchange earnings through increased
exports. This is being carried out under an Export Action Program (EAP),
initiated in mid-1979. The EAP is designed to raise the volume of cotton
production at an average rate of 7 percent per annum during the period 1979-91.
Investments and actions towards this goal would also contribute to larger



- 6 -
exports of groundnut and sorghum, since these crops would also capture some
of the benefits of the program. The EAP comprises (i) a series of urgently
needed investments aimed mainly at satisfying immediate requirements for
spare parts, replacement equipment and inputs of various types, principally
in the major irrigation schemes where the chief export crops are grown (pro-
ceeds of the Agricultural Rehabilitation Program (Credit No. 1000-SU), approved
in March, 1980, would help fulfill this aspect of the EAP); (ii) a series
of rehabilitation projects to be carried out in the 1980-s, also in the
irrigated subsector (the New Halfa Irrigation Rehabilitation Project, (Credit
1022-SU), approved in May, 1980 is the first of these); and (iii) policy and
other actions such as institutional reform and revision of cost recovery
systems intended to provide a conducive framework for accelerated production.
Some of these actions have already been taken, others are being implemented as
part of the Agricultural Rehabilitation Program (ARP); still others will be
done in the context of the planned rehabilitation projects.
20.       Simultaneously with the EAP, the Government has reduced the overall
development program, as reflected in the six year plan, to a more realistic
Three Year Public Investment Program consistent with expected external and
domestic financial resources. The Government last year completed such an
exercise for the period 1978/79-1980/81. The program has recently been
updated to cover the years 1980/81-1982/83. A central objective of the
program is a significant reduction in Sudan-s overall level of development
expenditure. Simultaneously, emphasis is being directed to those development
activities that hold greatest promise for increasing exports and revenue. To
that end, a new interim strategy has been adopted which sets essentially two
criteria for the selection of development projects: (i) concentration on the
completion of ongoing projects, particularly those in the most productive
sectors; and (ii) limiting new undertakings to those that rehabilitate exist-
ing production schemes or that help alleviate the major infrastructural
bottlenecks. The revised three year program also provides for a substantial
reduction in the total investment that had been envisioned in the six year
plan for the three years; it also readjusts priorities within and between
sectors. This has brought resource requirements into line with resource
availabilities.
(c) Public Corporations
21.       For sometime, a special inter-ministerial committee has been discuss-
ing the recommendations of the study group on public enterprises (ref. para.
15); recently, the Government has begun to take some action to help remedy the
situation. In September, 1979, the Government announced the abolition of a
cumbersome and overly centralized corporate setup in agriculture and replaced
it with more autonomous agricultural entities. Organizational changes are
expected shortly in the industrial and commercial sectors as well. This is
only a beginning, however, with more reforms expected and needed in the near
future.
(d) Management of External Debt
22.       As indicated earlier (ref. para. 8), Sudan-s external debt burden
has been quite heavy for a number of years. The total disbursed outstanding
external debt at the end of 1978 amounted to more than US$2 billion, and



- 7 -
scheduled debt service payments (principal and interest) for 1979 were almost
US$300 million (excluding payment of arrears). Until very recently, the
authority to engage in foreign borrowing and the administration of foreign
loans was scattered among many different ministries and agencies. The absence
of a central authority or unit which had a complete picture of the total debt
and which could render sound judgments on the appropriateness of various
foreign borrowing options further compounded the external debt problem. This
inefficiency has now been ameliorated through the decision to vest sole
authority for foreign borrowing with the Ministry of Finance. A new debt
management unit in the Ministry of Finance became operational in 1979.
23.       Equally significant, however, are the recent moves to deal with the
severe debt and arrears problems. In November 1979, a Paris Club meeting was
held on the rescheduling of Sudan's debt. Participating countries (Austria,
Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, Switzerland,
the United Kingdom, the United States) and the Government reached agreement on
(a) a rescheduling or refinancing of amounts falling due before October 1,
1979 and not paid (arrears); and (b) a rescheduling or refinancing of amounts
payable between October 1, 1979 and June 30, 1981 inclusive and not paid
(future debt service obligations). The agreement applies to loans from
governments or public agencies which had original maturities of more than one
year and which were concluded before January 1, 1979. The Paris Club accord
involved rescheduling of about $350 million worth of arrears (olut of a total
of about US$1.2 billion) and about $150 million of future debt service obliga-
tions. The Government is also currently negotiating with a consortium of
commercial banks in an effort to achieve additional refinancing. While the
Paris Club agreements were more generous in terms of period and percentage of
debt service covered than other such Paris Club agreements, and will reduce
the country-s financing gap to manageable proportions in 1980 and 1981, they
still fall short of resolving Sudan's medium term external payments problems.
Even if all external debt not covered by the Paris Club were to be rescheduled
on the same terms as those agreed in November 1979, Sudan's debit service ratio
for 1981 would be about 20-25 percent; more conservative estimates indicate a
debt service ratio of around 35 percent. Under either set of assumptions,
there would be a substantial improvement compared to the ratio of over 50
percent that the nation otherwise would have faced. As part of the effort
to help the Government obtain the foreign assistance required to maintain the
development effort, the Bank Group convened a meeting of the Sudan Consultative
Group in Paris from April 9-11, 1980.
24.       The Bank/IDA share of Sudan's medium and long term debt service is
about 3 percent (based on scheduled liabilities for 1979) and of debt out-
standing is almost 9 percent. We estimate that the Bank/IDA share of debt
service will drop to about 2 percent in 1985 when the Bank/IDA share of debt
outstanding and disbursed would be about 15 percent.



-8-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE SUDAN
25.       World Bank Group gross commitments to Sudan to date total US$715.1
million. Of this, US$32.9 million are IFC commitments. There have been eight
loans (two on Third Window terms) and 25 credits for a total of 29 projects.
Nineteen projects are under implementation as well as one planning assistance
project, funded by UNDP and executed by the Bank. About 45 percent of the
total Bank/IDA lending has gone into agricultural development: three irriga-
tion projects; three rainfed mechanized farming projects; three smallholder
development projects, two in the southern region and one in the west; a
livestock marketing project; an agricultural research project; an agricultural
rehabilitation program and the New Halfa Rehabilitation project. Projects in
other sectors include: three power projects, two education projects, two
highway projects, a domestic aviation project, four railway projects, a port
project, a technical assistance credit and two credits to the Industrial Bank
of Sudan. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits
and IFC investments as of January 31, 1981 and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects.
26.       Physical progress in implementing development projects in Sudan
has been poor.   Many projects have difficulty in getting key materials--
cement, fuel, timber, of which there are periodic shortages. Belated delivery
of equipment and supplies due to transportation difficulties also affects most
projects. The continuing drain of skilled manpower from Sudan to neighboring
countries, where job opportunities are better, takes its toll on effective
preparation and implementation of projects. Largely as a result of these
problems, the Savannah Development Project (Credit 718 of June 24, 1977) has
had to be redesigned into a much smaller pilot project which will shortly be
submitted to the Executive Directors. Also, the Domestic Aviation project
(Loan 1287-T; Credit 643 of July 7, 1976) has encountered a serious cost
overrun problem and may have to be terminated. The future of this project is
now being discussed with Government. Beyond these difficulties there are
other shortcomings traceable to inordinately cumbersome Government procedures.
For example, there have been protracted delays in getting parliamentary
ratification of agreed development projects and, subsequently, in obtaining
legal opinions from Government. There have also been inordinate delays in
meeting effectiveness conditions, mainly because of problems in establishing
new institutions or project accounts, hiring key staff, completing necessary
legal documentation or concluding required cofinancing arrangements. These
problems have been brought repeatedly to the notice of Government authorities,
and efforts are being intensified to help resolve them.
Strategy
27.       Bank Group lending continues to emphasize agricultural and infra-
structural investments. For the near term, and in accordance with the Govern-
ment s current economic and development objectives, more importance will be
placed on the rehabilitation and intensification of existing irrigation
schemes and on helping to alleviate key infrastructure bottlenecks. The



- 9 -
objective here essentially will be to help the country generate increased
export earnings to support the recovery effort. The emphasis in Bank Group
lending will be in support of those activities that contribute prominently to
the rehabilitation of the economy, in particular those that help increase
exports and expand government revenues. In the interim, less emphasis will be
placed on equity considerations or on regional balance in investment programs.
Recent experience has demonstrated that projects that were designed in large
part to help meet equity, as well as productive and regional balance, goals
will very likely take much longer to implement because of problems of in-
adequate infrastructure, lack of skilled manpower, absence of reliable
institutional support.
28.       This lending strategy is consistent with the Government s policies,
as reflected in the Export Action Program and the Three Year Public Investment
Program (ref. paras. 19, 20). A third power project, the Agricultural Rehabili-
tation Program Credit and the New Halfa Irrigation Rehabilitation Project were
approved in FY80. The latter two have the objective of helping the country
generate increased export earnings in order to help carry it through the
stabilization period. The presently proposed project, intended to improve
overall production in the pump schemes along the White Nile, represents a
continuing effort to rehabilitate an existing irrigation scheme. Rehabilita-
tion of another pump scheme project on the Blue Nile is also be:ing proposed.
Other projects under consideration include rehabilitation of the Gezira
irrigation scheme (Sudan's largest), an agricultural services project, a
second technical assistance credit to emphasize project implementation, a
sugar rehabilitation project, a petroleum development project and a second
port project.
Previous Bank Group Lending in Agriculture
29.       Since the first loan of US$15.5 million was approved in June 1960
for the Managil Irrigation Project (an extension of the Gezira scheme), the
Bank Group has approved a total of 14 lending operations totalling US$297.5
million for agriculture in Sudan. These operations have touched virtually
all subsectors: Irrigation (the Managil, Roseires and Rahad projects, the
last involving two separate credits totalling US$62 million for a new cotton
and groundnut scheme); Rainfed mechanized farming (one loan and two credits
totalling US$32.3 million, the most recent approved in July 1978); Smallholder
Development (a credit of US$17 million for the Savannah Development Project;
two projects in the Southern Region involving credits of US$10.7 million and
US$15 million, the most recent approved in May 1979); Livestock (a Credit of
US$25 million approved in June 1978); Research (a credit of US$,15 million
approved in July 1978); an Agricultural Rehabilitation Program (US$65 million
equivalent) and the New Halfa Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (US$40 mil-
lion). Projects in the agriculture sector have experienced the same kind
of implementation problems described earlier (ref. para. 26). However,
because agriculture is the backbone of the economy, the problems of foreign
exchange scarcity, inadequate maintenance, lack of spare parts and equipment,
and poor infrastructure support tend to be particularly acute in this sector.
A Project Performance Audit affecting the irrigated subsector was completed



- 10 -
on the Roseires project (Sec M 74-490) and circulated on July 10, 1974. It
concluded that the decision to build a dam at Roseires was correct, given the
high priority of irrigation for the development of Sudan and particularly
the high profitability of cotton production in the Blue Nile area. Although
the original justification of the dam was based solely on irrigation benefits,
its large hydroelectric potential alone was significant enough to have
justified the investment. An Impact Evaluation Report on the Roseires Irri-
gation project (No. 3051 dated June 30, 1980) also has been completed. It
concluded that, from the viewpoint of Sudan as a whole or the Blue Nile region
in particular, the economic impact of the dam has been marginally favorable.
The report also states that construction of the dam should have been delayed
for five years because of the delay in construction of new pump schemes and
the benefits of the Nile waters Agreement between Sudan and Egypt. According
to the report, neither of these factors were considered at appraisal, although
at that time the delay in the pump schemes would have been difficult to
foresee.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
30.       The agriculture sector in Sudan contributes about 40 percent of the
country's gross domestic product, is the source of virtually all exports,
provides employment for over two-thirds of the labor force, and supplies
inputs for a large proportion of industrial activity. The Bank completed an
agricultural sector survey in 1979 (Report No. 1836a-SU of May 18, 1979).
31.       Cotton is the major cash and export crop, accounting for some 56
percent of all exports in recent years; groundnuts, sesame, and gum arabic
follow at 10, 7.5 and 7 percent, respectively. Recent crop diversification
has also concentrated on import substitution, with considerable expansion in
wheat and sugar output, in part at the expense of cotton.
32.       Incomes are relatively low in the agricultural sector.  Of Sudan's
total population of about 17 million, an estimated 85 percent, live in rural
areas. To augment their incomes, many small subsistence farmers hire them-
selves out on mechanized or irrigated tenancies to harvest cotton, groundnuts,
sesame and cereals. They form a highly mobile labor force of about one
million people. Even so, labor shortages have occurred in recent years for
operations such as cotton picking.
33.       While the data are incomplete, it is estimated that perhaps 10
to 15 percent of total Government revenues are directly attributable to
taxes from farmers as producers. Although these revenues increased from
fSd 23.5 million in 1970/71 to ESd 40 million in 1975/76, budgetary support to
agriculture increased even faster, from ESd 29 million to ESd 77 million over
the same period.



The Irrigated Subsector
34.       Over the last 50 years, Sudan has developed more than 4 million fed-
dans of irrigated land, principally from the Nile waters; it has accomplished
this by using 16.8 km3/year of water of its share of 20.35 km3/year as measured
at Sennar under the 1959 Nile water sharing agreement with Egypt. The irriga-
tion subsector produces over 50 percent by value of the nation's exports.
Over the last decade, the area of irrigated land increased on average by 3.5
percent a year; at the same time, the area devoted to cotton, Sudan's most
remunerative export crop, fell by nearly 20 percent. Average cotton yields
declined from 4.3 to 3.5 kantars of seed cotton per feddan, and the total
volume of cotton exports fell by 35 percent from 1971 to 1977 (ref. para. 7).
35.       It is apparent that the performance of existing schemes has suffered
from the overall economic malaise in Sudan and higher priority given to
development of new schemes. Sudan's economy should now be reaping considerable
benefits from its previous irrigation investment, but Gezira, the Pump Schemes
and New Halfa are all performing below expectations and require additional
funds to cover their budget deficits. This is largely due to low productivity,
and static or declining yields. Technical and institutional constraints have
been the major contributing factors. These have included the absence of land
levelling or drainage, spare parts and other inputs and increasing neglect of
maintenance, as well as a profit-sharing system which stifles farmer incentives.
The Government recognizes these problems and as part of the new Export Action
Program and the current Three Year Public Investment Program (ref. paras. 19, 20),
has embarked on a strategy of rehabilitating/modernizing existing irriga-
tion schemes and reforming marketing and incentive policies.
The Project Area
36.       The first pump irrigation schemes were established along the White
Nile river some 50 years ago. When the Jebel Aulia dam (ref. map) was con-
structed in 1937, it raised the water level and facilitated pumping along an
extensive stretch of the river above the dam. This led to several new private
development schemes, all devoted to the growing of cotton. In recent years,
severe deterioration has set in because of a variety of factors -- poor
preparation of land, inadequate machinery and farm inputs, scarcity of foreign
exchange.
37.       A total of 174 of these pump irrigation schemes along the White Nile
would be rehabilitated by the proposed project. They are widely dispersed
and have a total cultivable area of about 360,000 feddans. Almost half of the
schemes are less than 1,000 feddans in area, about a third are between 1,000
and 2,000 feddans; of the remainder, only three cover more than 10,000 feddans.
38.       Rainfall conditions vary considerably in the project area -- mean
annual rainfall is 528 mm at Renk; 396 mm at Kosti and only 272 mm at Ed
Dueim. The soils are generally brown or grey cracking clays, imperfectly
drained, slowly permeable and slightly to moderately alkaline. Water quality
of the White Nile is good; pumping stations are usually locatecd at the head of
a short inlet channel from the main river and are not endangered by erosion
of the river bank.



- 12 -
39.       All lands within the schemes belong to the Government and tenancies
are held at the pleasure of the Government, operating through public corpora-
tions. In practice, however, the right of installing new tenants or dispos-
sessing existing ones is subject to the consent of the Tenants Union. Most
of the tenancies are in 15 feddan units but some are in 12 feddan units or
less. The standard farming system is a three year rotation of cotton, fallow,
fallow but farmers are permitted to grow up to half a feddan of sorghum or
groundnut on the fallow for every feddan of cotton planted. This gives an
average cropping intensity of about 50 percent. However, depending on the
availability of water and machinery, cropping intensity varies from 30 to 100
percent on the schemes. It is currently estimated at about 33 percent for the
schemes as a whole.
40.       The pump schemes were nationalized by Government in 1968/69 and have
been administered ever since by public corporations responsible to the Minis-
try of Agriculture. In 1975, management was transferred to the Public Agri-
cultural Production Corporation (PAPC) and its two sub-corporations -- the
Kosti-Renk and Dueim Agricultural Production Corporations. In 1979, PAPC,
which had incurred heavy losses, was disbanded. The two subcorporations have
since been merged to form the White Nile Agricultural Production Corporation
(WNAPC).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background and Project Description
41.       The proposed project originated from a Bank agricultural sector
review mission which visited Sudan in 1977 (ref. Report No. 1836a-SU of
May 18, 1979). The mission envisioned a project that would concentrate on
short term measures to yield quick returns and keep the pump schemes in
operation until a full scale reorganization and modernization could be
carried out. The Government endorsed this idea and the proposed project
was prepared by the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program in July, 1979. The
project was appraised in February/March, 1980; the staff appraisal report
(No. 3032-SU, dated February 27, 1981) is being circulated separately to the
Executive Directors. The Credit and Project Summary is at the beginning of
this report and a supplementary data sheet is at Annex III. Negotiations were
held in Washington from January 5-7, 1981; the Government delegation was
headed by Dr. Omer Alamin, Minister of Agriculture.
42.       The project is one of a series of rehabilitation/modernization
efforts in the irrigated subsector. The Agricultural Rehabilitation Program;
(Credit 1000-SU), which includes some financial assistance for certain urgently
needed spare parts and equipment in the major irrigation schemes, including
White Nile, is being implemented; the New Halfa project and the proposed Blue
Nile project are also part of the series. All are designed to support the
Government's Export Action Program. This program has the objective of increas-
ing the volume of cotton exports at an average rate of 7 percent per annum



- 13 -
during the 1979-91 period. The White Nile project would help achieve this
objective by rehabilitating, over five years, some 174 ongoing pump schemes
along the White Nile south of Khartoum. This would be done by providing the
schemes with the means to increase quickly and sustain agricultural production
(mainly cotton) through efficient use of available land, water and human
resources. Specifically, the project would include the following components:
(a) Rehabilitation or replacement of pumps and engines and
improvement of about 90 pumphouses in the project area;
(b) Rehabilitation of irrigation distribution systems; this
would involve excavation of about 4.5 million cubic metres
of earth in major and minor canals and about 0.2 million
cubic metres in the inlet channels, repairs to canal
structures and installation of water measuring devices;
(c) Provision of agricultural machinery, equipment and
spare parts to help ensure adequate land preparation and
other on-farm operations; this would involve procurement
of 176 tractors, associated implements, spare parts;
(d) Upgrading of the main agricultural workshop at Kosti,
establishment of five regional workshops, 27 field machinery
camps and fuel storage facilities, establishment of an
irrigation workshop at Kosti and two sub-workshops at
Ed Dueim and Renk;
(e) Provision of road maintenance equipment (seven motor
graders and spares);
(f) Provision of motor vehicles to help ensure adequate
mobility for field staff (87 four-wheel drive pickups,
one four-wheel drive station wagon, eight lorries,
27 field service trailers, 27 water tankers and
necessary spares to support the fleet);
(g) Installation of a telecommunications network, comprising a
VHF radio telephone system including base station at Kosti
and substations at each of the regional offices;
(h) Construction of buildings for offices, stores and sheds
and staff houses;
(i) Measures to strengthen management, administration and
training; (about 200 man-months of specialized assistance);
(j) Studies for further development of the White Nile area
and preparation of a follow-up project; and
(k) Supply of incremental annual farm inputs, such as seeds,
sacks, fertilizers and insecticides.



- 14 -
Project Costs
43.       Total project costs including contingencies are estimated at US$54.7
million with a foreign exchange component of US$35.0 million, or about 64
percent of the total. The total cost includes taxes and duties estimated at
US$6.0 million. Cost estimates are based on February, 1980 prices updated
to September, 1980; they reflect appraisal estimates and recent quotations.
A 10 percent physical contingency has been provided on all items except
the irrigation component where 15 percent has been adopted. Price escalations
for all components have been estimated at the following inflation rates: (a)
for the foreign exchange component 12.5 percent for 1981/82; 8.0 percent for
1982/83; 7 percent for 1983/84 and 7 percent thereafter; (b) for the local
component 35 percent for 1981/82; 15 percent for 1982/83; 10 percent for
1983/84 and 7 percent thereafter.
Project Financing
44.       It is proposed that financing of the project be shared as follows:
---------…US$ million-------
Local      Foreign      Total
IDA                                    35.0       35.0
Government               19.7           -         19.7
Total               19.7          35.0      54.7
The proposed Credit would be on standard terms to the Government and would
finance 72 percent of project cost, net of taxes, or 100 percent of the
estimated foreign exchange cost. The Government would finance all local costs
totaling US$19.7 million equivalent, including local duties and taxes of
US$6.0 million equivalent. It is proposed that, as an additional condition of
Credit effectiveness, Government make appropriate arrangements to open a
special bank account in the name of the project and arrange for a line of
credit through this account from the Bank of Sudan totaling not less than one
million Sudanese pounds to meet initial project expenses, such as transporta-
tion, office supplies, etc. (ref. Section 5.01(b), Draft Development Credit
Agreement). Thereafter, during project execution, Government would arrange
for transfers of funds to this account quarterly, based on estimates contained
in an annual work program (ref. para. 55 and Section 3.02 Draft Development
Credit Agreement).
45.       Onlending Arrangements.  The Government would onlend project funds,
including proceeds of the Credit, to the White Nile Agricultural Production
Corporation (WNAPC) at 9 percent interest annually, repayable over 20 years
including 5 years of grace. This interest rate is in line with that normally
charged for advances to public agricultural entities by the Bank of Sudan. A
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, incorporating these onlending arrangements, between
Government and WNAPC, is proposed as an additional condition of effectiveness
(ref. Section 5.01(a), Draft Development Credit Agreement). The line of
credit from the Bank of Sudan to WNAPC to meet initial project expenses
(ref. para 44) would also carry a 9 percent annual interest rate and would be
repaid in project years three through five.



- 15 -
46.       WNAPC would continue to provide seasonal credit to tenants in kind
(machinery services, aerial spraying, fertilizer, seed, sacks and cotton
marketing and processing) and cash (labor advances). All credit extended
to tenants would be charged to the individual tenant's account for each
crop. These arrangements would be embodied in a tenant's lease agreement,
which would provide for an annual Credit and Services contract (ref. para.
54). The general principles in the agreement, including provision for an
interest rate of not less than 12 percent per annum from the dates of provision
of cash advances to tenants as well as for overdues on other forms of credit,
are set forth in Schedules 1 and 2 of the Draft Project Agreement. This 12
percent rate compares with an inflation rate in Sudan that is currently
estimated to be about 25 percent for 1980/81 and is estimated to decline to
perhaps 7 percent by 1984/85. The proposed onlending rate would be reviewed
in the Annual Work Program against the background of actual inflation and
rates charged generally in the sector (ref. Schedule 4, Part C(c), Draft
Development Credit Agreement). Responsibility for financial relations between
the WNAPC and the tenants would rest with the strengthened Finance and Treasury
department of the Corporation (ref. para. 51).  In addition, a new Tenants
Credit Unit (TCU), reporting to the Managing Director of WNAPC, would review
individual cases of tenant default and recommend appropriate measures for
recovering overdues. It has been agreed that the TCU will be established no
later than June 30, 1982 under terms and conditions acceptable to the Associa-
tion (ref. Section 2.10, Draft Project Agreement). Pending establishment of
the TCU, the present system of recovering credit by adjustment against payments
due on the cotton account would continue.
47.       The White Nile Agricultural Production Corporation (WNAPC) is
expected to sustain losses and net cash deficits during the first two project
implementation years, since cotton production will not provide sufficient
revenue to cover costs of farm inputs, land preparation and other services.
Funds would thus have to be provided by Government, through the Bank of Sudan,
until Corporation revenues and debt and cost recovery mechanisms produce a
positive net cash flow (expected in year three). The year-end cash require-
ment during the first two project years, assuming fulfillment of project
assumptions, would be 14.6 million Sudanese pounds (8.7 million in year one;
5.9 million in year two). These amounts would be repaid by WNAPC with interest
at 9 percent per annum in project years three through five. WNAPC would have
to provide cash advances to tenants for labor. In project years one and two,
the Corporation would have to provide ESd 2.4 million and ESd 3.9 million
respectively for periods of up to nine months within each fiscal year.
Project Implementation and Detailed Features
48.       The project would be implemented by the recently estab]Lished White
Nile Agricultural Production Corporation (WNAPC). WNAPC is under the jurisdic-
tion of the Minister of Agriculture.
49.       In order to promote effective coordination of project activities
within and among Government agencies and to help ensure adequate local finan-
cial resources, a high level Project Steering Committee would approve the



- 16 -
Annual Work Programs for the project (ref. Section 3.04, Draft Development
Credit Agreement). The committee would be headed by the Minister of Agricul-
ture and would include representatives of the Ministries of Finance, National
Planning, Irrigation, WNAPC, and the Bank of Sudan.
50.       WNAPC would administer the project through its headquarters office
at Kosti (ref. map). Field operations would be implemented through seven
regional offices, each headed by a manager and each provided with sufficient
autonomy in order to enable it to perform effectively. For example, regional
offices would supervise agricultural production, engineering and irrigation
activities; they would determine the crop rotations and the crop to be grown
in each tenancy. Each region would have adequate support facilities provided
by the project such as agricultural machinery and implements, fuel storage
tanks, workshops, transportation equipment and other activities. WNAPC has
taken over responsibility for the irrigation aspects from the Ministry of
Irrigation and would implement the pumpset and rehabilitation features of the
project. The Government, in establishing the WNAPC, transferred full respon-
sibility for irrigation functions from the Ministry to the Corporation.
51.       WNAPC would be strengthened under the project through provision of
adequate machinery and spares, maintenance and storage facilities, transport
vehicles and six internationally recruited specialists (about 200 man months
at US$10,000 per man-month and including a procurement officer to head the
Stores and Commercial department, a financial analyst to head the Finance and
Treasury department, an agricultural management specialist, an agricultural
engineer, a mechanical engineer and an agricultural economist to strengthen
a new Planning and Development Unit (PDU)). All the specialists would be
recruited with qualifications and experience and on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association (ref. Section 2.12(a) Draft Project Agree-
ment). It was agreed at negotiations that the financial analyst would be
appointed no later than July 1, 1981 (ref. Section 2.12(b) Draft Project
Agreement).
52.       The PDU would be an important institutional feature of the project.
The unit would prepare annual work programs, quarterly progress reports and
the project completion report. In addition it would (a) design and implement
a monitoring and evaluation system; (b) provide project management with
economic, financial, irrigation and agricultural technical assistance, as well
as performance reviews and recommendations for improvement. The PDU would
prepare quarterly progress reports for the project and submit them to IDA not
later than two months after the end of each quarter.
53.       Tenant participation and positive response, problems in the past,
would be stimulated by financial reforms, including determination of adequate
cotton prices before harvest and prompt payment to tenants for cotton delivered
by them. Determination by Government of satisfactory prices for cotton will
be a critical element in these reforms. A special cotton marketing study,
financed under the Agricultural Rehabilitation Program (Credit 1000) is now
being finalized and is expected to make specific recommendations on the
principles and mechanism that should govern such prices as well as institu-
tional support to help set satisfactory prices annually. WNAPC would enter



- 17 -
into new lease agreements and annual credit and services contracts with
tenants (ref. Section 2.08, Draft Project Agreement) in order to establish the
corporation/tenant relations on a more stable basis. Project services and
support activities would be restricted to those tenants that have a current
credit and service contract. Long staple cotton would be grown :Ln the project
area since experience with the medium staple variety during the :Last few years
has been adverse. Medium staple is more sensitive to poor field water manage-
ment, pest infestation and labor shortages. Cultivation of groundnut would be
encouraged in the southern part of the project area where rainfall is early,
adequate and less variable.
54.       Annual Work Programs.  The principal mechanism for implementation
of the project would be a detailed annual work program, prepared in draft by
WNAPC, reviewed and confirmed by the high level Project Steering Committee
(ref. para. 49) and submitted to the Association for approval (ref. Section
3.04, and Schedule 4, Draft Development Credit Agreement). The objective
would be to facilitate a full annual review of progress in project implementa-
tion jointly by Government and IDA and to make possible technical, financial
or institutional modifications or adjustments of the project as experience is
gained. This is particularly important with respect to cost recovery aspects
(ref. para. 59).
55.       The annual work programs would provide a detailed description of
the work to be performed for the ensuing fiscal year including (a) the sched-
ules of activities, equipment requirements, staffing needs and training plans;
(b) a budget for the period including proposed capital and recurrent expendi-
tures as well as a comparison of the proposed investments with actual expendi-
tures for the previous year; (c) a financing plan and detailed cquarterly cash
flow projections; (d) supporting information on the Tenants' Lease Agreement,
the cost recovery system and proposed cotton prices to producers. The proposed
programs would be submitted by WNAPC no later than April 1 each year (covering
the year commencing the following July) to the Project Steering Committee
(ref. Section 2.01, Draft Project Agreement). After review, the committee
would submit the program to the Association each year not later than May 1
(ref. Section 3.04(a)(ii), Draft Development Credit Agreement). Criteria to
be used in evaluating the proposed work programs (i.e. adequacy of program in
meeting project objectives as stipulated in the agreements) are set forth in
Schedule 4, Draft Development Credit Agreement. The Association would, within
three weeks of receipt of the proposal, inform the Government and WNAPC of its
acceptance of, or comments on, the proposed work program. The first work
program, covering the period ending June 30, 1982, would be submitted to the
Association within four months of signing of the Credit.
56.       Staffing, Training, Maintenance, Consultancy, Studies.  Upon com-
mencement of operations, WNAPC would have an estimated establishment (includ-
ing irrigation) for about 3,500 posts, including 200 of degree standard, 800
diploma holders and clerical staff and 2,500 unclassified staff. WNAPC is
generally deficient in managerial and skilled categories, due to their shortage
in Sudan; at the same time there is a surplus of unclassified staff. Over the
project implementation period, some staff in this latter category would be
trained to meet some of the skilled needs of the Corporation. The total
number of unclassified staff would be reduced in due course, through redeploy-
ment into more skilled jobs or through attrition.



- 18 -
57.       Training courses would be provided through the project in several
areas, including operational and mechanical engineering skills required by
tractor and harvester drivers. Other courses would cover workshop skills.
Most of the training courses would be held at WNAPC headquarters in Kosti
with assistance of the Department of Labor's ILO-supported Vocational Training
Centre, located in Khartoum, and at the Farm Machinery Center at Tozi. The
cost of training would be met from the current budget of WNAPC. Agricultural
field training would continue to be directed by the Ministry of Agriculture
throughout the project area at village level. However, the scope and quality
of training would be upgraded by the project and monitored by the Planning and
Development Unit, which would have overall responsibility for coordinating
training and maintenance functions. Improved maintenance would be achieved
through (a) special training programs and (b) establishment of machinery
camps in the project area, each equipped with trailer-mounted workshops, among
other equipment. Overall supervision would be provided by an agricultural
engineer in each of the seven regional offices. Specific proposals for
training and maintenance improvement would be included in each annual work
program to be submitted to the Association for review. In addition WNAPC has
agreed to furnish to the Association, for its review and approval, a comprehen-
sive staff training and maintenance program no later than December 31, 1981
(ref. Section 2.14, Draft Project Agreement).
58.       As indicated earlier (ref. para. 51), WNAPC's management and
administrative capacities would be strengthened through the establishment of
a new Planning and Development Unit (PDU) and the induction of several inter-
nationally recruited specialists. Consultants services would also be provided
to carry out studies on the further development of the White Nile area,
including detailed preparation of a possible follow-up project. The studies
will require about 100 man months of consultancy services at an estimated
US$9,500 per man-month on average or a total of US$1.0 million.
Cost Recovery
59.       The cost recovery system for the project would enable Government and
the White Nile Agricultural Production Corporation to recover all costs
incurred on the schemes--investment, inputs and services--from project benefi-
ciaries over the project life (20 years). The basic principles underlying
the cost recovery system would be (a) promotion of economic efficiency by
diverting a larger share of scarce resources to those crops (i.e. cotton) that
promise better economic returns; (b) to enhance incentives for the growing of
cotton by the tenants and WNAPC; (c) to generate larger public savings for the
economy as a whole. These principles are set forth in Schedule 2 of the Draft
Project Agreement and would be enforced through longstanding cost recovery
mechanisms that have recently been modified (ref. para. 63) in an effort to
encourage tenant incentives and increased productivity in the irrigated
subsector.
60.       Historically, a profit or crop-sharing system has been used in
Sudan-s cotton growing schemes, under which a clear delineation of responsi-
bility is made between the Corporations that administer the schemes and the
tenants who work them. In addition to distributing irrigation water, the



- 19 -
Corporations undertake land preparation, supply seeds, fertilizers and sacks,
and arrange aerial insecticide spraying for pest control. Tenants are respons-
ible for all manual operations such as irrigating the fields, planting,
fertilizing, weeding, picking and transporting the crop to buying stations.
The seed cotton is then taken over by the Corporations for ginning and
eventual sale of the seed and lint through the Cotton Public Corporation of
Sudan.
61.       For years, a Joint Account System has operated in the Corporations
under which all revenues from cotton have been shown as receipts, and produc-
tion expenses incurred on cotton such as machinery operations, irrigation,
pest control and weeding have been shown as expenditures. Net proceeds have
been divided as follows: Tenants 47 1/2 percent; WNAPC 45 1/2 percent; Social
Welfare Fund 5 percent and local Government taxes 2 percent. The tenant's
share of the Joint Account is distributed on the basis of the quantity and
variety of cotton supplied. This is credited to his individual account, to
which is debited tenant-specfic items such as cash advances and services for
non-cotton crops. The net receipt on this account is paid in cash to the
tenant.
62.       Over the years, several distortions have crept into this system.
When new cash crops -- groundnuts and wheat -- were introduced :into the
schemes they were not incorporated into the crop-sharing system, even though
the Corporation provides water and some services for these crops, which
are charged against the cotton crop. This development, together with certain
distortions in the tax system (export taxes on cotton, an overvalued exchange
rate, depressed receipts which adversely affected the domestic competitive-
ness of cotton) had the effect of deflating tenants  revenues from cotton
relative to other crops (i.e. groundnuts and sorghum) and encouraged them to
concentrate on these latter crops, which they marketed on their own. The
problems have been compounded by the fact that remittances to tenants from the
sale, by Government, of their cotton have often been delayed a year or more
after harvesting. The situation has been made worse by the growing economic
crisis in Sudan and the attendant serious shortage of foreign exchange which
has contributed greatly to the deterioration in the cotton grow:ing schemes.
63.       In the last two years, Government has attempted to come to grips
with these problems by taking a series of measures -- devaluation, modifica-
tions to the traditional joint account mechanism, announced prices for
cotton before harvest and prompt payment to producers -- designed to
strengthen incentives for tenants and to improve overall productivity of
the schemes.
64.       Under the system agreed with Government for this project, costs
would be identified and measured; systems would be established to recover
costs through project operations and for debt recovery; each crop would bear
its full costs of production, including overheads and investment. The project
would strengthen the finance and treasury department of the White Nile Corpora-
tion to enable it to gather cost data and accurately compute all cost items.



- 20 -
All costs incurred by WNAPC would be fully recovered over the project life of
20 years. Individual tenant crop accounts would be opened separately for
each crop and each crop would bear its full costs of production, including
overheads and investment.
65.       WNAPC would be able to meet all costs initially through loans from
the Government and a line of credit from the Bank of Sudan (ref. para. 44).
In order to ensure that tenants have adequate incomes, the full recovery of
WNAPC costs would be introduced in a phased manner. Farm input costs, exclud-
ing irrigation, would continue to be fully recovered. The full costs of
irrigation services and overhead expenditures would not be recovered until
year five. Labor incomes, in constant prices, are projected to rise from a
net level of 1.2 Sudanese pounds per man-day of labor for cotton and sorghum
in project year one to about three times that level in project year six. This
increase reflects a sharp improvement from currently very low levels of yield.
Post-project tenancy incomes would be adequate to motivate tenants to parti-
cipate in the production process.
66.       A comprehensive package of measures to improve cost and debt recovery
performance has been, or will be, undertaken as follows:
(a) As already announced by Government (June 1980), cotton
prices payable to the producing Corporation would here-
after be announced before harvest and tenants would be
paid promptly on delivery of the crop at the collection
center. Because of the importance of adequate cotton
prices, Government has agreed to: (i) consult with the
Association prior to determining cotton prices payable
to producers; (ref. Supplemental Letter); (ii) announce
the agreed prices not later than December 1 each year;
and (iii) ensure that payments are made promptly to WNAPC
for cotton (ref. Section 3.06, Draft Development Credit
Agreement). It has been agreed that on or before August
31, 1981, WNAPC would issue regulations, satisfactory to
the Association, emboding procedures for prompt payments
to tenants for seed cotton delivered (ref. Section 2.13,
Draft Project Agreement).
(b) As already announced by Government (June 1980), individual
Tenant Accounts would be opened for each crop. All costs
attributable to a crop would be debited to the Tenants'
individual account for that crop;
(c) Systems and procedures for accurate unit costing of inputs,
services and cash advances would be installed by the
Finance and Treasury Department of WNAPC, strengthened
under the Project;
(d) The Annual Credit and Services Contract (para. 53) would
indicate the charges that would be collected for various
inputs and services extended to tenants, and the dates
on which such costs would be due for recovery;



- 21 -
(e)  In the case of cotton, WNAPC would recover costs directly
from the tenants share of the proceeds of the crop. F'or
other crops, tenants would be required to make payments
in cash to WNAPC, after harvest, for costs recoverable
from them for such crops from year 3 onwards; until then,
and pending establishment of the Tenants' Credit Unit
(para. 46), such costs would continue to be met from
cotton revenues.
(f)  All cash loans to tenants and tenant overdues would
bear interest of not less than 12% per year (para. 46);
(g)  As already announced by Government (June 1980), unpaid
tenant debts to the WNAPC's predecessor corporations
would be consolidated and paid over ten years beginning
1980-81; and
(h)  Cases of default by tenants would be referred to a Tenants
Credit Unit established under the Project. The funct:ions
and responsibilities of the Unit would be laid down in
Regulations issued by WNAPC in accordance with the powers
conferred on it under Section 20 of the Public Corporations
Act 1976, and would, inter alia, include: (i) review of
all cases of failure by individual tenants to conform with
the provisions of Tenants' Lease Agreement; (ii) specific
recommendations to the management of the Corporation on
the action to be taken in each case; and (iii) establishment
of an efficient debt recovery mechanism. The recommendations
of the Tenants- Credit Unit, as approved by WNAPC, would
be binding on the tenants.
The Annual Work Program (paras. 54,55) would provide the mechanism for consul-
tations between Government and Association on specific cost recovery issues
each year during the implementation period. Any modifications found necessary
during the implementation of the project would be carried out only in agree-
ment with Association (ref. Draft Project Agreement, Section 2.09).
Procurement and Disbursement
67.       Contracts for supply of irrigation pumps and engines, machinery,
equipment and vehicles exceeding US$100,000 would be subject to international
competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with World Bank guidelines. The
items would be aggregated for tenders in order to attract major- contractors
and suppliers. About 75 percent of the Credit (US$26 million) would be
subject to ICB. Domestic manufacturers would qualify for a preference of up
to 15 percent. Contracts for less than US$100,000, but in aggregate totalling
no more than US$3,000,000, would be procured through local competitive bidding
in accordance with standard Government procedures, which are acceptable to the
Association. Local procedures permit foreign participation. Spare parts for
vehicles and equipment would be procured directly by negotiated contract from



- 22 -
the principal manufacturer or by quotation from dealers as appropriate;
for purchases under US$10,000, comparative shopping or purchasing off the
shelf would be used. The qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment of internationally recruited experts and consultants would be
satisfactory to the Association.
68.       The procedures described in paragraph 67 would also apply to con-
tracts for civil works, although with a limit of US$500,000, for ICB. Civil
works would qualify for 7 1/2 percent domestic preference under ICB.  Canal
rehabilitation works would, however, be contracted to the Ministry of Irriga-
tion-s Earthmoving Corporation (EMC) at rates established by the Government,
as in other projects in Sudan. Foreign and local firms are not likely to be
interested because of the dispersed nature of the works. EMC has been pro-
vided with equipment under the Agricultural Rehabilitation Program (Credit
1000-SU) and the Rahad project (Credit 364-2) and is capable of carrying out
canal rehabilitation operations efficiently. Construction of pumphouses and
renovation of canal structures, being small and located in areas where access
is difficult, would be carried out by force account. Fertilizers, sacks,
seeds and pesticides would be procured over the project period of five years
using normal Government procedures, or other appropriate procedures, in
consultation with IDA.
69.       Disbursement of funds from the proposed Credit would be on the
following basis:
(a) 100 percent of foreign expenditures or 75 percent of total
expenditures for irrigation pumps and engines including
spares (US$4.1 million);
(b) 100 percent of foreign expenditures or 75 percent of total
expenditures for other machinery and equipment including
spares (US$8.5 million);
(c) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for vehicles and spares
(US$2.9 million);
(d) 100 percent of foreign expenditures or 60 percent of total
expenditures for annual farm inputs including fertilizers
pesticides, seeds and sacks (US$1.8 million);
(e) 100 percent of foreign expenditures or 50 percent of total
expenditures for civil works, including buildings, irriga-
tion structures, pumphouses and canal works (IJS$9.9 million);
(f) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for technical assistance
and consultancy (US$4.3 million).
US$3.5 million of the Credit would remain unallocated. Disbursement would be
fully documented. Disbursements for civil works, if undertaken by force
account, and incremental annual farm inputs would be made against statements



- 23 -
of expenditure, the supporting documents for which would not be submitted for
review, but retained by the Corporation for inspection by Bank missions.
These documents would be audited separately and the audit report, in English,
submitted to the Association within six months of the end of each fiscal
year.
Accounts and Audits
70.       WNAPC was established by presidential warrant dated May 5, 1980.
The Corporation's initial balance sheet would include only those assets and
liabilities appropriate to its future operations and would not include items
(e.g. amounts due from tenants) which are unrealizable, or liabilities related
to activities of WNAPC's predecessor corporations. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that WNAPC would keep a comprehensive set of accounts for the
Corporation, including a separate set of accounts for the expenditure and
recovery of project funds, acceptable to the Association. The accounts would
be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Association.
The audited accounts, together with the auditor's report, would be submitted
in English to the Association annually, no later than nine months after the
end of the financial year. WNAPC's initial audited accounts, relating to its
position at the time it was established, would be submitted along with the
Auditor's report, to IDA no later than December 31, 1981 (ref. Section 4.02,
Draft Project Agreement).
Environmental Impact
71.       Pest control by spraying cotton with insecticide has been practiced
in Sudan extensively over thirty years and would be used in the project against
all common cotton pests. All the drugs currently used are tested by residue
analysis for compliance with prescribed specifications and are acceptable to
the Association. All drugs are also subjected to field tests and, if found
acceptable, are registered by the Pesticide Committee of the Ministry of
Agriculture. Although application of pesticides is normally carried out by
aerial spraying by experienced contractors with well maintained equipment, the
extensive use of pesticides will continue to pose long term rislks until safer
alternative chemicals become available at suitable costs. Meanwhile, it would
not be profitable to produce cotton without chemical pest control.
Benefits, Justification and Risks
72.       The proposed project, the second (after New Halfa) rehabilitation
of an existing scheme under Sudan's new Export Action Program, would raise
yields, create an additional demand for labor, generate additional foreign
exchange for the country and restore the financial viability of WNAPC. The
project, following financial assistance for certain urgently needed spare
parts and equipment being provided in the White Nile area under the Agricul-
tural Rehabilitation Program (Credit 1000), would expand the annual cultivated
area by 45,000 feddans at full development and raise the cropping intensity of
the scheme from 33 to 61 percent. Annual production of cotton is projected to
increase from about 23,000 tons to 91,000 tons. The project would, after full



- 24 -
development, generate US$35 million of additional foreign exchange earnings
each year and help improve Sudan's balance of payments situation. It would
contribute 371 million Sudanese pounds to the country's public revenues over
the project life and directly benefit some 28,000 tenant families. Opportuni-
ties for farm labor supplied by tenant families, local labor and migrant
labor, would expand from 5.9 million man-days to 9.7 million man-days per
year. It is estimated that about half of the tenant families in the project
area currently have an annual income of less than US$80 per capita - the
absolute poverty level in Sudan. The project would raise these 14,000 tenant
families above the poverty line and also augment the incomes of some 80,000
farm laborers.
73.       The economic rate of return (ERR) is estimated at 57 percent.  This
rate reflects the existence of a large amount of sunk capital, elimination of
considerable organizational slack, a virtual doubling of production and real
increases of about 25 percent in the cotton export price during the decade of
the 1980's. The following assumptions have been made in the analysis: (a)
Both the costs and benefits of the US$13 million investment made in the White
Nile project area under the Agricultural Rehabilitation Program (Credit
1000-SU) have been taken into account in the "without" project situation;
(b) all anticipated yield increases would be achieved by project year six;
foreign costs and benefits are valued at the present parallel market rate of
US$1 = 80 Sudanese piasters; (c) the local currency component of all incremental
costs and benefits have been converted to a border price expressed in local
currency, using a standard conversion factor of 0.7 -- i.e. the parallel
exchange rate divided by the shadow rate of US$1.0 = LSd 1.15; (d) the
going market wage of 1 Sudanese pound per day would apply to all labor.
74.       A sensitivity analysis shows that if the 25 percent increase in real
cotton price in 1980-90 does not materialize, the ERR would not drop below 12
percent even if the cotton area were to drop to 110,000 feddan and the average
yield to 3.75 kantars per feddan.
75.       Some of the major project risks include failure of Government to
increase cotton prices to producers to adequate enough levels, shortages and
delays in the availability of local currency requirements and shortfalls in
foreign exchange needed for current operations. The preparation of annual
work programs and their review by a high level Project Steering Committee and
consultations with the Association would provide a more effective basis for
review of cotton prices and for ensuring that required funds are provided in
sufficient amounts and on time. Shortages of fuel also have in the past
impeded timely land preparation in the project area. This would be corrected
through increased storage capacity under the project. No major risks are
expected from technological or social problems.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
76.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Democratic
Republic of the Sudan and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between
the White Nile Agricultural Production Corporation and the Association and



- 25 -
the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, SeCtion 1 (d) of
the Articles of Agreement of the Association, are being distributed separately
to the Executive Directors. Special features of the Development Credit Agree-
ment and the Project Agreement are referred to in Section 3 of Arnex III.
77.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
78.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by
Ernest Stern
Washington, D.C.
March 4, 1981



- 26  -                                                MANNEX I
Page 1
TABLE 3A
SUDAN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
SUDAN                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGTED AVEGES
LANID AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM-)                                                       M- MST RECENT ESTIl?E)M
TOTAL           2505.8
AGRICULTURAL     315.0                                  MOST RECENT            LO  INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OP SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (us$S                  140.0        170.0     370.0                 260.0                   868.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       52.0       130.0      172.0                  80.0                   699.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)      11.3         14.1      17.4
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 10.3          16.4      23.0                  17.3                    28.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        31.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (HILLIONS)                          88.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2135
POPULATION DENS ITY
PER SQ. KM.                         5.0         6.0        7.0                  27.4                   61.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      37.0        46. 0      55. 0                 82. 6                 126.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          44.3        45.3       44.0                 44.9                    45.5
15-64 YRS.                          53.0        52.0      53. 1      ,          52.2                    51.6
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    2.7         2.7        2.9                   2.8                    2.8
POPULATION GROWITN RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               1. 9        2.2        2.6                   2.7                    2.7
URBAN                               7.0         6.9        7.1                   6.8                    4.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      47.p        46.0       45.0                 47.4                    46.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      25.0        21.0       18.0                  19.6                   16.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                ..         3.4        3.2                   3. 2                   3. 2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTCRS. ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..
USERS (PERCENT OF HARRIED WOMEN)   ..            ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           92.0       100.0      109.0                 91.8                    94.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    71.0        86.0       93.0                 90.2                    92.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           53.0        61.0       65.0                 53.0                    53.0
OF WNICN ANLIAL AND PULSE        23.0        19.0       19.0                 18.4                    15.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      46.0        38.0       31.0                 27.7                    21.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    39.0         43.0       46.0                 45.3                    50. 1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             ..        132.Ojc
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..          ..       46.0                 23.2                    31.0
URBAN                                ..          ..       49.0                 58.0                    66.8
RURAL                               ..           ..       45.0                 16.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        16.0       22.0                 28.9
URBAN                                ..          ..        ..                   67.0
RURAL                               ..           ..
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          27876.Ojd   14708.0    8696.0               30910.4                 14508.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      3041.0jd    1750.0    1336.0                5793.2                  3279.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             951. Od_e  937.0/   998.0                  1198.9                  1141.5
URBAN                             118.O/d.e   176.0/e
RURAL                            4479.04Le  5237.0/ 
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..          ..       16.9
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE Of HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                *          5.1
URBAN                                ..         5. 7/f
RURAL                               ..           ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROaI
TOTAL                                ..          ..
URBAN                                ..         2. 5/f
RURAL                                ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..        26.4/f
URBAN                                ..          ..
RURAL                                ..          ..



- 27 -
ANNEX 1
TABLE 3A                                                       Page   2
SgUAN - SOCIA1 INDICATORS DATA SHEET
SUDAN                           REFERFNCE GROUPS (WFIGHTED AVMtpArES
MDST RECFNT ESTIMATE) j
MOST RECENT             LOW INCOME                MIDDLE INCOME
1960  Lt    1970 /b ESTDIATE Lt   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOIIT11 OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTLD ENROLT4ErNT RATIOS
PRLDARY:      TOIAl                   25.0         33.0        41.0                   57.7                      61. 7
NALE                   35. 0         41.0       47.0                    74. 2                     61. 2
FEEHALE                14. 0         26.0       34.0                    54.1                      5.1. 4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                     3.0           7.0       13. 0                  10.0                      213.6
HALE                    5.0           9.0       17.0                    13. 7                     2'. 2
F4ALE                    1. 0         4.0        9. 0                    7. 1                     14. 7
vOCAT1lJSAL EbROL. (A OF SECONDARY)   3.0              1. 41      1. 01jsh               6. 8                      7.0
PUPPI1-TLACHfER RATIO
PR L1ARY                              41.0         47.0        39.0                   45. t                     36.6
SECONDARY                             20.0         17.0        22. 0                  25.2                      24.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)           13. 1         15. 0/i    20.0                   25.5
CONSUIMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                             1.4          2.0                                3.6                      38.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            17.0         71.0        73.0                   31.5                      83.5
TV RECEIVERS PER TPOUSAND
POPULATION                             0. 8         2.9         5.3                    1.8
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                      4. 0                     S. 0                   4. 6                     24. 2
CINEMA ASNiUAL ATTENDAICE PER CAPITA  0.                .         0. 7                                             0. 7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)         3731.5       4623.1    5582.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                       9. 6        10. 2       11. 0                  33.5                      38.1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                 85. 7        82.0        79.0                    0. 7                     54.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                     6. 2         7. 8        9. 0                   8. 1                     17.8
PARTICIFATIOli RArE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                   33.0          32. 1      31.5                    42.2                     38. 8
HALE                                    59. 1         56.9       55.8                    55.1                     4,8. 4
FE4ALE                                   6.4           6. 6       6.7                   29.5                      29. 4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                  1. 4          1.5        1. 5                    1 2                       1. 3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCCHE
RECEIVED BY
HICSEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEPOLDS   20. 9.L/                                             .         
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  50. 1/1           9 21 /k
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEEOLDS    5. Of            5. I/k.
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEEOLDS   13.9/1           14. 5k        .
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..            .       137.0                  138.2
RURAL                                   .      .      .       80.0                    86. 1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US8 PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..           ..       115.0                  107.0
RURAL                                   ..           ..       100.0                   65.0
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW AFSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                   ..            .          .
RURAL                                   ..                     85.0                   66.9
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averagea for each indicator are population-weighted arithtnetic teans.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on evailability of data and ls not uniforo.
Lb   Unless otherwise noted, date for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; end fo,r Miost Recent Estliate, between 1974 sand 1978.
/c   1970-73 average;  /d 1962;  Le Covernment hospital establiea ents;  If 1965;  IS Beginning 1970, the
duration of general serondary education was reduced frce 8 to 6 years;   h Includea progranms of 5
training centers operated by Dept. of Lnbor and 17 short-term centers operated by Hin. of Youth and
Sport;  /i 1966;  ft 1963, Omdurnan "urban;"  /k 1967-68.
Most rec,nt eattlate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all otler data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



w   u;0103a   *    'aI1~   ~03S00 -P10.10301   'uoI.l4o10'3.. ou0d. o    (9   ooOoOl0   0;0..I
Totd00010,0000('.        'ptuqoOlonu    o0,ij-                       0                     11O;4030   o  040 10.:        13.4IId.. .30;3d00  p.pu..  00I               ',40    P
0030-  01030)  001  030  030u  00104  011  011 04634pOOO3_  0413  030400  P30                          -Juoo q -04   01301011   03001100
*000  0130Il OIAI  J  00330110 03  uOuOl(O  3101001  0033~         1   0001   WIO   00013   14300001110 010  3  (030100
.1; 4o,o.4  flo~ous jo p311-u  31130  00l: 3300   oIOlJI0o                            u;q-do uqzuuj ' 1o1...4o o-d-d3031P  .14    0.=                         03A
0114003..-0330      p.sl`oou   104pOOlI   000100030p301Soou)340   .
....~             p....     0000001411  oobp .AOull If                                0300             .410(003pw  uqJl-Iul  .4-q03010
101u01011100  SuOl002011O0  303)uT*u4top_y0-1 '-q                                                              'OuO-  uo0j   Ti'C1iO30TD10j0   o   0.3
- 1o"3 ~0  00140 -   03053000  SA) IuOl  00301303.04 00l14 1V P-qbOO
I.r TsZ_i"   F _Y T        '0p10a 0000 4 PIT         10103.00  0-33.. pO00£J   005tooy-(30)4301   1 34- 0Jl
g&fj) I ... I ~           ~-00   u1oy0.  10   03Iooi  ..0110  0031143Iq.I 03 '... ~-1 Inud  .0. j
S0103  040   10102 *12L..O    ... puo.oi ..P.            J.00   100009   ... - ( P040(  300) 0101  -1102 It-I 000) P1
uso.c 04  19 04041 0090  ourlordod  3u  ;Ioj -  1000 AosPuaduaT ;ouu- l I- 0P661p0  06   o-to   lisp   304 0.... 01 .01           43I 100100 00-33-p01 
d O, 3..-   pm13 ... d  Z 3...oOu3Ou... dOZ~uoo  0003,1   00 ... Iojjo£4.  1004-010pu   o;o033300   1100010   o
OonuOoIotI 00200 0011041010304  0.011 030 000166  'OIOP 4661 uPlOt'66   091(0'  04  01 0114. £qfi Puoodu         'ppo096T 3u  000303011-..P       oud boPb.11
00 .o;ood;11004 - Ololo p00 '100 '10100- (100100) 01010 00u00101130   p00 10010  JO ;.003        ..6"pu     (pOp304 110103.15100 J000032 09        .. 00000011
SlOp 9661 P   0661  0961  -10130  301101. 10101 PJ 021003304  00L6 20109)3                                   'OlOp £661 P00 '0161 '(4-1961  110001  P1-0.. .0..4
010  341100   0  300u0-0003  00   01Aq-1100303) 00004                                     3. '0141J-    £P- 4'o0EZ3d       IS'11000310    -113000 .411004 p00 £01
- -1-;P"  -T    'T-1-- (I .... d      STOP 961-           -;o,o  :los to ... opuo lo3dIo-o;o£1q  00- p0004 ;yj £4 p0 .Tu 0300 0000d
'00  000d   0  03;400   O1010  04PO0d00                           P.0030   P0         'P.: n.J. 03100  OPO          .P 001440   10-0  T1100  01 00004 ~09   '013040
03p11 104 00611'              ..00141 od£uso0   1010    3140p0   0   ~100111Lo
... d 1,           0110.01140.. I.OP6631p00 '0 Va61  A6-16 p.1110  0043000A003     1010
000000 01313P00 00100900   0190101  ooo£040  0110  P10  0101)0        0 po -q 0   £300003       IAId 4000 .J.0011 Np0340 pS000d    '(P0p0100 030- 0
30 3410  14100 P002- 300 30 00003304  IOOOOII  100W  0001  p000330  '2'0)  1000 00  011003pusooono 00 11110  (300.  0 pd 100
It5    0000             T00  100T0004   o;   £1~   1  1                        00300'0    pO   103   00    01P0                          10   0£3P00   00
po3op)0000 01 II  '0000 100.000_. 00p030  01 £1303  p                           .3 0101  O  P0   o   00 oTdOu300£ 'O01O.P00100 d30P
-qd11903400  POOP'~000t0  0301   000    Ilp.3  01                00001030   0011  -(0-6-41(10030OIOOO4P0£JPou
.01101  0000004   30111- (0101000     .,:,34  30)0101013000u3
'000000   000000  0   0 09 101 0120  I04  0000£ 01 p00 001010000                                                                       '5-196 01T-0111P104 0...       100
0000030     P' p001100 00510   600)1010404"I 0000d0 304111404  10300                                                               00301   0000100000p P...0 I..
00   0p0  000103610   0000.£0 0   011010   3300 -I-                      00001.'         .31410,O,040            100 11 - (poOOoO '1000...   '030P33311  -1301£101
*p0   33P050T 00   3  004£.    AI -3- - (300100   P...O4  300)  030010101.- OIP-L        -30  0131 .104-010  _1000.0400014004   1p10  001000p303  [010  030
'01140£3111              1  04  10  0000              T_1190   .O 3T001  0203dd11 -  13  0110030- 003
p00 0001004 '001u0T5400 OOPOIIOO 10000304  114110 0041 0001 10100000300                                          510d,  .   l--     T-T-d-P 661 p0- 066  '0461,b 00104o
3010  0)401  30  320004     (OlOIuO   p00010  00  003300000             Jo£p0ld.o 3        ..00   .. 410  1009I(I0004  34  00 .14000  *p03
.;y   1T101P1-.4 111P.000637 9                                    '0000 T; 666   p00 P066  '041    0010...040
04   )  0400   0  3dS0£ TTplOp 0030 £d000P-                      p0  630334p0   00  00 00003 11000032 10000  -10001 -TroP-oPI-]uo 4T 003  0o11-1-p-d
01 p0110100 00009000 10101 - 630p00100 p00 '£100j30 - 0000  ...04- -T., 1d-15.P004                             T           .0100 ild. P601  .0p0 '0661'016     001 .10
-     .p0003d   4-3140  0:.31014  30403...  00p1'01111    0'1-1   1-0)40   (30   111"0) 00311...A  -T(0001303) 030130100 00  30100  10304
000101000   1001130  -  £3T       01    00 loOu300)  1001110   10011-0                                                                                              '£100. -     T...   .T   T
P .. q ..; ....IP...O                                               P0110000110330010  0  01403     00  130101300000
.;P. 7p-                           1-01 1,        7~~~~~33 ... 1  3.--*:-j.                                  041T       (-- 9130   0)0`---V3  30040
'oo1               nd0 03)0  014  0040  0 0104000001.1.04   3001000000                                                     :0101004T30..(00300
30T     01o0p   oo3  ju0101  0331  30-  p010-d0 104 0300                                 -01140  00_ .000  £01111300- 00TOUI_P 001001 P T n00    '001  00
P..  I, T I.   lTTV- (-1.1 .. 4 p .ql Id)  IT ...I  Tp1  -I.   Tjj.d-%.l.... d  --Tl.d. .4, p  PTI.d   "                 300£ 04103 -
p. .... A sy P.5- -12.0111301                                  0o3o101dd2   04  000PP0 '1031410 I14101  00601003d303-04
(.,j- p.. p... - .1q.) .3i.p.  I ...0103  41002I00T0.03011 003010004£30001000 001-- 01101030 03003100
-   1       q-100300'03   '110 I.-.A P02 P0110P 30100000   p301101  01I, 0011          oooa           0101   101uo              Ot 100090006       121  p300w-£101d,d 1030
I. ......~~'0,0   IP09d0100                                 0)T T0l)33 1010000 0000  00014103014 00100003 £1111 003300
"0.1 OloPoy -  03111 00 '0043   '3010   -  0330  000 3 0-T. 3100 00300..A           -ST)0  010006 0034   30 01340100.PT3 £1000   0  03000000  -O)V0(                   -a
'..ouosd   00301100  303 P104000  04.003£1030.0.£1030300~000p3   2   q01000    00
01 04P01..1 ... 014     ..100  A . 3   .....1p01   I03p01 -- 000-  10A104 LT4.jT4T-            P--T 00    T-It0004  03 -0010000   000101000   00030- 0T    47  iF£liTo Ob
030300   2001   0340  4*030p13043JO$1003    3  0101000    p30000 ...d1oaEij£)   o3
"130   40.040  10d  IM-7-P1   0004  3000000300) .         14..   0  3  0010 0-003031DT)'SlOPT 0661 -                                          00 '0661,d.  '006A 0p 300010-
A.I-TId p .... dd. ;.161 01Iooo..O£1314030003.3033IA. 0000-3010bJ  00131'1J0.3333 P-
.......... !-q. .. P.I...3 - IT   I.-0)1.1404I00330000430  0 0303 -....S                                                  00303110...     001l   j  043
d0340p  O0 000       03903  35                  T [10     1t0113093000b;0                61"0'61'411   1I  00  - .IYTIO..                         op1101_1100 I 000
-140140040 000401  00101110  03   00)11100   03)00  o ootiP.,11                                                        II                                   loop!'T1111T,
'10010000 101900    4; 10) 0011.A44    £4 P33010  (10000304 lu 030101     .000 100014000 900n001300'-0T"0 T-0P ... 0 T             0'0010300  '. I   11 1     0
0044  51)434 30   W'0   030304033101  34P PIP  (1033 4-       '00430 J-             o,;4034000010  0   01010d                010.3446               . (iT .F6(   444
'p11)0010044130   900'0035'130   -p0  101001  A300 0010010004.9:..-4
'00000 10001000900 '0030010011034 '0030   00p'3   0100I0010                 'lp6611000  3   1TT0p0    0014P01130   31004'40   0
2011103   30300.  £404309  010140          00034A ToojoIoU110oo                      ;00oo   0£10001p003    0013303   1001-VTOt£T
'00301 £1).oOO)00 10 300400 1001900 0 0033  p0~~~~~~1331w   .....V         '010100. "T 011...    003 pA121;4o103   3030101-   j03
--q430011043  3T0000 440009010004-0110438011101)'46   00010   18130
..,I.d pld--                                   '.."I'd003003  00£310004 P"00_0 0011 0P  I.10 01001p1  00I 3
p  00   4111040   1  000  1000-000000-                             0400   130010  00P30 0-.00  2o 10001  001I00  04 0000 00.100 ...0TII   I0  01.  I                         00
303031  300004004   1*10   190PO010   10   0310P1. 0300  000 .03Pu3j.  113d- 00431  1011433  30  1330  £30000  I rq.  013
40032 £310000 041 0041 000001000330000411    000-0141T...300006)00  300  00)0   4   0400300300  0414I)03  .d -ol003.0 
'01100   30140d0301  30(00 04 *133  0013010340 p00- 'P..10103p0                       q'001)20  30 03593   04        3  011T0,          0014
:~.-3000 '030        -  .A-..; 02090p3'01004100103110 01013000      loJofi  0490   1000q_!0010_O pOOpO                           040   4              300010 d10000   £10010
-0015) 04 1006.. £041 1040p0100 04 0010910040 01 '0101100 900 0010113014100 130 041 poOp"lD11030001 050300.0003.00039030 dlOp 041  2004116-10010
T   ~~~~~~~~~~~INNV                                      -            -~~~~~..3ld.   .I1-11q.j..2



- 29 -                                         ANNEX 1
Page 4
SUDAN - COUNTRY DATA
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
CROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN 1977/78 -/                                    ANNUAL RATE OF GROW;TH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.           X                                    1972/73-1977/78
GDP at Market Prices          5,561.0           100                                          0.6
Cross Domestic Investment       912.5          16.4                                          8.1
Gross National Saving            445.0          8.0
Current Account Balance         467.5           8.4
Exports of Goods, NFS            575.5         10.3                                          0.1
Imports of Coods, NFS         1,165.5          20.9                                          7.9
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1974/75
Value Added 21                 Labor Force 2/                  V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.         %             Mln.             %                iJS $           __
Agriculture                     1,681        41.2             3.25           68.7               517             59.9
Industry                         657         16.1             0.30            6.3             2,190            253.8
Services                       1,745         42.7             1.18           24.9             1,479            171.4
Total/Average             4,083        100.0             4.73          100.0               863            100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Covernment - 1979/80
(LSd. Mln.)                     % of GDP -
Current Receipts                                643                             15.4
Current Expenditure                             672                             16.1
Current Surplus                                 -29                             -0.7
Capital Expenditures 4/                         164                               4.4
External Assistance (net)                       238                              5.7
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                    1974/75       1975/76       1976/77       1977/78       1978/79      1979/80
(million LSd outstanding end period)
Money Supply                                 292.5         369.6         530.0         669.1         877.0       1,047.5
Bank Credit to Central Government            212.8         300.8         466.0         593.5        913.7        1,130.2
Bank Credit to Private Sector and            296.7         393.3         432.5         490.8         652.9         814.3
Parastatals
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index (estimates)               21.1           1.6          17.9          16.7          37.4
Bank Credit to Public Sector                  37.6          41.4          54.9          27.4          54.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector                 48.4          32.6          10.0          13.5          33.0
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
1/ This is the last year for which reasonably reliable GDP data by expenditure are available.
2/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation. "Unallocated" consists mainly
of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
3/ At market prices.
4/ Expenditures from Development Budget (includes some capital expenditures by other public entities).
Not available.
Not applicable.
EA2DB
February 1981



- 30 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5
SL'DAN - COUNTRY DATA
TRADE BALANCE AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS ESTIMATES                                                      MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1976/77-78/79)
1976/77   1977/78   1978/79   1979/80                                           US $ Mln.      Z
(Mil lions US S)
Exports Goods, NFS                 739        710        708        845            Cotton                         328.2      56.3
Imports Goods, NFS              1,397      1,360      1,345      1,600             Gum Arabic                      41.3       7.1
Resource GAP                      -658       -650       -637       -755            Groundnuts                      57.9       9.9
Sesame                         43.8        7.5
Interest MLT Debt (net)            -75      -244       -247       -250             Other                          111.8      19.2
Other Factor Payments (net)        187        428        416        432               Total                       583.0    100.0
Transfers                           24         --         10         69
Current Balance                   -522       -466       -458       -504
Public Grants                       21         --         --         --            EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1978
Public MLT Loans, disb.            338        132        405        509
Public  iLT Loans, amort.          -51        -67        -57        -89                                                 US $ Mln.
Total Public, net                  308         65        348        420            Public Debt, incl. guaranteed          2,075.5
Increase in Arrears      345        325        116        121             Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                 ..
Increase in Arrears               345        325        116        121             Total Outstanding and Disbursed
Change Net Foreign Assets           52         76         -6        -50-l          DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1978
-  increase)                                                                                                 %
Errors and Omissions b/          -183          --         --         13            Public Debt, inc]. guaranteed          35.0 d/
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt              ..
Gross Reserves (end year) c/        23         22         27         33            Total Outstanding and Disbursed
RATE OF EXCHANGE e/                                          IBRD/IDA LENDING, (Jan. 31, 1981) (Million US $)
Annual Averages  _End Period                                                            IBRD          IDA
1977     1978   Aug 79  Sep 79        Outstanding and Disbursed                      128.5         196.7
Official:                                                    Undisbursed                                     30.7          326.3
LSd 1 = US$         2.872    2.662   2.500   2.000         Outstanding incl. Undisbursed                  159.2         523.0
Effective:
LSd 1 - US$         2.500    2.225   2.000         --
Parallel Market:
LSd 1 = US$             --        --      --   1.250
a/ Includes use of IMF resources.
b/ Includes short-term and private capital movements.
cl Based on IMF statistics (line 1. d of IFS) which accounts for the variations between this line and the reserves
implicit from the proceeding line.
d/ Based on amounts owed, not what was actually paid.
e/ Prior to September 1979, Lhc officinl rate differed from the effective rate by thesamount of export tax/subsidy
charges.  After September 1979, these were abolislhed and a parallel market rate was established for transactions
other than a limited category including government purchase and a few "essential" items.
Not available.
EA2DB
February 1981



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS - SUDAN
(as of January 31, 1981)
Amount (US$ Million)
(Net of cancellations)
Credit No.      Year    Borrower   Purpose                  Bank   I:DA   Undisbursed
Six Loans and seven Credits fully disbursed:                127.2 109.7
Credit 311       1972    Sudan       Mechanized Farming II          11.3       4.1
Credit 364-2    1975    Sudan        Rahad (Supplement)             20.0       5.7
Credit 547       1975    Sudan       Education II                   10.0       4.9
Credit 564       1975    Sudan       Power II                       23.0       1.1
Credit 589       1975    Sudan       Industrial Bank of Sudan II   7.0         2.3
Credit 614       1976    Sudan       Technical Assistance            4.0       1.1
Credit 643       1976    Sudan )                                     9.0       8.5
Loan 1287T       1976    Sudan )    Domestic Aviation         20.0    -       20.0
Credit 718       1977    Sudan       Savannah Development           17.0      16.8
Credit 727       1977    Sudan )                                     8.0       4.9
Loan 1467T       1977    Sudan )    Railway IV                12.0    -       10.7
Credit 781       1978    Sudan       Port                           22.0       9.8
Credit 782       1978    Sudan       Livestock Marketing            25.0      24.1
Credit 804       1978    Sudan       Mechanized Farming III         16.0      15.8
Credit 834       1978    Sudan       Agricultural Research          15.0      15.0
Credit 882       1979    Sudan       Highway II                     41.0      35.5
Credit 904       1979    Sudan       Southern Region
Agriculture Project          15.0     12.6
Credit 1000      1980    Sudan       Agricultural Rehabilitation
Program                      65.0     59.6
Credit 1006      1980    Sudan       Third Power Project            65.0     64.5
Credit 1022 1/  1980    Sudan        New Halfa Rehab. Project       40.0     40.0
Total                                                  159.2 523.0
of which repaid                                       82.3   6.9
Total now outstanding                                   76.9 5,16.1
Amount sold                                   5.8
of which repaid                            5.8          -     -
Total held by Bank & IDA 2/                             76.9 516.1
Total Undisbursed                                       30.7 326.3    357.0
1/   Not yet effective.
2/   Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
A. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of January 31, 1981)
Fiscal                                                    (Amount in US$ Million)
Year                  Obligor                           Loan   Equity   Total
1964 and     Khartoum Spinning & Weaving Co.
1972         Textiles                                   1.9    0.3        2.2
1976        Cotton Textile Mills                         8.7    1.3       10.0
1978        Seleit Food Production Ltd.                 11.2    1.2       12.4
1978        Gezira/Managil Textile Co. Ltd.              6.7    1.4        8.1
1980        Promotional Cement Company                   -       0.2      0.2
Total gross commitments                     28.5    4.4      32.9
Less cancellations, terminations
repayments and sales:                    6.9    0.2        7.1
Total commitments now held by IFC          21.6    4.2       25.8
Total undisbursed by IFC                     2.3    0.8       3.1
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
The Bank and IDA have so far made eight loans and twenty-four credits
to the Sudan. Disbursements are either in progress or about to commence for
the following projects.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 33 -
AN'NEX II
Page 3
Credit No. 547   Second Education Project:  US$10.0 million Credit of
May 16, 1975; Effective Date: September 30, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The first education project (Credit 122) has been completed and
undisbursed funds ($200,000) have been cancelled. The second project is some
25-30 months behind the original 1975 appraisal schedule. The delay is due
to the lack of a viable construction industry, transportation difficulties
and weakness in project management. Some change in project scope has been
necessary in surmounting these difficulties. Physical execution of the
project is improving, with the award of the bulk of the construction contracts,
although transportation remains a constraint.   Close monitoring of the
project is to continue.
Credit No. 311   Second Mechanized Farming Project; US$11.25 million Credit
of June 12, 1972; Effective Date: April 24, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Since October 1977, the total number of farms allocatedL has remained
stable at about 245 (88% of appraisal estimate), although steps are now being
taken to bring this up to the full 280. The road construction program has
made little progress due in part to difficulties in getting spare parts for
MFC's heavy equipment. Repayment of loans by farmers at Umm Seimat has
improved but remains unsatisfactory at some 22%. Explanations given by
management include adverse climatic conditions and unwillingness by farmers to
repay loans received. Repayment at Habila is said to be satisfactory, however--
more than 95%. The Tozi Farm Machinery Training Center has made some progress.
Almost US$4.0 million remains undisbursed in project account and the Mechanized
Farming Corporation and Government have been notified that unless firm proposals
are submitted for use of the proceeds, consistent with project objectives,
cancellation will be considered.
Credit No. 364   Rahad Irrigation Project; US$62.0 million Credit of March 30,
and            1973 and July 11, 1975; Effective Dates:  August 29, 1973
364-2           and November 17, 1975; Closing Date:  December 31, 1981
The Rahad Irrigation Project commenced agricultural production
in 1977 with cotton grown over 50,000 feddans (15 percent of the total
project); cotton yields for the first year were already close to the appraisal
estimate for full project development. Major project civil works have now
been substantially completed on some 206,000 feddans, with 154,000 feddans
under cultivation; both are short of the planned target of 300,000 feddans.
Project implementation has been delayed because of continuing maLnagerial,
financial and logistical problems. A revised allocation of funds to priority
activities has recently been agreed, along with a new program of action for
completing the project.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
Credit No. 718   Savannah Development Project; US$17.0 million Credit
of June 24, 1977; Effective Date: August 31, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Due to organizational delays and logistical and financial con-
straints, this project, as well as the parallel ODA/Abu Dhabi Fund-supported
Southern Darfur project, will not be implemented as envisaged at appraisal.
The Government proposed that both projects be rephased, reduced in scope and
consolidated into a single operational unit. Appraisal of the consolidated
project has just been completed and the proposal will shortly be submitted for
consideration.
Loan No. 1467T   Fourth Railway Project; US$12.0 million Loan of July 8, 1977
and          and US$8.0 million Credit of July 8, 1977; Effective Date:
Credit No. 727   January 12, 1979.  Closing Date:  December 31, 1982.
Procurement under the project is progressing well, with nearly
two-thirds of the credit/loan already committed. Rapidly rising prices, along
with a protracted delay between signing and effectiveness of the project, may
necessitate some reduction in project scope. Co-financing is being provided
by the Kuwait Fund, Arab Fund, Abu Dhabi Fund, and European Development
Fund.
Loan No. 1287T   Domestic Aviation Project; US$20.0 million Loan of
July 7, 1976 and US$9.0 million Credit of July 7, 1976;
Credit No. 643   Effective Date:  January 11, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1981
Management problems have resulted in delays in project implementa-
tion; in addition, the project has encountered serious financial problems.
Tenders for construction of the Wau and Malakal airports came in at levels
far above the appraisal estimate and retendering was initiated, based on
revised design and bills of quantities. However, the new tenders also came in
at levels greater than available financing. The future of this project is now
under discussion with Government, including the possibility of cancellation.
Credit No. 589   Second Industrial Bank of Sudan Project:  US$7.0 million
Credit of November 11, 1975; Effective Date: April 16, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Funds under the first Industrial Bank of Sudan project (Credit 447)
have been fully disbursed, and the credit was closed on June 30, 1979. Under
the second project (Credit 589), US$5.3 million has been committed and US$4.46
million disbursed. There have been problems with overall management respon-
sibility and effectiveness within IBS and doubts about IBS future role in the
industrial sector. These issues have been brought repeatedly to Government s
notice but no appropriate action has been taken. Consequently, consideration
of a proposed third line of credit for IBS has been postponed.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
Credit No. 564   Second Power Project; US$23.0 million Credit of June 25,
1975; Effective Date: October 29, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
Contracts for supply, erection and commissioning of genetrating
plant, transmission lines and ancillary equipment were placed mostly accord-
ing to the program. However, delays in award of contracts for civil works at
the Burri diesel station, Roseires hydroelectric station and the Juba diesel
station are likely to delay commissioning of various components of the Project
by about two years. The project cost estimate is now 53% higher than at
appraisal and the Government has received a loan of US$9.5 million from the
OPEC Special Fund to help meet the foreign exchange cost overrun. PEWC has
increased its electricity tariffs by 100 percent and its water supply tariffs
by 200 percent. The Government changed the composition of PEWC's board of
directors, removed PEWC's departmental managers from the board and replaced
them with ministerial under-secretaries.
Credit No. 614   Technical Assistance Project;  US$4.0 million Credit of
April 7, 1976; Effective Date: October 5, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project, supported by IDA and the Kuwait Fund, is hielping to
finance preparation studies of high priority projects to facilitate Sudan's
public investment. The Project Preparation Unit has been established, but is
only moderately effective. Overall project progress has been good, however.
Credit No. 781   Port Project:  US$22.0 million Credit of June 9, 1978;
Effective Date: February 2, 1979. Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project provides for expansion of the capacity of the existing
berths in Port Sudan and mechanization of cargo handling and movement, improve-
ment of layout and working surfaces, and improvement of bulk, container and
roll on/roll off facilities, as well as management assistance and training.
Project works are well underway.
Credit No. 782   Livestock Marketing Project:  US$25 million Credit of
June 16, 1978; Effective Date: July 9, 1979
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The Project provides market and transport infrastructure, technical
assistance, a headquarters building and additional staff for the Livestock
and Meat Marketing Corporation (LMMC), which is implementing the project.
Construction of the LMMC headquarters is 50 percent complete, and selection
of sites for 13 markets and 10 holding yards has been finalized. The Sudan
Railways Corporation has contracted to purchase livestock wagons, vans and
underframes, as well as light locomotives.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Credit No. 804   The Third Mechanized Farming Project:  US$16 million
Credit of July 13, 1978; Effective Date; August 13, 1979
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
The project objectives are to (a) help present users of mechanized
farming methods become more productive, and (b) support programs designed
to develop mechanized farming methods for smallholders. These objectives
will be pursued through improvement and expansion of the extension activities
of the Mechanized Farming Corporation (MFC), programs of adaptive trials
and related research, access road building, importation of spare parts for
the mechanized dryland farmers and reorganization and strengthening of the
MFC. The project became effective eight months later than expected. Late
appointment of staff and delayed procurement will prevent full implementation
of agronomy and farm machinery trials during the 1980/81 season. A draft
study of MFC's future functions is being discussed with Government.
Credit No. 834   Agricultural Research Project; US$15.0 million Credit
of July 27, 1978; Effective Date: March 21, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Over a six year period, the project would develop the research
capability of the Agricultural Research Corporation (ARC) in Western Sudan,
implement research programs in this region and strengthen ARC's new Khartoum
headquarters.  The research program would be concerned with integrated live-
stock and crop production systems, pure livestock production systems and water
and land use management. USAID is co-financing the project. In order to
limit projected cost escalation, reductions in staffing and housing have been
agreed. USAID is considering additional funding.
Credit No. 882   Second Highway Project; US$41.0 million Credit of
March 16, 1979; Effective Date: January 23, 1980;
Closing-Date: December 31, 1984
The first highway project (Credit 331) was closed on June 30, 1980.
The second project will facilitate the transport and export of agricultural
production through construction of the Jebel Aulia to Ed Dueim road along the
White Nile; improve accessibility of currently settled but isolated areas;
provide access to new areas of agricultural development; develop appropriate
organizational, planning and technical skills in the Roads Department of the
Southern Regional Ministry of Communications, Transport and Roads, particularly
with respect to highway maintenance; and provide detailed engineering for
future priority roads. The contracts for road construction and supervision
have been let, and construction work has recently started. Selection of the
consultants for technical assistance to the Southern Region has been completed.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 7
Credit No. 904   Southern Region Agriculture Project:  US$15.0 million
Credit of May 11, 1979; Effective Date: February 14, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The present project, a follow-up to the earlier rehabilitation project
(Credit 476), will assist the Southern Regional Government to implement part
of its regional agricultural development program by strengthening agricultural
services, planning capacity and management and improving physical infrastructure.
Credit No. 1000 Agricultural Rehabilitation Program: US$65.0 million
Credit of March 25, 1980; Effective Date: May 12, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
The objective of the project is to provide foreign exchLange financing
for high priority imports (spare parts, fertilizers, etc.) to help increase
utilization of productive capacity in the irrigated agriculture subsector from
which Sudan derives the bulk of its foreign exchange earnings. The project
will also encourage macro economic and agriculture sector policy and institu-
tional reforms and provide financing for technical assistance to help implement
the program. An EEC Special Action Fund Credit of about US$11 miLllion will
supplement the program.
Credit No. 1006 Third Power Project: US$65.0 Million Credit of April 17,
1980; Effective Date: August 14, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
This project will help expand power supply and distribution in
Sudan's Blue Nile grid through the provision of hydro, thermal and diesel
generation. The project will help meet the expected increased demand through
1986. The Overseas Development Administration (United Kingdom) and the
Ministry of Economic Cooperation (Federal Republic of Germany) are cofinancing.
Credit No. 1022 New Halfa Irrigation Rehabilitation Project: US$40 million
Credit of May 15, 1980; Effective Date: Not yet effective;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
This is the first of a series of rehabilitation projects in the
irrigated subsector designed to support Sudan's Export Action Program. It
will revitalize the second largest irrigation scheme in the counLtry, where
cotton and groundnuts are grown. The International Fund for Agricultural
Development and the African Development Fund are cofinancing.
Technical         Planning Assistance and Training:  US$1.8 million Credit;
Assistance        Effective Date:  July 1, 1977;  Termination Date:
June 30, 1983
This technical assistance project, funded by the UNDP and executed
by the Bank, provides the services of seven advisers to the Min:istry of
National Planning to assist in national, sectoral and annual planning and
improved project identification and preparation.  The advisers have encoun-
tered some difficulties in trying to introduce appropriate systems for annual
planning and monitoring, as required by their terms of reference, but other-
wise the project is making satisfactory progress.



- 38 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
SUDAN
WHITE NILE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time Taken to Prepare Project: seven months
(b) Preparation by: FAO-World Bank Cooperative Program
(c) Initial Discussions with Association: 1978
(d) First Bank Mission: October, 1979
(e) Appraisal Mission Departure: February, 1980
(f) Completion of Negotiations: January 7, 1981
(g) Planned Date of Effectiveness: July, 1981
II.  Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
III. Special Conditions
Proposed conditions of credit effectiveness:
(a) Opening of line of credit of one million Sudanese pounds in
the Bank of Sudan on behalf of WNAPC (ref. para 44);
(b) Ratification of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the
Government and WNAPC satisfactory to the Association,
(ref. para. 45);
Other major conditions include:
(c) WNAPC to set up and staff a Tenants Credit Unit prior to
June 30, 1982, (ref. para. 46).



- 39 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(d) The Government, through a Project Steering Committee, to
prepare annual work programs to be submitted by specific
dates for Association review and covering an agreed range
of activities (ref. paras. 54, 55).
(e) WNAPC to recover the costs of all goods, services and
credit provided to tenants and ensure that Tenants'
Lease Agreements are entered into and kepL current with
each tenant (ref. paras. 59, 66).
(f) Cotton prices to producers to be determined by Government
in consultation with the Association (ref. para. 66).
(g) WNAPC to issue regulations, on or before August 31, 1981,
satisfactory to the Association embodying provision for
prompt payments to tenants for seed cotton (ref. para. 66).
(h) WNAPC to furnish to the Association a comprehensive staff
training and maintenance program no later than December 31,
1981 (ref. para. 57).
(i) WNAPC to appoint a financial analyst no later than July 1,
1981 (ref. para. 51).






Omdurman                                                                     S U D A N
\m                 \7WHITE NILE PUMP SCHEMES
\AR TOUM1                                   REHABILITATION PROJECT
Region Limits
/!=*= Pump  Schemes
'AAUCI'                                                                Ex::-:_ Eisting  Irrigation Schemes
- ~~~~~AM                                       --   ~~~~~~~~Primary Roads
Wad '    UM  < _  d   Rowoh  --   Secondary Roads
Railroads
_15'                             =                                                                                         National Capitol
T Towns and  Villages
- - - - - - -                                                      --g55~~~A    Rivers
=l Q /<utraynahX                                             -    ...........  Provincial Boundaries
' /A+/  \ X   l  5i> Y -  :?S;Rorfasoh           0     10     20     30 Ml
> (  X  X2A>  ° 2s so~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~50KM
X \$ X 1z1 FF~~~~~~~~~.                      - ,. . . . . . . . . . . . .....,,---- 
f  X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                      . .   .   . . . . 
1d~~~                  Ed Duei ~~~~~~R EG
L I B Y    REPUBIC            ARABIA           'REGION   7           /0i                                                    ''          om.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    1~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~1'
-'        Ald l i    SAUDI 0PlGAO.                                                   6
AFRICABAN   E                                                                               Ti-mphsEenGrpaeIrOhNWrdBak sa7  xlsiey es itcorestnc
AFRICAN  RE>,_,u   >   7/            ( 8  V                             ot~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c the readers Of the recori tc which Itus attalckhe5d The dennsciaicS vhothee aonde ihe  \   s
_.9   Y   ffi  \ -_ ':               t                                  e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fhiiaetees eny Iciseinent on the leval statsc aPtfenytheeri-tOtey Worl Hany e ndsreesen c
.  2 A I R E  X  bANDA   !   =        G Ir        \   33O             V~~~~~~~~~~~~~cceptancecCsuch hocudariss                                -



