Off ICIAL
.1ig C  DIT NUMBER 110SU
Development Credit Agreement
(White Nile Pump Schemes Rehabilitation Project)
between
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                     2 7       , 1981


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1f t SU
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    A         -Z 7       , 1981, between THE
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called
the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by the White Nile
Agricultural Production Corporation, with the Borrower's assis-
tance and the Borrower will make available to the White Nile
Agricultural Production Corporation the entire proceeds of the
Credit as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and the
White Nile Agricultural Production Corporation;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and the White Nile Agricultural Production Corporation


﻿-2-
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules to the Project Agree-
ment and all agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b) "WNAPC" means the White Nile Agricultural Production
Corporation, established by and operating under the 1980 Warrant
of the Borrower, dated May 5, 1980, as such Warrant may be
amended from time to time;
(c) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and the White Nile Agricultural
Production Corporation pursuant to Section 3.01 'b) of this
Agreement, as may be amended from time to time, and such terms
include all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(d) "TCU" means the Tenant Credit Unit of WNAPC referred
to in Section 2.10 of the Project Agreement;
(e) "kSd" means Sudanese Pounds, the currency of the
Borrower;
(f) "Project Account" means the account referred to in
Section 3.02 of this Agreement;
(g) "Tenants' Lease Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between WNAPC and each tenant in respect of a
tenancy;
(h) "Annual Work Program" means a program to be prepared
annually for the carrying out of the Project, pursuant to the
provisions of Section 3.04 of this Agreement;
(i)  "Project Steering Committee" means a committee to be
established by the Borrower, with power to ap?rove the Annual Work
Program; such Project Steering Committee to have representatives
of the Ministries of Finance and National Economy, National
Planning, Irrigation, the Bank of Sudan and WNAPC and to be headed
by the Minister of Agriculture;
(j) "White Nile Irrigation Schemes" means the schemes oper-
ated by WNAPC for the purposes of the Project; and
(k) "Planning and Development Unit" (PDU) means a unit to
be established in the WNAPC.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to twenty-seven million five hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 27,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to the Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associ-ation, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of the goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by provisions set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be
amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and
the Association.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1986 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
February 1 and August 1 commencing August 1, 1991, and ending
February 1, 2031, each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on February 1, 2001, to be one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment there-
after to be ine and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.


﻿-4-
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause WNAPC to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall take
and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable WNAPC to perform such obligations, and shall
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to
WNAPC under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and WNAPC under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Association which shall provide, inter alia,
that the funds relent to WNAPC shall bear an interest rate of not
less than 9% per annum and shall be repaid on 15 annual install-
ments following a grace period of 5 years with the Borrower
assuming the foreign exchange risk.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes
of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause WNAPC to open an
account for the Project and arrange for a line of credit from the
Bank of Sudan to the WNAPC through this account of not less than
one million Sudanese Pounds (9Sd 1,000,000) to meet initial
Project expenses.
(b) During the execution of the Project, the Borrower shall,
every quarter, transfer or cause transfer of funds to this account
in accordance with the financing plan and cash flow projections
embodied in the Annual Work Programs.


﻿-5-
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall furnish to the Association
through its Ministry of National Planning, not less than 60 days
after the completion of the quarter, the quarterly progress
reports referred to in Section 2.05 (b) of the Project Agreement.
S.ection 3.04. Except as the Association may otherwise agree:
(a) the Project shall be carried out pursuant to Annual Work
Programs acceptable to the Association, approved by the Project
SC-eering Committee and formulated in accordance with the following
provisions:
(i) the first Annual Work Program shall cover the
period ending June 30, 1982 and shall be submitted
to the Association within four months from the
date of this Agreement;
(ii) not later than each May 1 during the execution of
the Project, the Borrower shall deliver to the
Association a proposed Annual Work Program covering
the year commencing the following July 1; and
(iii) each Annual Work Program shall contain the items
described in Part A of Schedule 4 to this Agree-
ment, shall be accompanied by information described
in Part B of such Schedule and shall be evaluated
by the Association on the basis of the criteria set
forth in Part C of such Schedule;
(b) each proposed Annual Work Program delivered to the
Association shall be signed by the Minister of Agriculture, Food
and National Resources or his designate, who shall, by so signing,
certify that such proposed Annual Work Program has been considered
and approved by both the Project Steering Committee and by the
Board of Directors of WNAPC;
(c) the Association shall, within three weeks of receipt,
inform the Borrower and WNAPC of its acceptance of, or comments
on, each proposed Annual Work Program delivered to the Association
and, if the Association shall not concur with such Annual Work
Program as proposed, the Association shall promptly exchange views
with the Borrower and WNAPC; and
(d) Annual Work Programs may be amended at any time by
agreement between the Association and the Borrower.


﻿-6-
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall take out, or cause to
be taken out, insurance against such risks in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practices, or make, or cause
to be made, other provisions satisfactory to the Association for
this purpose.
(b) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or cause to be
insured, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transport-
ation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, or
make, or cause to be made, adequate provisions for the insurance
of such goods; provided that any indemnity under such insurance
shall be payable in a currency freely useable to replace or repair
such goods.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall: (a) announce for each
cropping season cotton prices payable to producers not later
than December 1; and (b) ensure that payments are promptly made
to WNAPC for cotton.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) WNAPC shall have failed to perform any covenant, agree-
ment or obligation of WNAPC under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or
the Project Agreement;
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that WNAPC would be able to perform its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement;
(c) the 1980 Warrant establishing WNAPC and dated May 5,
1980, shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived in such a way as to materially and adversely affect the
execution of the Project;
(d) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of WNAPC or for the suspension of their operations.


﻿-7-
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a), (b) or (c) of
Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for
a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by
the Association to the Borrower; and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (d) of Section 4.01
of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the WNAPC Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall have been
executed on behalf of the Borrower and WNAPC; and
(b) the Project Account has been opened and a line of credit
of not less than one million Sudanese Pounds (fSd 1,000,000) shall
have been established for such Account with the Bank of Sudan.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by WNAPC, and is legally binding upon WNAPC in
accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the WNAPC Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and by WNAPC and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and WNAPC in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date  4 wte .26 1191, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿-8-
Section 5.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
3.02 and 3.08 shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the
earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of National Planning or the
Minister of State of National Planning of the Borrower is desig-
nated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of National Planning
P.O. Box 2092
Khartoum
The Democratic Republic of the Sudan
Cable address:                      Telex:
EIMAR                              324
Khartoum
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-9,
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OV THE SUDAN
By  4s  O44Aer    Sa. A     E,44 a
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By   f's  fl4 OcC&te4
4  Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the       % of the
Credit Allocated     Expendi-
(Expressed in     tures to be
Category                     SDR Equivalent)     Financed
(1) (a) Irrigation                   3,220,000       100% of
pumps and                                  foreign
engines,                                   expendi-
including                                  tures or
spare parts                                75%
(b) Other                       6,670,000       100% of
machinery                                  foreign
and equip-                                 expendi-
ment,                                      tures or
including                                  75%
spare parts
(c) Transport                   2,280,000       100% of
vehicles,                                  foreign
including                                  expendi-
spare parts                                tures
(2) Civil works,                     7,780,000       100% of
including build-                                foreign
ings, irrigation                                expendi-
structures,                                     tures or
pumphouses and                                  50%
canal works
(3) Technical assis-                 3,380,000       100% of
tance and consul-                               foreign
tancy services                                  expendi-
tures


﻿- 11 -
Amount of the       % of the
Credit Allocated     Expendi-
(Expressed in     tures to be
Category                     SDR Equivalent)    Financed
(4) Annual farm                      1,420,000      100% of
inputs, includ-                                foreign
ing fertilizers,                               expendi-
pesticides, seeds                              tures or
and sacks                                      60%
(5) Unallocated                      2,750,000
TOTAL    27,500,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
set forth in the second column of the table in paragraph 1 above,
if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the
Credit then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance all expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by
notice to the Borrower, reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet such estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit


﻿- 12 -
which are then allocated to another Category and which in
the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other
expenditures.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice
to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is intended to rehabilitate the ongoing White
Nile Irrigation Schemes by providing it with means to increase
and sustain agricultural production through efficient use of the
available land, water and human resources and consists of:
Part A:
Provision and installation of new pumps and engines and
spare parts for existing pumps and engines and the construction
of pumphouses.
Part B:
Rehabilitation and maintenance of the irrigation canal
system.
Part C:
Strengthening of agricultural machinery operations through
provision of agricultural machinery and spare parts.
Part D:
Construction of workshop and fuel storage facilities and
buildings for offices, stores and staff housing.
Part E:
Improvement of road maintenance through the provision of road
maintenance equipment.
Part F:
Provision for use in the Project of transport vehicles.
Part G:
Improvement of telecommunications by installation of a VHF
radio telephone system, comprising a base station at Kosti and
sub-stations at strategic points within the White Nile Irrigation
Schemes.


﻿- 14 -
Part H:
Strengthening of management, administration and training
capability of WNAPC.
Part I:
Provision, for use in the Project, of fertilizers, pesti-
cides, seeds and sacks.
Part J:
Studies for further development of the White Nile Irrigation
Schemes and surrounding areas.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1986.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Parts D and F hereof, goods and civil
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower or WNAPC shall
prepare and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any
event not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability
to the public of the first tender or prequalification documents
relating thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement
notice, in such form and detail and containing such information
as the Bank shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange
for the publication of such notice in order to provide timely
notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid
for the goods and works in question. The Borrower or WNAPC shall
provide the necessary information to update such notice annually
so long as any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis
of international competitive bidding.
3.   (i) Bidders for buildings referred to in Part D of Schedule
2 to this Agreement shall be prequalified as described
in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of the Guidelines.
(ii) Items shall be aggregated in order to attract major
contractors and suppliers.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods,
or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other import
taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,


﻿pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in The
Democratic Republic of the Sudan may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that
will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
The Democratic Republic of the Sudan if the bidder
shall have established to the satisfaction of The
Democratic Republic of the Sudan and the Associa-
tion that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in the Democratic Republic
of the Sudan equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3. In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation,
and sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale
or delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest
evaluated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if,
as a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is
the lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids


﻿- 17 -
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C, which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is
the lowest evaluated bid, shall be selected.
C.   Preference for Domestic Contractors
With respect to the evaluation of bids for any contract for
civil works included under Category 2 of the table set forth in
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement and to be procured
in accordance with the procedures described in Part A of this
Schedule, WNAPC may grant a margin of preference of 7-1/2% to
domestic contractors, in accordance with, and subject to, the
following provisions:
1.   Contractors shall be required to prequalify as provided
in Part A of this Schedule and applicants for qualification
applying for such preference shall be asked to provide, as part
of the data for qualification, such information, including
details of ownership, as shall be required to determine whether,
according to the classification established by the Borrower
and accepted by the Association, a particular firm or group of
firms qualifies for a domestic preference. The bidding documents
shall clearly indicate the preference and the method that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give effect
to such preference.
2.   After bids have been received and reviewed by WNAPC,
responsive bids will be classified into the following groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible
for preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.


﻿- 18 -
D.   Other Procurement Procedures
(i) Materials for building constructic;, shall be
procured in accordance with local competitive
bidding procedures or other appropriate procedures
in consultation with the Association.
(ii) Civil works estimated to cost less than $500,000
equivalent but not more than the aggregate amount
of $3,000,000 equivalent may be carried out in
accordance with local competitive bidding proce-
dures or other appropriate procedures in consulta-
tion with the Association.
(iii) Rehabilitation of the canal system referred to in
Part B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement shall be
carried out under negotiated contract between WNAPC
and the Public Corporation for Irrigation Works and
Earthmoving, on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association.
(iv) Goods, other than spare parts for machinery and
vehicles, estimated to cost less than the equiva-
lent of $100,000 and more than the equivalent of
$10,000 and in the aggregate estimated to cost not
more than the equivalent of $3,000,000, shall be
procured in accordance with the existing normal
procedures of the Borrower.
(v) Goods, other than spare parts for machinery and
vehicles, estimated to cost less than the equiva-
lent of $10,000 and in the aggregate estimated to
cost not more than the equivalent of $200,000,
shall be procured at reasonable prices off the
shelf or by prudent shopping.
(vi) Spare parts for vehicles and machinery shall be
procured directly by negotiated contract from the
principal manufacturers or by quotations from
dealers of such goods as appropriate.
(vii) Fertilizers, pesticides, seeds and sacks referred
to in Part I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement shall
be procured in accordance with existing normal
procedures of the Borrower or other appropriate
procedures in consultation with the Association.


﻿- 19 -
E.    Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of prequalification: WNAPC shall, before qualification
is invited, inform the Association in detail of the procedure to
be followed, and shall introduce such modifications in said
procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. The list
of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their
qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any
applicant for prequalification shall be furnished by WNAPC to the
Association for its comments before the applicants are notified
of WNAPC's decision, and WNAPC shall make such additions to,
deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as the
Association shall reasonably request.
2.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
with respect to all contracts for civil works, except canal
rehabilitation referred to in Part B of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and for goods, estimated to cost the equivalent of
$300,000 or more:
(a) before bids are invited, WNAPC shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Association's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders;
(b) after bids have been received and evaluated, WNAPC
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, together with the recommendations
for award and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform WNAPC and state the reasons for
such determination;


﻿- 20 -
(c) the terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited; and
(d) two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
3.    With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, WNAPC shall furnish to the Association, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Association of
the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform WNAPC and state
the reasons for such determination.
4.    Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of the
terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension of
the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or issuing
any change order under such contract (except in cases of extreme
urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by more
than 20% of the original price, WNAPC shall inform the Association
of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or change order
and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it determines that
the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of this
Agreement, shall promptly inform WNAPC and state the reasons for
its determination.
F.   Procurement Without Contracting
Pumphouse construction and renovation of irrigation canal
structures may be carried out by WNAPC by force account.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 4
Annual Work Programs
A.   Each Annual Work Program shall provide documentation, satis-
factory to the Association, with respect to the following:
(i) a detailed description of the work to be performed,
including the objectives of the work plan for the
ensuing fiscal year commencing each July 1, the sched-
ules of activities, equipment requirements, staffing
arrangements and training plans, and the distribution
of responsibilities for each item included in the
Annual Work Program;
(ii) a budget for the period covered in respect of each Part
of the Project setting forth:
(a) the proposed capital expenditures;
(b) -all proposed recurrent expenditures such as
salaries, materials, fuel, repairs and maintenance
directly attributed to activities under such Parts
of the Project, together with a breakdown of
predevelopment and incremental expenditures;
(c) a comparison of the proposed investment and recur-
rent budgets with the proposed budget and estimated
expenditures for the previous year;
(d) a list of all staff employed or to be employed on
a full-time basis by WNAPC with respect to such
Parts of the Project; and
(e) a list of proposed expenditures for technical
services, studies and training;
(iii) a financing plan and detailed quarterly cash flow
projections including the Borrower's contributions to
the Project Account pursuant to Section 3.02 of the
Development Credit Agreement;
(iv) the proposed procurement program and procedures to be
applied thereto;


﻿- 22 -
(v) a detailed Project implementation schedule for the year
in question; and
(vi) a detailed program of maintenance including staff
allocations, training and procedures to be applied
thereto.
B.   Each Annual Work Program shall be supported by the following
information, as may be relevant:
(i) a detailed assessment of the previous year's achieve-
ments;
(ii) a detailed staffing analysis, including a report on
previous staffing and proposed increments or reductions;
(iii) the proposed training and maintenance programs;
(iv) a copy of the annual credit and service contract
executed under the Tenants' Lease Agreement for the
ensuing fiscal year commencing each July 1 which would,
among other things, embody details of the cost recovery
system to be adopted and carried out during that year
including the rate of interest charged on overdue
amounts of tenants' crop accounts and on cash advances;
(v) a copy of the current Regulations of WNAPC;
(vi) a detailed examination of the level of cotton prices
necessary in order to provide adequate tenant incentives
and sufficient financial returns for WNAPC; and
(vii) a detailed review of the following items which impinge
on Project implementation:
(a) performance of WNAPC in executing Part B of the
Project;
(b) progress in establishing the cost recovery system
and determining accurate costs for various recover-
able items of expenditure;
(c)  performance of the Tenants Credit Unit and status
of tenant indebtedness; and
(d)  performance of the Planning and Development Unit.


﻿- 23 -
C.   The criteria upon which the Association's approval of a
proposed Annual Work Program shall be based are as follows:
(a) the adequacy of such program to implement basic
Project objectives consistent with requirements
of the Development Credit Agreement, the Project
Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(b) the adequacy of such program in providing physical,
financial and manpower resources to implement and
sustain the physical targets set for the ensuing
fiscal year; and
(c) the adequacy of measures to improve performance in
areas of recovery of costs and charging of interest
to tenants relevant to inflation experience,
tenant debt management, irrigation system main-
tenance and project management with particular
emphasis on financial management, maintenance and
training.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of HtA      ,
198
FOR SECRETARY


