c I   i   IT NUMBER 117 SU
Project Agreement
(White Nile Pump Schemes Rehabilitation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
THE WHITE NILE AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION CORPORATION
Dated                      ,11981


﻿CREDIT NUMBER      SU
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    /L&&4A    "?d/7     , 1981, between the
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and THE WHITE NILE AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION CORPOR-
ATION (hereinafter called WNAPC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between The Democratic Republic of the Sudan (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to twenty-seven million five hundred
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 27,500,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only
on condition that WNAPC agree to undertake such obligations toward
the Association as are hereinafter set forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and WNAPC, the entire proceeds of the Credit
provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made
available to WNAPC on the terms and conditions therein set forth;
and
WHEREAS WNAPC, in consideration of the foregoing, has agreed
to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth,;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Whenever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
as so defined have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. WNAPC shall (a) during the execution of the
Project furnish to the Project Steering Committee not later
than April 1 each year a proposed Annual Work Program, and (b)
furnish to the Project Steering Committee within two months from


﻿-2-
the date of the Development Credit Agreement the first proposed
Annual Work Program covering the fiscal year ending June 30,
1982.
Section 2.02. WNAPC shall carry out the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering and agricultural practices, and shall
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.04. Except as the Association may otherwise agree,
WNAPC shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) WNAPC shall furnish to the Association
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, re-
ports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) WNAPC: (i) shall maintain records and procedures ade-
quate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (includ-
ing its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived
from it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and to disclose their use in the Project;
(ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives
to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall
furnish to the Association at regular intervals through the Bor-
rower's Ministry of National Planning all such information as
the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from
it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods
and services financed out of such proceeds, including quarterly
reports on the progress of the Project.


﻿- 3 -
(c) Upon the award by WNAPC of any contract for goods,
works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof, the
name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded
and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between WNAPC and
the Association, WNAPC shall prepare through its Planning and
Development Unit and furnish to the Association through the
Borrower's Ministry of National Planning a report, of such scope
and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on
the execution and initial operation of the Project, its cost and
the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by
WNAPC and the Association of their respective obligations under
the Project Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the
Association of their respective obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
(e) WNAPC shall enable the Association's accredited repre-
sentatives to examine all plants, installations, sites, works,
buildings, property and equipment of WNAPC and any relevant
records and documents.
Section 2.06. WNAPC shall duly perform all its obligations
under the WNAPC Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Borrower
and the Association shall otherwise agree, WNAPC shall not take or
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or
any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) WNAPC shall, at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) WNAPC shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by WNAPC of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.


﻿-4-
Section 2.08. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, WNAPC shall ensure that the Tenants' Lease Agreement, in-
cluding the annual credit and service contract, is entered into
and kept current with each tenant in the White Nile Irrigation
Schemes and that such agreement contains, inter alia, the terms
and conditions set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, WNAPC
shall provide services only to tenants whose aforesaid agreement
is current.
Section 2.09. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, WNAPC shall recover the costs of all goods, services and
credit provided to the tenants in accordance with the principles
set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.10. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, WNAPC shall set up and staff, prior to June 30, 1982, the
Tenants' Credit Unit, whose functions shall include the establish-
ment of procedures, satisfactory to the Association, for debt
recovery by WNAPC.
Section 2.11. In order to assist WNAPC in carrying out the
Studies under Part J of the Project, and in developing an overall
long-term plan for full scale regrouping and modernization of pump
schemes, as well as a detailed preparation report for a possible
follow-up Project, WNAPC shall, in consultation with the Ministry
of Irrigation of the Borrower, employ consultants whose qualifi-
cations, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall
be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.12. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, WNAPC shall employ a procurement officer, a financial
analyst, an agricultural management specialist, an agricultural
engineer, a mechanical engineer and an agricultural economist,
all with qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment satisfactory to the Association.
(b) In order to assist WNAPC in strengthening its accounting
system, WNAPC shall appoint the Financial Analyst referred to in
(a) above no later than July 1, 1981.
Section 2.13. WNAPC shall, not later than August 31, 1981,
issue regulations, satisfactory to the Association, setting up
procedures for ensuring that payments to tenants for seed cotton
supplied to WNAPC are made promptly.


﻿- 5 -
Section 2.14. WNAPC shall furnish to the Association, for
its review and approval, a comprehensive training and maintenance
progrqm no later than December 31, 1981.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of WNAPC
Section 3.01. WNAPC shall at all times carry out its opera-
tions under qualified and experienced managerial staff, with
sufficient supporting staff, in accordance with appropriate
financial, administrative, agricultural and management practices.
Section 3.02. WNAPC shall at all times take all steps neces-
sary to maintain its right to carry on its operations, including
the Project, and shall, except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, take all steps necessary to acquire and retain such land,
interest in land and properties, and to acquire, maintain and
renew such licenses, consents, franchises and other rights, as may
be necessary or useful for carrying on its operations.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) WNAPC shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b) WNAPC shall retain, until two years after the Closing
Date, all records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents) evidencing the expenditures for the Project on account
of which withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the
basis of certificates of expenditures and shall enable the
Association's accredited representatives to examine such records.
Section 4.02. (a) WNAPC shall: (i) have its initial accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets and related statements),
relating to its position at the time it was established, audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association in English as soon as available,
but in any case not later than December 31, 1981 (A) certified
copies of such financial statements as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such


﻿- 6 -
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association in English such other information
concerning such accounts and financial statements and the audit
thereof as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) WNAPC shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) for each fiscal year subsequent to its
establishment audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association in
English as soon as available, but in any case not later than nine
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association in English such other information
concerning such accounts and financial statements and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request. The report of such auditors shall contain a separate
opinion by the auditors as to whether the proceeds of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account on the basis of certficates of
expenditures have been used to make payments for goods received,
or works or services performed, and that such goods, works and
services were eligible for financing under the Development Credit
Agreement and were used in the carrying out of the Project.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of WNAPC thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 7-
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
WNAPC of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                         Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For WNAPC:
White Nile Agricultural Production
Corporation
Kosti
Sudan


﻿lw 8
Cable address:
MUNTIG
Kosti
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement by or on behalf of WNAPC may be taken or executed
by the Managing Director of WNAPC or such other person or persons
as such Managing Director shall designate in writing, and WNAPC
shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such
person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
WHITE NILE AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION CORPORATION
By
Authorized Representative


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Tenants' Lease Agreements
The Tenants' Lease Agreement shall, inter alia, specify:
1.   The identity of the tenant or tenants legally responsible
under the Agreement and the initial registration fee to be
paid by the tenant or tenants to the WNAPC.
2.   The period of the lease as twenty years.
3.   The duties, obligations and remedies of the WNAPC under the
Agreement.
4.   The duties, obligations and remedies of the tenant or
tenants under the Agreement.
5.   The execution of an annual credit and service contract for
each fiscal year wherein the duties and obligations of both
the WNAPC and the tenant or tenants in regard to all serv-
ices, including credit, extended by the WNAPC; and the
remedies in the event of default by either party will be
prescribed.
6.   The annual credit and service contract shall, inter alia,
specify:
(a) the identity of the tenant or tenants legally respon-
sible to pay the cost of service provided and repay
credit extended by the WNAPC;
(b) the rate of interest of not less than 12% per annum
charged on the overdue amounts of tenant's crop accounts
and on cash advances;
(c) the rate and mode of recovery of costs of investment
and various services provided by the WNAPC during
the period of the contract;
(d) details of cash advances that would be made available by
the WNAPC to the tenant or tenants during the period of
the contract, the mode of their recovery and the terms
and conditions that will determine the tenant's or
tenants' eligibility to obtain such cash advances;


﻿- 10 -
(e) a list of operations performed by and the services
provided by the WNAPC during the period of the contract;
(f) a list of operations performed by and the services
provided by the tenant or tenants during the period of
the contract;
(g) the form of accounts the WNAPC will maintain and
opportunities available to the tenant or tenants to
inspect such accounts;
(h) the functions and procedures of the Tenants' Credit
Unit in the management and recovery of tenant debt;
and
(i) the remedies for the WNAPC and the tenant or tenants in
the event of default by either to fulfill obligations
imposed by the contract.
7.   The power of the WNAPC to revoke a Tenants' Lease Agreement
for which a current annual credit and service contract is not
in force.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Cost Recovery System
The following principles shall govern the Cost Recovery
System under the Project:
(1) All investment costs and expenditures on services to the
tenants shall be recovered in full from the tenants.
(2) The full cost of producing each crop shall be charged
against such crop. The WNAPC shall, in consultation with
the Association, establish a sound basis for allocating
various costs among the different crops raised in the
Project Area, based on accurate unit costing to value
all goods, services and cash loans.
(3) In the case of crops marketed through WNAPC, costs
attributable to each crop shall be deducted by the WNAPC
from the proceeds of that crop or from the tenants'
share of such proceeds; in the event of costs collect-
able from tenants exceeding receipts, the difference
shall be collected in cash from the tenant.
(4) In the case of crops directly marketed by tenants, such
tenants shall make payments in cash to WNAPC to meet
costs recoverable from them for such crops.
(5) The quantum of recovery of cost shall be determined
during the five-year Project execution period on
the basis of the ability of tenants to meet such costs
from tenancy cash flow, and shall be calculated and
embodied in the Annual Work Program. Any costs not
recovered shall be capitalized and recovered during the
subsequent years along with interest at 12% per annum.
(6) The Tenants' Lease Agreement shall specify the rate of
cost recovery from tenants and the dates by which such
payments by tenants should be made, and shall provide
remedies to WNAPC in the event of default by the
tenants.
(7) Cases of default shall be referred to the Tenants'
Credit Unit. The functions and reponsibilities of the
Tenants' Credit Unit shall be laid down in Regulations


﻿WNAPC in accordance with the powers conferred on it
under Section 20 of the Public Corporations Act 1976,
and shall, inter alia, include: (a) review of all cases
of failure by individual tenants to conform with the
provisions of the Tenants' Lease Agreement; (b) specific
recommendations to the management of the WNAPC on
the action to be taken in each case; and (c) establish-
ment of an efficient debt recovery mechanism. The
recommendations of the Tenants' Credit Unit, as approved
by WNAPC, shall be binding on the tenants.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of KOACL
198 J.
FOR SECRETARY


