Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.5898-TU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TIIRKEY
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
June 2, 1986
Regional Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Unit = Turkish Lira (TL)
US$1 = TL 540
TL 1  =  US$0.00185
TL 1 = 100 Kurus (Krs)
(as of July 1985)
FISCAL YE-AR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System                             British/US System
1 meter (m)                              = 3.2808 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                         = 0.6214 mile (mi)
I square kilometer (kmz)                 = 0.3861 square mile (mi2)
1 kilogram (kg)                          = 2.2046 pounds (lbs)
1 tonne (t)                              = 1000   kgs (2205 lbs)
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ALB    -  Automatic Line Block
CTC    -  Centralized Traffic Control
DLH    -  General Directorate of Construction of Harbour, Ports,
Airports and Railways, Ministry of Public Works
and Settlement
EDP    -  Electronic Data Processing
ELMS   -  TCDD Locomotive Factory in Eskisehir
ER     -  Economic Return
FYR    -  First Year Return
GTKM   -  Gross Ton Kilometer
TBRD   -  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB    -  International Competitive Bidding
LCB    -  Local Competitive Bidding
MAFRA  -  Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Rural Affairs
MOF    -  Ministry of Finance
MPW    -  Ministry of Public Works and Settlement
NTKM   -  Net Ton KilomeLer
NTMP   -  National Transport Master Plan
PCR    -  Project Completion Report
PEE    -  Public Economic Enterprise
PKM    -  Passenger Kilometer
SEE    -  State Economic Enterprise



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
- 11 -
SKIS   -    Specialized Management Information System
SPO    -    State Planning Organization
TAS    -    Traiu Automatic Stopping
TCDD   -    Turkish State Railways
TCL    -    Turkish Cargo Lines
TDC    -    Turkish Iron and Steelworks
TDI    -    Turkish Maritime Organization
TRY    -    Turkish Airlines
TPH    -    Tonnes per Hour
TSM    -    Transport Sector Memorandum
TU     -    Traffic Units
TUII   -    Technical University Institute of Istanbul
UB     -    Ministry of Transport and Commntications
UIC    -    International Railway Union
Thi documnt hs a rtriced distibution md may be usd by repients only in the perfomne
of thi oci.d duis Its contests may not oderwe be diuamed wihout Word Dank Abtor bon.



REPUBUC OF TURKEY
STAFF APPRAIAL REPORT
SECOND RAELWAY PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   THE TRANSPORT SECTOR                                           1
A. The Transport System . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   1
B. Transport Planning, Policy & Coordination.              2
C. The Railways Subsector . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   3
D. Previous Bank Experience in the Transport Sector .      4
II.  THE RAILWAYS                                                   6
A.  Organization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   6
B.  Management and Staff . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   6
C.  Railway Property . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   7
D. Workshop and Depots  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   8
E.  Traffic . . . . . . I . I I . I I .    I I I  .        9
F. Operations and Action Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . .  10
G. Tariffs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  11
H. Investment Plan (1985-89)  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  12
I. Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . .  14
Ill. THE PROJECT                                                   15
A.  Objectives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  15
B.  Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  16
C.  Cost Estimates . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  18
D. Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  20
E.  The Loan, the Borrower and Beneficiaries   . . . .    21
F.  Implementation . . . . . ... . . . . . . . . . . . .  21
C. Procurement. ..........    22
H. Disbursements. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  24
I. Environmental Impact . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  24
IV.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION                                           25
A.  General  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  25
B.  Project Costs and Benefits . . . . . . . . . . . . .  26
C.  Economic Return  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  27
D.  Project Risks  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  30
This report is prepared by Messrs. M.K. Ganguli (Transport Economist).
S.B. Orlic (Railway Engineer), E. Pogson (Financial Analyst), W. Reck and
K.S. Banerjee (Consultants) on the basis of an appraisal mission to Turkey
during July 1985. Kues. S. Morris and N. Muhoho (Research Assistants)
assisted the appraisal/post appraisal missions in the preparation of cost
tables and financial forecasts.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
V.   FINANCIAL EVALUATION                                         31
A.  General  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   31
B. Recent Financial Results . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   32
C.  Financial Forecas..  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   35
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHD AND E      EDAIONS. . . . . . . . .   40
1.  Improvement of Locomotive Availability and Efficiency      42
2. Action Plan. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   48
3. Traffic Analysis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   53
4. Senior Technical Advisors and Assistants:
Ters of Reference . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   61
5. A Study of Specialized Management Information System
for Locomotive Maintenance and Operation:
Terms of Reference . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   67
6. Operational Strategy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   72
7. Economic Analysis - Approach and Methodology . . . . . .   79
8. Financial Analysis - Main Accounting Assumptions . . . .   82
9. Related Documents and Data Available in the
Project File . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   89
TABLES
1. Operating Efficiency and Staff Productivity 1980-84  .      91
2. Comparison with Selected Other Railways  . . . . . . . .   92
3. Selected Operating Statistics 1980-84  . . . . . . . . .   93
4. Motive Power and Rolling Stock - Yearly
Averages 1980-84 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   94
5. TCDD's Investment Plan 1985-89 . . . . . . . . . . . . .   95
6. DLR's Investment Summary ... . . . . . ... . . . . . . .   96
7. Track Overhaul 1985-89 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   97
8. Modernization of Signalling and Telecommunications
(1985-89) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    98
9. Technical Assistance and Training Program . . . . . . .     99
10. Summary of Project Cost Estimates . . . . . .  I . . .     100
11. Procurement of Items Eligible for Loan Financing  . . .   102
12. Implementation Schedule . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   104
13. Estimated Schedule of Procurement . . . . . . . . . . .   105
14. Estimated Schedule of Disbursement  . . . . . . . . . .   106
CHART
TCDO Railway Organization Chart:  World Bank 27683 . . . . . 107
MAP
IBRD 19221 - Turkey - Transport Infrastructure



REPUBDIC OF TURKEY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND RAELWAY PROJECT
Loan and Proiect Summary
Borrower:              Republic of Turkey
Beneficiaries:         Turkish State Railways (TCDD) and General Directorate
of Construction of Harbour, Ports, Airports and
Railways (DLI).
Amount:                US$197 million equivalent.
Terms:                Repayable in 17 years including four years of grace at
the standard variable interest rate.
Lending Terms:        US$188 million would be on lent by the Borrower to the
TCDD for a period of 17 years on the same terms and
conditions of the Bank loan; TCDD being responsible
for any foreign exchange risk.
Proiect Objectives
and Description:      The main objectives of the proposed project are to
support the Government's policies of overcoming key
bottlenecks to railway transportation, increasing
operational efficiency sand assisting the railways in
their financial recovery and thereby reducing the
burden of subsidies on the budget. The project
consists of: (i) a comprehensive program for
improving the management of the locomotive fleet;
(ii) overhaul of about 740 km of main line track, and
provision of track overhaul equipment;
(iii) modernization of main line signalling (about
700 km); (iv) construction of about 65 km track; and
(v) technical assistance and training for all
components. The proposed project is also designed to
bring to the forefront important institutional
development measures such as introduction of modern
management methods with extended application of
computers to railway operation and management.



-ii-
Benefits and Risks:   The principal beneficiaries of the proposed project
would be users of railway freight services,
particularly producers, shippers and consumers of bulk
freight. The Bank-assisted components would help the
Turkish railways to register an all-round improvement
in operation and a better safety standard. Project
risks are considered small as the technical solutions
envisaged are based on proven technology.
Furthermore, the rolling annual plan mechanism to be
followed by the Government and TCDD will allow
flexibility in progressive adjustment of investments
to correspond with changes in traffic levels and
thereby reduce the risk of over investment. The
impact on the environment would be positive.
Estimated Costs:
Local           Foreign            Total
US$ million
1. Improvement of diesel
locomotives                82.4              62.7             145.1
2.  Track Overhaul                73.1             45.2             118.3
3.  Track Overhaul machinery       5.7             13.5               19.2
4. Signalling and Telecom-
munications                28.6              30.6              59.2
5. Line Capacity Works            75.6             18.9               94.5
6. Technical Assistance and
Training                    1.7               3.1               4.8
TOTAL BASE COST              267.1             174.0             441.1
Physical Contingencies      26.0              15.8              41.8
Financial Contingencies     64.6              34.7               99.3
TOTAL PROJECT COST            357.7  '         224.5             582.2
1I Includes US$151.6 million of taxes and duties.



-iii-
Financint Plan:
Local           Forei              Total
World Bank                          -             197.0             197.D
Government                       357.7             18.5            376.2
Supplierst Credit (or
co-financhng)''                    -               9.0              9.0
357.7            224.5            582.2
Estimated Disbursements:
IBRD FT  1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993
Annual            22.0    42.0    45.0   37.0   30.0    17.0        4.0
Cumulative        22.0   64.0   109.0  146.0  176.0   193.0  197.0
Rate of Return:      About 22Z
1J Government would retain financing responsibility in case the
anticipated suppliers' credit (or co-financing) does not materialize.



L THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. The Transport System
1.01     Turkey has an extensive and diversified transport network to
integrate its 780,000 sq. km of territory (approximately the same as France
and West Germany taken together) and to serve the needs of its population of
about 48 million. Transport plays a vital role in the economy by providing
essential support for commercial and industrial activity, foreign trade and
transit traffic. The wide-spread distribution of population and economic
activity and the difficult terrain over much of the country means that trans-
port is relatively costly. Turkey is also a vital transport bridge between
Europe and the Middle East; its trunk routes and international connections are
of special concern because Turkey aims to improve its integration with the
world economy through increased international trade and appropriate develop-
ment of transport infrastructure.
1.02     The current transport system in Turkey consists of about 300,000 km
of state, provincial and local roads, 8,200 km of railways, 12 major public
ports, which handle a significant volume of cargo, and includes coastal
traffic, civil and military pipelines, and airlines which serves several
domestic and international routes (Map IBRD 19221). The Government of Turkey
recognizes the importance of the transport sector in the grovth of the economy
and its importance in achieving balanced regional development. During the
last decade the transport and communications sectors accounted for about 202
of total public investment.
1.03     Road transport dominates the present transport market in Turkey.  The
railway's share of total freight traffic decreased from 55X in 1960 to only
about 12X in the 1980's, while the share of road transport rose from 43Z to
75, during the same period. Railway freight traffic, despite low tariffs, has
declined in absolute terms since the peak year of 1976, when it carried about
7.5 billion net ton-kilometer. However, freight traffic has increased since
1980 from 5.0 billion net ton-kilometer to 7.5 billion net ton-kilometer in
1984. Road transport, in contrast, has expanded at an average annual rate of
about 8Z during the 1970's and 1980's, despite increases in fuel costs and the
recent slackening of world economic growth, and today, carries about 951 of
domestic passenger transport. The road transport has been able to cope with
this increase in traffic due to the resilience and responsiveness of private
operators who enjoy considerable freedom to negotiate rates and operate
commercially. Nevertheless, the road traffic has been carried at a great
cost, since many of the main trunk routes have severely deteriorated due to
the increased heavy traffic and road travel is often hazardous. Heavy bulk
commnodities such as lignite, cement, fertilizers which should economically be
carried by rail to long distances are carried by road transport because of the
railways limited capacity and poor reputation for reliability.



-2-
1.04     The ports and customs organizations have also responded quite
quickly to the changing pattern of trade, particularly to the unusual up-
surge of transit traffic as a result of the outbreak of 1980 hostilities in
the Gulf. The Bank's Second Port Project (Loan 1741-TU for US$75 million
dated July 2, 1979) contributed effectively by the acquisition of need-
based equipment and rehabilitation. However, several ports are now
experiencing some constraints arising, for example, from increased export
traffic and changing emphasis fLuu general cargo to container traffic. The
Bank's Third Ports Loan 2535-TU approved in May 1985 would assist in re-
solving these problems.
1.05     Maintenance and replacement of transport assets have received in-
sufficient attention. Many highway trunk routes are below standard for the
traffic they carry; railway track is 'orn out and the railways lack
adequate motive power and other suppoit facilities; and the ports lack
modern equipment to handle the rapidly growing volume of container
traffic. The main problem, however, is that the railways have failed to
realize their potential and have become a serious bottleneck for the
development of the core sector of the economy, namely, mining, iron and
steel and other key bulk industries.
1.06     Energy has become a critical sector for the Turkish economy and
transport accounts for about 40% of total oil product consumption because
of the rapidly increasing and widespread role of road transport. Oil
imports, which were only US$200 million in 1970, rose to about
US$3.7 billion in 1983, equivalent to about 65X of Turkey's merchandise
export earnings. The Government is anxious, therefore, to make better use
of the energy efficient railway and shipping transport modes wherever
appropriate. As regards road transport, energy efficiency is sought
through such actions as better vehicle operation and maintenance, improved
urban traffic management, raising the average payload of trucks and
drivers' training.
B. Transport Planning, Policy and Coordination
1.07     Responsibility for transport sector planning, policy development,
and investment is divided among four key ministries and agencies. The main
agencies involved are: (a) the Ministry of Transport and Communications
(UB), which significantly contributes to transport policy and also oversees
the main agencies in the transport sector - Turkish State Railways (TCDD),
the Turkish Maritime Organization (TDI), Turkish Cargo Lines (TCL), Turkish
Airlines (THY); (b) the Ministry of Public Works and Settlement (MPW)
which is primarily responsible for execution of all transport infra-
structure projects including planning, policy and construction and
maintenance of state and provincial highways and execution of port and
railway new infrastructure; (c) the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and
Rural Affairs (MAFRA) which is responsible for construction and maintenance
of the large network of local and forestry roads; and (d) the State
Planning Organization (SPO) which coordinates with the Ministry of Finance
to determine investment priorities.



-3-
1.08     The need for improved coordination in the transport sector and a
system for ensuring an appropriate determination of modal, sector, and
national priorities has been recognized by the Government and incorporated
as a major goal in its development plans. The Government's plans for the
development of the sector are embodied principally in the stabilization
programs pursued since 1980 and, especially, in the National Transport
Master Plan (NITMP) for the period 1983-1993. Although more difficult
economic conditions than anticipated have caused some reductions in the
targets included in the NTMP, the plan still provides a valuable general
policy framework for the development of the sector. The Government's basic
goal has been to increase the systems capacity fast enough to support
economic growth, avoid bottlenecks and conserve energy with the main policy
instruments being transport investments in different modes including
foreign exchange allocations and pricing measures. The Government intends
to update the NTMP every three years, the first revision being scheduled
for 1986. The NTMP is supported by five-year programs for each transport
agency, which are now being established as a rolling-plan for the period
1985-89.
1.09     The Bank has been involved in detailed policy discussions and
institutional issues in the transport sector and on modal investment plans
through preparation of a Transport Sector Memorandum (TSM) in 1983 and more
recently through a Transport Investment Plan Review concluded in July
1985. Through its involvement in the sector, the Bank has reached a broad
consensus with the Turkish authorities on the main issues and goals of the
transport sector. In particular, the authorities appreciate the need to
increase operational efficiency, to reduce railway deficits and to remedy
deficiencies in project preparation and implementation. The Bank also has
assisted the authorities in addressing a wide range of sector issues
through its involvement in project preparation and implementation in
highways, railways and ports. Improved planning and better selection of
highway projects, as well as a shift from force account work to construct-
ion by contract, are being achieved under two existing highway projects.
Assistance is provided for the introduction of a modern system of handling
containers, and related improved documentation in the recent port project
supported by the Bank (para. 1.04). In the proposed Second Railway
Project, assistance would be provided to remedy major deficiencies in
railway operations, particularly, reduction of deficits and improvement in
locomotive availability, traffic organization and safety.
C. The Railway Subsector
1.10     Today, the railway's inability to carry the traffic currently
being offered is a significant impediment to Turkey's development efforts
and forces bulk commodities to be carried by road over long distances. The
railway's crucial problem is the low availability of motive power
(para. 1.05). Concerted efforts should be made to improve the reliability
and efficiency of the diesel locomotives of TCDD.  Furthermore, TCDD plans
to phase out virtually all steam traction by the end of 1986, on



- 4 -
operational, economic and energy-efficiency considerations. The change
from steam to diesel traction will bring a need for radical change in
systems and technology for maintenance and locomotive control requiring
technical assistance and training of operational and maintenance support
personnel.
1.11     The Government attaches a very high priority to the development of
the core sector of the economy, namely, the iron and steel industry, mining
and power. The Bank has provided considerable financial and technical
assistance towards achieving these mutually shared development objectives.
There is a clear economic role for TCDD's trunk liues which are ideally
suited to low cost, long distance bulk transport and there is an urgent
need to develop effectively the rail transport capacity for these pur-
poses. The modernization of railways has also assumed a greater urgency
because of the rapidly increasing and wide-spread use by road transport of
scarce and costly imported petroleum (para. 1.06). The Government's
strategy is to develop the railways as an energy efficient mode for bulk
commodity transport whenever appropriate. However, the rehabilitation of
TCDD will be a formidable task. The proposed project is designed to begin
the complex but worthwhile task of modernizing and restructuring TCDD to
improve operational efficiency and to support the Government's efforts
towards TCDD's financial recovery. This is in accord with the country
objectives of decreasing budgetary pressures and increasing economic
efficiency.
D. Previous Bank Experience in the Transport Sector
1.12     Since 1950, the Bank has participated in six projects in the
transport sector, three port projects of which two (Loans 28-TU and
1741-TU) are completed, one completed railway project (Loan 893-TU) and two
highway projects (Loan 2137-TU and 2439-TU), both of which are ongoing and
scheduled for completion in June 1987 and December 1990.
1.13     Project implementation in general, though experiencing delays, has
been to a large extent satisfactory in achieving physical targets. Most of
the problems are confined to implementing policy reform agreements and pro-
curement delays. However, the implementing agencies are now more familiar
with Bank procurement guidelines and the Government recently adopted a more
coordinated and realistic approach towards transport sector policy. This
has been shown in the quality of preparation of the proposed project and in
the Government's willingness to discuss the important sector issues,
including the overall investment program (1985-89) covering all modes of
transport.
1.14     The First Railway Project (Loan 893-TU of US$47 million) which
covered the first three-year tranche of the railway's 1972-77 Investment
Plan closed June 30, 1981 and the Ports Rehabilitations Project
(Loan 1741-TU of US$75 million). have been the subject of Project Com-
pletion Reports (PCRs). An Audit Report (No. 5768 of June 30, 1985)
regarding the First Railway Project has been issued.



The main conclusions of the Audit Report are that the reforms contemplated
in the railway project were overly ambitious and pervasive while the time
frame for execution was short. Operational and financial improvements were
not achieved due to poor availability of locomotives, for lack of spare
parts and insufficient tariff adjustments. Procurement problems delayed
completion of the project. The project was completed with a cost overrun
of lOOS mainly due to inflation, and a time overrun of 220%, primarily due
to delay in procurement actions and slow progress in arranging technical
assistance.
1.15     The proposed Second Railway project is designed to address the
above issues, based on the lessons learnt in the first project. Improving
the reliability and efficiency of the diesel locomotives of TCDD, including
improvement of workshop facilities, locomotive technology and maintenance,
would be the centrepiece of the new project. That is to say that the
project is concentrated as distinct from the first loan which was for a
time slice of the investment program. A total period of 6 1/2 years has
been allowed for disbursement (Table 14). The staff of the TCDD now are
conversant with the Bank's procurement procedures. Furthermore, the
Government has made increasing efficiency of state-owned enterprises and
reduction of their burden on the budget a major aim of its policy pro-
nouncements. Agreements have also been reached with the Government on a
detailed Action Plan, to be implemented during 1985-89 by TCDD, covering
all the important facets of railway activities, namely, traffic operation,
planning, traction and rolling stock, track rehabilitation, signalling and
telecowmunication, staff training and productivity (paras. 2.19 and 2.20,
and Annex 2). The prospects of additional railway traffic have been care-
fully assessed (paras. 2.13-2.17 and Annex 3) and an operational strategy
spelled out to deal effectively with important streams of bulk traffic. In
addition, strategies for the necessary improvement of railway finances have
been addressed in depth (paras. 5.08-5.12). The proposed package is there-
fore intended to bring about much needed reforms in railway operations and
to introduce more commercial management methods.



-6-
EL THE RAILWAYS
A. Organization
2.01     TCDD is responsible for the maintenance and operation of the entire
railway system in the country and has the legal status of a Public Economic
EstablishmentL' consisting of six regions and regulated by law (Decree No.
KHK/233 dated June 8, 1984). On behalf of the Government UB supervises TCDD.
Government's approval is required for such items as investment plans, annual
operating accounts and, until recently, tariff increases (para. 5.01). The
State Planning Organization (SPO) coordinates and helps determine investment
priorities in conjunction with the Ministry of Finance. The responsibility
for new infrastructure investment and construction lies with the General
Directorate of Railways, Ports and Airports Construction (DLH) in the MPW
which is largely independent from TCDD. TCDD is also subject to financial,
administrative and technical control by the High Control Board, a Government
auditing body responsible to the Prime Minister. TCDD also owns six major
ports, and manufactures locomotives and rolling stock in three factories
(ELMS, SIDEMAS and ADVAS) (see Chart 27683). The ports are separately
organized and like the railway factories are each managed as independent self
accounting units.
B. Management and Staff
2.02     The Board of Directors, consisting of six members, including the
Director General as Chairman, determines railway policy. The Director
General, assisted by five Deputy Director Generals, is the Chief Executive
Officer of TCDD and he is appointed or dismissed by proposal of the Minister
of Transport and Commmications. The different departments are headed by
Directors who are responsible to the respective Deputy Director General.
Planning is weak and poorly co-ordinated (see Action Plan, Annex 2 para. 2(2).
2.03     The railways experience a shortage of qualified senior engineering
and commercial personnel and it is difficult to attract qualified and promis-
ing staff at all levels because (a) salaries are much lower than in private
industry; and (b) promotions for sew staff are slow since they depend more on
seniority than on merit. Under these circumstances, TCDD envisages supple-
mentary training abroad of operational and engineering staff at executive
level to help the introduction of modern management techniques. TCDD has
recently been authorised to pay salaries comparable to those outside the
public sector for a restricted number of employees.
1/ Public Economic Establishments are public economic ventures whose public
service aspects are sufficient to justify some deviations from commercial
principles of operation. These are different from State Economic Enter-
prises, which are supposed to operate in accordance with commercial
principles.



-7-
2.04     During the past five years, TCDD employed from 58,000 to 62,000
people, of which 20 to 22% were workers in production shops (Table 1). Staff
productivity has increased by about 23% from 241,400 in 1980 to 295,800
traffic units per employee in 1984 (Table 1) and is reasonable compared with
other railways (Table 2).
C. Railway Property
2.05     Network - The Turkish railway system links the European railway
system via the Bosphorus train ferry to the systems of Iran, Iraq, Syria and
the USSR. The railway network comprises about 8,200 route km of standard
gauge of which about 95% are in Asia. Suburban lines in Istanbul, Ankara and
Izmir are electrified and double-tracked. The total length of double-tracked
routes is about 231 km (Table 3). The operation and development of the rail-
way system are constrained by the difficult mountainous terrain and further
extensions or short cuts will be difficult and costly to build. The track is
generally in poor condition (about 60% of the rail is over 30 years old) and
track overhaul is heavily in arrears. The track is mainly (about 85%) 46 kg/m
or less rails, mostly without welded joints, laid on wooden sleepers (46%),
steel (33%) and concrete sleepers (21%), generally fastened by screws without
plates. The ballast is of poor quality stone and formation. Embankments and
cuttings in many stretches need repairs. About 85% of the network is suitable
for axle loads of 18-20 tons per axle. Poor track conditions have aggravated
railway operation and have become a serious safety problem requiring urgent
attention. At present, speed and axle load restrictions are imposed on many
mainline sections because of poor track conditions which reduces line capacity
and significantly increases the operation and maintenance costs.
2.06     Stations, Loops and Yards - The Turkish railway has 54 central
stations, 112 main stations, 403 hold-stations and 543 crossing (stop)
stations. The stations are generally suitable for train lengths from 400 to
600 m (about 110 axles in average). On the iron ore line, the stations are of
500 m clear length permitting up to 30 wagons per train of about 2,000 tons
trailing load. The railway system is characterized by the absence of
mechanized gravity marshalling yards and appropriate container terminals.
Instead of marshalling yards, there is a multiplicity of sidings and holding
lines at the stations serving them.
2.07     Signalling and Telecommunications - A major part of telecommunication
system is adequate. The signalling system is, however, outmoded and about 60%
of lines are without appropriate safety and signalling installations. Some of
the better equipped lines on the TCDD are: Sirkeci-Halkali (28 km of double
track) with automatic line block (ALB) system and Haydarpasa-Ankara line
(590 km of which 127 km is double track) with centralized traffic control
system (CTC). Divrigi-Iskenderun single line (577 km) is an on-going project
which will include CTC devices.



-8-
2.08     Traction and Rolling Stock - The main type of traction is diesel-
electric accounting for about 84X of traffic (in gross-ton-kms) with about
456 mainline locomotives, 78 shunting locomotives and 27 diesel-electric
units. About 10% of the traffic was moved by steam locomotives in 1984
(Table 3), all of them older than 35 years. TCDD plans to phase out all steam
fleet by the end of 1986. The proportion of traffic hauled by electric
traction is about 6S, mostly in suburban traffic, with 18 electric locomotives
and 70 electric-motor units (Table 4).
2.09     TCDD owns 1,379 passenger units (881 coaches, 153 sleepers, 20
restaurant cars and 325 self-propelled units) with total capacity of 96,500
seats (Table 4), 827 of which are up to 30 years old. The remainder are all
over 30 years old and have reached the end of their economic life and about
half (mostly two-axle cars) should be scrapped as soon as possible.
2.10     TCDD's freight fleet consists of 20,9941-' of all types of wagons
(Table 4) with average wagon capacity of 31 tons and availability of about
912. About 6,000 wagons or 302 are over 35 years old and should soon be
withdrawn from service and replaced by modern wagons of higher capacity, in-
cluding container wagons required for intermodal transport.
D. Workshops and Depots
2.11     The level of technical quality of the workshop facilities for loco-
motives, freight and passenger cars is unsatisfactory. The car fleet and the
steam locomotive fleet are largely obsolete. The main part of the diesel
locomotive fleet presents many technical deficiencies and problems. Their
performance is greatly handicapped by low efficiency of the maintenance system
and lack of spare parts.
2.12     At present, the principal emphasis of former main workshops has
shifted to construction of new vehicles and the manufacture of new parts and
components, in Eskisehir for diesel and electric locomotives, in Sivas for
freight cars and in Adapazari for passenger cars and self-propelled train-
sets. Overhaul of locomotives and rolling stock has been relegated to
secondary activities in these workshops. The TCDD is, however, in the process
of building new main workshops. One, for Diesel locomotives in Behicbey near
Ankara, is already erected but only partly equipped and in operation. Others
are to follow for rolling stock overhaul in Malatya and Afyon. This trans-
ition situation had a negative influence on the efficiency of diesel loco-
motive maintenance because it led to scattered overhaul activities in a number
of depots, overdimensioned and overequipped for this purpose. Furthermore,
there is an important gap, the absence of a central maintenance management
agency which should ensure planning, control and supervision of all
maintenance activities as one integrated system. The proposed project
addresses the need and urgency of reorganizing the locomotive maintenance and
1/ excluding private wagons (about 1,300 mostly for special purposes)



- 9 -
locomotive operation system and includes specific understandings regarding
improvement of locomotive technology, introduction of part exchange method,and
concentration of overhaul work in one main workshop. The current maintenance
set up is to be reorganized in a small number of home depots and a maintenance
management unit is to be established within TCDD's Headquarters with extended
use of electronic data processing (EDP) system (Annex 1). During project
appraisal, these suggestions were discussed with TCDD and Action Plan
(Annex 2), incorporating these items, was drawn up and agreed.
E. Traffic
Freight Traffic
2.13     The Fifth Five-Year Plan (1985-89) of Turkey has envisaged a growth
rate of 13Z per year in rail freight traffic and an increase of the railways'
share in the country's freight traffic from about 10% to 18% during this
period. The target fixed for 1989 is 12 billion NTKM. On the basis of an
average haul of about 500 km this works out to about 24 million tonnes of
originating traffic, against about 14.8 million tonnes of originating traffic
and 7.5 billion NTKM in 1984. This appears very ambitious. Analysis of the
trends of important streams of traffic and forecasts of increases of various
bulk commodities show that at least 5 to 6 million tonnes of additional
freight should materialize by 1989, consisting of about 2 to 3 million tonnes
of iron ore, 1 million tonnes of lignite, 0.5 million tonnes of anthracite
coal and 1.5 million tonnes of transit traffic and other goods like fertil-
izers, cereals, iron and steel products etc. (Annex 3). In our assessment,
TCDD stands a good chance of carrying about 10 billion NTKM in 1989.
2.14     To be specific, the requirements of iron ore for the three steel-
plants are expected to increase from about 5.3 million tonnes (including
imports) in 1984 to about 8.3 million tonnes in 1989 on account of programmed
increase in the capacity of steel production from 3.1 million tonnes to
4.8 million tonnes during this period (Annex 3). The SPO has estimated that
out of this total requirement. 5.8 million tonnes will be domestic ore
(against 3.8 million tonnes, actual, in 1984) and 2.5 million tonnes imported
ore (against about 1.5 million tonnes in 1984). The production of iron ore in
Turkey is at present insufficient to meet the country's demands and its
quality is low (iron ore content 55%). Consequently, the country has to
supplement the ore requirements through import to meet the balance and for
blending purposes. The cost of imported iron ore at the different steel
plants varied between US$28 and US$33 per tonne as against US$18-19 for domes-
tic ore in 1984. Since then, there has been some significant change. Divrigi
Iron Ore Corporation's new iron ore beneficiation plant at Demirdag has gone
into production (1985). This plant is designed to produce per year 2 million
tonnes of iron ore concentrate and another 1.3 million tonnes of iron ore
pellets with 65-68Z Fe contents, reducing the requirements for high quality
imported ore for blending purposes. Another such plant is contemplated at
Malatya. Thus, actual intake of domestic iron ore may be somewhat more than
5.8 million tonnes in 1989, if transportation is assured (Annex 3).



- 10 -
2.15     Another important commodity to the railway is lignite.  Almost the
entire rail traffic of 1.8 million tonnes of lignite in 1984 came from three
points, Soma, Tuncbilek and Seyitomer in Western Turkey. The most important
rail movements are to Izmir Power House (0.2 million tonnes a year) from Soma,
to a fertilizer plant (0.6 million tonnes a year) from Seyitemer and to Ankara
and other towns from Tuncbilek (about 0.7 million tonnes a year). The latter
movement of lignite by rail is, however, dispersed and piecemeal. Transit is
slow and often demand cannot be met for want of wagons. Substantial quanti-
ties of lignite are at present moving by road (e.g., 730,000 tonnes a year to
Ankara, 375 km; 230,000 tonnes a year to Eskisebir, 150 km; about
50,000 toDnes a year to Konya, 450 km; about 40,000 tonnes a year to Isparta,
250 km). Surprisingly, a low-rated commodity such as lignite is moving long
distance by road from Kutahya region to distant points like Sivas and Malatya,
even though rail freight is ostensibly cheaper (e.g., rail freight from
Tuncbilek to Ankara TL 2,250 per ton in 1984 against corresponding road
freight rate of TL 4,900 per ton). The present long-distance movement of
large quantities of lignite by road is about 1 million tonnes per year
(Annex 3). Railways, by arranging fast movements in block rakes and by
rationalizing distribution through dumps should be able to step up the origin-
ating traffic in lignite from 1.8 million tonnes in 1984 to at least 3 million
tonnes in 1989. Most of this traffic is already available to the railways.
In addition, traffic to Karabuk steelplant is expected to go up by about
0.5 million tonnes due to the commissioning of the third coke oven battery.
2.16     Opportunity exists for increase in transit traffic and a million
tonnes of additional traffic by rails should be possible by providing fast
express goods trains carrying containers as well. Additional 0.5 million
tonnes of traffic should materialize in cereals, fertilizers and iron steel
products by bulking piecemeal movements into rake-movements to important con-
suming centres and ensuring an adequate supply of wagons.
Passengers
2.17     Turkish State Railways carry only 4% of total passenger traffic and
the SPO does not envisage any increase in the percentage during Fifth
Five-Year Plan, mainly because any reduction in the railway's share of
inter-city traffic is likely to be offset bv corresponding increase in it's
share of suburban traffic.
F. Operations and Action Plan
Operations
2.18     The operating performance of TCDD in 1984 has registered a signifi-
cant improvement in certain aspects when compared to 1980, but is still
faltering in many operational areas (Tables 1, 3 and 4). Freight traffic in
1984 was about 50S higher (in NTKM) than in 1980 and passenger traffic about
5S (in PKM) higher during the same neriod (Annex 3 Table 1 & 2). The



- 11 -
availability of diesel locomotives increased from 62S in 1980 to 78Z in 1983
but decreased again to 70S in 1984. The main reasons for this low rate of
availability were: (a) engine failures; (b) damage caused by accidents;
(c) poor preventative maintenance; (d) deficiencies in workshop operations and
(e) waiting for spare parts due to a chronic shortage. The availability of
the small number of electric locomotives increased significantly from 561 in
I'0 to 89% in 1983 but thereafter slipped back to 851 in 1984. Wagon utili-
zation, measured in net ton-km per capacity of fleet, increased by 291 between
1980 and 1984. The turnaround time during the last five-year period shows a
slight improvement (from 13.6 to 11.5 days), mostly because more use is being
made of block trains. It is still high, even for an average haul of about
500 km. This is ascribed mainly due to delays in loading and unloading, in-
efficient marshalling operations and poor availability of locomotives.
Utilization of passenger cars, measured in passenger-km per seat, is stable
(at about 60-65,000 pkm/seat) and has been satisfactory.
Action Plan
2.19     In the course of project preparation, the mission discussed TCDD's
draft operational plans for traction and rolling stock; traction maintenance,
track overhaul, including track maintenance machinery, signalling and tele-
communications based on a methodology previously supplied by a Bank mission.
For these operational plans, TCDD's staff had prepared operational targets for
1985-90 (Annex 2, Table 1) and during appraisal understandings were reached
with TCDD on them. These were further reviewed with the Borrower during loan
negotiations and confirmed.
2.20     Based on an approach suggested by the Bank mission, TCDD has prepared
and agreed on a firm Action Plan for the railway operation and management for
1985-89. The Action Plan will become an important means for extending TCDD's
planning process and will specify measures which will be required to achieve
planned objectives. These include: planning, investments, organizational,
financial, staff productivity, and marketing objectives, as well as improve-
ments in technical and operational performance. The overall objective of the
Action Plan is to improve the utilization of capacity and manpower of the
existing railway system, as part of a coordinated transport system (Annex 2).
Appropriately updated, this Action Plan has a continuing role in the develop-
ment of the TCDD. The Action Plan would be reviewed annually and TCDD would
keep the Bank informed of progress in achieving planned improvements. During
negotiations, the various aspects of Action Plan were further reviewed and
agreed.
G. Tariffs
2.21     The present structure of tariffs was adopted in 1976 and 1977 as a
part of the first Bank-financed project. The scale for freight has six groups
with goods in Group V being the standard commodity (100) tapered with
distance. Bulk commodities such as ore and coal are in Category IV and have
rates between 701 and 351 of the standard depending upon distance. Inter-
national traffic is charged at rates agreed by the International



- 12 -
Balkan/Near East Freight Conference which are much higher than domestic
rates. The system is simple to understand and administer. Passenger fares
have a similar structure with the rate for the second class service on an
Express train being the standard (100). Second class fares on a stopping
train are expressed at 852 and a first class seat on the Inter City Express
(Blue Trains) being 210. Suburban riders pay a flat fare (TL50 in 1985).
While the structure of tariffs is satisfactory, the levels are not, as they
were set below costs by government policy. A reduction in the level of
government payments is one objective of the project and this is discussed in
Paras. 5.07 to 5.10.
H. Investment Plan (1985-89)
2.22     The railway investment program during 1985-89 is a part of the
country's Five Year Plan investment program which has been approved by the
Government and the Parliament. The Plan is flexible and will be reviewed
annually on a rolling plan basis.
2.23     The investment proposed by TCDD and DLH for the Fifth Five Year Plan
(1985-89) as given to the Bank mission by the respective agencies are shown in
Tables 5 and 6 in juxtaposition with corresponding figures for the previous
five year period 1980-84. The total railway investments proposed (TCDD:
TL519 billion and DIX: TL245 billion = Total TL764 billion) by TCDD and DLH
are far in excess of the Plan provision (TL 409 billion) at 1984 prices.
Based on the discussions with users and operators, the Bank mission made
specific recommendations to sharpen the investment profile in the transport
sector including railways and to avoid over-investment. The mission's invest-
ment review has attempted to establish priorities within the transport sector
and to draw attention to the policy implications. The investment program in
railways recommended/endorsed by the Bank mission is about 55Z of the level
originally requested by the railways and is close to the Plan provision.
Further, the mission identified lower priority investments which could be
deferred if adequate resources do not materialize. The mission's draft report
was discussed with the Government and the operating agencies concerned.



- 13 -
Table 2.1: Railway Investments Recommended
(1985-89)
Proposed by
the Railways            Recommended
and DLH             by Bank Mission
-   (in billion TL at 1984 prices)
Railways (TCDD)
Infrastructure                     229.0                      154.0
Traction and Rolling               207.0                      106.0
Stock
Workshops, loco depots               38.0 )
}                   60.0
Buildings, Designing,               45.0 )
Technical studies, etc.
Subtotal                   519.0                      320.0
Railways (DLH)
Construction/rehabilitation/       245.0                      120.0
new lines
GRAND TOTAL                764.0                      440.0
SPO officials have indicated agreement in principle with the recoummend-
ations of the Bank mission's trsnsport sector investment review report
regarding priorities for transport investment, including in particular
railways, and investment allocations suggested by the mission have been
adopted as guidelines. The mission's recommendations were reviewed further
by the Bank multi-sector investment review mission and the size, and
composition of the railways program as recommended above was confirmed.
2.24     During project preparation, the long-standing issue of the con-
struction of the Arifiye-Sincan (260 km) high speed line from Istanbul to
Ankara, appears to have been resolved. SPO staff have indicated that there
would be no further investments on this line beyond the on-going contracts
(to be completed by the end of 1986) bringing the line to Cayrihan, unless
and until a feasibility study demonstrates the economic viability of
further investment. This could save about 85% of the total investment cost
of the high-speed line.



- 14 -
2.25     For rolling stock, TCDD agreed to use the Bank methodology for
operational plans and to make successive procurement tranches for rolling
stock under a rolling plan commensurate with actual traffic growth and so
avoid the risk of over investment. Understanding was also reached with
TCDD on the relative priorities of the various sections proposed for
electrification and track overhaul (Table 7). Ongoing electrification
works on short stretches of suburban lines and the Divrigi-Iskenderun main
iron ore line are high priority works and should be completed as soon as
possible. Electrification of other main lines, however, such as
Karabuk-Zonguldak, Karabuk-Irmak-Sivas-C. Kaya, Sivas-Samsun, should be
taken up only if they are justified on sound economic and operational
grounds. TCDD, following a suggestion by the Bank mission, has agreed to
adopt a staged development of modernizing signalling and telecommunications
to match capacity needs (Table 8). This will cost less than the immnediate
installation of a CTC system as was planned.
2.26     DLH's program during 1985-89 would be limited to completing the
construction of high-priority ongoing projects on certain new lines but to
single track standards, rather than double track as was planned. At
present there is no gravity-oriented mechanized marshalling yard in Turkish
railways, which leads to operational inefficiency. The railways agreed
with the Bank mission's suggestion to establish at least two or three such
marshalling yards at suitable locations like Sivas, Eskisehir, Ankara etc.
Accordingly the Technical University of Istanbul has been entrusted with
feasibility studies of appropriate locations, number and other technical
aspects of such yards. The results of these studies are expected to be
available in early 1987 and would be reviewed by TCDD and DLH in consult-
ation with the Bank.
2.27     In terms of railway policy, TCDD has agreed that the main focus
will be to concentrate on freight traffic and to improve locomotive avail-
ability through improved technology and maintenance, access to spare parts
and better operating methods. During Loan negotiations agreements were
reached with the Government and the railways that no major new investments
for the railways would be undertaken without appropriate economic and
feasibility studies, and the understanding described above regarding
stopping work on the Arifiye-Sincan line at Cayrihan was confirmed.
I. Financing
2.28     TCDD has financed itself from its revenues, the operating surplus
of its ports, by Government funds provided as capital, and by borrowing in
other currerLcies to pay for part of its foreign exchange needs. Up to
1984, the accounting system did not separately record the funds and
balances of the ports and railway operations, but this is now being done.
It is expected that the TCDD investment plan for 1985-89 will be financed
in the same manner as before with an increase in the level of sums provided
from TCDD railway operations (para. 5.12).



- 15 -
UL THE PROJECT
A. Obiectives
3.01     The selection of project components had as objectives the
provision of support to the Government's policies aimed at overcoming key
bottlenecks in railway transportation, increasing operational efficiency
and assisting the railways in their financial recovery and thereby reducing
the burden of subsidies on the budget. At the same time the proposed Bank
financing would begin the complex and worthwhile task of modernizing and
restructuring TCDD's locomotive technology and locomotive maintenance,
while bringing to the forefront important institutional development
measures such as introduction of modern management methods with extended
application of computer to railway operation and control. The central
economic ministries (Treasury and SPO) had welcomed technical assistance
from the Bank as a way to familiarize railway managers with modern methods
of operation and to provide for technology transfer. All the elements
taken together, the proposed project would strongly influence the future
railway performance.
3.02     To achieve these broad objectives, the project would specifically
seek to:
(a)    continue a constructive dialogue with the authorities
relating to crucial rail transport problems/issues and
provide necessary support;
(b)    provide essential maintenance and technical assistance for
the improvement of diesel locomotive maintenance, technology
and operation with the aim of increasing locomotive
availability and efficiency to sustain and consolidate the
railway operations;
(c)    ease critical railway bottlenecks on Turkey's principal rail-
way networks vital for the movement of key bulk comnodities
(such as iron ore and lignite) and transit traffic for inter-
national trade;
(d)    raise the level of operational performance and safety by
introducing corporate planning, Action and Operatioaal Plans
and improving poor track conditions and replacing '3ut-moded
signalling on a phased basis on the main trunk lines to match
capacity needs; and
(e)    familiarize the railway organizations (both TCDD and DLH)
with recent development and trends in operating, monitoring
and maintenance techniques utilizing the latest technology.



- 16 -
B. Description
3.03     The proposed project would address the country's high priority
rail transport requirements during the Five-Year Plan (1985-89). The data
used in the preparation of the project and the source material are listed
in Annex 9. The components are suummarized below and described subsequently
in more detail. They are:
(a)    a comprehensive program for improving the management of the
locomotive fleet, as regards both maintenance and operations,
including spare parts;
(b)    overhaul of about 740 km of main line track, and provision of
track overhaul equipment;
(c)    modernization of main line signalling (about 700 km);
(d)    construction of Bedirli/Hanli-Bostankaya (about 65 km) track,
consisting of a second track on new alignment; and
(e)    technical assistance and training for components (i)-(iv).
3.04     Improvement of Diesel locomotive availability and efficiency - The
low availability and efficiency of the diesel locomotive fleet reduces
seriously the capacity and the profitability of the TCDD system as a
whole. Improvement of locomotive availability and efficiency is considered
the centerpiece of the project. This task concerns the technology of the
locomotizes as well as the system and efficiency of their operation.
Therefore, it is necessary to reorganize and to centralize both the loco-
motive maintenance and operation systems. The reorganization of the whole
locomotive maintenance and operation system would mainly comprise system-
atic use of the part exchange method, centralized reconditioning of the
dismantled parts, improved turnaround planning and deployment control,
modernization of the workshop and stores equipment, and procurement of a
basic stock of components and spare parts. The proposed modernization
would also involve one-tim basic overhaul of the immobilized and the un-
reliable locomotives, phasing-out weak points in locomotive design,
improvement of the management system with extended use of electronic data
processing for cost accounting, statistics and supervision (Annexes 1, 4
and 5).
3.05     Capital Overhaul of Track - Poor track conditions have aggravated
the railway operations and have become a serious safety problem, resulting
in reduced line capacity and a significant increase in operation and main-
tenance costs (para. 2.05). About 740 km of track, in some cases about 55
years old, would be renewed with new-type 49 kg/meter rails to increase the
permissible axle load to 20 tons and speed to 120 km/h. Without the
proposed track renewals, the poor track conditions would deteriorate
further and restrict the daily number of trains.



- 17 -
3.06     Track Maintenance MachinerY - Turkish State Railways are
characterized by high volume of track rehabilitation needs. In the Fifth
Five Year Plan, about 1,000 km of track overhaul deserves high priority
(Table 7). The proposed procurement of the track-maintenance machinery is,
therefore, of special significance for TCDD's efficient operation.
3.07     Signalling and Telecommunications - An obsolete signalling system
with technical characteristics below modern safety standards would be re-
placed on about 700 km of Kayas-Cetinkaya line by modern station signal-
ling, including automatic line block (ALB) and train automatic stopping
equipment (TAS). This would provide safety, improve line capacity and
rolling stock utilization. A part of this line, namely
Hanli-Sivas-Cetinkaya section, will be controlled from a CTC tower in
Sivas, the construction of which is already completed under the on-going
signalling project Divrigi-Cetinkaya-Iskenderun. If a feasibility study
should demonstrate at a later date, (based upon increased traffic growth
and other considerations) that further upgrading of the signalling system
is justified, this could be accommodated through a phased addition to the
proposed equipment, and could be considered for financing under subsequent
Bank assistance.
3.08     New Construction - Improvement of line capacity on the short
stretch between Bedirli/Hanli and Bostankaya (Map IBRD 19221) would greatly
facilitate long distance movement of iron ore from Divrigi mines to the
steel plants in the north-western region as well as international transit
traffic. These track capacity works would yield network-wide benefits by
allowing a higher level of utilization of existing infrastructure.
3.09     Technical Assistance and Training - Technical assistance to
strengthen railway operations, locomotive maintenance and management in-
formation system would be undertaken by three senior experts supported by
five middle-level assistants appointed to "in-line" positions within TCDD
for 48 man-months: (i) one senior expert with two assistants for locomotive
maintenance and technology (18 man-months); (ii) one senior expert with
three assistants for locomotive operation (24 man-months); and (iii) one
senior specialist responsible to organize and streamline the movement of
bulk commodities in block rakes (6 man-months). These advisors and their
assistants, as part of TCDD, will make a significant contribution in the
institutional building, management and new technology improvement. At loan
negotiations, the Turkish railway's commitment to an effective locomotive
maintenance and operation system was ensured, in accordance with the Action
and Operation Plans already discussed and agreed during project prep-
aration. Terms of reference for engagement of senior experts and their
assistants (Annex 4) were discussed with the authorities concerned and were
further reviewed and agreed during loan negotiations.
3.10     The TCDD has a serious manpower problem due to high turnover of
staff resulting from unattractive employment conditions (para. 2.03) which
will be partially mitigated by the new law by which TCDD has recently been
authorized to pay salaries comparable to those outside the public spctor
for its key personnel. As a part of TCDD's training program, the Bank
assistance provides for about 306 man-months (Table 9) of technical visits



- 18 -
and training for railway senior/middle management and specialists through
"twinning" arrangements with other European railways engaged in similar
works. The project also provides for a training program for craftsmen, and
loco drivers, to be executed partly abroad, partly in the country,
including training equipment and materials (Table 9). The details of this
foreign training program were agreed at negotiations. Other training will
be carried out in TCDD's existing training center. The project provides
financing for training equipment and materials including a 'simulator' for
training locomotive drivers. TCDD would submit by June 30, 1987 its
proposed program for use of this simulator to be approved prior to purchase
of this equipment. Furthermore, the project provides for a study of a
computer-assisted specialized management information system for loco-
motive maintenance and operation which would be carried out by TCDD's
electronic data processing (EDP) center with close cooperation of the
senior locomotive maintenance/ operation experts mentioned above. The
Study should be started not later than June 30, 1987, and completed by
June 30, 1989. The terms of reference (Annex 5) for the study was dis-
cussed with TCDD and was agreed during loan negotiations. Similarly, DLH's
training program includes 30 man-months of technical visits and training
abroad for key technical personnel. Submission of a satisfactory training
plan for DLH will be a condition of disbursement for this component.
3.11     The Bank loan would finance the direct foreign exchange cost of
about $1.1 million for sending TCDD's staff and about $120,000 for DLH's
staff abroad and training and seminars in the country; about $360,000 for
the engagement of the senior advisors and their assistants; and about
$1.3 million for the procurement of teaching equipment (Table 9). The
above figures exclude about US$320,000 allocated for price contingencies.
C. Cost Estimates
3.12     The-total project cost (including contingencies, taxes and duties)
is estimated to be about US$582.2 million, consisting of locomotive
improvement US$192.5 million, track overhaul US$165.3 million, track
machinery US$22.2 million, signalling with telecommunications
US$78.2 million, new line works US$118.5 million and technical assistance
and training US$5.5 million (Table 10). The estimated total foreign ex-
change component would be about US$224.5 million, or about 39Z of the total
project cost. Cost estimates were prepared by the agencies concerned on
the basis of quantity estimates from substantially completed detailed
engineering and unit prices at mid-1985 prices and updated to end 1985.
Project costs by component are summarized below:



- 19 -
Table 3.1: Project Cost Estimates
(1985 prices) 1/
USt Hillion         FEC (X)      Bank Ln
ITEYS                               Local 2/  Foren  Total        of  Total    USiu ml
Improvement of diesel
locomotive maintenance
and operation                   82.43      62.70   145.13       43.2        55.50
Track overhaul (740 km)         73.11      45.2S   118.36       38.2        42.50
Track overhaul machinery         5.72      13.50    19.22       70.2        13.50
Signalling and Tele-
camiunication of Kayas-
Cetinkaya Line (700 km)         28.57      30.60    59.17       51.7        30.60
Line capacity works
(Bedrir1/Hanli-Bostankaya
section about 65 km)           75.55      18.89    94.44       20.0         7.28
Technical Assistance and
Training                         1.7l       3.12      4.83.64 5L3.12
TOTAL BASE COST                     ZfiLS      325aM   MLJS          39L5       JISLAL
Contingencies
Physical                        25.96      15.74    41.70       37.7        13.54
Price                           64.65      34.71    9S.L3      i3.0         30 96
TOTAL CONTINGENCIES                  90.61       50.45   141.06      35.8        44.50
GRAND TOTAL                         35a         224a51   522 2J.        Ji Z..M
]/ Exchange rate of base cost 1US$ = TLS48. Price contingencies in USS terms are based on following
annual rates (in percentage terms)
i19S    1986    IR      ISIS    1981    1221
-0.5     7.0     7.0     7.S      7.7     7.6
In calculating the local cost contingencies it is assumed that the Government will maintain
current policies for adjbsting exchange rates to compensate for the differences between local and
foreign inflation.
Z/ Taxes and duties are inc:)uded In local components (about $151.6 million)
Taxes: 20X for all coyponents;
Duties:  23X for track-iteel material. signalling and teleco_uni-
cation equiprment. 35X for locomotive spare parts.
components ano-workshops equipment and 7.5% for track
maintenance machinery.



- 20 -
Price contingencies are based on cost escalation as shown in footnote to
Table 3.1. Taxes and duties were estimated to amount to be about 26Z of
total project cost csasisting principally of taxes and duties on imported
equipment and material.
3.13     The proposed Bank loan of US$197.0 million would cover about 88Z
of the total foreign exchange cost of the project. The Bank assistance was
particularly sought for the procurement of project-related equipment,
-materials, training and other technical assistance. A list of materials
and equipment suitable for Bank financing is shown in Table 11. The
procurement of all these materials and equipment will be by International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Bank Guidelines. During
loan negotiations, the project cost estimates and the bank financed project
components were confirmed.
D. Financing
3.14     The estimated costs of the project together with proposals for
Bank financing are suz-uarized in the table below:
Table 3.2: Proiect Cost Financing
Project Cost                 Source of Financino
GOVERNMENT       Supplier's
Items               Local Foreian ITtal      Local Foreian IRI   _Cred1   Total
---------  USS millions   -----------------------
Improvement of Diesel
Locomotive Maintenance
and Operation         111.0   81.5  192.5      111.0   --    72.3     9.2   192.5
Track Overhaul (740 km)    104.1   61.2  165.3   104.1   4.2   57.0      --    165.3
Track overhaul machinery   6.7   15.5   22.2       6.7   __     15.5     _2.2
Signalling and tele-
communication of lines
(about 700 km)         38.6   39.6   78.2      38.6   --    39.6    __       78.2
New Works (Bedirli/-Hanli
Bostankaya line
about 65 km)           95.3   23.2  118.5      95.3  14.1    9.1      --    118.5
TA and Training            2,0    3-5    5.S       2.0  -z- _1           --      5.i
TOTAL          357.7  224.5  S82.2     357.7  18.3  197.0    _.2i    S2z.2



- 21 -
3.15     The proposed Bank loan of US$197.0 million meets about 34Z of
total project costs and about 96X of the direct foreign exchange elements
(about US$206.0 million). The balance of the project costs, namely
US$385.2 million (about US$357.7 million of local costs and about
US$27.5 million foreign costs) would be financed either entirely by the
Government or by the Government together with supplier's credits. It is
estimated that supplier's credit should be available to cover about
us$9.0 million of US$27.5 million remaining foreign exchange costs. During
loan negotiations, the above project financing details were reviewed and
agreed with the Government.
E. The Loan, the Borrower and Beneficiaries
3.16     The Borrower for the proposed loan would be the Republic of
Turkey. The beneficiaries of the project would be TCDD and DLH.1' The
latter is a Government Department under the MPW and is not a revenue
earning entity and would receive project funds through the Treasury
channel. The Bank would enter into a Project Agreement with TCDD to whom
the Government would on-lend loan funds uider terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Bank (para. 5.12). These arrangements were confirmed with
the Government during negotiations. Signing of the subsidiary loan agrea-
ment would be a special condition of loan effectiveness.
F. Implementation
3.17     Detailed engineering for both TCDD and DLH component is sub-
stantially completed and is satisfactory. Studies and drawings for the
main components were prepared by the DLH, TCDD and Technical University
Institute of Istanbul. DLI will be responsible for the implementation of
the new line works and TCDD ior all other project components. They have
the necessary capability and compeLence to carry out the project.  TCDD's
own Material Supply Organization would procure all components, parts,
tools, machinery and other materials and equipment eligible for financing
under the loan, for TCDD's component and DLH would handle procurement of
the track steel materials, signalling and telecommunication equipment for
new line works. TCDD's purchasing department is familiar with Bank
procurement guidelines from its experience with first railway and first and
second port projects.
3.18     The technical assistance team (para 3.09) will assist in the
implementation of the whole reorganization for locomotive maintenance and
operation as described in Annexes 1 and 4. In addition, the team would
1/  DLH for steel track materials, signalling and telecommunications
equipment and training on Bedirli/Hanli-Bostankaya section (about
US$9.0 million - Table 11), and the balance of the loan amount (about
US$188.0 million equivalent) will relate to TCDD works.



- 22 -
provide assistance for the Specialized Management Information System (SMIS)
study (Annex 5) as well as for the improvement of the bulk commodity
movement (Annex 2, 4 and 6).
3.19     During loan negotiations, agreement was reached with the
Government that:
(a)    TCDD will nominate a project coordinator, in consultation
with the Bank, with appropriate qualifications and experience
to be responsible for the implementation of TCDD's part of
the project;
(b)    similarly, DLH would nominate a counterpart responsible for
implementation for its part of the project, who would main-
tain close liaison with the Project Coordinator appointed by
TCDD; and
(c)    appointment of TCDD's project coordinator and the DLH
counterpart to plan, organize and coordinate the timely
execution of project is a special condition of loan
effectiveness.
3.20     A time-phased implementation schedule is shown in Table 12.  This
schedule, regular quarterly progress reports and preparation of a project
completion report by the Government within six months of the Loan Closing
Date were discussed and confirmed during negotiations.
3.21     It was agreed at negotiations that TCDD and DLH would complete all
investments initiated under the Project (especially the preparation works
for signalling and substructure for new line works) in a timely manner and
together with Government would provide the funds, facilities and other
resources required.
3.22     Allowing for some slippage, the project completion date would be
December 31, 1991. The loan closing date would be December 31. 1992
allowing for about one year time for the release of security deposits on
supply contracts where performance guarantees are specified.
G. Procurement
3.23     All equipment and materials financed by the Bank will be procured
by International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines, on the basis of a list of equipment and materials agreed
between Government and Bank (Table 11 and para. 3.13). Financing of
consultants' services and training (paras. 3.09 through 3.11 and Table 9)
would be provided under the project, with selection procedures for
consultant services following Bank Guidelines. An estimated schedule of
procurement is shown in Table 13.
3.24     In bid evaluation, Turkish manufacturers would be allowed a
preferential margin of 15S of the CIF cost of competing imports, or the
applicable customs duties, whichever is lower.



- 23 -
3.25     For goods having an estimated contract value of more than
US$500,000 equivalent, all draft tender documents and proposed awards would
be subject to prior review by the Bank. Contracts for lesser amounts would
be subject to ex-post review.
3.26     The table below provides a suimmary of the type of procurement
which would apply to goods and works and services included under the
project.
Table 3.3: Procurement Method
LCB            Taxes
Project Element           ICB    and Other!-"       and Duties    Total
(US$ million) -     _      _
Improvement of Diesel Locos   72.3         59.6            60.6        192.5
Maintenance and Operation    (72.3)         (-)             (-)        (72.3)
Capital Overhaul
Material and Works           57.0        67.0            41.3         165.3
(57.0)       (-)             (-)         (57.0)
Track Overhaul Machinery       15.5         1.8             4.9         22.2
(15.5)       (-)             {-)        (15.5)
Signalling and Telecom.
Material and Equipment       39.6        -               18.9        58.5
(39.6)      (-)              (-)        (39.6)
Installation Works            -         19.7                         19.7
(-)       (-)              (-)          (-)
Total            39.6      19.7             18.9         78.2
(39.6)      (-)              (-)        (39.6)
Line Capacity Works
Substructure                  -         72.7             18.0        90.7
(-)       (-)              (-)          (-)
Superstructure                9.1       11.6              7.1        27.8
(9.1)      (-)              (-)         (9.1)
Total             9.1      84.3             25.1        118.5
(9.1)      (-)              (-)         (9.1)
Services                      1.7        3.0              0.8         5.5
(1.7)     (1.8)             (           (3.5)
TOTAL           195.2      235.4           151.6        582.2
(195.2)      (1.8)            (-)       (197.0)
1/ Includes indirect foreign exchange component, international shopping
for some locomotive components and parts and procurement of
consultants' services and overseas training components.
2/ Costs include estimated contingencies.
NOTE: Figures in parentheses are amounts financed by the
Bank Loan.



- 24 -
H. Disbursements
3.27     For imported goods, disbursements would be made on the basis of
CIF costs, and with respect to bids won by local manufacturers under ICB,
disbursements would be made on the basis of 100l of the ex-factory costs.
The Bank would also finance 100X of the cost of the services of inter-
nationally recruited consultants and 1002 of the foreign exchange cost of
overseas training programs. Withdrawals would be made against full
documentation except for reimbursement or replenishment requests which
would be submitted on the basis of statements of expenditure (SOEs) for
contracts relating to goods and services and for training expenditures
valued at US$100,000 - or less.
3.28     To maintain an adequate flow of funds available to the benefi-
ciaries to finance eligible project expenditures (para. 3.15) with a
minimum of administrative delays, the Borrower will establish a Special
Account (revolving fund) with a balance sufficient to cover about four
months of project expenditures (i.e. about US$13.0 million). Records of
the Special Account proceeds and outlays would be available for review by
Bank supervision missions and subject to annual audit (para. 5.04).  During
negotiations, confirmation was obtained of the foregoing arrangements.
3.29     A schedule of estimated disbursements has been prepared and is
shown in Table 14. The disbursement profile is closely similar to those
for other regional transportation projects and the estimated about
seven-year disbursement period (from Board approval) corresponds to about
90% disbursement under regional sector profile and 95Z disbursement under
country sector profile. The marginal improvements assumed between the
project and regional country transport standard profiles are realistic in
view of Turkey's increasing involvement and familiarity with Bank projects,
particularly procurement procedures. Furthermore, civil works for the
railways are not being financed under the project and only railway equip-
ment and materials contracts for which disbursement is relatively faster
are involved. The disbursement schedule was discussed with the Government
and confirmed during loan negotiations.
I. Environmental Impact
3.30     The project as a whole is expected to have beneficial environ-
mental impact, reducing air pollution and accidents. Improvement in diesel
traction will facilitate a phasing-out of steam traction, and reducing
noise and air pollution in large areas of the country. Track overhaul
together with modernization of signalling would reduce accidents and
improve working conditions of the railway staff.



- 25 -
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. General
4.01     The Fifth Five Year Development Plan (1985-89) assigns a leading
role to industrial sector which is expected to grow at about 8Z per annum,
as compared with an overall growth rate of about 6% per annum for the
economy as a whole. Even with more conservative growth rates of 4S for the
economy and 6X for the industrial sector, the requirements for movement of
bulk commodities are substantially beyond the existing capacity of the
transport system. In many instances heavy and bulky raw materials and
semi-finished products are used in producing goods for both export and
domestic markets. Such materials are often quite distant from the
processing plants, although increasing efforts are being made to locate
processing industries at raw material sources. The Government is also keen
to increase foreign exchange earnings through transit and international
trade. The railway investment programs should meet the needs of existing
traffic and emergence of new transport requirements of iron ore,
lignite/coal and other basic bulk commodities and respond effectively to
the rapid growth of transit and international trade.
4.02     Parallel to the overall economic growth objectives, the Government
is keen to improve the operational efficiency in the railways where traffic
is being diverted to other modes because of limited carrying capacity and
poor quality of service. During the past decade the locomotive technology,
locomotive maintenance and the workshop system has received very little
attention, with the result that the capacity for annual periodic overhaul
has become increasingly less than what is required. The TCDD also moved
from steam to diesel and electric traction during this period bringing a
radical change in systems technology (para. 1.10). Considerable emphasis
is, therefore, being given in the proposed project to rationalize and
modernize locomotive maintenance and the TCDD workshop system with a view
to immediately containing and subsequently eliminating the maiutenance
backlog for motive power and to provide a better flexibility in train
operation.
4.03     The backbone of TCDD's network is the line from Istanbul through
the Anatolian plain, via Ankara, on to the iron ore mines near Divrigi and
thence to the steel mills on the Black Sea coast. Another line serves the
southern Mediterranean coast between Iskenderun and Malatya-Sivas-Divrigi
region. More than two-thirds of TCDD's traffic is concentrated on these
parts of the network. The proposed project aims at relieving bottlenecks
on some of the most heavily trafficked railway sections by modernizing the
out-moded signalling systems and track rehabilitation. It would also
attempt to improve productivity, quality of service and marketing to enable
the railways to realize their full potential, at an economic cost compet-
itive with other modes.



- 26 -
4.04     The principal beneficiaries of the proposed project would be users
of railway freight services. particularly producers, shippers and consumers
of bulk freight who, due to the diversity of traffic using the rail net-
works, come from a wide range of sectors and income groups. The important
comodities that would be affected by the proposed railway modernization
and improvements are raw and processed industrial materials including
mining, iron and steel products, construction materials and agricultural
comfodities. By reducing costs and improving efficiency of transport, the
project will also help to make Turkish goods more competitive in the world
market, with beneficial effects on employment and the balance of payments.
B. Project Costs and Benefits
4.05     The economic evaluation of the different sub-projects is based on
feasibility studies undertaken by TCDD and Orta Dogu Teknik Universitesi,
which are in the project file (Annex 9). These studies were reviewed and
discussed with the agencies concerned and a number of marginal sub-projects
were reformulated or postponed while more economically viable components
were included as a result of the review.
4.06     The traffic projections for the different sub-projects are based
on past traffic trends, origin-destination studies of s_lected bulk commod-
ities (paras. 2.13-2.16 and Annex 3) and planned increases in production
and consumption in the zones of influence. For calculating the economic
benefits and costs, international prices have been used for imported equip-
ment, materials and other tradeable commodities. Land and other
non-tradeable items like railway ballast and aggregates, skilled and un-
skilled construction labor have been valued at local prices. Economic
costs net of taxes were estimated for all investment costs, maintenance
costs and operating costs.
4.07     The quantified economic analyses for the improvement of locomotive
availability takes into consideration the savings in locomotives due to
avoided increases in ineffectiveness.  Expected benefits from the intro-
duction of the part exchange method (paras. 2.12, 3.04 and Annex 1) and
rationalization of maintenance workshops and stores management include
reduction in maintenance downtime for locomotive overhaul and lower rework
costs per unit compared with the present. The main benefits from track re-
habilitation would accrue from decreased maintenance of track and operating
costs of rolling stock due to reduced wear, increased operating speed
resulting from removal of speed restrictions on poor tracks and fewer
derailments and accidents. The economic benefits from modernization of
main line signalling and telecomummications would result mainly from
increased line capacity at a small cost, greater safety and improved
utilization of traction and rollLng stock. Expected benefits for one new
short link included in the project include saving due to avoidance of a
considerable detour for heavy bulk traffic which otherwise has to use a
circuitous rail route or use costly road transport for long hauls. An
outline of approach and methodology of the economic analyses is given in
Annex 7.



- 27 -
4.08     In selecting the proposed investments, several alternative
solutions were evaluated, such as improving or reconstructing the existing
track or constructing a new one, purchasing of new locomotives as opposed
to improving availability of existing fleet, and stage construction of an
improved signalling system as against straightaway adoption of a central-
ized traffic control system representing the top level of sophistication.
For each project alternative, the most economic solution has been adopted.
C. Economic Return (ER)
4.09     Based on the most probable estimates of costs of construction,
equipment, operation and maintenance, the proposed investments on the
railway project components produce economic returns (ERs) ranging from 14Z
to 26Z (Table 4.1). All investments would yield first-year benefits of 10l
or more. The weighted average ER of all civil works and equipment compon-
ents, which account for 991 of total project cost, are 22X. The above ERs
understate the full benefits of the project by excluding environmental
improvements, and comfort and convenience of travellers on the improved
facilities. Sensitivity analyses were carried out to test the effect of
variation in construction and equipment costs and users' benefits on the
above estimates. Even under the unfavorable assumptions of 15Z higher
construction/equipment costs combined with a 151 reduction in users'
benefits, the ERs remain acceptable within the range 11X to 20X with an
overall weighted ER of 17Z.



- 28 -
Table 4.1:  Economic Returns (ENs) and First Year Returns (FYRs)
Proportion               Sensitivity Analysis
of Total     Expected   Lower I/   Higher 2/  Expected
Pro1iectnCoonent                     arwestmnt        ER       Estimate   Estmnate       FYR _
A.   Improvement of diesel
locomotive maintenance and            35           26          19         33           20
operation
B.   Track Overhaul (740 Iam)              31           16          12         19           12
and maintenance machinery
(1) Ankara - Haydarpasa (164 Iam)   7            18          14        23           13
(ii) Irmak - Kayseri (98 km)          4           17          13        21            12
(lil) Irmak - Zonguldak (137 km)       6           16          12        20            11
(iv) Samsun - Kalin (199 km)          8           14          11         17          10
(v) Bogaz Kopru   Kardesgedigi       6           14          11        17           10
(142 Iam)
C.   Signalling and                         13          20          15         25           15
teleconmunications (700 Iam)
Kayas-Kayseri-Sivas-Cetinkaya
U.   New Works (about 65 km)               21           26          20         33           21
(Bedirli/Hanli -Bostankaya)
GRAND TOTAL                               100            -           -          -            -
Weighted Average                             -          22          17         28           17
f Assumes IS% increase in construction/equipment costs combined with 1S% decrease in benefits.
2/ Assumes  15% decrease in construction/equipment costs combined with 1S% increase in benefits.
Source: Feasibility studies and mission estimates
August 1985



- 29 -
4.10     Improvement of diesel locomotive maintenance and operation -
Improving the availability of diesel locomotives is considered as the
principal focus of the project. When the diesel locomotive (Alstohm
design) was first introduced in TCDD there were numerous performance prob-
lems, most of which still persist. Partly due to the relatively young age
of the diesel locomotive fleet and partly due to foreign exchange con-
straints, the workshop system in TCDD has received relatively little
attention (para. 4.02). The proposed project component would address the
much needed technological improvements to TCDD's present design locomotive
and adoption of traction technology more suited to the variety of operating
conditions prevailing in Turkey. The proposed component will reduce idle
time of locomotives awaiting repairs, both for normal maintenance and
during periodic overhaul, resulting in savings in the number of locomotives
needed to carry the traffic and to replace the existing fleet. Moreover,
the reliability of locomotives will substantially increase, leading to
further savings in motive power because of better utilization of existing
equipment. In order to enable TCDD to tap adequately the potential for
savings, a part exchange system (Annex 1 para 2) would be introduced with a
sizeable pool of critical parts and components. The proposed improvements
would thus alleviate a serious impediment to satisfactory railway opera-
tions and would yield considerable benefits and produce a high ER of about
26Z.
4.11     Track overhaul and maintenance machinery - considerable wear and
tear of outer rails on curves and wear and flattening of the rail table are
posing difficult maintenance problems with steadily increasing costs. Many
of these lines, with an average age of super-structure from 25 to 50 years,
have out lived their useful life. Furthermore, replacement and modern-
ization of the low-efficiency limited capacity track machinery will upgrade
TCDD's maintenance capacity and reduce track maintenance costs. The track
rehabilitation program is of special significance for TCDD's main lines
connected with ore and transit traffic and the proposed investments are
conservatively estimated to yield ERs varying between 14Z and 18X on the
five different sections.
4.12    Modernization of signalling - On the west, between Istanbul and
Kayas, centralized traffic control (CTC) system is already in operation.
Similarly from Cetinkaya eastward, signalling and telecommunications on the
main ore line is being modernized. But the existing equipment on the
proposed mainline section between Kayas and Cetinkaya is obsolete and in-
adequate for the efficient operations of TCDD and the number of accidents
on the proposed section due to lack of adequate signalling is high (e.g. 16
in 1983). With modernized signalling, slowdowns, locomotive and rolling
stock damage would be reduced, and stops on this line and time spent in
stations would be considerably reduced and additional traffic can be
carried at a small cost. The proposed new investments on improved
signalling would yield considerable benefits and produce a satisfactory ER
of about 20Z.



- 30 -
4.13     New line construction (about 65 km) consisting of a second track
on new alignment - econnmic justification of this track doubling on a short
stretch, namely, Bedirli/Ranli-Bostankaya, depends on the mining/industrial
ventures it serves. At present two distinct streams of iron ore traffic
from Divrigi mines pass through the area, one going towards Samsun for
Eregli steel plant and the other going to Karabuk steel plant. In most
part either these two streams are separate or when they join, the railway
track is doubled, excepting the short stretch near Sivas. which is there-
fore, a bottleneck. This traffic is going to increase further during the
next 5 to 10 years with the planned increase in steel production at Eregli
steel plant. A short stretch of new construction on a different alignment,
(reducing the travel distances by about 60km) has a definite economic ad-
vantage because it avoids of a longer detour on a more circutious rail
route and/or due to savings in operating costs compared to road transport
for long-haul bulk movement. The proposed investments would yield a
satisfactory ER of about 26Z.
4.14     Other Proiect Elements - Benefits could not be quantified for
other project elements, namely technical assistance and training (about 1Z
of total project costs). They are an integral part of the program to up-
grade the operations and efficiency of TCDD and DLH and their benefits
would permeate the entire economy and would be high.
D. Project Risks
4.15     The proposed project supports high priority components of the
1985-89 Railway Investment Plan in Turkey. All project components involve
proven technology. The economic justification of the project components
has been well established even under unfavorable hypothesis concerning
project costs and users' benefits (para. 4.09). The main area of risk for
railway projects is traffic forecasting. In this case, the risk involved
in making an over-optimistic assumption regarding rail-borne traffic is
relatively low because in the conservative estimates of traffic made by the
mission (paras. 2.13-2.16 and Annex 3), a substantial portion of the
additional bulk traffic is already available to the railways but is at
present moving by road for want of rail capacity. However, the traffic
forecast includes an increase of 2 to 3 million tonnes of domestic iron ore
that would be consumed by steel plants, which need imported iron ore to
supplement the domestic production and for blending purposes (para. 2.13
and Annex 3). The proportions of domestic and imported iron ore require-
ments have been estimated in consultation with the SPO taking into account
the country's balance of payments outlook, the recent establishment of iron
ore beneficiation plant at Demirdag, and ongoing mining development works.
There appears to be little risk, particularly in view of the rolling annual
plan mechanism to be followed by the Government and TCDD which will allow
flexibility in progressive adjustment of investments to correspond with
changes in traffic levels (para. 2.25). Assistance of technical experts is
being provided under the project (para. 3.09) where this might be a
problem. However, Turkish railways have a long way to go to build up
competent managerial, operational and technical expertise. The Government
is aware of the Bank's concern in this regard and project implementation
has to be adequately monitored. Consideration of a follow-up project would
be worthwhile to sustain the impact.



- 31 -
V. FINANCIUL EVALUATION
A. General
5.01     The Government of Turkey has recently adopted a policy of self
reliance for TCDD. This replaces the practice of treating the railway as a
government department with public service and social obligations which had
led to substantial operating deficits and a system of compensation payments
from the Treasury. These payments amounted to TL 61 billion in 1984.
Under the new policy TCDD will be required to reduce its dependence on
central government funds with a target of financial independence by 1991.
Two measures have already been taken ti) TCDD is now free to set its own
charges, (ii) the Treasury payment has been reduced to TL 50 billion for
1986, and it will stay at this level in real terms for the next few years.
This amount is allocated as TL 2i billion for the cost of maintaining track
and TL25 billion for capital investment. The following paragraphs describe
the past financial results; the measures proposed for the future are dis-
cussed under Financial Forecasts (para. 5.08).
5.02     In the past, Government compensation payments to TCDD were made
under four headings for:
(a) Track Maintenance and repair. This is intended to help TCDD
meet the competition from road carriers and has been paid
since 1971;
(b) Uneconomi' Lines. This was a payment for the losses on 9
lines identified as uneconomic following a consultant's
study. In 1975 the Government of the day decided not to
close the lines, nor to reduce services, in the belief that
the railways could become more energy efficient than road
transport and in a wish to protect customers from the full
effects of the catastrophic increases in the price of oil;
(c) Freight Tariff Increases Refused. Compensated the railway
for the difference between costs and customer contributions
as a measure to combat inflation, has been paid since 1978;
and
(d) Suburban Passengers. Follows the same principle as (b) and
worked in the same manner as (c) for the loss on commuter
traffic into the major cities of Ankara, Istanbul and Izmir.
From 1986 the sole payment will be for track maintenance and capital
development.



- 32 -
Accounting Policy and Practice
5.03     Budgets and accounts are prepared in accordance with a uniform
system of accounts used by state enterprises. Annual budgets are prepared
and submitted for approval to the UB, the SPO and the Undersecretariat of
the Treasury, Ministry of Finance (MOF). The accounting data is also used
in a costing system based on that adopted by almost all European railways
(UIC 374). The accounting principles, definitions and the system of clas-
sification are adequate, on the whole, for financial accounting, but they
could be improved. There is a need for more timely management information
and for the extension of the costing system to report on specific business
activities, e.g., the costs and revenues of point-to-point container
trains. A study of the accounting systems in TCDD is to be undertaken
financed by the current loan for Port Investment (Loan 2535-TU). Although
this is directed at the ports operations the study will cover the TCDD
system generally and have as a major objective the preparation of manage-
ment information. It is expected that the consultants' report will be used
as a basis for improvements in financial reporting for the port and railway
activities. This was confirmed at negotiations. Fixed assets were compre-
hensively revalued in 1983 and are revalued annually.
Audits
5.04     Annual audits are carried out by Controllers of the Under-
secretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade attached to the Treasury
Department. While these audits are carried out promptly, there have been
delays in submitting the auditor's reports to the Board of Directors and
further delays in providing English translations for the Bank (as required
under the earlier Loan 1741-TU for the Ports). These problems have been
discussed with the auditors and agreement reached on format and time of
submission. During negotiations agreement was reached that (a) separate
accounts would be used to record all project funds and expenditures and
that such accounts relating to the expenditures by TCDD, DLH and the
Special Account (para. 3.28) would be audited each year by an auditor
acceptable to the Baik, and (b) the report on the annual audit of these
financial statements and the report on the annual audit of financial state-
ments of TCDD will be sent !o the Bank within nine months of the financial
year end.
B. Recent Financial Results
5.0')5    Since 1959 TCDD has operated the railway service at a loss even
after accounting for Government payments for its public service obli-
gations. These payments have grown in significance and from 1980 to 1985
were larger than the amount paid by customers. The financial position
began to deteriorate in 1973-74 and, apart from one good year in 1976,
continued to decline, 1980 being a particularly bad year. However, the
effect of large successive increases in rates since 1981 and an increase in
the volume of freight traffic has begun a reversal of the decline (Tables
5.1 and 5.2).



- 33 -
Table 5.1. TCDD Railway Operations
Sunmnary: Income Statements
(TL Billion)
1972     1976      1980     1984
Operating Revenues                          1.24      3.84    14.58      52.52
Payments from Government                    0.36      1.78    19.01      61.24
Operating Expenses                          2.58      6.38    40.01    119.64
Net Operating Revenue                      (0.98)   (0.76)   (6.42)    (5.87)
Non-Operating Incomep'                        .06      .26     1.62       6.04
Interest Payments                            .14       .20     1.30       2.74
Net Income (deficit)                    (1.05)   (0.70)   (6.10)    (2.57)
Operating Ratio                              161       114      119       105
Operating Ratio (excluding
Government
payments)                  208       166      274       228
Average Customer Contribution to
Operating Expenses (Freignt and
Passenger combined)                       48        60       36        44
1/ Includes income from the sale of scrap metal, rental of property and
payments out for accidents (Annex 8, para. 3(f)).
5.06     The financial results show in money terms the operating deficiencies
(para. 2.17) and the previous policy of holding down tariff and fare increases
for national economic and social reasons (para. 5.02). Since 1981, sizeable
increases have been made in the rates charged to customers which have accumu-
latively been higher than the increase in the cost of railway operations
(Table 5.2).
Table 5.2: Recent Fare and Tariff Increases (X)
1981-85
Cumulative
1981   1982   1983   1984   1985        Total
Freight                        41      25     20      25     40         370
Passenger-Suburban             50      33     25      60     25         499
Other                 50     20      20     40      40        423
Railway Unit Cost              17      29     31      21     28*        306
*estimated
During this period, TCDD has carried an increased volume of freight as is
shown in Table 2 of Annex 3. The increases in charges and a higher traffic
volume have improved the overall financial results since 1981. This is shown
in Table 5.3.



- 34 -
Table 5.3: TCDD's Railway Operations
Summarv Income Accounts for 1980-1A85
(TL million)
inn  ma  naz         nsa        nu~~~~stiatr
Revenues
Freight                              11.970      19.354      25,973      28.691     42.352         59.600
Passenger - Suburban                    700         900       1.700       2.300      3.208          3.900
Passenger - Other                     1.891       2,455       3.455       4.539      6.816         10.300
Dther                                    23           47         71         103_        150         ___0
Total From Customer                  14 584      22.756      31.199      35.633     y2-526         74.000
Panments bX Government
Uneconomic Lines                      3.690       4.131       5.086       6.034      6.689          4.700
Track Repair                          7.464       8.182       8.733      11.638     17.357         23.000
Freight Services                      7,945      10.003      11.927      20,851     37.195         46.000
Passenger Services (Suburban)             -            -          -           -           -         3.300
Subtotal                          19 099      ZLiii    25.746        38a523      61i241         77.0m0
TotaL Income                         336U83      4S.072      SLA         74i7S6    113f 767       151 000
Operating Expenses                   40.008      51.145      62.598      84.941    119.639        155.325
Net Operating Revenue (Loss)         (6.425)      (6.073)    (5.653)   (10.785)    (5.872)         (4.325)
Non-Operating Revenue (Net)           1.621         (767)       185         507      6.042          7.010
Interest                              1.300       1.881       1.682       1.937      2.739          4.970
Net Income (Deficit)                 (6.100)     (8.721)    (7.150)   (12,215)       2.569         (2.285)
Customer Contribution
to Operating Expenses                  36          45          49          42         44             48



- 35 -
5.07     TCDD incurs a substantial loss on its mainline passenger service for
which it has not received compensation payments. The loss comes largely from
the second class service. The Government feels that TCDD has a social and
economic obligation in this respect to ass1st the lower income level citizens;
to provide a service at a lower cost than road coaches and to provide rail
transport where there is no road service or during the winter months when road
travel is hazardous. The loss on suburban traffic occurs as a consequence of
the government's policy to limit traffic congestion and air pollution in three
urban centres; the loss is small-about 4 billion lira in 1985, which is less
than TCDD earned from selling scrap metal. On the other hand, the loss on
other passenger services is substantial. In 1984, the figure was almost
TL 28 billion, representing 82Z of the attributable cost, that is to say the
customers paid about 18Z of costs through fares. This improved to 26S in 1985
following a 40S increase in fares, and will go up in 1986 to about 35S
following further fare increases. The size of the loss calls into question
the need for rail passenger services on the present scale. As a part of the
Action Plau, TCDD has agreed to start a continuing review of passenger
services with the objective of reducing the annual loss (Annex 2, para. 9).
The first recommendations of this review are expected by June 1987. It is
recognized that there will be resistance to any proposals to reduce passenger
services whether through the withdrawal of trains or the closing of stations,
and the implementation of these recomuendations will be a slow and difficult
process (para. 5.10).
C. Financial Forecasts
5.08     The Government has embarked on a policy of reducing the level of
payments made from the Treasury to state enterprises, TCDD included. The Bank
has supported the measures taken (para. 5.01). One objective of this project
is an improvement in the overall financial situation. This would come from:
(a)    an increase in the amount of freight carried;
(b)    improvements in operations (particularly from a higher availa-
bility of locomotives and the use of unit trains); and
(c)    increased revenues from customers who would contribute a higher
percentage of operating expenses.
TCDD's fares and charges were increased on January 1, 1986 as follows; freight
60X, suburban passenger 40S other passenger 50 to 602. Financial forecasts
have been made for the years 1985-1990, and are given in Annex 8 together with
a description of the underlying assumptions. A summary of the Income State-
ments is given in Table 5.4.



- 36 -
Traffic and Costs
5.09     The forecasts assume that the volume of freight traffic will increase
to about 10 billion NTKMs in 1989 (from 7.5 billion in 1984). This is a lower
figure than the State Planning Office target of 12 billion by 1989
(para. 2.13). Virtually all of the additional traffic is expected to be bulk
commodities (Annex 3) for which rail is the most suitable means of transport,
in fact the railway is unable to carry all the traffic offered to it now.
Passenger traffic is assumed to increase to 8.8 billion PKM, with the increase
being mainly in suburban traffic. Improvements in efficiency are assumed to
show up in reductions of operating expenses by about 10% in 1990; otherwise
costs are expected to grow with the volume of traffic and inflation.



- 37 -
Table 5.4 TCOD Railway ORerations
Suimarv: Forecast Income Accounts
(TL million)
Actual
_l2&4   1 98         5  l q 8 1987 12H    l g
Revenues
From Custo ers                   52.526     74.000    121.682    170,289    234.703    312.194   392.546
From Governent                   61.Z41     77.000    Z.000=    31.250          37.500     45.000    54-000
Total Income                 113.767    ISLI        S 146-.682    201Ji3 2    L272203    357.194   446 546
Operating Expenses              119.639    155.325    198.947    254.886    317.700    387.022   451.772
Net Operating Revenue (Loss)   (5.872)    (4.325)   (52.265)   (53.347)   (45.496)   (29.828)   (5.226)
Eon-Operating Revenue             6.042       7.010      6.889       7.074       7.201       7.329     7.475
Interest                       2.739      4.970      14.797      16.005      25.537     33.541    35.934
4et Income (Loss)                (2.569)    (2.285)   (60.174)   (62.278)   (63.832)   (56.041)  (33.684)
Customer Contribution
to Total Operating Expenses          44          48          61         67          74          81         87
Operating ratio (without
Government payment)               228         210         163        1s5         135         124        115



- 38 -
A Decrease in Government Payments
5.10     With a combination of increased traffic, improvements in opera-
tions and efficiency and increases in freight tariffs it should be possible
for freight revenues to cover 100S of attributable cost by 1990 (up from
52a in 1984). The target for passenger services also for 1990 is to reach
a level of 751 customer contribution for suburban traffic and 50% for other
passenger services (from the 1984 levels of 441 and 18%). The Government
and TCDD have agreed that action would be taken through a combination of
measures to meet these targets, and to the intermediate year levels shown
in the Action Plan (Annex 2, para. 9). The assurance would implicitly
require that traffic and efficiency improvements go ahead as planned and
there would be increases in tariffs in real terms on the scale summarized
below.
Table 5.5: Estimates of Required Increase in Tariffs (Real Terms)
(Percentage)
1986     1987     1988      1989     1990
Freight                    30        5        10        5         5
Passenger-Suburban         10       15        20        1         1
Passenger Other            20       15        10       10         5
The figures for Passenger "Other' show the size of the increases which would
be needed if there were no reduction in the scale of passenger services and
thus a lower operating cost (para. 5.07). As no value from these reductions
is included in the forecasts the expenses of passenger services are likely to
be overestimated. The level of real term increases required to meet the
targets of cost contribution could be lower if the operating expenses them-
selves are cut by reductions in passenger services. Since freight services
contribute about 80P of the total revenues the major thrust is to reduce the
loss in these services. Progress in the reduction of losses on passenger
services will be more difficult operationally and politically and the targets
for the levels of customer contributions are correspondingly lower.  B-sed on
the above assumptions the operating ratio would fall to 115 in 1990. This
would represent a remarkable change in the financial situation of the railways
and would come about if there is a favourable outcome in each of the three
areas given, i.e., an increase in the volume of freight to 10 billion NTKM;
reductions in operating costs (due to investments and changes in working
methods) and annual increases in tariffs in real terms. The improvements in
the last two years and the current government policy towards public enter-
prises give credence to these forecasts. Even if the results of the
parameters are less than forecast the result would still be a significant
improvement over the past position. In other words the financial health of
the railway is improving and this is expected to continue.



- 39 -
5.11     To provide an assurance that TCDD has sufficient cash to meet its
operating costs and debt service, Government has agreed to guarantee that,
starting from fiscal year 1986, the total revenues of TCDD from all sources
(including Government payments and non-operating revenue) will be not less
than operating expenses plus the higher of depreciation or debt service. The
debt service payments are forecasted to be slightly higher than the depreci-
ation charge over the period 1985-1990 (TL 288 billion to TL 218 billion).
However, as the debt is almost all in foreign currencies, the cost of debt
service will vary depending on changes in the exchange rate of the Turkish
lira, with a number of currencies. It is not expected that the Government
will be called on to provide any substantial sum under this guarantee.
Financing Plan
5.12     A financing plan for railway investments in 1985-90 is shown in
Table 5.6. About US$188 million equivalent of the proposed Bank loan will be
on lent by the Borrower to TCDD on the same terms and conditions; TCDD will
be responsible for any foreign exchange risk.
Table 5.6: TCDD Financing Plan
(TL million)
Source
Internal                           333,164                              29
Loans
World Bank Proposed               194,040                             17
Other                             169,923                             15
Government Funds                   452.290                              39
Total                   1,149,417                            100
Application
Investment
Proposed Project                   516,235                              45
Other Projects                      344,953                             30
Debt Service                        288,229                             25
Total                   1,149,417                            100
The proposed World Bank loan is assumed to be repayable in 17 years
(including a grace period of 4 years) at the standard variable interest
rate. TCDD is assumed to borrow a further sum equivalent to US$75 million
by way of suppliers credits and bilateral loans.



- 40 -
VL AGREEMENS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01     During loan negotiations, confirmation was obtained from the Govern-
ment and the Beneficiaries regarding the following principal matters:
(a)    no further investments on the Arifiye-Sincan line beyond the
ongoing contracts would be made until a feasibility study
demonstrates the economic viability of further investments
(paras. 2.24 and 2.27);
(b)    the project cost estimates and the Bank-financed project
components including overseas training (paras. 3.10, 3.12,
Tables 3.1, 10 and 11);
(c)   arrangements for the Government to on-lend funds to TCDD
(paras. 3.16 and 5.12);
(d)    the project reporting requirements, implementation schedules,
procureLment schedules, and project completion report
(paras. i.20, 3.22, and Tables 12 and 13);
Ce)   arrangements for establishing a Special Account (revolving fund)
to cover about four months of project expenditures (para. 3.28);
(f)   estimated schedule of disbursement (para. 3.29 and Table 14); and
(g)   TCDD will review the consultants' study of the ports section
accounting system and adopt any applicable parts to its railway
accounts (para. 5.03).
6.02     During loan negotiations, agreements were reached with the Government
and Beneficiaries on the following:
(a)    TCDD would implement and annually review and update its Action
Plan, including its operational plan, and would keep the Bank
informed of progress in achieving planned improvements
(paras. 1.15, 2.12, 2.19, 2.20, 5.10 and Annexes 1, 2 and 6);
(b)    TCDD would establish within its Traction Department a central
division with responsibility for locomotive deployment and
maintenance (Annex 1, para. 20);
(c)   no major new investments for the railways would be undertaken
without appropriate economic and feasibility studies (para. 2.27
and Annex 2, para. 5);
(d)   implementation of the technical assistance program, including
appointments of advisers and their assistants required in the
project under terms and conditions satisfactorl to the Bank
(paras. 3.09, 3.10, Table 9 and Annex 4);



- 41 -
(e)    The management information study, based on the terms of
reference agreed with the Bank, must be initiated not later than
June 30, 1987, and completed by June 30, 1989 (para. 3.10 and
Annex 5);
(f)    TCDD would submit a proposed plan for utilization of the sim-
ulator for training of locomotive drivers by June 30, 1987 and
would not procure this equipment until this plan is approved
(para. 3.10);
(g)    TCDD and DLH would take timely action to complete preparation
works for signalling and substructure for new line works in-
cluded in the project (para. 3.21);
(h)    separate accounts would be used to record all project funds and
expenditures and that the accounts relating to TCDD, DLH and the
Special Account would be audited each year by an auditor accept-
able to the Bank and the report on the annual audit of financial
statements will be sent to the Bank within nine months of the
financial year end (paras. 3.28 and 5.04);
ii)    that action will be taken through a combination of efficiency
improvements, increases in freight traffic and in freight
tariffs and passenger fares to reach the annual targets for
percentage of operating costs (which includes depreciation)
specified in the Action Plan, going from 52a in 1984 to 100Z in
1990 for freight, from 441 in 1984 to 751 in 1990 for suburban
traffic and from 181 in 1984 to 502 in 1990 for other passenger
services (para. 5.10 and Annex 2, para. 9); and
(j)    that the Government will take all necessary action to ensure
that (including Government payments) the revenues of TCDD from
all sources will be sufficient to meet operating costs and the
higher of depreciation or debt service (para. 5.11).
6.03     During loan negotiations, the following conditions of loan effect-
iveness were discussed and agreed:
(a)    that subsidiary loan agreement will be executed by the Govern-
ment and the Beneficiary, to relend proceeds to TCDD on the
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank (paras. 3.16 and
5.12); and
(b)    that TCDD would designate a project coordinator and DLH would
designate a counterpart to project coordinator (para. 3.19).
6.04     With the agreements reached on the above, in paras. 6.01 to 6.03, the
project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$197.0 million equivalent to
the Republic of Turkey for a 17-year term, including a four-year grace period
at the standard variable interest rate.



- 42 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 6
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Improvement of Locomotive Availability and Efficiency
A. Locomotive Maintenance
1.       Improving locomotive availability means shortening immobilization
time (in workshops and depots and for waiting on maintenance) and improving
reliability and reducing the number of faults. In both current maintenance
(executed in depots) and overhaul (executed in main workshops) the emphasis
should be on preventive operations.
2.       The main procedure of overhaul would consist of dismantling the
locomotive and immediately reassembling it using main components and spare
parts which are in stock and which have already been reworked on separate
production lines (part exchange method). This method would also be used for
repair in the depots. This procedure would immobilize the locomotives for a
minimum of time and eliminate waiting time for spare parts. It also leads to
better work quality and thus to less faults or breakdowns.
3.       The general introduction of the part exchange method depends entirely
on the implementation of a well organized system of centralized rework
facilities and exchange part stores. For this system, concentration is
indispensable in order to get the highest possible number of equal parts to be
reworked per time unit so as to allow the use of modern industrial production
methods.
4.       In general and as a fundsmental condition, concentration is
necessary, for economic and quality reasons, in all areas of vehicle
maintenance. It will lead to the highest possible degree of experience and
skill in management and personnel and justify the use of the most modern and
efficient equipment. All overhaul work would be concentrated in only one main
workshop. For the current maintenance (servicing, inspection, small repairs)
a small number of home depots have been selected so as to attain the highest
possible degree of reliability of the locomotives at lowest immobilization
time and cost.



- 43 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 6
Diesel locomotives:
Home depots:       Behicbey (Ankara) depot, Sivas, Malatya, Adana for the
locomotives of the respective regions, Afyon for 1st and
3rd region (Haydarpasa and Izmir);
Main workshop:     Behicbey (Ankara) new main workshop, which - perhaps
with a small extension - will have sufficient capacity
for all Diesel locomotives.
Electric locomotives:
Home depots:       Haydarpasa (later probably also Ankara) for West
Anatolia, Malatya for East Anatolia;
Main workshop:     Malatya (combined with the home depot in the same large
(at the appro-     modern premises).
priate time)
5.       The rework facilities will be concentrated to a great extent in
the respective main workshop, to another part in external rework shops
situated in the premises of depots thus using capacities released by the
concentration process. The centralized rework facilities for some
important components might also be established in ELMS locomotive factory
Eskisehir provided the management of this part of the factory will be
appropriately integrated in the whole maintenance system controlled by one
unique maintenance management office within Headquarters.
6.       The modernization and completion of the equipment of these
workshops and the stores attached to them will be implemented within the
Project with Rank assistance for the foreign exchange procurement. The
largest part of the investment will be made in Behicbey main workshop, in
the centralized rework facilities and in the respective centralized
stores. The central home depots should be so equipped as to be capable to
change components requiring often to be reworked, e.g. wheelsets, traction
motors, brake parts. Beside the home depot Afyon, the requirement for
equipment of the other home depots is relatively small.
7.       All other depots remaining from the time of steam traction should
be either closed or transformed into locomotive personnel stations.
Maintenance facilities should not be maintained there with a few minor
exceptions concerning the secondary line and the shunting locomotives, and
the most distant depots on the long eastern lines. These small maintenance
facilities should, whenever possible, be combined with other vehicle
maintenance facilities.
8.       The centralized stores will have to be filled up with a basic
stock of all components and parts so as to permit the full implementation
of the part exchange method. This stock, to be created at first for the
line Diesel locomotives, will form the most important part of this project
component and for Bank financing.



- 44 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 6
9.       An essential part of the maintenance system reorganization and
indispensable for its success is the modernization of the management in
organization and methods.  The management of the whole maintenance system
(main workshop, rework facilities and home depots) should be integrated
and, for optimum efficiency, be controlled by one unique head office in the
TCDD Headquarters. Agreement was reached that a specialized management
information system taking full use of electronic data processing for
statistics, cost accounting, stock and stores management, will be built-up
and used. Each Director (of the respective Department in Headquarters, of
the main workshop and of each home depot) will have in his staff a special
office for his personal assistance in the whole field of organization,
planning, control and supervision. The important task of drawing-up
detailed regulations for all operations within the integrated maintenance
system will be part of the tasks of this special management office.
10.      Considerable funds are provided within the Bank assisted part of
the Project for extension of the existing electronic data processing center
of TCDD, the drawing-up of a specialized management information system and
the programing. (Annex 5)
B. Locomotive Technology
11.      The locomotive availability is suffering seriously from weak
points of the locomotive design, particularly of the Alsthom MTE
locomotives with Pielstick Diesel engines which constitute the majority of
the diesel fleet. Apart from inappropriate design, two other main
problems, namely inferior domestic material quality and insufficient
precision of assembling, also deserve serious considerations.
12.      The phasing-out of some of the weak points appearing above all in
the Diesel engines will be possible without changing the design as shown by
the following examples:
- The overheating of the cylinders and cylinder heads and all
serious consecutive damages can be sensibly reduced by systematic
introduction and supervision of efficient cooling water
treatment. The cavitation wear in the cooling water circuits can
be efficiently prevented by anti-cavitation additives.
- A sensible improvement of the availability can be achieved by
replacing all fuel injection pumps of insufficient production
quality by new pumps of the same basic type, provided the
manufacturer guarantees the high precision of production as well
as the quality of material of essential parts as requested by the
original designer of the pump.
These and other measures having the same objective are incorporated into the
Project and are suitable for Bank financing.



- 45 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 6
13.      The weak  uints caused by inadequate quality of material or of
inaccurate assembling of locomotives or components produced in the country
should urge TCDD to strengthen its quality control service for
procurements, including those from the own locomotive factory Eskisehir.
14.      The procurement of the basic stock of all necessary components and
parts of Diesel locomotives already mentioned will not only permit the
implementation of the part exchange system but the gradual infiltration of
the new components and parts by repair into the locomotive fleet will give
adequate impact for a quick improvement of the locomotives' technology and
hence their availability. This improved level of availability should then
be maintained by the functioning of the new maintenance system. The basic
stock would not be exhausted but permanently refilled with reworked
components and parts. The relatively high investment for the basic stock
will create the prerequisite for a very considerable reduction of
immobilization time and cost of locomotive maintenance.
15.      Beside the measures suggested in the preceding paras, a special
action has been considered necessary for the fundamental reconditioning of
the locomotives removed from operation because of serious damage and
waiting for spare parts or requiring abnormally high maintenance
expenditure. A special amount for continuing the on-going action is
provided apart from the basic stock procurement. About 25 additional new
engines are considered for this action together with an appropriate amount
for the one-tins action of procurement of the missing parts for those
locomotives. The above 25 engines, together with a further 15 engines for
the basic stock, should be procured under ICB aimed at getting a new type
of Diesel engine well proved in railway service and fitting into the
existing locomotives.
C. Locomotive Operation
16.      The locomotive operation system is responsible for the efficient
use of the locomotives made available by the maintenance system. The main
instruments for reaching this target are:
-    locomotive duty planning (deployment planning), and
-    current control and monitoring of locomotive employment by
the locomotive control office.
17.      The locomotive turnaround plans should be drawn up with maximum
efficiency as the sole objective (minimisation of unproductive times), and
the locomotives should be employed over the entire network on long distance
runs extending as far as possible. For this reason, locomotive duty
planning will be concentrated in a small number of places and centralized.
The drawing-up of turnaround plans will be completely separated from the
establishing of locomotive personnel rosters.



- 46 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 6
18.      These personnel rosters should be checked and revised systematically
to increase their productive portion. Particular attention should be paid to
careful and systematic checking of the preparation and end of shift duties.
This issue is of great importance to increasing productivity of locomotives
and personnel and hence decreasing traction costs. Because of the great
economic importance of turnaround plans and personnel rosters, the TCDD
specialists who will establish them are to be specially trained (Annex 4 para.
3).
19.      The current control and monitoring of the locomotive employment is
the task of the locomotive control office. The activity of the dispatchers in
the control office is very important for the efficiency of locomotive
employment, since they manage locomotive deployment in the event of deviations
from the turnaround plans and for special trains. The reserve capacities will
be more efficiently used by the dispatchers if the locomotive control is
centralized and the dispatchers are especially trained in sophisticated
methods to do this work.
20.      Locomotive deployment planning as well as current control and
monitoring of locomotive employment will be centralized in the Traction
Department of TCDD Headquarters for ensuring the necessary close coordination
between locomotive control and locomotive maintenance service. For the
current control of locomotive employment, a Central Locomotive Control Office
situated in Ankara will be established under the Traction Chief.
21.      In order to ensure the maximum efficiency of the work, it is
considered necessary to invest for improvement of the telecommunication system
between the central locomotive control office and the main workshop as well as
the 5 home depots which should also be the only locomotive deployment depots.
22.      More personnel stations than locomotive depots are required, but more
depots than necessary are still existing. Only a relatively small number of
independent personnel depots will finally remain and they will, in general, be
located in junctions or in the middle of a long line or be combined with a
home depot. The smaller remaining units will be made dependent on a more
important independent personnel depot.
23.      The personnel depots and the home depots will have local control
offices in charge of the daily control of the duties of the locomotive
personnel as well as of their supervision. The control office of a home depot
is furthermore in charge of providing the necessary infcrmation to the central
locomotive control office and of the execution of the directives given by the
dispatchers.
24.      Modern management methods (planning, control and supervision) will be
introduced similarly to what is provided in para. 9 for the maintenance
service, because these methods are for the locomotive operation service of the
same significance for reaching optimum efficiency. All decisions and actions
of the locomotive operation management on all levels must be governed by
economic considerations aiming at lowest traction costs and highest



- 47 -
ANE 1
Page 6 of 6
productivity of locomotives and locomotive personnel. The Office of the
Traction Chief will be in charge of these tasks, the central planning office
for locomotive employment being a part of it and the central locomotive
control office providing the data for the statistics mentioned in para. 25 and
executing the control directives of the Traction Chief.
25.      The necessary instruments for control and supervision,
i.e. statistics and economic accounting, particularly for locomotive personnel
management, have to be developed, put into practice and used. The statistics
on locomotive employment, performances and repairs are not only the main
management instrument for the Traction Chief but also for the maintenance
service. As the locomotive personnel costs are a decisive factor, personnel
management for locomotive personnel is of great importance, special statistics
are necessary for this purpose.
26.      The extension of electronic data processing for a specialized
management information system, (para. 10) for maintenance    _g      t, is
considered necessary as an important aid for the locomotive operation
management. The introduction will have to be implemented for both services
together in a coordinated manner. A study of the specialized management
information system for locomotive maintenance and operation will be undertaken
within the Project (Annex 5).
D. Technical Assistance and Personnel Training
27.      The implementation of the suggested improvement of locomotive
mainteneace and operation systems requires technical assistance from
specialists with adequate experience in modern efficient maintenance and
operation systems and intensive training of the staff at all levels.
28.      The whole program for technical assistance and personnel training
(Table 9) which has been agreed upon contains a comprehensive part concerning
the area of locomotive maintenance and operation.



- 48 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Action Plan
1.       During the preparation of this project, the TCDD and Government, in
consultation with the Bank, established a detailed Action Plan specifying
measures which are needed to achieve the major objectives of railway
operations and productivity. These include organization, operation,
financial, planning and marketing objectives as well as improvements in
technical and operational performance, during the 1985-89 period
(para. 2.18). The overall objectives of the Action Plan is to improve the
utilization and capacity of the existing network. TCCD will then be a part of
a coordinated transport system. To meet the overall and specific objectives,
a detailed Action Plan covering all the important railway activities was
discussed and agreed with TCDD at the project appraisal stage and confirmed
during negotiations. The following gives an extract and sunmmary of the
understandings reached:
2. Planning, Organization and Management
(a) For the achievement of the targets specified in the Action Plan,
TCDD would strengthen the staff capacity of its Planning
department - by December 1986.
(b) Elaboration of an adequate management and information system,
including arrangements for collection of operational and other
data and utilizing railway's existing computer capacity - by
December 1987 (Annex 5).
(c) Complete reorganization of the locomotive maintenance and
operation services (management, organization and working
methods) in particular by creating in TCDD Headquarters a
central management for maintenance and a central locomotive
control office for locomotive deployment - by December 1987
(Annex 1).
3. Traffic Operations (Annex 6 - Operational Strategy)
(a) Organizing priority movement of bulk traffic like iron ore,
coal, lignite, etc. Permanent task.
(b) Additional block rakes should be organized for lignite and iron
and steel products.   Permanent task.



_ 49 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 4
(c) Provision of requisite number of fast express goods trains with
guaranteed transit time and handling facilities of containers -
permanent task.
(d)   ntroduction of increasing number of freight trains with heavier
loads with two locomotives (or banker) extending the crossing
loops as required - Permanent task.
(e)  Avoiding cross-running of bulk commodities and rationalizing
movement Permanent task.
(f) Provision of proper marshalling yards with adequate facilities
at focal points after study of the flow of piecemeal traffic (in
wagon loads other than block rakes) - during Fifth Five-Year
Plan.
(g) Development of facilities for handling container traffic, both
local and international - during Fifth Five-Year Plan.
4. Motive Power Utilization and Maintenance (Annex 1)
(a) Undertaking measures for improving the efficiency of motive
power and rolling stock utilization so as to achieve the targets
agreed through:
si)    improvement of locomotive turnaround planning and personnel
rostering, systematic checking of the rosters;
(ii)    systematic checking and shortening the periods provided for
preparation and end of shift duties;
(iii)    improvement of locomotive control methods;
(iv)    concentration and improvement in use of traction reserve
capacities; and
(v)    investments for improving telecommuunication for locomotive
control - (i) through (iv) permanent task.
(b) Modernization and ciapletion of the main workshop, rework
facilities, home depots and their stores, - by December 1987.
(c) Procurement of basic stock of exchange parts and of parts and
components for fundamental overhaul of the immobilized
locomotives, requiring frequent repairs - on-going task until
December 1987.
(d) Execution of the one-time action of fundamental overhaul of the
immobilized locomotives and requiring frequent repairs -
Permanent task until December 1988.



- 50 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 4
(e) Execution of the action of phasing-out weak points in Diesel
locomotive design - permanent task until December 1988.
(f) Achieving a considerable reduction in procurement of new
components and exchange parts through systematic rework of
components and parts - permanent t .k.
5. Investments
(a) Railway investments and policy options have to be properly
oriented to meet national requirements and should concentrate on
the movement of selected bulk commodit-es such as iron ore and
lignite - during fifth Five-Year Plan.
(b) Major electrification program should be reviewed and justified
on traffic, operational and economic ground - by September 1987.
Cc) Motive Power and rolling stock investments should be kept
flexible depending on the achieved traffic growth - during fifth
Five-Year Plan.
(d) High priority works on Bastankaya/Hanli-Bedirli line should be
completed according to schedule during Fifth Five Year Plan
Period.
Ce) Ongoing works on Sincan-Cayirhan section, should be completed
early, but no further obligations should be incurred by DLH
beyond Cayerhan until a feasibility study for this project has
been completed, reviewed by the Bank, and its economic soundness
assured.
(f) Elaboration of the program and completion of the station's
preparation works for signalling on Kayas-Cetinkaya line should
be done - by December 1987.
6. Staff and Productivity. - Undertaking measures to improve productivity of
labor (keeping the staff at present level), changes in technology,
organization and in traffic volume to achieve the targets agreed (Annex 2,
Table 1) - permanent task, review and update annually.
7. TraininR and Technical Assistance. - Carrying out a program of Technical
Assistance and Training as agreed (paras. 3.09, 3.10, Table 9) - during fifth
Five-Year Plan.
8. Operational Plans
(a) As part of the Action Plan, the TCDD will prepare Operational
Plans by December 1986, which will be reviewed and updated
annually by September 30 during the period 1986-90.



- 51 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 4
(b) Assurances have been received that Operational Plans will
include:
(i)    A plan for Motive Power, rolling stock and related
workshops, including operational targets;
(ii)    A plan for capital overhaul of track; and
(iii)    A signalling and telecommunication plan.
9.  Financial and Commercial. - Measures to achieve the following targets of
the percentage of payments by customers to the expenses of operation.
1986       1988       1990
Freight                     65         85        100
Passengers:
Suburban                  50         70         75
Others                    35         45         50
10. Marketing. - To capture profitable long distance and container traffic,
the movement of traffic flow should be studied and proposals made for
competitive and efficient rail services. Preliminary proposals by July 1987
and continuing efforts thereafter.
11. Passenger Services. - Appoint an Interdepartmental Team to examine,
through pilot studies, ways and means such as reduction of passenger trains,
closure of stations, introduction of increasing number of mixed trains, to
reduce the losses on mainline passenger services. Preliminary proposals by
June 1987 - and continuing efforts thereafter.



-52-                                     ANNEX 2
Table 1
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
A PROPOSED SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Operational Targets for 1985-1090
Targets
1984    Jif       ].2M      I2A 1919            .1.23      12.O
Item                        Untt        Actual   ----------------- Planned ------------------------
Gross/Net Ratio
Passenger                      gtkm/ptkm        1.10      1.10     1.09      1.08      1.07     1.06      1.05
Freight                        gtkm/ntkm        2.15     2.15      2.15      2.15     2.15      2.10      2.10
Electric Locomotives
Passencer Service
Availability              X8                        83        85       88        89        90        90
Perfonrance               (km/day)        390      394       398      402       406      410       420
Train Load                t              284 1J   300        320      340       35C       380      400
Freight Service
Availability              X                83       83        85       87        88        89       90
Performance                (km/day)       180      184       188      192       196       250 2/    350 2/
Train Load                t              660 1J   670        680      690       700       800 B    900 Z/
Electri Trains
Availability                  %                d        90        90        90       91        92        92
Performance                    (km/day)       355      355       355       380      390       395       400
Train Load                     _              1SO      150       150       ISO      150       150       150
Diesel Locomotives
Passenoer Service
Availability              %                70       75        77        79       87        84        86
Performance               (km/day)       535       547       559      573       585       600      610
Train Load                t               305 1/   310       320      330       335       340      350
Freight Service
Availability              X                70       75        75       78        80        83       85
Performance               (km/day)       234       238       241      244       248       252      256
Train Load                t              782 1/   790        798      800       814       822      830
Small Diesel Branch
Line Locomotives
Availability              X                 -       80        82       84        86        87        88
Performance               (km/day)          -      215       218      221       224       227      230
Train Load                t                 -      290       290      300       305       310      315
Diesel Motor Trains
Availability              X                67       70        70       72        75        78        80
Performance               (km/day)       478       483      488       493       498      503       508
Passenger Carl
Availability                  X                82       83        84        85       86        87        88
-   Performance                (km/day)       312      318       325      331       340       350       355
-   Seat Occup. Ratio         X                76.7 1/  75        74        72       71        70        70
-   Pass. km per Seat          (plm/seat)      69.6 1J/  70       71        72       73.5      75        76.5
Freight Waaons
Availability                  X                91.5     92        92        92       93        93        93
ntkn/tons of Capacity          (000)           11.7     11.9      12.1      12.4     12.6      12.9      13.1
Avg. Turnaround Time  J/       (days)          11.5     10.7       9.9       9.1      8.6       8.2       8.0
Staff Productivity                 (000)          295.8    306.0    317.0    328.0    340.0    350.0    365.0
TU/employee
1/ 1983 data.
2/ Since years 1989 and 1990 are transient years for new electrifications.
2/ Private wagons are excluded.
Source: TCOD. July 1985
5405D



- 53 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 8
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF A
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Traffic Analysis
FreiRht Traffic
1.       Turkish State Railway's (TCDD's) share in total freight traffic
went down progressively from 55Z in 1960 to only about lOZ in 1980 partly
due to inability of the Railways to lift the traffic offered on account of
low availability of locomotives, old and worn out track and antiquated
signalling system. The increase in traffic during next three years
(1980-83) was also marginal. In 1984, TCDD showed significant improvement
in performance, in that originating traffic went up by 12S over 1983 in
tonnes and by 23X in net tonne-Km. (Annex 3, Table 1). Even then, TCDD
only retrieved the position lost after 1976 and have yet to reach the 1972
level of 15.8 million tonnes originating traffic (Annex 3, Table 2), when
Railways carried 20. of total freight traffic.
Passenger Traffic
2.       Railways carry only 4X of total passenger traffic.  Railway fares
are low compared to the cost of haulage and inter-city and suburban
services are highly subsidized. The future growth of passenger traffic
will depend On the pricing policy of the Government and the quality of
services offered.



Table 1:  Turk-ish State Railways  MTC
Freiaht and Passenaer Traffle
197        1978       1979       129Ql      Ill         192         98        1984          1984
I. Freicht Traffic
(a)   Tonnage ('000 net tonnes)                                                                                                    Originating
Domestic                          12,652     12,490    11,898    10,486    11,062    12,444    12,617    14,154                Tonnage
International transit            1JLIe          723        551         873      1.197        573        364    .. Z           f000 Tonnesi
Total                       13833    13.L23    12.44A9    ILhH           12.259    13017    13.181    14.771
(b)   Volume (mill. net ton-km)
1.   Coke                                 115          61         26         20         31          66        156        lag          211
2.   Lignite                              573         620        480        473         383        393        457        562        1,823
3.   Anthracite                           285         317        329        261        257         251        203        372        1,867
4.   Sugar beet                            275        264        135         84         118        173        146        142        1,331
S.   Molasses                               46         49         22         21          14         23         20         16            35
6.   Iron ore                           1,309       1,424      1,442      1,249       1,539      2,000      1.950      2,396        3.760
7.   Other ores                            168        297        270        162          96        120        225        209           558
8.   Chrome                                109         76         81         74          90        185         89        1s8           326
9.   Cereals                               439        518        463        283         268        181        272        329           488
10.   Fertilizers                           224        187        216        166         143        143        223        264          465                  Ln
11.   Steel and iron products                35         38         28                -          -                -          -             -
12.   Cement                                 14         13         11          6          46         57          2          2             6                 1
13.   Petrol, oil, lubricants               182        150        146        125         120        113        104        110           293
14.   Other goods                        1,.373      1.240      1.433      1.320      ;.         1.625       1.644      2.134        2,991
Total Domestic               5,147      5,254      5,082       4,244      4,531      5,330      5,491       6,908       14,154
International         1.187       _81          466       727       1.372        642         602        592          617
TOTAL                        6.334      5.6J        5.548      4.97                  5i.z       6.0i9       2.5L0       14.il
SI. Passenser Traffic
(a)   Suburban
Passengers ('000)                97,689    99,226   102,701    92,292    99,672    99,858   104,544   108,018
Pass. km (mil.)                    2,592      2,631      2,762      2,462       2,650      2,511      2,698      2,788
Main Line
Passengers ('000)                 14,917    16,440    23,852    21,641        24,042    20,433    20,709    23,424
Pass. km (mil.)                    2,495      2,969      4,037      3,549       3,455      2,929      3,024      3,489
Total
Passengers ('000)               112,606   115,666   126,553   113,938   123,714   120,291    125,253   131,442
Pass. km (mil.)                    5,087      5,600      6,799      6,011       6,105      5,440      5,722      6,277
III.  Traffic Units
(Mil. NTKms + mil. PKms)                11,421     11,235    12,347    10,982    12,008    11,412    11,815    13,77751
6720D                                                                                                                                                              w
0o



- 55 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 8
Table 2: Turkish State Railways
Revenue-Earning Freight Traffic
Total Originating        Total Net-tonne-KM        Average haul
Year         Tonne (million)              (million)                  (Km)
1964               13.23                    4,387                   332
1965              14.13                     4,328                   378
1966              14.71                     5,484                   373
1967               13.82                    5,052                   366
1968              14.00                     5,235                   374
1969               13.20                    5,235                   397
1970               13.82                    5,622                   407
1971               15.26                    5,748                   377
1972              15.76                     6,641                   421
1973               14.87                    6,693                   450
1974               13.61                    6,376                   468
1975               13.46                    6,774                   503
1976               14.69                    7,499                   511
1977               13.83                    6,334                   458
1978              13.21                     5,635                   427
1979               12.45                    5,548                   446
1980               11.36                    4,971                   438
1981              12.26                     5,903                   481
1982              13.01                     5,972                   459
1983              13.18                     6,093                   460
1984              14.77                     7,500                   508
Estimate of Future Growth of Traffic
3.       National Transport Master Plan (NTMP) envisaged growth of traffic
at the rate of 4X per annum for passengers and 13% per annum for freight
during the period 1981-1993 as under:
Table 3: Railway Traffic 1981-1993
(billion passenger-km for Passengers and
billion net tonne km for Freight)
1981           1993
Passengers      6.1           10.0
Freight         5.9           25.4
4.       While the increase in passenger traffic envisaged by NTMP is
feasible, that in freight traffic appears highly optimistic, based on the
tentative development plans of other transport-lutensive sectors and not
taking into account the time required by the railway to rehabilitate itself
and gain the confidence of the consumers through continued improvement in
quantity and quality of transport services.



- 56 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 8
Fifth Five-Year Plan (1985-89)
5.       The volume in freight traffic by 1989 is estimated by SPO at
12 billion NTKM, which, on the basis of about 500 km of average haul.
envisages originating traffic of about 24 million tonnes against
14.8 million tonnes achieved in 1984.
Assessment by the Appraisal Mission
6.       Even though proposals are now afoot to increase the capacity of
the railways, the Bank's forecast of increased traffic has been kept modest
considering the time required for rehabilitation of the railways. A more
realistic estimate, according to the mission, will be an increase of about
5-6 million tonnes by 1989, consisting of about 2-3 million tonnes of iron
ore, 1 million tonnes of lignite, 0.5 million tonnes of coal and
1.5 million tonnes of transit and "other goods" traffic like cereals,
fertilizers and iron and steel products. These items accounted for nearly
80% of the total originating traffic in 1984.
Iron Ore
7.       The total capacity of the three steel plants is programmed to go
up from 3.1 million tonnes in 1984 to 4.8 million tonnes in 1989.
Table 4: Capacity of Steel Plants
1984           1989
Name of Steel Plant                 Capacity in Million Tonnes
Isdemir (Iskenderun)                1.0             2.0
Erdemir (Eregli)                    1.5             2.0
Karabuk                         0.6            0.8
3.1            4.8
8.       The SPO has estimated that the requirements for iron ore by 1989
will be 8.3 million tonnes, of which 5.8 million tonnes would be domestic
ore (against 3.8 million tonnes, actual, in 1984) and 2.5 million tonnes of
imported ore (against about 1.5 million tonnes, actual, in 1984). Due to
the low Fe content of the domestic iron ore (about 55Z), only a limited
increase of domestic iron ore is programmed for 1989 and the balance by
import of a better type of iron ore needed to produce flat steel products
and for blending purposes. The quality problem of domestic iron ore is
going to be solved to a large extent shortly. Divrigi Iron Ore
Corporation's new plant at Demirdag is designed to produce per year
2 million tonnes of iron ore concentrate and 1.3 million tonnes of iron ore
pellets witb 65-68Z Fe, reducing the requirements for high-quality imported
ore for blending. Another such plant is contemplated near Malatya. The
cost of imported iron ore at the plant, according to Eregli steelplant, was
$33 per tonne in 1984 against TL 9,838 ($19) for domestic ore. Iskenderun
Steelplant informed us that the cost of imported iron ore at the plant
varied from $28 to $31 against the cost of TL 9,265 (about $18) for domestic
ore.



- 57 -
ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 8
Turkish Iron and Steelworks (TDCI) indicated that they have planned
production of 7.5 million tonnes of iron ore by 1989 if adequate rail
transportation is available. SPO, during discussion, confirmed that intake
of domestic iron ore can be considerably increased if rail transportation is
assured. Increased traffic in iron ore has, therefore, been estimated
between 2 and 3 million tonnes by 1989. An origin-destination matrix for
the estimated additional 2.5 million tonnes of iron ore is given belcw.
Table 5: Breakdown of the Additional Movement of 2.5 million Tonnes
Iron Ore by 1989 (in million Tonnes)
From                      To                           1989
Divrigi                   Iskenderun                        1.0
Yehsilhisar               Iskenderun                        0.2
Hekimhan                  Iskenderun                        0.2
Divrigi                   Eregli (via Samsun)               0.4
Yehsilhisar              Karabuk                            0.3
HekiMban                 Karabuk                            0.3
Yahsihan                 Karabuk                            0.1
2.5
9.       Better rail-sea coordination will be required at Samsun to despatch
more domestic ore to Eregli. Despatch through Samsun was only 0.77 million
tonnes in 1984 due to inadequate availability of ships and has to go up to
about 1.2 millica tonnes a year, which the port can handle.
Lixnite
lu.      The output of saleable lignite is likely to go up by more than 100X
by 1989 against the production level of 22 to 23 million tonnes in 1984.
However, the impact on rail transport will not be appreciable, as the bulk
of the increased production will be consumed in mine-mouth power stations,
not requiring rail transport. On the other hand where lignite is moving by
road, inspite of higher freight rate, due to inadequate rail transport, it
is feasible to get at least one million tonnes of additional traffic in
lignite by rail by assuring adequate timely transportation and by opening
lignite dumps at heavy consuming points like Ankara, Istanbul, Izmir, Sivas,
Malatya etc. The particulars in Table 6 below indicate the pattern of
movement of lignite from the three principal despatch points.



- 58 -
ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 8
Table 6: Pattern of Movement of Lignite
1984
Production
Principal Loading   (in million    Movement by    Movement by
Points              tonnes)          Rail           Road          Remarks
(in m. tonnes)
Soma                3.4            0.40           1.0       Heavy movement
by road to
Izmir.
Tuncbilek           4.0            0.65            1.3      0.7 million
tonnes by
road to Ankara.
Seyitomer           5.5            0.80           1.2
12.9           1.85            3.5
Pattern of Principal Rail Movements
Soma       -  0.17 u tonnes per year to Izmir Power Station
Tuncbilek  -  0.30 * tonnes per year to Ankara Dump
Seyitomer  -  0.60 . tonnes per year to local Fertiliser Plant
Anthracite Coal:
11.      There is little prospect of increased production, due to limited
reserves and difficult mining conditions. According to SP0, out of the
total requirements of 7.7 million'tonnes in 1989, about 4.4 million tonnes
will be met by local coal, the remainder being imported through ports. The
requirements of only Karabuk would move by rail. The forecast distribution
pattern for 1989 received from the Turkish Coal Enterprises (TKI) are in
Table 7. Requirements at Karabuk will go up by about 0.7 million tonnes
when a new coke oven battery is commissioned and hence an increase of about
0.5 million tonnes by rail is expected.



- 59 -
AMNEX 3
Page 7 of 8
Table 7: Distribution Pattern of Coal Traffic from Zonuulduk Area
(as forecast by Turkish Coal Enterprises)
1989
1984                    (Anticipated)
Production at Zonguldak:          3.63 m. tonnes               4.40 m. tonnes
1984                         1989
Distribution to:                    M. Tonnes                    M. Tonnes
Steelplants    Eregli            0.61                         1.09
Karabuk          0.88                         1.62
Iskenderun       0.16                         0.40
1.65                         3.11
Power House    Catalagzi         0.54                           -
Ankara           0.01
0.55                         0.80
Railways                         0.28                         0.15
Other Industries                 1.15                         0.34
TOTAL                          3.63                         4.40
Transit Traffic
12.      The potential for transit traffic is considerable.  While the
transit traffic to Iraq and Iran through Turkey increased from 0.6 million
tonnes in 1979 to about 4 million tonnes in 1983, railways' share of it is
only 0.5 to 0.6 million toDnes (excluding traffic for Iraq transhipped into
road vehicles at Nusayabin). This traffic is highly profitable for the
railways, and they can capture a substantial portion of this traffic by
organising long-distance fast express goods trains from the ports of Mersin,
Haydarpasa and Samsun as also direct rail transport from the countries in
Europe. These trains should also cater for container traffic (para 14).
Fertilizers, Cereals, Iron and Steel Products
13.      Rail carries only 7Z of the total fertilizer traffic.  Railways
have planned to capture additional fertilizer traffic by organizing block
rake movement of both domestic and imported fertiliser to the depots of
DONATIM (Turkish Agricultural Supply Organisation) which controls the
import, procurement and distribution of 90% of the fertilisers in the
country. More rail-head facilities are to be provided for their depots



- 60 -
ANNEX 3
Page 8 of 8
which have storage capacity of over 2 million tonnes. Similarly, additional
cereal traffic by rail is envisaged by organising block-rake movement from
procurement centers and ports to the silos of the Food Organization for
retail distribution. About 24% of production at the Iskenderun steelplant
and 50Z of production at Karabuk move by rail. Rail dispatch from these
steelplants is expected to go up with the increased production in 1989.
Efforts are being made to step up and accelerate rail movements by setting
up steel stockyards at important consuming points where iron and steel may
be moved in block rakes.
Container Traffic
14.      TCDD is at present not equipped to transport container traffic.
During discussion with the mission, TCDD indicated that they were going to
set up container terminals with suitable facilities for handling and
transport. A modest beginning in this regard would pay rich dividends. See
Action Plan (Annex 2 Section H).



- 61 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 6
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Senior Technical Advisers and Assistants
A. Obiectives
1.       For the full implementation of the whole reorganization scheme for
locomotive maintenance and operation as described in Annex I, the services
of two senior technical advisers with assistants will be temporarily
engaged by TCDD. One will be responsible for assistance in implementing
the recommendations in the areas of locomotive maintenance and locomotive
technology, the other in the area of locomotive operation (utilization).
In addition, a Movement Adviser will be engaged to assist in the
implementation of the various recommendations indicated in the operational
strategy (Annex 6).
B. Tasks of the Senior Advisers and their Assistants
Advisor for Locomotive Maintenance and Technoloay
2.       Assistance to TCDD Headquarters, Behicbey main workshop and the
home depots for the implementation of all the recommendations made on
locomotive mainteuance and technology aiming at improved locomotive
availability and lower maintenance costs, in particular:
establishment of an integrated system of maintenance operations
for current and overhaul maintenance and a detailed code of
appropriate regulations for all operations, proposals for
appropriate technical assistance if necessary for this
comprehensive work;
systematic and complete introduction of the part exchange method;
building-up the centralized rework facilities and their stores for
all components and parts, based on industrial production methods;
building-up the main workshop and its store to full capacity with
high efficiency equipment and work flow;



- 62 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 6
concentration of all overhaul work in the main workshop and the
rework facilities;
new arrangement of the home depots and special depots according to
their new tanks, transfer of tasks to the home depots (in
cooperation with the senior advisor for locomotive operation);
introduction of new integrated maintenance management organization
and methods in TCDD Headquarters as well as in the main workshop
and depots;
introduction of new working methods for the current and for the
capital maintenance in the workshops;
participation in the study for a Special Management Information
System (SKIS);
participation in organizing and implementing the personnel
training progrm as far as maintenance is concerned;
phasing-out of weak points in locomotive design;
fundamental reconditioning of the i umobilized and the unreliable
locomotives;
supervision of the reasonable and economic distribution and use of
the basic stock of exchange components and parts; and
assignment and supervision of the tasks of his assistants.
Advisor for Locomotive Operation
3.       Assistance to TCDD Headquarters, the Regions and the deployment
(hoe) depots for the implementation of all the recommendations mde on
locomotive operation aiming at increased efficiency of locomotiv--
utilization and lower operation costs, in particular:
concentration and improvement of locomotive duty planning;
concentration and improvement of current control and monitoring of
locomotive employment;
improvement of locomotive personnel rastering in order to increase
productivity of personnel and locomotives;



- 63 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 6
establishing and monitoring of the central locomotive control
office which has to work in close cooperation with the central
traffic control office in order to obtain optimum efficiency of
locomotive utilization;
introduction of new organization and working methods in locomotive
operation management;
reorganization of the system of depots for locomotive and
locomotive personnel deployment, concentration, definition of
tasks, reduction of numbers;
cooperation with the senior advisor for ma4ntenance concerning the
tasks of the home depots;
participation in the study for a Special Management Information
System (SMIS);
participation in organizing and implementing the personnel
training program as far as locomotive operation and locomotive
drivers are concerned; and
assignment and supervision of the tasks of his assistants.
C. Qualification of the Senior Advisors and their Assistants
Senior Adviser for Locomotive Maintenance and Technoloay
4.       He should be a mechanical or electrical engineer with high
competence and broad experience and knowledge on the whole field of
locomotive maintenance desirably not only in overhaul in main workshops but
also in current maintenance in depots. He further should have good
knowledge of the design of Diesel-electric locomotives and Diesel engines.
He should have worked in managerial positions both in workshops and in
central or regional headquarters and be familiar with modern maintenance
t methods, use of EDP included.
Senior Adviser for Locomotive Operation
5.       He should be a mechanical or electrical engineer with high
competence and broad experience and knowledge on the whole field of
locomotive operation, locomotive personnel management and of current
locomotive maintenance in depots. He should have worked in managerial
positions at different levels and as well as traction chief and be familiar
with modern operational management methods, use of EDP included. He should
also have good knowledge on locomotive personnel training and supervision.



- 64 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 6
Assistants to the Senior Advisers
6.       All five assistants should be mechanical or electrical engineers
with at least 10 years basic practical experience gained in workshops or
depots for locomotives. They should have worked in middle management
positions or as special assistants of managers for locomotive maintenance
or operation.
-    At least one should have special experience in current
locomotive maintenance in depots;
-    At least one should have special experience in work
planning, control and supervision of work in locomotive
main workshops;
-    At least one should have special knowledge in Diesel
locomotive design;
-    At least one should have special experience in locomotive
turnaround planning, personnel rostering and locomotive
deployment control;
-    At least one should have special experience in computer
application in locomotive maintenance and/or operation;
-    AL' least one should have experience and knowledge in
technical personnel training.
7.       Two assistants should be allocated to the senior maintenance
advisor, two others to the senior operation adviser and one should be made
available for both advisers, the choice to be made according to the
specific qualification and experience of each.
D. Duration of Engagement
8.       Advisers and Assistants should be in position within six months
after signing of the Loan Agreement. The contracts for the two senior
advisors should be concluded for at least 6 months each with option for
prolongation. The volume of the tasks of both will require the services of
both over a period of at least one year, for the maintenance adviser even
longer. The contracts for the assistants should be concluded for 6 months
each, with option for prolongation. The individual requirement for
duration of the services will depend on the specific qualification and
combined experiences that the different assistants will offer.



- 65 -
ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 6
E. Scope of Work of Movement Adviser
9.       The main task of the Movement Adviser is to organise and
streamline the movement of bulk commodities like coal, iron ore, lignite,
etc., in block rakes by:
(a) organising, in consultation with producing and consuming
agencies, daily programme of movement in rake-loads from each
loading point to each destination on the basis of supply and
demand as also distribution pattern;
(b) fixing different circuits of movement on the basis of
programmes made and allocate to each circuit wagons and
locomotives on the basis of tururound/links fixed;
(c) studying loading and unloading arrangements at different
terminals and suggest removal of constraints impeding
expeditious handling of wagons as also fix schedules for
supply and drawing of wagons and running out of train;
(d) timetabling of the block trains with correct inter-section
running time and indicating on the train-control master
charts schedule path of the block trains for preferential
movement by Train Controllers;
(e) devising a proper monitoring system of supply, loading,
movement, unloading and empty return of the block trains and
checking the turnround of each block train against schedule
for corrective action; and
(f) assisting TCDD staff in organizing additional block trains by
bulking piecemeal (odd wagons) movements into rakes to
dumps/stockyards/storage depots.
10.      Movement Adviser shall also assist TCDD staff in:
(a) Arranging fast point to point express goods trains to clear
transit and inter-city freight traffic;
(b) organising movement of containers;
(c) arranging necessary analysis of traffic moving by road to see
whether any traffic can be diverted to rail;
(d) working out norms for detention to wagons at terminals and
intermediate yards to check the actual results against the
same for corrective action; and
(e) suggesting such other actions as may be necessary to increase
the transportation capacity or wagon utilisation of TCDD.



- 66 -
ANNME 4
Page 6 of 6
F. Qualification
11.      Movement Adviser must be an operating officer of repute with at
least 10 years experience as senior movement officer handling bulk
commodity movement on a railway system having heavy density of traffic and
sizeable movement of bulk commodities like coal, ores, etc.
G. Time Schedule
12.      Movement Adviser should be in position within six months after
signing of the Loan Agreement. Two TCDD operating officers conversant in
English should be attached to him from the start as under-study for
training in follow-up actions and further training of TCDD staff.
13.      Movement Adviser shall work for at least six months (with option
for extension) in two stages:
Period                  Work
Stage I (Three months)  -    To organize the work indicated under
Section E above, train up the TCDD
officers and staff in the work, visit
the regions concerned and explain the
procedures to different officers and
staff to enlist their active
cooperation in implementing the
various schemes.
Period                  Work
Stage II (Three months  -    Check up whether various schemes are
after interval     being properly implemented as
of six months)     directed, evaluate the results and
extension and further refinement of
the procedure.
H. Report
14.      Movement Adviser shall, at the end of each Stage, submit to TCDD a
report in English on the work done, innovations introduced and their effect
on overall operation and wagon utilization.



- 67 -
Annex 5
Page 1 of 5
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Terms of Reference for a Study of a Specialized Manaxement Information
System for Locomotive Maintenance and Operation
A. Objectives
1.       The Specialized Management Information System (SMIS) is to become
the most important tool of the locomotive maintenance management as well as
of the locomotive operation management. Electronic data processing (EDP)
shall be used as far as ever possible. The SMIS shall be an integrated
system using partially the same input data for the managements of both
locomotive maintenance and operation. The system shall comprise not only
locomotives of all kinds but also any other kind of motive power, i.e.
Diesel electric railcars and train units and all kind of motive power for
maintenance and operation personnel.
B. Output Components
2.       The SMIS shall produce all information necessary for the
management (organization, planning, control and supervision) of all
locomotive maintenance and operation activities. Important regular output
components are:
-    maintenance statistics;
-    cost accounting for maintenance;
-    stocks and stores management;
-    locomotive operation statistics coordinated with maintenance
statistics; and
-    economic locomotive personnel management;
3.       The SMIS shall also elaborate, update and implement the
operational plan for maintenance on the basis of detailed information
contained in its memory or fed into it on:
-    the maintenance operations applied to the individual vehicles;
-    the technical condition of the individual vehicles;
-    the forecast traffic demands;
-    the scrapping plan; and
-    the planned operational objectives.



- 68 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 5
4.       In a similar way it shall elaborate the operational plan for
traction and it shall produce all necessary planning data for maintenance
and operation of locomotives and the other traction vehicles.
C. Input Data and their Suppliers
5.       The workshops and stores of any kind, the procurement offices, the
locomotive deployment and personnel depots and the central locomotive
control office are the suppliers of the input data. They supply them in
form of lists, sheets and individual slips which are sent by a permanent
and well organized process to the EDP Center or to decentralized input
units communicating with the Center. All information is supplied in
codified form.
6.       All subsidiary workshops of the main workshops, the rework
facilities, the home depots and other depots participating in maintenance
or servicing of traction vehicles supply data on man-hours worked and
materials consumed as well as vehicle-hours engaged per individual
vehicle. The respective staff of the workshops deliver lists on personnel
level, salaries and wages, on costs of provision of workshop facilities and
for administration as well.
7.       Every individual movement of any stock unit (issue and receipt) in
all stores has to be represented by a material exit or entry slip
transmitted to the EDP Center. The information on store personnel and
wages as well as on the costs of provision of stores facilities are
delivered by the office of the unit the store is attached to.
8.       The offices responsible for procurement of any kind in TCDD
Headquarters, in the regions, the main store, the main workshops and the
home depots send all relevant information on the procurement contracts,
particularly quantities, prices and delivery times to the EDP Center.
9.       The depots collect by their local control offices the individual
performance sheets that each locomotive driver fills-in for each shift and
which concern all relevant data on his own performance and that of the
locomotive (consumption included), transform them into codified form and
send them to the EDP Center. The depot office sends lists with all
information not contained in the performance sheets, particularly salaries
and times payed without duty on locomotive and further all information
necessary for economic personnel management and personnel rosters
analysis. Special slips on incidents of locomotive damages or faults,
filled-in by the locomotive drivers and completed by the depot's office are
sent to the EDP Center as well.
10.     The central locomotive control office whose dispatchers hold
permanently a manual depicting the complete review on the actual situation
of all locomotives allocated to the respective deployment depots send daily
sheets to the EDP Center which contain extracts of the manual concerning
the employment of each individual locomotive.



- 69 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 5
D. Extension of Existing Electronic Data Processing Equipment
ll.      The EDP equipment existing in TCDD Headquarters should be utilized
efficiently, and only if the capacity is found insufficient, supplementary
arrangements may be made to augment the existing capacity for the use of
the proposed SMIS. A great quantity of input data will have to be
coumunmicated to the EDP Center without delay. The desirability of
building-up of a system of decentralized terminals with standing
communication links to the EDP Center will have to be considered. A
similar problem will have to be studied for the output and distribution of
the output documents. The decentralization of the EDP System in the case
of its application for management of locomotive maintenance and operation
will be simplified by the fact that the main input suppliers and output
users are concentrated in or near Ankara and in the regional main places
Sivas, Malatya and Adana. Only the places Afyon and Eskisehir end the
places of special depots might need special consideration in this context.
12.      If input and output facilities are to be established together at
decentralized places, particularly in places of regional headquarters, a
solution involving small daughter computers working in on-line
communication with the main computer unit might come into consideration.
13.      The study shall extend on the following issues:
-    Main computer capacity required for the full introduction of
the proposed SMIS;
-    Capacity of existing main computer;
-    Proposal for enlarging the existing computer if necessary
(products of different manufacturers fitting to the existing
computer's features);
-    Proposal for programming language to be used, compiler to be
procured if necessary;
-    Number, type of peripherical units for input, memory and
output to be procured for full introduction of SMIS
(alternatives from different manufacturers);
-    Advantage of building-up a decentralized external system for
input alone, for input and output;
-    Alternative consisting of a system of daughter computer
centers;
-    Coununication solutions in the different cases;
-    Complementary issues, if any;
-    Cost estimates (foreign exchange, local currency) for all
solutions and components studied.



_ 70 -
ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 5
E. Implementation
14.      For preparation, the study shall give a detailed review on all the
different measures necessary for the full introduction of the proposed SMIS
in all kinds of railway units and for any activity concerned by this bystem
and the use of EDP for its functioning. The review shall describe the
necessary changing in organization, methods, tasks, responsibilities,
requested information and the forms to be used.
15.      A plan for preparation should be given in the study, reviewing in
condensed form the individual actions, the persons or institutions
responsible for each action and the term for its completion.
16.      The Study should produce a review of the individual computer
programs necessary for establishing all the statistics, plotted graphs,
cost accounts, stock accounts, data reviews, procurement requests and draft
procurement orders, stock exchange requests, analyses in the provided or
individually requested frequency and with the specialized choice of data
corresponding to the requirements of the addressee and user.
17.      In the plan for programming, to be established in the study, the
priority and the sequence of the actions should be so established as to
complete at the same time all the actions necessary for the implementation
of the SKIS.
F. Time Schedule
18.      It was agreed that the study will be entrusted to a team
consisting of a computer analyst of TCDD's EDP Center, the locomotive
maintenance specialist and the locomotive operation specialist (See Annex
4). Both latter specialists will be chosen out of the team of the senior
technical advisors and their assistants. The study work should commence
not later than I month after arrival of the senior technical advisors'
team. It should be conducted in close cooperation with the EDP Center and
the services concerned of TCDD and be finished within 12 months. The
report should be delivered in English.
19.      The preparation (para. 14) and the programming (para. 16) would be
implementation phases on the basis of the results of the study. Both
phases can be conducted in parallel.  Technical assistance from experienced
specialists will be necessary for both preparation and programming. Both
phases together will last about 20 months. This period can be used for
preparation of the procurement of required hardware to the extent
necessary. Procurement should not be decided earlier than the completion
of the prograuming, because this process can influence the choice of
suitable hardware to be procured, and the rapid development of computer
technology is an important reason for avoiding early commitments.



-71 -
ANNEX 5
Page 5 of 5
G. Cost Estimates
20.      In addition to the cost estimates requested in para. 13 for the
hardware, the study should complete the review on programming requested in
para. 16 by cost estimates on the individual and the total costs of
programming with a review of the necessary stengthening of TCDD's
programming capacity in man-months.  Furthermore, the study should propose
a program for technical assistance as provided in para. 19 and give cost
estimates for its implementation.



- 72 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 7
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND RAIIMAY PROJECT
Operational Strategy
1.       By 1989, Turkish State Railways (TCDD) have to gear themselves up
to carry about 5-6 million tonnes of additional freight traffic. The Bank
mission considers the following operational strategy to be essential to
meet the traffic demand.
Block Trains
2.       Bulk traffic like iron ore, coal, lignite, etc., should move from
point to point in block rakes with arrangements for fast loading and
unloading. Separate pool of wagons, in perfect fettle, should be
ear-marked for each circuit of movement and the trains must move on
scheduled paths with maximum permissible loads and nominated locomotives
and crew. The trains should not be completed with wagons requiring
shunting en-route. Movement offices in Divisions and Headquarters should
specially monitor the perforsmnce of these trains against the schedule and
take corrective action in the matter of loading/unloading, keeping the
rakes intact with maximum load, intensive examination of the wagons to
avoid damaging en route or frequent intermediate mechanical attentions,
etc. Units of transportation for bulk transport must be rakes and not
wagons. Programs should be accepted from despatchers in train loads,
supply made accordingly and loading/unloading organised in rakes.
Price-incentive may be arranged for Train Despatchers and Crews to get fast
turn-round on schedule.
Lacuanae in Present Arrangements
3.       Though TCDD has arranged some block trains for iron ore and coal,
the same is not achieving the purpose and turn-around of wagons is more
than double the schedule laid down by TCDD as may be seen from Table 1
below:



- 73 -
ANEX 6f
Page 2 of 7
Table 1: Turn-round of Hopper Wagons In Iran Ore Block Trains
Actual against Schedule Requirements
Turn-round    No. of hopper
as accepted    required to                      Total        Total         Excess
Iron ore       No. of hoppers    by TCDD        maintain daily      Plus SZ      hoppers     hoppers      hoppers In
Circuit        loaded ,er dav                       loadina       ineffective   remu1red   in circuLt        circuit
Divrig'
Sa.sun            40               4'              160               8            168           285          117
D1vrig1
Karabuk            S0               5'             250               13           263           760          497
Divrigi
Iskenderun        87               4               348              17                                       404
*  oeaf ldgn nd f814  o01l
* 1ncl. one day for loading and one day for unloading.



- 74 -
ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 7
(a)  Loading is slor due to Iron ore being loaded by stationary
payloaders/shovels requiring positioning of wagons and
limited siding capacity (each wagon taking 20 minutes to be
loaded) and subsequent weighing and adjustment on
weighbridges;
(b) Loading of lignite through conveyor belt of only 300 tonnes
per hour (TPH) capacity, absence of any stockpile of screened
lignite and preference given to loading of road vehicles;
(c) Not insisting on loading in full rakes, which leads to
running trains with light loads, often completed with other
wagons;
(d) Slow unloading due to limited capacity (300 TPH) of the
conveyor for evacuation, slow discharge of hopper wagons due
to defective doors and shovelling out of the residual
contents, placement of wagons for unloading in small lots of
4 to 5 wagoas due to limited hauling capacity of locomotives
and using ordinary wagEns along with self-discharge hoppers,
which slows down release of the latter;
(e) Failure to keep the nominated wagons in their respective
circuits, requiring use of other wagons which are not
self-discharging;
(f) No special arrangements for intensive examination of rakes on
block trains;
(g)  Not organising movement from each loading point in rakes;
(h) Detention to empty rakes at unloading points in absence of
timely arrangement of locomotives;
ti) Absence of proper monitoring of the rakes as regards
preferential running, reception and crossing.
Suitable corrective actions are required to achieve t)-a programmed
turn-around so that requirements for hopper wagons cAn be reduced by 50Z.
Loading and unloading rates should be increased ane weighbridges located
suitably to accelerate weighing and adjustment.
4.       Movement in block trains should be strea,lined for other
train-load traffic like loco coal trains from ports to loco-sheds; lignite
for power houses, fertiliser plants and dumps; dolomite and coke trains to
Karabuk, etc.. Particulars of block rakes possible are given in Table 2:



- 75 -
MNEX a
Page 4 of 7
Table 2: M, d  l1 Train. - Prm.mt an 
Preust bo. of Si*n  Trains           fO. of Sleek Trains fossible By 1fl9
with Single 0iese                Single 01Di0elA   Double 01Die  (CE*
Siniltz             S allt                  !l0 Ibmrul - 750 tan                   7t     a Toomms  with AUO tas
Divrigi
(t)      - Iskendertn                         S                               12                6
oivrigi
(11)      - Karabuk                            4                                6                3
Oivrigi
(111)      - S_sun                              2                                5                2.S
(a)     Nekiftan                              1                                2                1
- Iskenderun
Cb)      inkimhan
- Karabuk                            1                                1                O.S
Cc)     Hekimban
- S_m                                1                                2                :
C1)     Yesilhisar                            2                                a                4
- Iskenderun
(ii)     Yeslihisar
- Karabuk                            O.S                              -                -
(11)      Vesilbisar
- Smsun                              1                                2                1
Yahsihan
- KarabuL                             lS                              1 
Total                           19.0                             39               19.5
MTHRCL
ML
(1)     ZoBguldak
to Karabuk                           3                                6                3
:1Ii      Zonglkak
(Catalagzi Power Iouse              _                               .                   1
Total                            3                                9                4.5
(1)     Seyltmr to Fertilizer Plant
(2S a _as)                 3                               3                 1.S
'11)     Tuncbliek to Ankara                   -                                3                1.5
(111)     SoM  - 1Z341 PAr HouSe                o.S                             O.S
(Iv)     Sm  - I4R                             -I                                                o.S
tv)     Sma-Istanbul                          _                                                 I 1
A1               AA
these are alternative arrangants.
S40S0



- 76 -
ANNEX 6
Page 5 of 7
5.       Out of 19-20 million tonnes of total originating traffic
anticipated by 1989, more than 50% can be covered by block rakes, average
turn-round of which is not expected to exceed 6 days. Even if the
turn-round for the remaining traffic continues at 12 days, overall
turn-round of all wagons should come down from the present figure of 12
days to 8-9 days.
Dumps and Stockyards
6.       Slow piecemeal movement in wagons should be replaced by fast
point-to-point block rakes for lignite and iron & steel products by setting
up lignite dumps and steel stockyards at heavy consuming points, movement
to which can be made in block rakes, retail distribution being done by road.
Express Goods Trains
7.       Inter-city high-rated traffic may be attracted to rail by
organising fast goods trains (Express Goods Trains) between specific points
on nominated days with guaranteed transit time on time-table paths.  These
trains may clear container traffic as well. Handling arrangements for
containers have to be developed at terminals.
Rationalization in Transport
8.       To reduce strain on rail transport, cross-running of bulk
commodities like iron ore, lignite etc. should be avoided by moving the
requirements from the nearest sources so long as the quality parameters are
not disturbed. Such irrational movements were noticed in iron ore.
Increased Train Load
9.       To accommodata the increased train services due to increased
traffic by 1989 (Table 2), commodities like iron ore, coal, etc., may be
cleared in heavy trains with 2 locomotives (or suitable banking
arrangements on graded sections where adverse grade is not continuous).
The crossing loops may be extended as required. Running of heavier trains
with 2 locomotives will also permit running of trains with consistent load
over the entire engine run, where permissible load on different sections
varies due to gradients. A sample illustration is given in Table 3 below:



- 77 -
ANNEX 6
Page 6 of 7
Table 3: Varying Permissible Load
Sivas - Samsun
Section                       Permissible Load             Permissible Load
Single Diesel                   2 Diesels
Tonnes                        Tonnes
Sivas-Zille                            835                          1500
Zille-Turhal                          1500                          1500
Turbal-Amasya                         1245                          1500
Amasya-Havza                           820                          1500
Havza-Ladik                            695                          1500
Ladik-Samsun                          1500                          1500
Note:    At present, two short trains of 700 tonnes each amalgamated at
Ladik and cleared by steam power-involving overlapping of the
first train and delay in connecting second train and steam power.
Improved Utilization of Wagons
10.      At present, consumers may get wagons for loading only a few to.nes
and pay for only one third of the carrying capacity of wagons. Pay-load
per wagon should be improved by prescribing the carrying capacity of wagons
as the minimum weight for charge, except for the very light-weight
commodities (to be notified) to discourage demand for wagons for less than
wagon-load.
Increased Mobility of Wagons
11.      Mobility of wagons should be improved by cutting out avoidable
detention at terminals and at intermediate points en route, timely
train-ordering on the basis of anticipated materialisation of loads and
comprehensive watch on running of trains through train control. Schedule
detention to wagons at different servicing points should be fixed and
actuals every period compared with the same to take corrective actions.  At
present, there is no system of working out such detentions. Marshalling
yards should be constructed at focal points to form long-distance trains
out of the mixed loads received to avoid sorting of wagons at several
points en route.
Market Survey and Marketing Campaign
12.      With proposals for getting over the several bottlenecks impeding
the capacity of TCDD to clear more freight traffic, an aggressive marketing
campaign is required to bring back the confidence of the users of railways



- 78 -
ANNEX 6
Page 7 of 7
to capture more traffic. At the same time. it is necessary to survey and
anaylse the traffic moving by alternative modes of transport to explore the
possibility of attracting other traffic to rail and the strategy for the
same, so that action can be taken by the time the facilities are developed.
Movement Advisor
13.      Services of a Movement Advisor may be availed of for at least six
mEDths to implement the various recommendations and train the TCDD staff in
block train movement of bulk commodities.



- 79 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Economic Analysis - Approach and Methodology
Improvement of diesel locomotive maintenance
and operation - part exchange system
1.       Benefits have been classified into three major categories:
(i) reduction in maintenance time of locomotives (ii) increased
reliability of motive power and better utilization of rolling stock and
(iii) lower rework costs per unit compared with the present. Although the
nature of economic benefits to be expected from these specific elements is
relatively easy to comprehend, the magnitude of such benefits is difficult
to quantify, particularly because TCDD has no previous experience of such
activities.  In these circumstances TCDD in consultation with the mission
has assumed some imputed values of these benefits based on experience of
such improved system in other countries. The benefits due to increased
availability of locomotive have been based on an improvement of about 15
days per year for diesel locomotives by 1989. Benefits due to increased
reliability would result in an average improvement in utilization of motive
power of 4X by 1989 compared with the present. In addition, the
centralized rework facilities would help to reduce rework costs per unit by
about 5S by 1989 compared with the present.
Track overhaul and track machinery
2.       The benefits of track overhaul are:
(a) reduction in track maintenance costs;
(b) decrease of wear and tear and hence of maintenance costs of
locomotives and rolling stock;
(c) reduction in accidents and increased safety;
(d) speed increases, which influence the need for rolling stock
and locomotives needed for a given traffic; and
(e) in some cases, increased permissible axle loads.



- 80 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 3
The TCDD have included in their calculations only benefits (i) to
(iii). According to TCDD the maintenance costs of track would reduce to
about half or less 'with' overhaul as compared to 'without' case. In terms
of absolute value, the benefits due to reduction in track maintenance costs
would account for more than 80S of the total estimated benefits. Similar
benefits due tn (ii) are estimated to account for about 10-15Z of the total
benefits. Benefits due to reduction in accidents (iii) have been based on
the estimated damages per year on account of the past accidents and account
for about 2 to 51 of the total benefits in most cases. The other benefits
e.g. (iv) and (v) were excluded mainly because little empirical evidence
was available with TCDD to quantify such benefits and the calculations were
complex and involved. During the life of the assets, assumed about 20
years, the traffic growth has been conservatively estimated at 5S per annum
for the first 10 years, thereafter at a slower rate of 31 per annum for the
rest of the asset life. Since the investments were justified even without
inclusion of the benefits due to (iv) through (v) the estimated ER's can be
considered as lower bound for the sub-projects.
Signalling and Telecommunications
3.       The principal effects of modernization of signalling are:
(a) Increased safety and reduction in accident costs;
(b) increased line capacity due to fewer slowdowns and stops on
line and reduced time spent in stations; and
(c) reduced staff, resulting from the introduction of automation.
4.       Benefits due to increased safety were estimated on the basis of
the past accident records and costs of damages. As regards line capacity
increase it was assumed that the additional traffic (growth rate assumed as
in 'B' above) could be carried at marginal costs, namely, train operating
plus line maintenance costs.  Without improved signalling, the cost of
carrying the additional traffic was assumed, conservatively, to equal the
average rail transport cost'' of existing traffic.  Variable and fixed
costs per GTkm in 1983 were estimated by TCDD as 2.8 TL and 1.4 TL
respectively. Benefits due to reduction in staff were estimated on the
basis of expected reduction in the actual number of staff due to automation
and their average wages.
11 Line haul cost of road transport (about 200 km and above) being about
50 to 1001 higher than the rail cost depending on whether the traffic
is required to be moved by open wagon, covered wagon, in block rakes or
piecemeal.



- 81 -
ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 3
5.       New line construction
The benefits for the construction of a second track between
Bostankaya and Bedirli/Eanli on a new alignment consist of reduced rail
transport costs for avoiding about 500 km of circuitous rail movements (via
Adana-Ulukisla-Bogazkopru route) which will be necessary because of
capacity constraint at Sivas or alternatively the savings which will accrue
due to avoidance costs of long distance road movement of bulk commodities.



- 82 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Financial Analysis - Main Accounting Assumptions
General
1.       The Forecast of Income Statements of 1985-1990 are shown as Table
1 and the corresponding statements of Sources and Applications of Funds and
Balance Statements in Tables 2 and 3. The main assumptions used are
described below. TCDD provided the figures for years up to 1984, the
estimate for 1985 and the basic information on which the forecasts are
made. The forecasts themselves were made by Bank staff on their estimates
of traffic, inflation and tariff increases: The targets have been agreed
with TCDD and Government.
Inflation
2.       Domestic and foreign inflation is assumed to be at the following
rates, (mid-year X).
1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990
Domestic          45      30       25      20      20       20
Foreign        -0.5      7.0     7.0      7.5     7.7      7.6
The foreign exchange value of the lira is assumed to fall by a factor
derived from the difference between the Domestic and Foreign Inflation
numbers and all foreign exchange transactions have been revalued
accordingly. The Fifth Five Year Plan has a target for domestic inflation
of 10Z by 1989.
Income Statements
3.       The estimate for 1985 is used as the base year.
(a) Traffic volume is assumed to grow to the following:
ACTUAL                          Billions
1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
Freight:   Gross Ton Km         16.4   16.5   17.9   19.0   20.0   21.3   21.3
Net Ton Km            7.6    8.0    8.3    8.8    9.3    9.9   10.0
Passenger: Gross Ton Km          6.8    7.0    7.6    8.1    8.4    8.7    8.7
Net PKM - Suburban   2.8    3.0    3.4    4.0    4.2    4.6    4.6
Other     3.5    3.6    3.8    3.9    4.1    4.2    4.2



- 83 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 4
(b) Revenues are forecast to rise by the increase in NTKM (or
PKM) and the percentage fare increase shown at the foot of
Annex 8, Table 1. Although the tariff iucreases for bulk
freight and general freight are shown at the same level, TCDD
is expected to apply differential increase for general
traffic in future years.
(c) Government Payments. The compensation for track upkeep is
assumed to level off as large sections of the track is bein;-
overhauled during these years thus reducing the cost of
maintenance.
(d) Operating Expenses are estimated to increase by the change in
Gross Ton Kms and by the following price increases (S):
1986    1987    1988    1989    1990
General               30      25       20      20      20
Staff Costs           20      20       20      15       15
These increases are offset by efficiency factors as a result
of the capital investment program specifically (i) reduction
in maintenance costs (line item, Other) due to the new system
of diesel locomotive repair; (ii) a reduction in materials
usage due to improved track; and (iii) a reduction in fuel
costs due to the use of electric locomotives. The factors
accumulate to 10X in 1990 (8% for materials). The total
number of employees is not expected to increase but there
will be changes in some categories, e.g. fewer men employed
in signalling and track overhaul work and more employed in
operations.
(e) Depreciation. Is calculated from the existing assets plus
the new investments. No estimate has been made of the
surplus which may result from the revaluation of assets as at
Dec. 85 as this has yet to be calculated. To this extent,
the charge is likely to be underestimated.
(f) Non-Operating Revenue. This includes the sale of scrap
metal, rental of property and miscellaneous. It does not
include surpluses from the operations of TCDD ports which are
identified separately in the Funds Statements.
(g) Interest includes (i) Existing Debt, (ii) a Proposed World
Bank Loan of US$188 million equivalent and (iii) an assumed
borrowing of US$/5 million at 92 repayable over 8 years by
supplier credits or bilateral loans.



- 84 -
ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 4
Sources and Application of Funds
4.       The surplus from the ports has, in the past, been accounted for by
TCDD and used to finance operating deficits and capital expenditure of the
railways. From December 1984, income accounts and balance statements are
being prepared separately for the ports and railway operations. The
Government has decided that TCDD may retain any surplus from port
operations as means of financing investment.
5.       Similarly, a Port Ad Valorem "Quay Duty" (RHITIM RESIM)
established by Law 827 has in the past given TCDD a source of funds for
railway operations.
6.       For the purposes of this presentation and to keep a spotlight on
the treatment of these funds, it is assumed that the ports' profits and
ports' tax will remain with TCDD. The items are separately identified as
internal resources; in effect they would be used for capital investments or
to meet payments on foreign debt.
(a) The interest payments and payment of principal on debts in
foreign currencies reflect the decrease in the exchange rate
of the Turkish lira against the US dollar.
(b) An amount of USS equivalent 188 million of the proposed Bank
Loan would be lent by the Government to TCDD on the Bank's
terms (the variable interest rate is assumed as 9Z). The
Balance of the Bank loan (US$9 million) would pass from the
Government to DLH.
fc) Investments. The total for 1985 - 1990 is estimated at
861 billion TL, being the equivalent of the upper estimate of
the SPO core plan at current prices.
(d) Bank Proiect. The total cost of the Bank project is
estimated at 516,235 million i.e. the full cost excluding
training which is an operating expense. The cost of the
Bedirli/Bostankaya/Hanli line estimated at TL 112,364 million
will be taken over by TCDD in 1991.
Balance Statements
(a) Equity. The forecast assume that the capital subscribed (all
Government owned) will increase to about 611 billion TL in
1990; this would require an increase in the authorized
capital which is at present TL 500,000 million.



- 85 -
ANNEX 8
Page 4 of 4
(b) The profits of the ports operations and the ports' tax are
separately identified and shown as retained earnings.
(c) Although TCDD has made up Balance statements as at
December 31, 1984 showing the ports and railway activities
separately these have limitations for forecasting future
years. For this reason, the estimates of the principal
balances only are shown for 1986-1990.
Relending and Foreign Exchange Risk
7.       Current rates for short term loans of six months are about 50X;
long term lending is virtually non existent so there is nothing available
to determine the alternative use of capital. As the foreign exchange risk
is to be taken by TCDD and as the lira is expected to decline against major
currencies the onlending of the proposed loan at Bank standard terms is
considered appropriate.



ANNEX 8
-86 -                                               Table 1
REPIILIC OF TUKEY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPCRT OF A
SECOND RAILIWY PROJECT
TMO Income Accounts nd Forecasts for 1984 - 1990
(TL m111kom)
Actual              - --Forast
1984      i98S     l986       1987      198       1989      1990
1RAFFIC (billions)
Freight Gross Ton Km                   16.4      16.5      17.9      19.0      20.0      21.3      21.3
Passenger-Suburban Gross Ton Km         1.3       1.5       1.7       2.0       2.1       2.2       2.2
Passenger-Other Gross Ton Nu            5.5       5.5       5.9       6.1       6.3       6.S       6.S
Freight Net T1M                        7.6       8.0       8.3       8.8       9.3       9.9       10.0
Suburban Net PFCM                      2.8       3.0       3.4       4.0       4.2       4.6       4.6
Other Piet PlC                         3.5       3.6       3.8       3.9       4.1       4.2       4.2
REVEINUES
Freight                              42.352    59.600    98.336   136.365   187.347   249.292   314.763
Passenger-Suburban                    3.2e8     3,900     6.188    10.192    14.982    19.855    24.025
Passenger-Othr                        6.816    10.300    16.308    23.433    32.024    42.647    53.309
Other                                   ISO       200       250       300       350       400       450
TOTAL FROI CUSIWMERS                  52,526    74.000   121.682   170.289   234.703   312.194   392.546
FROM G60VERIIT
Uneconomic Lines                      6.689     4,700         0         0         0         0         0
Track Upkeep                         17.357    23.000    25.000    31.2S0    37.500    45.000    s4.000
Freight Services                     37.195    46.000         0         0         0         0         0
Passenger Services (Suburban)                   3.300         0         0         0         0         0
SUBTOTAL                              61.241    77.000    25.000    31.250    37.50O    45.000    54.0ao
TOTAL RAILIAY REVEIIES               113.767   151.000   146.682   201.539   272.303   357.194   446.546
OPERATING EXPENSES
Staff Costs                        47,039    62.800    75.360    90.432   108.518   130.222   156.266
Fuel                               25.617    34.831    49,134    65,271    82.083    97.979   114.635
Other Materials                    11,025    15.900    22.429    29,796    36.845    45.927    53.275
Other                              21.377    21.550    30.399    40.383    49.938    61.719    71.595
Depreciation                         14.581    20.244    21.625    29,004    40.315    51.175    56.000
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES             119,639   155.325   198.947   254,886   317.700   387.022   451.M
NET OPERATING REVEIIUE (LOSS)          (5.872)   (4.325)  (S2.265)  (53.347)  (45.496)  (29.828)   (5.226)
- OPERATING REVENUE (NET)               6.042     7,010     6.889     7.074     7.201     7.329     7.475
INTEREST                                2.739    4.970    14.797    16.005    25.537    33,541    35.934
NET INE (LOSS)                         (2.569)   (2.285)  (60.174)  (62,278)  (63.832)  (56.041)  (33.684)
OPERATING RATIO                          IOS        103       135      126        117       108       101
OPERATING RATIO (MITHOUT WfT PINT)        228       210       163      1SO        135       124       115
CUSTOMI COIMR/OPERATING EXPENSES (S)      44        48        61        67        74        81         87
INCREASES IN CHARGES (1)
Freight; 6eneral                         25        40        60        30        30        25        25
Bulk                            25        40        60        30        30        25        25
Passenger: Suburban                      60       25        40        40        40        21         21
Other                          40       40         50       40        -4        30         25
Inflation                                          45         30       25        20        20         20



- 8;7                              ~                       ANNEX 8
Table 2
REPUBLIC OF iWETE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF A
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
TCDO Soures -d Applicatian of Funds Statemnt
(TL millions)
Total
1985      1986      1987      1988      1989      1990      1985-
SWRCES
ITERMAL SWRCES
Net Operating Rnue                             (4.325)  (52,265)  (53.347)  (45.496)  (29.828)   (5.226) (190.487)
Depreciation                                   20.24    21.625    29.4D4    40.315    51.175    56.000   218.363
Non Oprating Revnue                             7.010     6.889     7,074     7,201     7,329     7,475    42,977
Ports Surplus                                  16.290    17.919    19.711    21.682    23.,50    26.235   125,687
Ports Taxes                                    18.999    20.329    21.752    23,384    25.137    27.023   136,624
TOTRL INERINAL                                  58.218    14,497    24.194    47,086    77.663   111.507   333,164
LOANS
Existing Loans                                 16.141    18.454    30.833    15.353    8.351     8.351    97,483
Proposed lIID                                      0     9.660    34.000    43.000    48.380    S9.000   194,040
Other                                         26.190         0    21.250    25.000         0         0    72.440
TOTAL LOANS                                     42.331    28.114    86.083    83.353    56.731    67.351   363,963
GVERIUIT FtDS/CO-FINA5ICING                    (25.549)   96,589   105,943   136.343    84,171    (S.208)  452.290
TOTAL SORCES                                     75.000   139.200   216,220   326.78Z   218.565   173.650 1,149,417
APPLICATION OF FIODS
IN 1TS
Ppsed ProJect                                       0       646   109,165   226,671   116.278    63.475   516.235
Other Investments                              62,753   108.400    66.000    43.000    34.000    31.000   3g.953
TOTAL INVESITS1                                 62,753   108,846   175.165   269,671   150.278    94.475   861.188
DEBT SERVICE
Existing Foreign Loans
Repaymnt of Principal                          6.033    12.210    16.804    21.874    23.299    23,299   103.520
Intest                                         4.970    11.342     9.315    12,603    13,578    12,608    64,417
Total Existing Foreign Loans                   11.003    23.553    26.119    34.477    36.877    35,908   167.937
Proposed BRO Loan
Repaynt of Principal                               0         0         0         0         0     8,496      8.496
Interest                                           0       435     2.601     6,795    12.479    16.928    39.237
Total Proposed I[O Lom                              0       435     2.601     6.795    12.479    25.424    47.733
Pr-posd Other Loans
Repaymt of Principal                               0     3.347     8.245     9,700    11.46    11.U46    4184
Interest                                       1.244     3,020     4.089     6.140     7,4S5     5,397    28.375
Total Prepd Other Loas                          1.244     6.367    12.334    15,840    18,931    17.843    72.559
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE                              12.247    30,354    41.055    57,111    68.287    79,175   288.229
CIAWES INI WINWI CAPI1AL                         16.978     2.561   (45.245)  (17,160)      107   (13.493)  (56.2533
TOTAL APPlICATIONS                               75.000   139.2W    216.220   326,782   218.565   173.650  1,149,417



-88-                                                    ANNEX 8
Table 3
REPUBLIC OF TlRKtEY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPOtT OF 
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
TCOD Sumry hBlane Shet as at Decmber 31. 194 - 1990
(TL millIons)
Actual   -----             orst
1984      1985      1986      1987      1968      1969      1990
ASSETS
CURRENT ASSETS
Cash and Blnks                        2.648    31.627     3.500     4.200     S.000      6.0OO     6.500
Receivables                          82,840   106.977   114,131    94.767    84,864    93.961    94.000
Inventories                          19.781    22.748    26.160    30,084    34.597    39,786    45.754
Other                                 4.437     4.881    S,10       5.150    5.200      5.300     S.SO
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS                 109.706   166.233   148.891   134.201   129.641   145.07   151.754
N ORIENT ASSETS                       47.126    55.100    SS,100    S5.100    55.100    55.100    SS,100
FIXED ASSETS
Gross Fixed Assets                  359.551   422.304   531.150   706.315   975.966 1,126.264 1.220.739
Less: Acctlated Depreciation         84.726   104.970   126.S95   lSS,599   195.914   247.089   303.089
INET FIXED ASSETS                    274.825   317.334   404.555   SS.716   780.072   879.175   917.650
WRtK IN FROGRESS                       9.877    22.400    40.765    95.200   105.800    96.100    96.100
TOTAL ASSETS                          461.534   561.067   649,311   825.217 1.070.613 1.175,422 1,220.604
LUBILITIES
CURRENT LIABILITIES                   30.51    41.121    49.345    79.200    91.000   105,300   125.000
NON CIRRERIT LIABILITIES               4.731    49.971    42.770    42.660    46.900    38.306    25.313
LONGIT DEBT
Local                                 3.530     3.500     3.500     3.5C0     3.500     3.500     3.500
Foreign                              73.994   110.292   122.850   183.883   235.662   257.648   281,757
TO7L LONG TERN DEBT                  77.524   113.792   126.350   187.383   239.162   261.148    85.257
EQUIT
capital                             1S6.315   130.766   227.355   333.298   529.641   613.812   608.605
Revaluation Surplus                 178.890   178.880   178.880   1718.880   178.890   178.890   178.880
Retained Earnings
Railway                            13.533    11.248   (48,926) (111,204) (175.037) (231.077) (264.762)
Ports                                   0    16.290    34.209    53.92C    75.602    99.4S2   1253.67
Ports Tax                               0    18.-9"    39.328    61.090    84.464   109.601   136.624
TOTAL EQUITY                         348.728   356.183   430.846   515.974   693,51    770.668   785.034
CURENT ASSETS/CURIENT LIAILITIES         3.59      4.04      3.02      1.69      1.42      1.38      1.21
DEBT/EQUIlT                              0.22      0.32      0.29      0.36      0.34      0.34      0.36



- 89 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF A
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.  General Report and Studies on the Transport Sector
1.   1983-93 Transport National Master Plan - 1982, Ankara
2.   Fifth Five Year Development Plan - 1985-1989 - DPT (SPO) 1985
3.   Decree Number KHR160: The reorganization of the State Economic
Enterprises and Public Economic Establishment - The Council of
Ministers on April 11, 1983
4.   Ulastirma Master Plan: Hazirlik Dosyasi (No:2) - TCDD LIMANLARI
- Transport Masterplan - TCDD's Ports - 1981
5.   Enabling Legislation General Directorate of the Turkish Republic
State Railroads Industry - T.C. Resmi Gazete No. 18205,
October 28, 1983
B. General Reports and Studies Related to Project
1.   Special Railway Organization study by Canadian Pacific
Consulting Services
2.   Selected Projects from the Fourth National Plan available for
external financing - by Ministry of Communications
3.   New line construction Tacer-Kangal economic Analysis by Canadian
Pacific Consulting Services
4.   Feasibility study of alternative projects for improving The
Narli-Toprakkale railway line, by Technical University of
Istanbul
5.   Feasibility Study of Arifiye-Sincan line by Obermayer-Munich
6.   Creation D'UN service Du Transport organization de L'entretien
Des Locomotives - SOFRERAIL-Paris



- 90 -
ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 2
7.  Republic of Turkey - Special Railway Studies
(i) Signal Study
(ii) Rationalization of Uneconomic Lines by Canadian Pacific
Services
8.   Track Renewal Projects - economic studies by TCDD February 1985
9.   The Railway Signalling - Kayas - Cetinkaya feasibility studies
by 7CDD
10. Feasibility study of Bostankaya-Bedirli line - Orta dogu Teknik
Universitesi
C.   Design Plans, and Specifications
1.   Track renewal studies for lines
-Irmak - Kayseri;
-Alayunt Balikesir;
-Malatya - Yolcati;
-Eskisehir - Afyon;
-Divrigi - Budut;
-Haydarpasa - Ankara;
-Irmsk - Zonguldak;
-Kalin - Samsun;
-Irmak - Kayseri - Sivas;
-Bogazkopru - K. gedigi;
2.  Truck overhaul operational plan (1985-89)
3.   Specification and profile of Komurier - Osmanie line
(Narli-Toprakkale) and Bedirli - Bostankaya line;
4.   Technical Specification for a 16-cyl, V-type diesel engine
D. Financial and Accounting Documentatitmn
1.   Financial Results TCDD 1983-1984
2.   Financial Forecasts TCDD Railways 1985-1989
(a) In Constant Terms
(b) In Current Terms
3.   Costs and Revenues of Services 1981-83
4.  Analysis of Operating Expenses 1984



- 91 -
T^"ILE I
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Onerating Efficiency and Staff Productivity 1980-84
Un1t            1980      1231     19112    1983      1
9pnerating Effi1ciency
Eneia-km ner Enoine Day
Available A/
- Steam locomotives            Km               as       118      155       152      148
- Diesel locomotives          Km               313       35S      356      311       325
- Electric locomotives         Km              425       437      375       340      391
- Diesel railcars             KM               246       310      296      252       236
- Electric railcars            Km              326       289      373       362      406
Gross ton-km per locomo
tive-km
- Stem  locomotives           Ton              160       180      180       184      ISO
- Diesel locomotives          Ton              480      51       480      461       490
Gross ton-km per goods
tratn-km b/                   Ton              847.7    853.8    826.4   852.1    908.6
Passengers-km per passenger
train-kn (average n_er
of passenger per train) hiI                     296      286      275       266      260
Passengers-km per seat        000 p1ac/seat       64.4      65.2     57.4      59.8     65.0
Net ton-km per goods
train-km (average load
per train) hk                 Ton              408       374      392       402      425
Net ton-km per loaded
wagon-m (average load)        Ton                21.3     20.2     22.9      23.1     23.7
net ton km per freight
wagon in fleet a            000 ntkm/wagon      323      305      345       332      357
net ton km per capacity
of fleet                    000 ntkm/t            8.9     10.2      9.9       9.6     11.5
Ratio of loaded to total
frieght wagon-km                                  0.46     0.46     0.46      0.46     0.47
Average turnaround time of
freight wagons (total)        Days               13.6     12.6      10.8     11.8     11.5
-private wagons are excluded   Days                13.2     12.2      9.8      10.8     10.6
Staff Productivity
Average number of total
staff 4/                      los               58.253   58.305   62.846   61.552   S9.477
- of whtch operational
staff g/                     Nos.              45-500   46.726   50.694   48.668   46s577
- staff in production
shops 4/                     Nos.               12.753   12.079   12.SZ   12.884   12.900
Traffic unitsE/ per man of
operational staff             000              241.4    257.0    255.1    242.8    295.8
Gross ton-km per man of
opera:tonal staff              000               376.4    444.6    378.4    402.5    499.4
Operationasl staff per
route-km                      Mos.                5.6      5.7      6.2       6.0      S.7
a/  Shunting locomotives, and shunting and hot waiting of mainline locomotives are excluded;
t/  50  of mixed train km are added each to pass. and goods train -km;
a/ Including privately owned wagons;
9/ Computed on the basis of mn days worked.
c2  Traffic Units   Net Ton km t Passerqgev kn
CourZc rCoo  Lu . i'q5



- 92 -
TABLE 2
REPUBLIC OF TtRKEY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND RAILMRY PROJCT
Comarison wsith Selected other Railways
Unit       Algeria    Turkey    Yugoslavia    Ital    6. Britain  6reece   Austria  Romanla            y
Total line length        km           3.761      8.169      9.393       16.157    17.538       2,461     5.811    11.110    7,611
Lngth of electri-
fied lines           km             227        231      3,320        8.572      3,724        -       2,982     2,333     1.604
(S)           (6.0)      (2.8)     (35.3)      (54.2)    (21.2)        (0)       (51.3)    (21)    (21.13
Length of line           kmJ100.00       18.6       18.1       42.4         34.7      32.1        25.8      86.3      47.3      71.1
per Inhabitants       inhabitants
Passenger-km            Mill.         1.774      6.277     10.594.0    39.938.4  31,704.0    1.932.7  8,693.2  23,200.0  12.913.0
Pass.-km per km
of line               '000           472        768       1.119       2.475      1.792        785    1.479      2.060     1.696
Pass.-k per seat         000 pk   NhA              65          48           42        28          34       30         63        41
seat
Net ton km              mill.         2,765      7.500     25.018       18.384    :7.640         814    11.002    64.982   22,927
Net ton km per km
of line            '000           735        918      2.643        1,140       997         308    1.883      5.849    3.011
Net ton km per          000 ntkm        478        357        554          160       125          75      284        602    N/A
wagon capacity          wagon
Staff                    number      12.750    46,577     112.748      215.905   215,348      11.897   69.346    176,400   132,255
Traffic units per
employee           '000           357        296        316          270       232         231       283       559       271
No. of staff per        lo.               3.4       5.7        11.9        13.4      12.0         4.8      11.9      15.9      17.6
km of line             staff/km
Traffic density per     mill gross       1.90      2.85         7.00        7.24      8.85        4.56     6.67      15.10      8.00
km of line            tons/ki-
NOTE: 1981 data for Yugoslavia. Italy. Great Britain, Greece and Austria
1982 data for Hungary and Algeria except for no. 12 - 1980 data
1984 data for Turkey
Source: EIIPR
July 1985
(54050)



- 93 -
TABLE 3
RPUBLCOF TWO-
STAFF AlI*StL BEPW! OF 4
SEarn  ILUr MUOCT
Seletsd tleretlng Statistics 1I30-
unit          im       131      14s 2 Il a  is
goaue km  (am of yer)              K              a.13   8.193   8. 156   6.169 S    .16U
Electrified                   KM               201     2e       204     2t4      Z31
Traffic
Passeogm  carled          Millio           113.9   123.7   120.3   125.3   131.4
Passenge m                 3l1111o            6.0     6.1      S.4     5.7      6.3
Av_ag  trip                   Fm             52.6    49.4    45.2    45.7    47.8
Freight at-tons total      Milli             11.4    12.3    13.0    13.2    14.8
Freiht net-ton-_           Billion            5.0      5.9     6.0     L.1      7.5
Avere haul                    Km            43S.6   479.7   461.5   42.1   SO6O
Traffic mits. total a   .lilloi              11.0    12.0    11.4    11.8    13.8
Traffic Oesity
Pas-tm per rute-tm           00             732.3   744.5   86.1   697.8  m72
Freight nat tan-km per
rna4-                      000            610.3   720.1   735.7   746.7   818.2
Darations
Train-k, total             Mlliii            36.0    40.0    33.0    39.8    44.0
Train-kw. pasenges         Million           20.8    21A.    19.0    21.    2Z4.0
Train-km. imdi             Millin             2.0     2.0      2.0     2.2      1.0
Trai1-k, freiht            Milli             13.0    16.0    16.0    IS.7    18.0
Train-m. deateatl          Mllioi             1.0      1.0     1.0     0.4      1.0
toss ton-km Hauled 0i
Total                      111lon           17.2    20.8   19.3       13.7    23.4
Passenger ci               Billion            4.4     6.9      6.2     6.3      6.81
Fregh1t                   BCillon            10.7    13.9    13.0    13.3    16.
Depart.ntal                tillion            0.1     0.A      0.1     0.1      0.2
rss tan-k  Hauld by P'de
of Traction hi
Steem lacativ1             million             .1     2.7      26      2.4      2.2
Desel lacoatives           Billion           13.8    16.7    15.2    15.5    19.3
Dies  railcar  (single a
Mboltiple)               million            0.4     0.5      0.5     [.S      OS
Electric locowtives        million            0.2     0.2      0.1     0.1     0.1
Electric rallcars          million            o.      0.8      0.9     1.1      1.3
Tatal                Billio           17.2    20.9    19.3    19.6    23.4
L1_e-Km
SUt   locmttves            Million           12.0    14.0    14.0    13.0    12.0
Dinsel loceneties          MIllion           29.0    32.0    31.0    33.6    39.0
Electric lmctlvs           Mllion             1.0     2.0      1.0     1.7      2.0
iesel ri lcor
(mtr cas)                M1illion           2.0     2.0      2.0     1.4      1.0
Electric railcar
(mtr cars)               Millin            4*.      5.0      6.0     7.1      8.0
Total               Million           4.0      5.A0    5        5.8    6.0
S_atiag-tm
Steen lcnitlvs             million            4.0     4.0      4.0     3.0      3.0
Di1l locomotivs            Milin              1.0     2.0      2.0     2.0      2.0
Total               Millon             5.0      6.0     6.0     5.0      5.0
POss061W-VeIcle-ft
Psenr coches dl            Millin           116      123     112     l13      131
Mtr  car ed trailers       Millin             2       2        2       1        1
Totel               Million         1TT      T2s    T114        19     T32
Frelit Ueq0mif
Loaded                     Miio10n          243     301      Z70     273      324
EGuty                      Millon           137      194     173      168     203
Total               Mllion           380      495     4e3      441     527
ae Traffic un1it - pass. km6  artw-tn-
yi Excluding ta ueight of ating locativ
;a Including portion of Seed trains
 Includng sleng, dining *d buffet crs.  ggge ad  ail Crs.
SAcOt TCM
July 1985
(54|S )



-94 -                                    7AULE 4
REPUBLIC Of TPCEY
S1AFF APPRAISAL RfEPT
SECUO RAILIT PROJXaC
Motive Powr and Rolling Stock - oearly Averages 1Kg-S
19O         1981        1982        1983        198
Motive Power
Stem Locomt;es
Ia operational fleet (Inos)      537         530         526        C--          429
Available           (nos)        361         297         26         273         219
Available             S           67          56          54          56          51
Pw               OW  kw          677.7       676.0       661.4       620.        555.9
Diesel Locootives tIncizding shutters)
In operational fleet (nosl       454         470         469        485          534
Available           (nr)         281         287         296         380         374
Available             S           62          61          63          78          70
Power            000 kw          6589        698.5       692.2       704.2       759.0
Electric Loctives
In operational fleet (nos)        18          18          18          18          18
Available           (nos)         10          11          12          16          1S
Available             S           56          61          67          89          85
Por              000 kw          486          48.6        4as         46          48.6
Diesel Railcars
In operational fleet (nos)        42          38          28          27          27
Available           (nos)         28          23          18          18          18
Available             S           66          61          64          67          67
Potr             000 bk           17.5        17.0         9.9         9.6         9.6
Electric Railacrs
In operational fleet (nos)        50          59          66          70          70
Available           (nos)         42          54          SS          62          62
Available             S           84          92          83          89          88
Por              OCO k            50.6        59.8        67.0        77.7        77.7
Rolling Stock
Passener coaches 1
In operational freet (tns)     1.332       1.349       1.365       1,374       1.379
Average seating    seats/
cacity            coach          70.0        69.5        69.5        69.7        70.0
Seating cacity  000 seats         93.3        93.7        94.8        95.7        96.5
Freight Wagns
TCDO's operational fleet (nos) 19.336     19.955      20.492      20.931      20,994
Available               (nos) 17.167       17.683     17.411      19.206      19.204
Available                 1       88.6        88.6        85.0        91.8        91.S
Loading capacity of the
operational fleet
'000 ton/waJon     560.6       581.4       6D2.9       632.0       654.3
Average wagon
capity           ton/wagon       28.9        29.1        29.4        30.2        31.2
Privately owned  agons
(revenue earning)  (tnos)     1,536       1.633       1.610       1.673       1.620
1/ Including sletping. dining and buffet cars.
The above availability figures are computed on the basis of the ctual available unit hours per
anm  against the potential unit hours per mnnou. i.e., number of units in fleet I 365 X 24.
Sobn; TCO
July 1985



-95 -                                                  is
REPUBLIC OF TIIE?
STAFF ARAISL REPORT
SEWSO EATLUY  OECT
TC5's Inwitt Plan T1949
(196 Prices)
09115-9)   (IS-9)
Ites                     19804f1        1985       1966      197         1.       (ng    T(1_           as194
-    ~~~~(n TL  Ilte
Infrastructne
Caital Overhul(track. s. Ji)  23.626         12.D0       11.065    11.757    U.592    14,451    63.O?S        172.0
Reinforceent of Existing track       -           Zeo       1,215       99      1.171       906      5,0         13.9t
Connecting Lines                 2.786         1.a00      2.1        2.000     2.000      2.000     9.W000      24.
Track OmAling                   2.47            800      4.0D       4.Z26         -         -      9.026       24.73
Track Medcaization               9.553           am0        LOD          -         -         -      1.60         4.3
Material: 2/
- Point 1,000                        -           600        750        750       75D       750      3.600        9.J
- Ballast 1.730.000 ml               -           746        721        756       754       756      3,729       10.22
- Ties 2SO.000 pcs                   -           500        5SD0 50 SW                     SW       2.D0         65.
- Melding 75.000 units               -           225        120        120       120       10         705        1.93
Telecomnication                  1.SW            90o        2o         200       100         -      1.40         4.05
Signallng                       2.477         4.500      15.055    16.75S    16.682     6.050      9.032      161.73
Electrification                  4.148         S.275      21.570    l9,S5    14.U        9.420    70.405      192.09
Total Base tests (A)       46.651         28.346     56.0SS   s572    49.759   34.981   229.239           us.06
Traction and Rolling Stock
Diesel Main Line Locos (260) V    16.691       7.DOo      IS.oDO    15.000    16SW00    16.500    70.60        191.78
Diesel Shunters (75) Y           2.000         2.0       3.790      3.750     3.750     3.750    17.700        48.49
Electric Locos (120) Y             400           1SO       5.090    u0.ca      7.SDO      ?.3O    30.150        82.40
Electric Comst,-r Trains (59) Y    6,412       3.000      3.000      3.000     4.23      45D0    17.700         4.49
Passenger Cars (230) Y           3.798         1.350       1.380     2.300     2.300     3.220    ll.SS0        28.90
Freight Cars (8.900) Y          16.791         6,000      1 11.250    11.250             115D 0Z   53.000      M4S.21
Locative Renovation                  -         ZSDO       2.000        8a        4w0         -      S.7I0       iSa
Reconstruction of Ex1isng        s.721           200        2          200       20        185        95         2.10
Pass. Cars/Fleet
Two Special Freigat Cars 7r          _           6DO          -          -         -         -        600        1.
Eigt Cranes!                         -           ew           -         -          -         -        o0         2.19
Total Base Costs (8)        51,9         26.300     41.56     46.300    46.100    46,.905   207.15       O56.Q
Price Contingencies
Total Rolling Stock Costs
Buildings and Others e.g. Study.    5.900         5.053      8.150    10,005    10.452    11.O02S    44.61s       122.42
esigning. etc.
Total (A*W#C)                  124.546        59.699    107.786    114.377   106.336    1Q.911   481.109    1.316.11
MW*kshos ad Lco Depots
CAMMI Switch Fac.                    -           600        SOO         -          -         -      1.400        3.#
Enlargement of Motor Fec. In ELM   1,210          so       9Y0          -          -         -        950        2.60
Wgon Repair Factories                -         4.300      9.350      4.000     1.0W          -    18.650        51.09
Enlagement of Sidenas            1.349           YOO       1.2W      1,SOO         -         -      3.400        9.86
Enlargaet of Advas                 476           650        750        750         -         -      2.150        5.89
Eniargmnt of Elms                    -         1,W0       1.370      1.359         -         -      3.729       10.22
Procurent of MAchine Tools &
Mork Beches (_m. Elm.
Ank., ft. Fc.)                     -           a0m       1.335     1,735        SO         -      3.920       10.74
Enlargeent nd Modernizatioa of
Existing Locative Depots t
Revize House                     900           SW         750        750       750       750      3.500        9.59
Total (F)                   3,93s         8.800      16.455    10.09,     1.00         750    37.899      103.93
Grand Total - (A.8.C#OE)   128.475        6B,499    124.241   124.471   10.136    93.661   519.008    1.421.98
US$1 - 1L 365
1/ At current prices
2/ Plannd procrnt during 198549
Source: TCD. rch 1978
54050



- 96 -
TABLE 6
REPIfLIC OF TUREY
STIFF APPRAIAL REPORT
SEIS RAILMAT PRMOECT
DLIS Ieestumnt Sumary
(in mdllin TL   1984 Prices)
Starting
btwIuq Projects               ending      (19o0-"4)    1985       t 1/ 198C6         11   1987    S 1/  1986    t 1/  1989    S 11   1985-89  S
Sinc,-Tenikert OW.BJatti             1983-86         n80        400      g0   1-        100        -                                             1.770  MD
enomnAliaga Cift HNt..my.jns.        1980-87         450        900      30  6.065       60   4.S8S    100         -      -        -     -       11.550  100
Dtwrigi-Sivas.Tecer-Cangal
qy.rnssati                        1972-48       4.00       1.6C0      SS  2.460       65    3.000    85    9g0    100          -      -       7.960  lO0
NarIt-Toprakkale lo.tns.             1982419          80        320       1  8.139       20   12.000    SS  20.000       70  39.46     100      79.920  100
BedirlitHhnl1-Bostankdaya            1978-88          86        SD       5  3.450       30   4.925    60   4.039    100          -      -      12.914  10
Izit Seghr Gecisi                    1976-87       1.052      1.074      40   1.185     70       Sa9   100        -      -        -      -       2.898  100
Arifiye-Sincan Omy.Ins.              1976-96      26.437      7.40D      26  13.594      28   10,403    30  21.594    32  44.96S    35          96.956   35
Total                                        32.325    12.194           36.263           35.502          45.S33         84.426            213.918
lther Projects                                     2.25D                                                                                        16,500 3/
Total                                        34.57S                                                                                       244.508
1  Percentage of proJect wars coleted up to tht year.
2_ In 1981 prices.
3/ About 95 of these sub-projects are new morts nd related feasibility aid engineering studies. e.g.
N    orks                         1985-89 Investment
1.  Antara-Kosya4lersin                           1.87S
2.   Ballisib-Ylldizeli                           1.125
3.  Bandirm-Oguzeli                               1.063
4.  FIA.  IS  Tech. Kont) sag. fruIt              7.810
S_  Turkiye - Irmat Mrekt                           579
Note:  Investments during 198046 wre actuals and are at current prices. Estimtes for 1985 shown in table Is firm.
Otter years' estimtes are approimate sa  can be mde certain in budget discussions of the year they are included.
Swrce OLH. arch 1985
67200



- 97 -
TABLE 7
REPUBIC OF TURKEY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOPtO RAIUAT PROJECT
Track Overhaul
(19856-85
Last Year   Gross-ton(m)     Axle Load (ton)    Speed Limit (kalhr)       No. of
News of tl            Length       Of          After         At         After             After         Derailments
Rail Section            km)   Overhaul        Overhaul     Present   Overhaul   Now    Overhul            In 1983           Remarks
Ankara - Irmak                48       1952          97.0          20         20       1W        120             10        Transit traffic route
Adana - Toprakkale            79       1912          61.9          19         20         70      120             45        Ore line
Eskisehir - Afyon             78       1936                        20         20        95       120             11        Low priority
(a) Eskisehir - Alayunt                             85.8
(b) Alayunt - Afyon                                 58.0
Irmak - Kayseri             220        1951         110.9          20         20       1W0       120             22        Transit traffic route
aisun - Kalin                132       1928          56.7          19         20        95       120             12        Ore line
Mivrigi - Hudut              156       1936                        20         20        75       120              -        Transit traffic route,
(a) Divrigi - Erzurm                                50.2                                                                  low density line
(b) Erzurua - Hodut                                 24.0
Koitya - Ulukisla            237       1903          51.2          19         20        60       120              -        Low priority
Alaynt - Balikesir           206       1929          35.4          20         20        95       120             16        Low priority
Ankara - Haydarpasa          166       1962                        20         20       100       120              -        Transit traffic route
(a) H_Pasa - Gebze                                 141.0
(b) H.Pasa - Arifiye                               112.7
(c) Ariffye - Eskisehir                            109.6
(d) Eskisehir - Polatli                            107.1
(ej Polatli - Ankara                               101.9
Soazkopru - Kardesgedigi   172         1933          36.7          20         20        90       120             40        Ore/lignite traffic
route.
Irmfk-Zonguldak              77        1962         102.0         20          20        90      120               -        Ore line
Malatya-Yalcati               95       1934          68.0          20         20        75       120              -        Transit traffic route
low density
TOTAL                     1.666           -           -             -          -         -        -             156
Source; TCDO
March 1985
672M0



- 98 -
TAJLE 8
REPIJC OF TlURE?
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SEfCDh RAILY PROJECT
Modernizatlon of Signalling en Telecomm1ncations
(1985419)
aimu 1m                                                         No. of Accidents
Total Io. Of    Train Speed     Proposed                                               In 1983
Section     maSe of    Trains Per         at Present    Signalling             Type of Existing                       At Level
Section         Lengh )   Stations   Day at Present    (ke/Lr)    Syste by TC0D                       Syst.                Cotlisbon    Crossings
BSgazkopru-ardesguiigi      285           28            30               90        Automatic    Simple mecanical system on some         3            4
Venice                                                                             Block (ALI)  stations (equipWed with only
entry semhores).
Toprakkale-Adana-Nrsin      142           26            50               70         CTC          l)Slmple mechanical system on some    5            18
stations (equipped with only
entry se- es).
2jMecbanical protection on a few
stations (equipped with entry
and exit semaphores and switch
points are controlled).
Eskisehir-Kutahya-           329          33            38               95          c            l)Simple mehabical system on some    4            29
Balikesir                                                                                         stations (equipped with only entry
ses).
2)Nechical protection of a few
stations (equipped with entry and
exit semaphores and switch points
are controlled).
Kaelin-S_ma                  378          39           42                65         atomatic    No equipment                            1            2
Block
lrk-Karabuk-Zonguldak        415          46           48               90         ETc           lo equipent                            2            3
Cayas-Irmak-                 565          57           58               95         CTC           ETC only In station Kyas.  No          4            7
rayseri-talin                                                                                     equ1pent on other stations.
ialin-Sivas-Cetinkays        135          17           46                aS        Ec            No equipment                           1            4
Basomae-fleninn              32           19       36 + 60               95        Automatic     Mechaical protection on the            3           27
(Subuan                         Block         stations (equipped with entry
trains)                                      an  exit semaphores ano switch
points are controlled).
Halkali-Cerkezkoy-Border    290           36           34                95        Automatic    Simp;e mehanical system on              2            4
Block         stations (equipped with only
entry s     ores).
Iskendrun-0$vrigi           579           55           SD               90           c           On-going project
3,150                                                                                                       25           98
11 TCOD. following a suggestion by the Bank. has agree  to adpt a staged
development of mAderniing signalling end telecomamnicatlons to match capacity needs. See Section 3.07.
Source: TWO. mrch 1985



- 99 -
TMtE 9
YaeEIU.IE u iinz
STAFF APPR33L CPOF0*F 
urns aILS? Poaga
Tackical tssIsts. and Trainiw ng rwe
1. -                                           1336M  T          W I-                  1
its                     at PM                     a            r anan       Su                  an  No a  am  us
woe                we                 *ee                                             we
Tac,icl Visit for
(1=1. etise pen. trac renal.
sgnollin. taicAm, .pr  tia-l
am Pingi                             1    0.5   E.    6   L5s   12.0       O.S   12.0                     12.0  24    0       12        48.0
Training Ara f1w Tecmnical
KePw       l P                                   95nel  o.0  1?   _   SD   36            5.                   0   10    __    9         35. 0
Saul.                               S       e.0   20.1   5   1.0    20.0   5    1.0   20.0   5    LUo   20.020           1.0   20        80.0
'nodor(fr 3an3-10 yrsofa       n) 1        L     27.0   3   LBe    27.0   3    1.0    7.0 n          13 L  27.0  36    I.e  3i          ios.o
Trainln  at lastroctas (taims)
fo P-t MV. Tracta. 4ratbg
ltvem. Installatis am plam,ig   4    3.0   4e0   3   3.0    30.0   6    3.0   43.    3    3.0   36.0  N                  3.0   42        163.0
TrainIng 0ther Parsoei (0tew
Than Eng_sl                         12   -_  5s.    9                                    70_  4 e   47.0   9   _t .O    4  1.2   51     IES0
SeMir                                5    1.0   20.0   4   1.0    16.0   s    LU    20.0  4e         L *6.01i            i.I e    IE     n.e
tdiu iwalr                           S    LU    15.0   4   LD       IZ.    s    3.0   IS.0   4    1.0   12.0  la    1.0  I3             54.0
Trainingrl ngtrI ctn st lralursl     2    3.0   26.0   1   3.0    12.0   1    3.0   12.0    1    3.    12.0   s    3.0   is              60.0
Tralona at tint Actie Pars.         Is     L      0   A5   10        5.0  IS    1.0   4        l0    1.0    s      is     o   ss 5       65.0
Tedniclas                           i6           5.0  14    _       43.0 U              5 6.0  14 _ D_    48.0  s        1.0   60       210.0
Senior                               a    1.0   3.    7   3.0    2          3    1.0   32.0   7    1.0   23L  30    1.0   30            120.0
alor                                 6    ID    24.0   7   1.0    Z1.0   3    1.0   24.0   7    1.0   21.0  30    1.0   30               90.0
Fcr    a GoalfIo Mortas             10    1.0   30.0  10   1.0    30.0  30    3.0    3.0  10    1.0   30. e0    1.0   40                120.0
Total Training Abroad               77          27    n            259.0 7l            2365.0  OR          204.0 20    las 306 I.       O s .o
Training Cawss ad S_ tnws
In Caanry                          .           3D.0   -   -        10.0   -    -      15.0   -    -       20.0   -            -        s5.0
Tedmnical TeachWig Eaipmnt                      100.0D             6000                330.               20o-o e.soo.o
Total (h)                            -    -    407.0   -   -       S.    -    -          5.0   -    -    459.o   -                    2.6e0.0
TECOICAL *SSISTFAE
Insn   at _0         and
Assistants                          4      0   I6    4   6.e   112.0   _                            _      _          LO    48        360.
Fo maintmnance at Luosaotlie
TachaloV  El Scd_ AUetwr a
2 AssIstants)                        3    6.0   32.   __ _                                                _ ___   3    6.0   13         132.0
For Lomtin Opwration (I Smiwr
dilse and 2 Assistants)            -      -    -        3    .0    120 e3    6.0   is                                                   132.0
For the stw for a spcialiead
o efortlan Sta  (1 Assstant)  1    6.0   30.   ___  _.                                                        _    1    6.0    6         36.0
Mane C lair  sis i                   -     _      -     1   6.0   40.0    __    1 =6.0=                     =              e    6        60.0
Total                                     6         10   4   6.0 1O  D                                             a S 92.0  6    6.0    3  360.0
tAT TEe-D-                                             - -        -      -      -           160.0 -00 -   160                                320.0
3AM1 TOM3 (tAniCl                               s75.0             351.0          -  1.0.0         -       024.0 e                     3.320.0
11. - TRAININi PiO    FOR 0
Tacheical Visit
forilmage                           2    0.s    4.0   4   0.5        6.    4    0.5    3.    4    0.5    a .4    0.5    7                28.0
Traising Abroad for Taoical
Key Porsonnel
Seirs                                7    0.s   14.0   a   0.5    16.0   a    0.5   13.0   a    0.5   16    31    o.5   3S.s             62.0
isior (frm 3.10 yu 
of tleriace                          4    0.5    6s.0   4   0.       6.0   4       5    3      4    0.5      .          0       0        32.0
lotal for DII                       13    0.5   26.   16   0.s    32.0  16    0.s   32.0  16    0s   32.0  61   o0s   30.5              122.0
Grad Ttal                                        01.0             1.0l31.0 e.0.0                          656.0 e3.4420
SAe TUB a RH
Parch20. 16
Wmt



- 100 -
TABLE 10
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF TIIUtEY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPERT
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Suiur of Project Cost Estimates
(1985 prices) 1/
Local 2   Foreign   Total      Local   Foreign   Total  Bank Loan
TL mil;-            US$ minl-l
INFROVEMENT OF DIESEL LOCOMOTIVE
MAINTENANCE AND OPERATION
Workshop Modernization                 14,742     8,100   22.842    27.30       15.00   42.30    15.00
Phasing-Out Design Weak Points          2,300     1.620    3.920      4.26      3.00    7.26      3.00
Part Exchange SystSE                   19.899     14,850   34,749    36.85     27.50   64.35    21.0
Fundamental Overhaul                    5,251     6.588   11,839      9.72     12.20   21.92    11.50
Improvement of Coanication Link           4tl       270       761     0.91      0.50     1.41     0.50
Data Processing                         1.831     2.430    4.261      3.39      4.50    7.89      4.50
Subtotal Base Cost                44.514    33,858   78,372    82.43       62.70   145.13    55.50
Contingencies
Physical                              4,451     3,386    7,837      8.24      6.27    14.51     5.55
Price                                73.139    52.887  126.026    20.30       12.56   32.86    11.28
SUVTOTAL (I)                     122.104    90,131   212,235    110.97     81.53   192.50    72.33
TRACK OVERHAUL (740 ki)
Ankara-Haydarpasa (164 km)              8.751     5.415   14,166    16.20      10.03   26.23      9.31
Irmak-ayseri (98 ki)                    5.229     3.236    8,465      9.69      5.99    15.68     5.56
rirak-Zongulduk (137 kim)               7.311     4.523   11.834    13.53       8.38   21.91      7.78
asun-alin (199 ki)                     10.619     6.570   17,189    19.66      12.17   31.83    11.53
Bgazkopru-Kardesgedigi (142 kmJ        7.578     4.688   12,266    14.03       8.68   22.71      8.32
Subtotal Base Cost                39.488    24.432   63,920    73.11      45.25   118.36    42.50
Contlnqencies
Physical                                3.959     2.433    6.392      7.31      4.52    11.83     4.20
Price                                  79.241    45,224  124.465    23.72      11.47   35.19    10.30
SUBTOTAL (II)                    122.688    72.089  194,777   104.14       61.24   165.38    57.00
TRACK OVERHAUL MACHINERY
Tawping. Lining and Levelling Machines    247       583      830      0.46      1.08    1.54      1.08
Rail Melding Machines (Workshops)         617     1.458    2,075      1.14      2.70    3.84      2.70
Track Overhaul Cars                     1.563     3.694    5,257      2.90      6.84    9.74      6.84
Workshop Equipment and Tools              247       583      830      0.46      1.08    1.54      1.08
Snow Ploughs                              412       972    1.384      0.76      1.80    2.56      1.80
Subtotal Base Cost                 3.086      7.290   10.376     5.72      13.50   19.22    13.50
Continqencies
Price                                 3,976     9.032   13,008      0.99      2.01    3.00      2.01
SUBTOTAL (III)                     7,062    16.322   23,384      6.71     15.51   22.22    15.51
54050



- 101 -
TABLE 10
Page 2 of 2
Local 2/   Foreign    Total       Local    Forelcn    Total   Bank Loan
-----TL lIIn-                     --------  US$ mllion-----           -
SIGNALLING AND TELCOPMWNICATIONS
OF KAYAS-CETINKAYA LINE (About 700 km)
Equipment and Materials                     7.866      16,524    24,390      14.57      30.60    45.17      30.60
Other Materials and Installations           7.560         -      7.560       14.00        -      14.00         -
Subtotal                              15.426      16,524    31.950     28.57       30.60    59.17     30.60
Contingencies
Physical                                  1.543       1,652     3,195       2.86       3.06     5.92       3.06
Price                                    25.727     25,167    50.894        7.12       5.93    13.05       5.93
SUBTOTAL (IV)                         42.696     43,343    86.039      38.55       39.59    78.14     39.59
LINE CAPACITY WORKS
BEDIRLI/HANLI-BOSTANKAYA LINE (65 km)
Substructure                               33,027       5,558    38,585      61.16      10.29    71.45       -
Superstructure
-  Signalling and Telecommunication           858       1.802     2,660       1.58       3.34     4.92       3.34
-  Track Steel Material                     1,012       2,126     3.138       1.87       3.94     5.81       3.94
-  Other Material                           5,909         712     6.621      10.94       1.32    12.26          -
Subtotal                              40,806      10.198    51.004      75.55      18.89    94.44       7.28
Contingences
Physical                                  4,080       1.020     5.100       7.55       1.89     9.44       0.73
Price                                    44,382      11,878    56.260      12.19       2.42    14.61       1.12
SUBTOTAL (V)                          89.268     23,096   112,364      95.29       23.20   118.49      9.13
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND
STAFF TRAINING                                    926       1,685     2.611       1.71       3.12     4.83       3.12
Contingencies
Price                                     1.223       1,050     2.273      0.33        0.32     0.65      0.32
SUBTOTAL (VI)                          2,149       2.735     4.884      2.04        3.44     5.48       3.44
TOTAL BASE COST                           144,246      93.987   238.233    267.09      174.06   441.15    152.50
CONTINGENCIES
Physical                                 14,033       8,491    22.524     25.96       15.74    41.70      13.54
Price                                   227,688    146,103   373,791      64.65       34.71    99.36     30.96
(RAND TOTAL                               385,967    248,581   634,548    357.70       224.51   582.21    197.00
1/  Exchange Rate 1 U5$ - TL 540, inflation is based on following annual rates (in Percentage terms):
198S     1986    1987      1988     1989    1990
Local Costs        45.0      30.0    25.0     20.0      20.0    20.0
Foreign Costs      -0.5       7.0     7.0      7.5       7.7     7.6
2/  Taxes and duties are included in local component (about US$151.6 million).
Taxes; 20S for all components
Duties: 7.5% for track maintenance machinery; 231 for track steel material. signalling and
telecommunications equipment; and 35% for locomotive component and spare parts.
Source; TCDD. OLH and Mission estimates
5405D



- 102 -
TABLE 11
Pge 1 of 2
REPUIILIC OF T11KE
STIFF APPRAISL REQT
SECMD RAILAY PROJECT
Procurement Its Eligible for Loa Financing
Physical      Loan Allocation       0isbursent
itan                          bits      Vol        mL mll.    US$ wll.           Q
IMPROVEQNIT OF DIESEL LOCUDTIVE
MIUhENRACE AIMI OPERATIOI
Workshop Equ1,mnt tdernizatioe
Equipment for Behicbey Main Workshop
and For Central Res   Facilities In the
tin Workshop an  in Other Plas        -              -        7.020.0       13.00
Equipment for Five Hoe Depots and
Special Depots                        -               -          540.0        1.00
Means of Iransportation for all
eWrkshops                              -              -          270.0        0.50
Equipment for all Stores                -               -         270.0         0.50
Subtotal (1.1)                         -                        8.100.0       15.00
PbasinS-Out Weak Points In Diesel
Locomtive Design
Cooling water Treatment. Facilities
and Chlidcal Products                 -               -          540.0        l.ao
:                     Exdcnge of Fuel Injection Pums          --              -        l.UlD0         2.a0
Subtotal (1.2)                         --                       l.QO.O         3.00
Basic Stock of LocOative Cnoenents
and Parts for Past Exchange Systa          engines       1S       11.340.0       21.00
Diesel Engines and Other Parts for
Fundaental Overhaul of Iobilized
Locomotives                               enginps       2S        6,210.0       11.50
I4rovement of Comunication Links
for Locative Control                                      -         Z70.0         0.S0
Electronic Data Processing
(Specialized Managant Inormation
Sysm), Hardware, Softwre                -               -       2,430.0         4.SO
Subtotal (1)                                           -      29.970.0        5S.SO
Physical Contingencies                                         2,997.0         S.SS
Price Contingencies                                           36,013.0        11.28
SUITOTAL                                                       68.980.0       72.33         100.0
TRACK ovau. (7l h0
- Rails (Type 49)                            tonnes        81.500
- Single washer                              toones        12.2
- Double Washer                              tonnies      992
- Sole Plate                                 tonses   13.000
- Coc-:rete tensile steel                    tanss    6.$DO
- AlunIno-thermic portions                   pcs       45.s00
Sub-total (II)                                                 22.950.0       42.50
Physical centingencies                                              2.270.0         4.20
Price contingencies                                                36.430.0        10.30
SUBWTAL                                                        61.650.0       57.00         100.0



- 103 -
TABLE 11
Page 2 of 2
Physical     Loan Allocation       Disburse_t
Ite                         Units      Volume    TL mill.    US$ will.      (S)
RAUA  CONSlRUCTION AND PIINTEBIACE
ScHINERY
Tawing. Lining and Levelling Machine       pcs.          6
Rail Welding Machine (Workshop)            pcs.          2
Track Overhaul Cars                        pcs.         St
Workshop Equipmet and Tools 1/             pcs           -
Snow Plough                                pcs.          5
Subtotal (III)                                               7.290.0       13.50
Price Contingencies                                              6,637.6        2.01
SUfBOTAL                                                    13.927.6       15.51        100.0
SISIALLIRG AND TELECDIUICATIONS
Equipment nd Material for Signalling
-d Telecomunications of the Kayas-
Cetinkaya Line                             km          700       16,524.0      30.60
Physical Contingencies                                            1.652.4       3.06
Price Contingencies                                              19.144.0       5.93
Subtotal (111)                                              37.320.4      39.59         100.0
EQUIPMENT AND SITERIAL FIR LINE
CAPACITY MIS
Bedirl1/Hanll-Bostankaya Line              km           65
Track Steel Material                       tonnes        -       2.127.6        3.94
- Rails (type 49)                          tonnes    7.160
- Single Washer                            tonnes        1.1
- Doble Masher                             tonnes       84.3
- Sole Plate                               tonnes    1.145
- Concrete Tensile Steel                   tonnes      618.0
- Almaino-Thernic Portions                 pcs       4,066
Equipment and Materials for Signalling
and Telecomnicatiohs                       km           65        1,803.6       3.34
Subtotal (V)                                                 3.931.2       7.28
Physical Contingencies                                             394.2        0.73
Price Contingencies                                              4,282.0        1.12
SUETOTAL (V)                                                 8.607.4       9.13         100.0
TECHNICAL ASSISTANICE AD STAFF lRMINING                                 1.685.0        3.12
Price Contingencies                                              1.0SO.0        0.32
Subtotal (VI)                                                2.735.0       3.44         100.0
Total Excluding Contingencies                                   82.350.0      152.50
Physical Contingencies                                      7.313.6       13.54
Price Contingencies                                       103,556.6      30.96
GAND  OlTAL                                                193.220.2      197.00        100.0
11 Include! about 60 pieces of machinery. equipment and tools.
Source: TCDD. DLH nd Mission estimates
5405D



-  104 -                                                           TABLE 12
REPUEUC OF lURKEY
SWAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Implementaton Schedule
.936             191 _            1936  1_9                          1990              194
FROJECT CORVONR41SA                       - I      --N                                                                              1          
A. M OM4NY  NTAW OrClDM LOCOMCMO                  U                             E 1      E I      li  I   If    * 1           li    I   U   IV
hsrpqWMec PnOIftS In Di_e Lo_ o_n_ r _ _
Design
Fc%OenWt a et VA iuOfj aklvycwoezed LaU                               U U U 
lfiouuemelW of Co_ _r _c _n _U_ r f_r
(cccConnod
AT*a4%oiudo,pot, (1661km)EUU                                                                 IEE   3
lmI4okV,ehl (Q6 kmw)                                         an          ii1ESE
bkwkZorcVukk(137 ki)                                                                                            soI  _   _   I _
SgKdst4(ohn (199o1n)                                    m 7               i                  r _ 
C TACK OVERlHAtI MACHEERY
T        Luwiceug. Unnhg & Lou                   ..g MoCtwues            as, EU, Ii as  II lags  Ulat e
%Vhos tUoRoIWld.ngU duihms                                   BE I   gal all  soIII    Bog ies E
u1ock OVe.OLA Cau                                          [son III   oil  so ills  BeI l ll E
siftft= EioEa.men?& Tocat                                       gas Bei EU   i gl] EU lon  EEl
D SIGNAWNGS &ICOM       CON OLECOMUr I O
VAVAS&CEMIKAYA UIE
ot ion        UIIEo Wo_t  ..                            .1
CotWng & kw  ll __on                                             --- m           m -- _ __ -rn
Testng & Cmmrauswwusog
E. UiNE CAPACIY WO RKIS C IN 3EbI.1-S0IANKA_A
UNE (66 km)
- Tendenng & Con=ot Awau|t
-   Tmy or St"e MOTc IL Sn    &r%0NVV
TIl0co..w,uoi Ion EqIwnt                                          II _,    I _1 I
TioCk LOWig 
Te5tin & Commi_Torwig
F TECHNICAL AISANCE , 1RAJ__NG
cornastonc-V                                   U - m           
Tni~sng                                            imi                    m                     um
P|ocu fwdeoca*V Equir-E                                              gas III il   ONE manII;I  llE  _ _
vWoul ecx*-27727
IIUIUSIIE Sofl ciIi0   dEqowetkVlemfntc?.n 



tc ----------- -------|1R
--------------------
p                             I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
-  -  -  --  -  -  --  -  - 
........ ........
ee~~~~



- 106 -
TABLE 4
QEPUBLIC OF TURKEY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
(USS million)
Disbursement
IBRO Fiscal Year                                                      Profile Used
and Ouarters                     Ouarterly        Cunrilative            (X)
I   June 1986                           -                -                0.0
I   September 1986                    1.0               1.0               0.5
II   December 1986                     3.0               4.0                2.0
III   Karch 1987                        8.0              12.0                6.1
IV   June 1987                        10.0              22.0               11.2
I   September 1987                   11.0             33.0               16.7
II   December 1987                    11.0              44.0              22.3
III   March 1988                       10.0              54.0               27.4
IV   June 1988                        10.0              64.0               32.5
1989
I   September 1988                   12.0              76.0              38.5
II   December 1988                    11.0              87.0              44.2
III   March 1989                       11.0              98.0               49.7
XV   June 1989                        11.0             109.0              55.3
I   September 1989                   10.0             119.0              60.4
II   Oecember 1989                     9.0             128.0              65.0
III   March 1990                        9.0             137.0               69.5
IV   June 1990                         9.0             146.0               74.9
1991
I   September 1990                    8.0             154.0              78.2
II   December 1990                     8.0             162.0               82.2
III   March 1991                        7.0             169.0               85.8
IV   June 1991                         7.0             176.0              89.3
1922
I   September 1991                    6.0             182.0              92.3
II   December 1991                     4.0             186.0               94.4
III   March 1992                        4.0             190.0               96.5
IV   June 1992                         3.0             193.0               97.9
122
I   September 1992                    2.0             195.0              99.0
II   December 1992                     2.0             197.0              100.0
Source: Mission Estimates
April 1986
67200



04e at r
-.1v l4slill
04                                         0~~~~~~~~~~~~O 4   '1..1
rc rl Lv U  _ ~ ~  ~      ~      .            V!~ Wo sPr 
w*fltfS.OEDI                                            *.rP *flrfl,w
t eIA.ltt                                       %: 04n.10(1WnAt.
'>#F  wr.-ral                      r&c wa. 'yra n.is                                                                 ~                                                           Ioanif r.; .ne 
wash.    a;: *                                      Mso. 'yarn. a 
.N .' 1t.4  "AM. hiwN                                                                                                                                                                            W 910o830-0
W rp'.C1     _                                                                                                                '* na2ftYJSI&
Ut", "... "A                                                                                                                                                     mi IrA"bio AO.~~~~~~~~~~'~Mhi NV
*:t 0. _a 'sI:5                                                                                                   ?VCC'mt  'N_   fl                                  tvl)W                  eJ'avflnt      _
~~~~~~~~ ea:_ s                    vlrt wbon  02hr 'o.VubPP                                          :-La ta
'OI'f .0 nl,l-nr                                            rF~  '90 59109                                                                                                                    tjC 'VJJTILE r         S04n4*        r-nl
Ytw                                                                                                              'wlr I n v
Oft-Si aZ,                                                                                                              w ,>,,, _   .Irm;   |)tCwi  tOLl  | r,'t Yr ' t  |A|I_|
0 . bA                    L.' -WAhrfnm0  Wl.                                                                                          ouIn                   I sv L,  W  I0 .          'La,t a|LY
04 'vw.nhb.~~~~St                                                          'it .wn'rj'                  thtllt'WWfl0 'bx0   IDA1
W. Vw*>'  on,3
0   M.  Ia                   111 IOW           I   tI.m                        w
ac Ivuslatill'o%ft                  oc                                                    L~~~~~tKlka   w,
04 d`VW *                                             W00996 .9r3
MifliS Pn                                                                                        #
o                                                                                                                                                   I~~~~~~c W.4VA.k                                      wivNfl09h
VW"IVt).3k.C                                             C LIflitE                  J,O,                   '913004                    WCD
C  AOI  C&0N  C10493  I Y400                                            040098. 
um uunuoio An0JOMNDS~ aoxo
Iinrcla AVMWS ONODfl
A3xdm 4o ofl9N3b



B   LGARI       f                                                          _                                               0,,arr0IBD192
~~ : \   -~~~~Rnilr                               e,inil          *nntl              *U:5iltl          -                                                                             IRIEC
Si-                                                                                                            U. F  D       R-
SIR.  Iske,d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'EPBI
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A,.,kJ                                                        s           'IASiY R   I   A   N.'t,,,,y*t~M    -rr.
SYRIAN ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~A
TURKEY                                          CYPRUS                              A R A B                               A R A B
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT                                                                             R E PLU E L                          REPUBLIC
_____                                          c,1 Mll_                                                         I                                                      OLfl4fl
nAflOt..      TxmA      i                   I,,.,C..I. 0Lr    Slits/L                                                                                                                        S L      S<u s        
-        N.Wrr    . WeL                                SUANYt /nn                                                                                                                            5 r sr   >,
O0_l1 t.Y=YS*I_                        *       P.50*lba   mie 0l.lol 01m 1W...FP*,flStS                                 ili S P. 1_ 1                                  -r  s
*   lthavJhm K vmDl_as_svYl \ /c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U                                                                                                  S                 Ry\W 
A       R...t                                                U .O    .IW   0
*      -_k, 0001*1011                       Li PF.S t.                                                                                                                                                  Sr ^
0      MOA ln  WcvO IFwml          -8    MinRS.. 00..REEgE   t                                                                                                                                    TrU  R KEY                sK-) REPUBLI
IR..,.d .   B0.,.                                                                    -r                                                                   -  -' SYRA
SEPTEMBER 1085



