Document of
The World Bank
FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14027
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TURKIEY
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 2739-TU)
March 7, 1995
Infrastructure Operations Divison
Country Department I
Europe & Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
CTC        =    Centralized Traffic Control
DLH        =    General Directorate of Construction of Harbor, Ports, Airports and
Railways, Ministry of Public Works and Settlement
EDP        =    Electronic Data Processing
ELMS       =    TCDD Locomotive Factory in Eskisehir
ER         =    Economic Return
FYR        =    First Year Return
GTKM       =    Gross Ton - Kilometer
MOF        =    Ministry of Finance
MPW        =    Ministry of Public Works and Settlement
NTKM       =    Net Ton - Kilometer
PEE        =    Public Economic Enterprise
PKm        =    Passenger Kilometer
SEE        =    State Economic Enterprise
SMIS       =    Specialized Management Information System
SOE              State Owned Enterprises
SPO        =    State Planning Organization
TCDD        =    Turkish State Railways
TDC         =    Iron and Steels Works Industry
TDI         =    Turkish Maritime Organization
TU          =    Traffic Units
UB         =    Ministry of Transport and Communications
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Unit = Turkish Lira (TL)
Year                              Value of US$1.00
January 1980           -            70.00
January 1981           -            91.00
January 1982           -            139.00
January 1983           -            191.15
January 1984           -            309.20
July 1985              -            540.00
July 1990              -          2,608.00
July 1991              -          4,171.00
July 1992              -          6,872.00
July 1993              -         11,185.20
July 1994              -         30,966.90
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
March 7, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:            Project Completion Report on Turkey
Second Railway Project (Loan 2739-TiL)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Turkey - Second Railway Project (Loan 2739-
TU), prepared by the Europe and Central Asia Regional Office with Part II contributed by the
Borrower.
The project had these main objectives: to relieve bottlenecks in rail transport and raise the
railway's operational efficiency; to improve the railway's competitiveness and financial health; and to
introduce the railway to modern management concepts and practices. The project was to reverse a
trend of declining rail traffic. Improvements in locomotive maintenance and track overhaul were the
main items financed.
Implementation of physical components went well on balance, though it lasted over two years
longer than planned. A study on locomotive maintenance management was cancelled.  Actual
project costs were below projected costs.
The project largely achieved its physical and operational objectives, and it led to selective
improvements in railway management. However, it strengthened the railway's competitiveness by
little, and it did not prevent a further deterioration of the railway's financial health. The borrower
defaulted constantly on financial covenants. Rail traffic, which the appraisal had projected to rise,
remained stagnant. Railway expenditures rose much faster than revenues, and cost coverage
deteriorated to an all-time low. The weak competitive situation precluded tariff increases.
Based on imputed savings in railway costs, the PCR calculated the ERR on physical
investments at 17 percent overall, as compared to the 22 percent estimated at appraisal. But the ex-
post ERR is a poor measure of project economics as it ignores (large) operating subsidies to support
traffic demand. Without the subsidies, the demand would have been much lower and some
investments may not have been needed.
Since the key objective of financial viability was not met, project outcome is unsatisfactory.
Further, institutional impact is modest, and sustainability uncertain. PCR quality is satisfactory,
though vital statistics (on traffic and finance) are lacking for the years after 1990. This omission
leaves an unclear picture about the most recent railway developments. No audit is planned.
Attachment                                                 I
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface .............                                                          i
Evaluation Summary ............. ii
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
I- Project Identity.                                                           1
11 - Background.                                                               1
IIl    -    Project Objectives and Description .......................... 2
IV  -   Project Design and Organization.                                      4
V  -  Project Implementation.                                                  5
Loan Effectiveness and Project Start-up.                    5
Implementation Schedule.                                    5
Procurement.                                                6
Project Costs and Financing               .7
Disbursement.                                               7
Loan Covenants.                                             7
VI - Project Results.                                                          7
Project Objectives.                                         7
Physical Targets.                                           8
Economic Performance.                                       8
Financial Performance                  .9
Technical Assistance and Training.                          9
VIl   -     Project Sustainability  ............   ....................... 10
Vill  -     Bank Performance ....................... 11
IX    -     Borrower Performance ....................... 12
X  -  Bank-Borrower Relationship .13
Xi -  Consulting Services. .Service     13
XII  -   Project Documentation and Data .13
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ...... 14
PART Ill - STATISTICAL INFORMATION .....    .         ......................... 17
MAP - IBRD 19221 - Turkey - Transport Infrastructure ..................... 40
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
I official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
T U R K E Y
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 2739-TU)
PREFACE
This Project Completion Report (PCR) refers to the Second Railway Project in
Turkey for which Loan 2739-TU in the amount of US$197 million equivalent was signed
on July 24, 1986. The Republic of Turkey was the Borrower and the Turkish State
Railways (TCDD) and General Directorate of Construction of Harbor, Ports, Airports
and Railways (DLH) were the immediate beneficiaries. The Loan became effective on
January 27, 1987 and it was closed on December 31, 1993 after a one year extension.
The Bank did not agree to further closing date extensions due to maJor defaults in
compliance with financial loan covenants and the Government's inability to support a
comprehensive restructuring of TCDD to reflect its changing role in the transport
sector following the development of road transport (para. 5.10). Ultimately, US$171.83
million was disbursed and about US$25.17 million was cancelled.
This Completion Report (Parts I and ll) was prepared by the Infrastructure
Division of Country Department I (EC11N) of the Europe and Central Asia Region. The
report is based on information obtained from Project files, Staff Appraisal Report,
President's Report, Staff Supervision Reports, procurement documents and working
papers prepared in connection with the project. The Borrower prepared Part II of the
PCR and provided basic statistical information incorporated in Part III of the PCR.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
T U R K E Y
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 2739-TU)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objective
1.   The project was mainly designed to relieve key transport bottlenecks and to
improve TCDD's operational efficiency and loco availability by restructuring TCDD's
locomotive technology and maintenance and promoting institutional development
measures, such as introduction of modern management methods and technology transfer
(paras. 3.01, 3.02, 3.03 and 4.01). The project also included as one of its main objectives
to support the Government's efforts towards TCDD's financial recovery so as to reduce
the burden of subsidies on the budget (paras. 3.01 and 4.01). The project made a
positive contribution to the reorganization of the whole system of Turkey's locomotive
maintenance and operation (paras. 5.02, 5.06, 6.01, 6.03, 7.01 and 8.01) - the center-
piece of the project - and provided much needed technology transfer through technical
assistance and training. The project, however, failed to bring about TCDD's financial
recovery. TCDD's financial performance became worse during project implementation
and the Borrower was continuously in default of financial loan covenants (paras. 5.10,
6.01, 6.05-6.06, Annex 3A-D Pt. III, 7.02, 7.03, 7.04).
Implementation Experience
2.   The Republic of Turkey was the Borrower and TCDD was responsible for
implementation of all project components except new line works, for which DLH was
responsible. The proceeds of the Loan were passed on to TCDD and DLH for execution
of the respective components (para. 4.04) and the arrangements proved to be
satisfactory. Once the Loan became effective, the physical implementation, technical
assistance and training (para. 5.01) progressed smoothly. A substantial number of civil
works including the track renewal of 740 km and improvement of diesel loco component
proceeded according to schedule and were completed on target dates (sometimes earlier
- paras. 5.02 and 5.03). The execution of a few sub-projects, namely: signalling
improvement, new line works, 'part-exchange' system, and procurement of a few track
overhaul and maintenance machinery faced significant delays mainly due to shortage of
financial resources, especially local funds, project re-design, delay by the Ministry of
Finance in import authorization of track steel material financed by the Bank Loan and
necessity of rebidding the signalling and telecommunications components (paras. 5.02,
5.03, 5.04 and 5.05). The quality of construction of civil works was satisfactory.



iii
3.   The project encountered no serious procurement problems excepting purchasing
track steel material (para. 5.05) due to a delay in contract approval and import
authorization of track materials. Significant delay was also experienced in procuring
inspection cars because of the problems of car stability and excess axle loads (para.
5.03). At an early stage, the Bank mission found that the technical specifications,
schedules of delivery and Bill of Quantities (list of unit prices) prescribed at the time of bid
invitation of some works needed amplifications to permit an adequate response from
international competitors. The Borrower readily revised the necessary documents and
on the whole procurement action proceeded without serious difficulty (paras. 5.03, 5.05
and 5.07).
4.   The Loan (2739-TU) was scheduled to close on December 31, 1992. However,
due to numerous delays in contracting, the signalling component of the project
progressed slowly. The concerned contractor notified TCDD of further possible delays in
its services due to force majeure caused by the Gulf War and the civil war situation in
Yugoslavia affecting its Yugoslav partner (para. 5.04). This contract was of a turn-key
type covering both supply and installation. Although a considerable part of the equipment
was delivered, the installation was delayed. At the Borrower's request, the Bank extended
the Loan closing date up to December 31, 1993 to enable the railway/contractor to install
about US$35 million worth of expensive electronic signalling equipment which was
delivered but lying uninstalled. This reasonable and flexible approach helped TCDD to
improve further the technical parameters and avoid about US$3 million in penalties.
5.   The expert services enlisted in "in-line" positions in TCDD for technical assistance
and training program secured through "twinning" arrangements with other European
railways progressed exceedingly well (paras. 5.06 and 6.08) and the benefits permeated
through the entire system and were reflected in the results (paras. 7.01 and 9.01) of
locomotive availability and maintenance including improvement in traffic safety and
increasing fuel efficiency.
6.   The total cost of the project, US$ 420 million, was below the estimated total cost
at appraisal of US$582.2 million. A part of the reduced cost, US$ 25.2 million, is
explained by the fact that a portion of the Signalling and the Specialized Management
Information System (SMIS) components were cancelled. The remaining part of the cost
reduction (US$ 137 million) was due to the redesign of the Hanli-Bostankaya line using
new technology for salt water protection of lines, reduced costs of ICB, and some
reduction in the quantity and costs of imported and locally procured goods and services.
Results
7.   The project produced tangible benefits by improving diesel locomotive operations
and availability (paras. 6.01 and 7.01) - the main focus of the project. As a consequence,
during project implementation TCDD covered all loco requirements and has had for the
first time a surplus of more than 40 main line locomotives, some of which were leased



iv
to Iranian Railways. The improvement in loco availability helped TCDD to avoid planned
additional investments of up to US$200 million (para. 6.03).
8.   Track renewal and signalling improvement together with the training component
including loco drivers' simulator, contributed to increased traffic safety and in 1993,
accidents came to about half the level in 1985 (para. 6.03) Furthermore, the project's
training program helped to increase TCDD's trained staff from about 3,000 (about 5% of
staff) in 1986 to about 32,000 (about 55% of staff) in 1990 (para. 5.06).
9.   TCDD's volume of traffic declined since 1985, while the SAR and TCDD had
projected that overall freight traffic would increase by about 1 million tonnes per year
(para. 6.04). The cost of civil works were well maintained and are generally 28% below
appraisal estimates (para. 5.08 and Table 5A Pt. ll). These results had opposite influence
on the re-assessed E.Rs. The declining traffic depressed the ERs while the cost savings
boosted up the same. On the whole, the recalculated ERs remain within a reasonable
range of 12% to 22% (Table 6 Pt. Ill) but are consistently lower than the appraisal
estimates. The overall project remains economically well justified with a weighted ER of
17% (Table 6).
10.  The financial performance of the railways during 1985-89 and thereafter did not
come up to appraisal expectations (paras. 6.01, 6.03-6.07 and Annex 3 (A-D), Pt. ll). The
project completely failed to assist the railways in its financial recovery and thereby reduce
the burden of subsidies on the budget, one of its principal objectives (paras. 3.01 (d) and
6.01). The financial position of the railways worsened almost continuously during the
project implementation period (Annex 3A-D, Pt. Ill). During the period 1985 to 1990,
revenues increased by 26%/ (in constant 1985 terms), whereas costs increased by 42%.
Due to TCDD's lack of autonomy, its management had limited control on, reducing costs
and enhancing revenues. For example, the real cost of wages and salaries increased 82%
between 1985 and 1990 (in constant 1985 terms), in spite of a staff reduction of about
5,000 (para. 6.06). This was because salary increases for civil service employees is
determined nationally according to Law 657. Although, operations were partially
rationalized by the closure of some stations (about 250) to freight services/parcel
operations and cancellation of passenger trains (40 main line and regional passenger
trains since 1988), the approach was piece-meal and significant staff reduction on account
of such closures was not possible. TCDD management could not raise tariffs, although
on paper they are entitled to do so. Under the circumstances, the major financial
covenants of the Loan were continuously in default (paras. 5.10, 6.03, Table 7 Pt. Ill).
11.  The poor financial performance of TCDD is not just an organization/sector-specific
problem. This is a wider problem covering most of SOE's in Turkey (paras. 6.07 and
7.03). Financial recovery could be hoped for only by restructuring the railway. The Bank
correctly identified the needs of TCDD's restructuring (paras. 6.03, 6.04 and 7.04). This
would require significant down-sizing of the railway while improving quality of services,
providing managerial autonomy and developing an aggressive commercial orientation.



v
All parties concerned (including TCDD, MOT, SPO and the Treasury) expressed
willingness to support the restructuring program suggested by the Bank. However, no
significant action in this direction has yet been taken (paras. 6.07 and 7.04).
Sustainability
12.  The Bank felt greatly concerned that if the deteriorating financial trend was allowed
to continue unchecked, the benefits accruing to the project (para. 7.01, 6 and 7) would
not be sustainable. Higher freight rates may, no doubt, reduce the TCDD's deficit in the
short run but would only address the symptoms rather than causes of the structural
problems plaguing the sector (paras. 7.03 and 7.04). In practice, the railways approach
to simply adjust freight rates on a cost-plus basis without considering the commercial
viability or making necessary efforts to reduce costs was likely to outprice TCDD and
make it more and more vulnerable to traffic losses to competing road transport.
(paras.7.02 and 8.03). Passenger traffic on the other hand has become a major source
of losses; many such services cannot be justified and are only being provided for social
and political reasons since passenger rates only cover about 15% of the costs attributable
to the main line passenger services (in 1992/93).
Lessons Learnt
13.  Although the project has been successful in meeting some of its objectives, a
number of lessons can be drawn. These lessons are summarized below:
(i)   With hindsight, the Bank must be faulted for failing to forcefully address the
need for restructuring the railway as a condition for involvement with a state-
owned agency hampered by red tape and political constraints and unable
to compete with other transport modes.;
(ii)  provision of an overall coordination agency (TCDD) for all project-related
activities with appropriate counterpart from each project-executing agency
(DLH) contributed to successful monitoring project progress (para. 4.04);
(iii) establishment of a Special Account (revolving fund) greatly facilitated the
timely flow of funds to the beneficiaries to finance eligible project
expenditures with minimum administrative delay (para. 5.09);
(iv)  technical assistance of expert services enlisted in "in-line" positions in TCDD
and training program secured through "twinning" arrangements with other
European railways proved very successful (paras. 5.06 and 6.08); and
(v)  the Bank should have been more forceful in seeking to persuade the
Government, particularly TCDD management, to make an all-out effort to
capture more bulk traffic, ideally suited for railways, to reduce unit cost



vi
significantly, intead of concentrating prmarily on tariff adjustment on a
cost-plus basis (pars. 8.03); and
(vi)  as in most Bank-financed railway projects the demand projections were too
optimistic, suggesting that the pressure of competition from truckers was
underestimated (para. 7.02).






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
T U R K E Y
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 2739-TU)
PART I
I. Project Identity
Project Name          Second Railway Project
Loan No.        :    2739-TU
RVP Unit        :    EC1IN/EMTIN
Country               Turkey
Sector          :    Transport
Sub-sector            Railways
II. Background
2.01  In response to the crisis of the late 1970s, characterized by a massive extemal
debt burden, sharp deterioration of credit-worthiness, and high domestic inflation, the
Turkish authorities implemented a program of stabilization combined with structural
change that reduced the external deficit and inflation and increased reliance on market
forces for the allocation of resources, also shifting from an inward to an outward oriented
development strategy. On the external side, the policies achieved an impressive growth
of exports and contributed to restore international credit-worthiness. On the domestic
side, however, since 1986 the achievement of stabilization has been undermined by a
large public sector deficit. In spite of large internal imbalances, Turkey was able to grow
at an average rate of 5 percent per year during 1985-93.
2.02 Transport plays a vital role in the Turkish economy by providing essential support
for commercial and industrial activity, foreign trade and transit traffic. Turkey serves as
a vital transport link between Europe and the Middle East; its trunk routes and
international connections are particularly important to its development prospects because
Turkey aims to improve its integration with the world economy, and particularly with
Europe, through increased international trade.
2.03 Despite the existence of extensive mountainous areas, Turkey has a fairly well
developed and evenly distributed transportation network (see Map) which has served to
integrate its 780,000 sq. km. of territory and its population of over 55 million. The current
transport system in Turkey consists of about 300,000 km. of state, provincial and local
roads, about 8,000 km. of railways, 12 major public ports, and civil and military pipelines



2
and airlines which serve several domestic and international routes. During the last
decade, the transport and communications sectors accounted for about 20-25% of total
public investment in Turkey.
2.04 Road transport now dominates the transport market. The railways' share in the
freight transport market declined continuously during the last three decades from about
55% to about 10% with road transport gaining the railway's loss in market share. Road
transport today carries more than 95% of domestic passenger traffic. The road transport
has been able to cope with this increase in traffic due to the responsiveness of private
operators who enjoy considerable freedom to negotiate rates and operate commercially.
2.05 The railways have lacked a commercial orientation and have been unable to rise
to the challenge posed by road transport. Despite seeming comparative advantages for
transportation of bulky products over long distances the railway has persistently lost
market share to trucking. The poor performance of the railway has become an issue for
the development of the core sector of the economy, namely: mining, iron and steel and
other key bulk industries. Heavy bulk commodities such as lignite, iron ore, cement,
fertilizers which should economically be carried by rail over long distances are carried by
road transport because of the railway's poor operational efficiency and poor reputation
for reliability. Moreover, energy consumption has become an important concern for the
Turkish economy and transport accounts for about half of total oil product consumption
because of the rapidly increasing and widespread role of road transport. The
Government is anxious, therefore, to make better use of the energy efficient railway and
shipping transport modes wherever appropriate.
Ill. Project Objectives and Description
3.01 The objectives of the project were to:
(a)   overcome key bottlenecks in railway operations;
(b)  increase railway operational efficiency and to provide essential maintenance
and technical assistance for the. improvement of diesel locomotive
maintenance, technology and operation with the aim of increasing
locomotive availability;
(c)   enable the railways to handle the ttaffic for which they are inherertly the
most economic mode, particularly long-distance bulk traffic;
(d)  improve railways competitiveness and assist in the railway's financial
recovery and thereby reduce the burden of subsidies on the budget;



3
(e)  introduce corporate planning, action and operational plans and improve
poor track conditions (overhauling of about 740 km. of mainline), provide
track overhaul equipment and replace out-moded signalling (about 700 km
of obsolete mainline signalling) on a phased basis to match capacity needs;
(f)   construct about 65 km. of new track (Bederli-Bostankaya) consisting of a
second track on a new alignment to remove a critical bottleneck to the
movement of bulk commodities; and
(g)  familiarize the railway staff with recent developments and expected trends
in operating, monitoring and maintenance techniques utilizing the latest
state-of-the-art techniques.
Description of the Project
3.02 The project consisted of high priority items included in TCDD and DLH's
Investment Plan (1985-89). Improvement of locomotive availability and efficiency was the
'centerpiece' of the project. This task included improvements in the technology of the
locomotives and in the efficiency of their operations. The re-organization of the whole
locomotive maintenance and operation system involved systematic use of the 'part
exchange' method, centralized reconditioning of the dismantled parts, improved planning
to reduce turn-around time, deployment control, modernization of the workshop and
stores equipment, and procurement of a basic stock of component and spare parts.
3.03 The other components included: (i) overhaul of 740 km. of poor mainline track
which had serious safety problems, (ii) acquisition of track renewal and maintenance
equipment to meet the urgent track rehabilitation needs; (iii) replacement of obsolete
signalling systems on 700 km. of the Kayas-Cetinkaya line with modemized station
signal-equipment (TAS); (iv) improvement of line capacity on the short stretch between
Bedirli/Hanli and Bostankaya (see Map) to facilitate long distance movement of iron ore
from Divrigi mines to the steel plants as well as international transit traffic. The project
also included as an important component technical assistance and training to be provided
by three senior experts supported by five middle-level assistants appointed to "in-line"
positions within TCDD for 48 man-months. These experts and their assistants were
expected to contribute significantly to institution building, management improvement and
introduction of new technology. In addition, the Bank assistance also provided for more
than 300 man-months of technical visits and training for railway (TCDD and DLH)
managers, operation specialists, craftsmen, etc., through "twinning" arrangements with
appropriate European railways engaged in similar works. The project also included the
procurement and installation of a 'simulator' for training of locomotive drivers and a
computer-assisted specialized management information system (SMIS) study for
locomotive maintenance and operation.



4
IV. Project Design and Organization
4.01 The project was designed to address the complex but worthwhile task of
modernizing TCDD to improve operational efficiency, and loco availability, and to support
the Government's efforts towards TCDD's financial recovery. This was in accord with the
country's objectives of decreasing budgetary support to state-owned enterprises and to
introduce commercial management methods to improve competitiveness. The major
thrust in the project design was to improve locomotive availability (paras. 3.01 and 3.02)
and to improve operational efficiency by restructuring TCDD's locomotive technology and
locomotive maintenance (para. 3.02) and by supporting institutional development
measures, such as introduction of modern management methods and to provide for
technology transfer.
4.02 At the project formulation and design stage the Bank was involved in detailed
policy discussions on institutional issues in the transport sector and on modal investment
plans through a Transport Investment Review concluded in July 1985. The total railway
investments proposed by TCDD and DLH were then considered to be far in excess of the
country's Fifth Five Year (1985-89) Plan provision. Based on discussions with users and
operators, the Bank mission made specific recommendations to avoid over-investment.
The investment program in railways endorsed by the Bank mission was about 55% of the
level originally requested by the railways. The mission's recommendations were reviewed
further by the Bank multi-sector investment review mission and the size, and composition
of the railways program as recommended by the Bank's transport mission was confirmed.
During project preparation, the long-standing issues of the construction of the Ariflye-
Sincan (260 km), an expensive high speed line from Istanbul to Ankara, was resolved.
It was decided that there would be no further investments on this line beyond the on-
going contracts (to be completed by the end of 1986) unless and until a feasibility study
demonstrated the economic viability of further investment. This arrangement saved about
85% of the total investment cost of the high-speed line.
4.03 Based on an approach suggested by the Bank mission at the design stage, TCDD
prepared and agreed on an Action Plan to be periodically up-dated and monitored on a
continuing basis for the railway operation and management.
4.04 The Republic of Turkey was the Borrower. The beneficiaries of the project were
TCDD and DLH. The latter, as a government Department and a non-revenue earning
entity, received project funds through the budget. The Bank entered into a Project
Agreement with TCDD to which the Govemment on-lent loan funds under the same terms
and conditions as the Bank loan. DLH was responsible for the implementation of the new
line works and TCDD for all other project components. TCDD appointed a suitably
qualified project coordinator responsible for planning and coordinating implementation of
its part of the project. Similarly, DLH appointed a counterpart project coordinator to carry
out similar responsibilities with respect to its component, in close liaison with the TCDD
project coordinator. The entire arrangement worked out smoothly throughout the project



5
implementation period, particularly with reference to physical and technical aspects (Sec.
V, paras. 5.01 - 5.07).
V. Project Implementation
Loan Effectiveness and ProJect Start-up
5.01 The Loan (2739-TU) was approved on July 8, 1986 and was signed on July 24,
1986 (Table 2, Pt. IIl). The loan became effective on January 27,1987 (para 8.02). Once
the loan was effective, the physical implementation, technical assistance and training
progressed smoothly.
!mplementation
5.02  Improvement of diesel locomotives - This task included the modernization of the
workshop and stores equipment, phasing-out weak points in locomotive design,
systematic use of 'part exchange' method, one-time basic overhaul of the immobilized
and the unreliable locomotives and procurement of a basic stock of components and
spare parts. Most of these sub-components were scheduled to be completed between
the end of 1988 and 1989 (SAR and Table 4, Pt. III). All machines, materials, laboratory
equipment, loco components and spare parts were procured and assembled before 1992,
except for the work-bench for Derince Workshop. However, the part exchange system
could not be fully put into operation as scheduled due to lack of local funds and
insufficient number of qualified staff. The situation was remedied by 1992/93 and this
very important project component yielded very good results (paras. 6.01 and 7.01).
5.03 Track overhaul and maintenance machinerv - The track rehabilitation program
(about 740 km - Table 4, Pt. Ill) was completed in most part one year ahead of schedule
and the quality of works was satisfactory. A substantial number of track maintenance
machinery was procured according to schedule with minor variations (up to a maximum
of one year). There was, however, substantial delay (about 3 years) in putting into
operation eight heavy track maintenance cars (draizines). These cars from Krupp -
Germany were assembled at the Tulumsas factory in Turkey but were not accepted by
TCDD due to problems of car stability and excess axle load which were solved
satisfactorily in due course and technical acceptance was issued after appropriate testing.
5.04 Signalling and telecommunications (700 km) - Due to the numerous delays in
contracting for the works, progress on this component was unduly delayed. The
contractor, SEL, notified TCDD of possible delays in its services due to Force Majeure
caused by the Gulf war and the civil war situation in Yugoslavia, affecting one of its
Yugoslav partners, Iskara. This contract was "turn-key" type covering both supply and
installation. At the Borrower's request, the Bank extended the Loan Closing date by one
year to December 31, 1993 to enable the railway/contractor to instal about US$35 million



6
worth of expensive electronic signalling equipment which was delivered but lying
uninstalled. This extension helped TCDD to further improve some of the technical
parameters within their control and avoid about US$3 million in penalties. However, since
the project was in serious default of major financial covenants and the government was
unable to submit a program to resolve this issue, the Bank did not agree to extend the
loan closing date beyond December 31, 1993. The Bank did allow disbursements against
expenditures incurred on signalling works up to April 31, 1994.
5.05 Now Line Works - The implementation of this component by DLH was more than
two years' behind the appraisal schedule (Table 4, Pt. Ill). The reasons for this delay
were: shortage of local financial resources; project redesign; delay by the Ministry of
Finance's in approval of contracts and authorization of imports for track steel material
financed by the Bank Loan; and need to rebid the signalling and telecommunications
component included in TCDD's Kayas-Cetinkaya package.
5.06 Technical Assistance and Trainina - Expert services were enlisted for "in-line"
positions in TCDD to provide technical assistance and training. They were secured
through "twinning" arrangements with other European railways. This component
progressed well and according to schedule (Table 4, Pt. Ill). The project's training
program helped to increase TCDD's trained staff from about 3,000 in 1986 to about
32,000 in 1990.
Procurement
5.07 By the time of implementing the second railway project, the implementing agencies
were more familiar with Bank procurement guidelines due to their experience with the first
railway project. The Second Railway project costs were well maintained and are about
28% below appraisal estimate primarily due to positive ICB results and Bostankaya-Hanli
project redesign (para. 5.08). Still in several instances, the Bank mission found that
technical specifications, schedules of delivery and Bill of Quantities (Ust of Unit Prices)
needed clarifications/amplifications to permit an adequate response from intemational
competitors. Based on Bank's suggestions, the Borrower readily revised the necessary
documents and on the whole, procurement actions proceeded satisfactorily. Overall, the
project did not encounter serious procurement problems excepting procurement of track
steel material (para. 5.05) for Hanii-Bederli-Bostankaya line and the need to rebid the
signalling and telecommunications component included in TCDD's Kayas-Cetinkay
package (para. 5.05).
Project Costs and Financing
5.08 The estimated total project cost of the project at appraisal was US$582.2 million.
The final cost came to US$420 million (Table 5A). The decrease in total cost of about
28% in terms of LIS$ was partly (3%) due to the cancellation of the Specialized
Management Information System (SMIS) component and a part of the signalling



7
component. The remaining savings (25%) was primarily due to the redesign of the Hanli-
Bostankaya line using new technology for salt water protection, reduced costs of ICB
procurement and some reduction in quantity and costs of imported and locally procured
goods and services. The structure of project financing was very similar to what was
planned at appraisal (Table 5B).
Disbursements
5.09 The Loan was disbursed as provided in the loan agreement. Statements of
expenditures, against which the Bank disbursed, were submitted at regular intervals by
the Borrower. As agreed, the Borrower also established a Special Account (revolving
fund) to maintain an adequate flow of funds to the beneficiaries to finance eligible project
expenditures with a minimum of administrative delay. Actual disbursements, however,
consistently lagged behind (about 30 to 40%) the appraisal estimate (Table 3, Pt. Ill).
Loan Covenants
5.10 Compliance with Loan Covenants was generalty satisfactory excepting those
relating to financial performance (paras. 6.01, 6.034.05) which were in serious default
(rable 7, Pt. Ill). Accordingly, the Bank did not agree to further extension of the loan
closing date beyond December 31, 1993 and about US$25.2 million of Bank Loan was
cancelled. This decision largely reflects the inadequate compliance with the financial
covenants and the Government's inability to support a comprehensive restructuring of
TCDD to reflect its role in the transport sector in Turkey following the development of road
transport.
VI1. Proiect Resus
6.01 Project Oblectives: Overall, the project was successful in meeting its physical
objectives of relieving key bottlenecks in railway operations and increasing railway
operational efficiency by improving diesel locomotive operation and availability (paras.
3.01 and 7.01). Furthermore, technical assistance and training helped to successfully
transfer modem state-of-the-art technology to improve locomotive maintenance as well
as the maintenance system and efficiency of locomotive operation. The project produced
tangible benefits (paras. 7.01) and improved traffic safety and fuel efficiency (para. 7.01).
However, one of the major objectives of the project was to assist the railways in its
financial recovery and thereby reduce the drain on government budgetary resources. The
project failed to achieve this important objective and witnessed a continued worsening in
the financial position of TCDD compared to past years (paras. 6.03-8.06; Annex 3A-D, Pt.
Ill; Table 6C, Pt. Ill). During the period 1985 to 1990, revenues increased by 26% On
constant terms), whereas costs increased by 43%. Costs increased porimarily due to
massive increases in wages and salaries (82% In constant terms) from 1985 to 1990. The
approved tariff Increases were cearly Inadequate and were granted with a time-lag that



8
contributed to continuous deterioration in TCDD's financial situation. In addition, the
deterioration of market share indicates that the problems faced go far beyond what could
have been resolved through tariff increases.
6.02 Physical Targets: The physical targets of the project, improvement of locomotive
maintenance and operation, track renewal and procurement of track maintenance
machinery were generally achieved as planned (paras. 5.02 and 5.03) with substantial
slippage in time schedule for signalling and new line works (paras. 5.04 and 5.05).
Technical assistance and training progressed very well though the SMIS component had
to be cancelled when the loan closing date was not extended (paras. 3.03 and 5.01).
6.03  Economic Performance: The general and sub-project specific methodologies
followed for the economic re-evaluation of the completed project are, basically, the same
as those used at appraisal. The quantified economic analysis for the improvement of
locomotive availability takes into consideration the savings in procurement of new
locomotives (including benefits due to lease of surplus locomotives to other railways -
para. 7.01) due to improved loco availability. The improvement in efficiency of mainline
locomotives helped to avoid planned additional investments of up to US$200 million. The
main benefits from track rehabilitation accrued from decreased maintenance of track and
operating costs of rolling stock due to reduced wear and improved safety. The economic
benefits from modernization of main line signalling and telecommunications resulted
mainly from increased line capaciy at a smaller cost and greater safety. Track renewal,
signalling improvement together with the training component (including loco drivers'
simulator), contributed to reducing railway accidents in TCDD in 1993 to half the level
prevalent in 1985. The expected benefits for one new short link (Hanli-Bostankaya)
include savings due to avoidance of considerable detour for heavy bulk traffic on
circuitous routes.
6.04 The actual traffic growth and its projection (para. 7.02 and Annexes 1 and 2, Pt.
Ill) has been re-assessed at completion. TCDD's volume of freight traffic declined since
1985 (para. 7.02) though SAR/TCDD projected that overall freight traffic would increase
by about 1 million originating tonnes every year. This declining traffic pattern has
particularly affected the anticipated traffic flows on Kayas-Kayseri-Sivas-Cetinkaya and
Hanli-Bostankaya sections where substantial growth of bulk traffic was anticipated at
appraisal. On the other hand, the cost of civil works (track overhaul, signalling and new
works) were well maintained and are generally below 28% of appraisal estimates (paras.
5.08 and Table 5A, Pt. Ill). These characteristics had an opposing influence on the re-
assessed ERs. The declining traffic depressed the ERs while the cost savings of civil
works boosted up the same and on the whole, the recalculated ERs remain within a
reasonable range of 12% - 22% (Table 6, Pt. Ill). Re-evaluated economic returns are,
however, consistently lower than the appraisal estimate(s) but still all the project
components remain acceptable and are individually higher than 12%. T he overall project
remains economically well justified with a weighted ER of 17% (Table 6B, Pt ll).



9
6.05 Financial Performance (TCDD): The financial statements, including both appraisal
estimates and actual results for 1985-1990 are given in Annex 3 (A-D), Part IlIl and Table
6C, Pt. Ill. The Bank felt grave concern over TCDD's continuing rapid financial
deterioration which brought into question the sustainability of the physical gains achieved
through improved technical parameters (Section VII, paras. 7.01-7.04).
6.06 Deterioration of TCDD's financial situation was partly due to conditions beyond its
control. For instance, wages and salaries increased 128% (in real terms) between 1988
and 1991, in spite of a staff reduction of about 5,000, mainly because of large semi-annual
wage increases sanctioned by the Government. Though operations were partially
rationalized by the closure of some stations (over 250) to freight services, parcel
operations and cancellation of passenger trains (40 main line and regional passenger
trains since 1988), still the approach pursued was very limited and piece-meal. TCDD's
lack of autonomy in the closure of uneconomic lines, and of control over costs,
particularly wage and salary increases and over tariff increases was a key factor in this
development, which the Government failed to address by imposing a hard budget
constraint. Hence, the easy solution of relying on financial support from Treasury led to
a progressively worsening performance. TCDD identified (1993) 22% of Its network to be
uneconomic, carrying less than 100,000 tonnes per year. The cost coverage ratio for
mainline passenger trains which was faltering around 17% in 1992 declined to 12Y% in
1993 and still most of the uneconomic services continue to be in operation. Under these
circumstances, the major financial covenants of the loan were continuously in default
(para. 5.10 and Table 7, Pt. Ill).
6.07 The poor financial performance of TCDD is not just an organization/sector-specific
problem. This is wider problem covering most of the SOEs in Turkey (para. 7.03). The
Bank must be faulted for failing to require a comprehensive restructuring that addressed
most causes for TCDD's problems as a condition of its Involvement. This would have
involved significant downsizing of the railway while improving quality of services, reducing
dependence on Government budgetary support, providing managerial autonomy and
developing an aggressive commercial orientation. All parties concerned (including TCDD,
MOT, SPO and the Treasury) have recently expressed willingness to support the
restructuring approach suggested by the Bank during implementation but no action has
yet been taken.
6.08 Technical Assistance and Training: Senior foreign railway experts supported by
middle-level professionals appointed in "in-line" positions in TCDD greatly assisted to
strengthen railway operations and locomotive maintenance (paras. 5.06 and 11.01).
Training secured through 'twinning" arrangements with SOFRERAIL and DECONSULT
also yielded rich dividends and the benefts due to transfer of technology permeated
through the entire system and were reflected in the results (paras. 5.02, 6.01 and 7.01).
The locomotive drivers' simulator was put into operation in early 1992 at the Eskisehir
training center and the training program with North American Railroads (NAR) was also
completed on schedule.



10
VII. Project Sustainability
7.01 Overall project results and project performance are mixed. In terms of physical
implementation, the project progressed well, a major number of components were
completed according to schedule, sometimes earlier, with only a few exceptions (e.g.
signalling of Kayas-Cetinkaya line and new line works - Hanli/Bederli-Bostankaya) and the
project costs were well maintained (about 28% below appraisal estimates, paras. 5.02,
5.03, 5.04, 5.05 and Table 5A, Pt. Ill). The principal focus of the project, namely:
improvements of locomotive availability (para. 3.02) and the reorganization of the whole
locomotive maintenance and operation system progressed satisfactorily and showed very
good results. Availability of mainline diesel locos increased from 64% in 1988 to about
81/82% in 1991/92. Technology transfer to achieve a radical change in traction system
and technology for maintenance and locomotive control was a formidable task which was
successfully pursued. As a consequence, TCDD during project implementation period
covered all loco requirements and has had for the first time a surplus of more than 40
locomotives, some of which TCDD leased to Iranian Railways. By introducing modern
technology with particular reference to rehabilitation, the number of immobilized diesel
locos was significantly reduced (from 110 in 1988 to 8 locomotives which were also
ultimately put into operation in 1992/93) - a remarkable feat.
7.02 TCDO, however, failed in two important areas, namely: (i) recapturing traffic, and
(ii) financial performance. TCDD's volume of freight traffic declined from 14.8 m. tons in
1984 to 13.1 m tons in 1989 in spite of its improvements in technical efficiency.
Passenger traffic remained stagnant at about 6.5 billion passenger-km since 1985 (para.
6.04 and Annexes 1 and 2, Pt. Ill). The SAR had projected that freight traffic would
increase by about 1 million originating tonne every year during project implementation
period. A major share of increased freight traffic was expected to comprise bulk
commodities such as iron ore, hard coal and lignite. TCDD's performance fell far short
of expectations and TCDD failed to take advantage of the economic role for railways in
Turkey for TCDD's trunk lines which should be ideally suited to low-cost, long distance
bulk transport. However, in 1990 TDC, the Iron and Steel SEE transported about 400,000
tonnes of iron ore by trucks in preference to rail. The continuing deterioration of TCDD's
financial performance was even more alarming. TCDD suffered a loss of over TL2.1
trillion (about US$515 million or over US$1.4 nmillion per day) in 1991 and this loss was
further increased to more than TL3 trillion in 1992. The cost coverage of rail traffic
declined (Annex 3A, Pt. Ill) from 51% in 1988 to a very low 34% in 1991 and faltered
around 30% in 1992 against a target of 65%.
7.03 There are multiple arguments behind the deteriorating financial and disappointing
traffic performance of the railways throughout the project implementation period (paras.
6.06, 6.07, 7.04 and 8.03). However, if this trend is not soon reversed, the benefits
accruing to the project (paras. 7.01) cannot be sustained.  This poor financial
performance was not unique to TCDD. This was a wider problem covering most of the
SOEs. It has been widely rerognized that higher public tariffs may, no doubt, reduce the



11
sectors'/enterprises' deficit but would only address the symptoms rather than causes of
the structural problems plaguing the sector. At the root of these problems is an outdated
view of the role of the state, which concentrates on a wide range of responsibilities. The
problems were exacerbated by the monopoly position of the SOEs and the lack of a hard
budget constraint.
7.04 The SOEs/SEEs including TCDD have been hampered by government intervention
in pricing and employment, and have carried the burden of the Government's wage policy
while lacking the instruments to adjust their tariffs or improve their efficiency. The legal
framework is inadequate to promote the participation of the private sector in activities
where it may play a role or let the SOE's enterprises be run as commercial enterprises.
It precludes them from being subject to the commercial code, especially from the
provisions on bankruptcy, provides inadequate managerial autonomy, and leads to a lack
of accountability. The Bank correctly identified the needs of TCDD's restructuring
program and all parties (including TCDD, MOT, SPO and the Treasury) involved in the
project expressed their willingness to support the program. But, regrettably, no action
has yet been taken.
VIII. Bank Performance
8.01 Through the Second Railway Project, the Bank made a positive contribution to the
reorganization of the whole system of Turkey's locomotive maintenance and operation
(paras. 7.01 and 6.03) and through technical assistance and training provided much
needed technology transfer (paras. 6.01 and 6.08). At the project formulation, design and
implementation stage, the Bank was involved in modal investment plans through a
transport sector investment review, particularly, those of TCDD and DLH and helped to
sharpen the investment profile and avoid over-investment (para 4.02). For rolling stock,
TCDD agreed to use the Bank methodology for up-dated operational plans and to make
successive procurement tranches for rolling stock under a 'rolling plan' commensurate
with actual traffic growth to avoid possible over-investment (paras. 4.02 and 4.03) and
considerable savings were realized.
8.02. The Bank made provision of an overall proJect coordinator (TCDD) for all project
related activities with appropriate counterpart from DLH, a project executing agency, a
special condition of loan effectiveness. This arrangement went a long way to successfully
monitoring progress and complying with Bank requirements (para. 4.04). The Bank's
insistence on the establishment of a Special Account (revolving fund) facilitated the timely
flow of funds to the beneficiaries and allowed financing of eligible project expenditures
with minimum administrative delay (para. 5.09).
8.03 However, in retrospect, the Bank should have been more forceful in persuading
the Government to address the root causes of TCDD's inefficiency, which should have
been evident at the time of project preparation. In addition, the Bank should have sought



12
from TCDD management, an all-out effort to capture more bulk traffic ideally suited for
railways and to reduce unit costs. Instead, the Bank and the Borrower's main thrust
appears to have relied more on the railway's ability to adjust the tarfff on a cost-plus basis
to reduce budget deficts which, in turn, caused TCDD to be out-priced and more and
more vulnerable even to losing traffic (such as iron ore) that previously had remained
captive (para. 7.02). In addition, the Bank must be faulted for failing to take more decisive
action when the financial covenants were not met and no satisfactory plan could be
agreed on to improve TCDD's financial performance.
8.04 Furthermore, the Gulf crisis affected the Turkish transport situation significantly and
left the road transport system with a large surplus capacity due to substantial reduction
of transit traffic through Turkey to Iraq. The elasticity and resilience of the privately
managed road transport operators in adapting to the changing situation resulted in a
severe cut-throat competition and put the railways to a greater disadvantage as they were
still largely motivated by public service obligations with very little commercial autonomy.
IX. Borrower's Performance
9.01 On the whole, the Borrower's performance was satisfactory as regards technical
considerations and physical implementation of the project but unsatisfactory so far as
financial performance was concerned. A substantial number of civil works proceeded
according to schedule and were completed on target dates or earlier (paras. 5.02, 5.03
and 6.02). The project costs were well maintained and are about 28% below appraisal
estimates (paras. 5.07 and 5.08). The quality of construction of cMl works included in the
project was satisfactory (para. 5.03). The twinning" arrangements of training of railway
professionals with appropriate European railways progressed smoothly (para. 5.06 and
Table 4, Pt. 111). The technical approach to the improvement of locomotive technology
and effective utilization of expert services in "in-line' positons in TCDD proved very
satisfactory (para. 5.06). However, the implementation of the 'part exchange' method
system suffered a 'delay' due to Borrower's inability to provide local funds. The
locomotive drivers' simulator with two control desks (for Alsthrom and EMD locomotives)
was successfully put into operation by the Borrower at the Eskisehir Training Center. This
improved traffic safety (para. 6.03) and increased fuel efficiency. Compliance with the
Loan covenants was generally satisfactory except for 'financial' covenants (para 5.10,
Table 7, Pt. Ill) and for the 'boiler plate' clause regarding management practices (Section
3.01 (b) of the Loan Agreement which in view of the poor overall performance cannot be
considered to have been met.
X. Bank - Borrower Relationship
10.01 Good relations between the Bank and the Borrower contributed to clarification and
resolution of many issues that arose during project implementation (para. 5.07). At the



13
Bank's suggestion, the Borrower introduced corporate planning and prepared Action and
Operational Plans on a continuing basis following a methodology agreed with the Bank
(para. 4.03). The Bank's involvement with the Borrower on modal investment plans
through a Transport Investment Review (para. 4.02) bore ample testimony to their joint
collaborative effort.
10.02 This Loan was scheduled to close on December 31, 1992. However, the Bank
agreed to extend it up to December 31, 1993, on the understanding that TCDD, with the
support of the Government, would make progress towards addressing the restructuring
issue, as well as on the ongoing signalling and telecommunications prcject component.
The Bank's flexible approach enabled the railway to instal about US$35 million worth of
expensive electronic signalling equipment which was delivered but lying uninstalled, avoid
US$3 million in penalties and further improve some of the railway operational parameters
within their control (para. 5.04). The Borrower fully appreciated the Bank's understanding
and flexible approach. However, the project was in serious default of financial covenants
and the poor financial situation resulted in acute cash flow problems for the railways.
Direct and indirect subsidies were costing the Government over US$2 million a day (para.
7.02) in 1992. TCDD's resource crunch was already undermining the improvements
made in productivity, locomotive efficiency and safety from the Second Railway Project.
Under these circumstances, the Bank did not agree to extend the loan closing date
beyond December 31, 1993.
XI. Consulting Services
11.01 Technical assistance to strengthen railway operations, locomotive maintenance and
management information system was undertaken with the help of foreign experts
supported by middle-level specialists appointed to "in-line' positions within TCDD and the
arrangement proved highly satisfactory (paras. 5.06 and 6.05). However, the study of a
computer-assisted specialized management information system (SMIS) which was to be
carried out by TCDD's electronic data processing (EDP) center with close cooperation of
the above railway experts could not be carried out and had to be cancelled because the
closing date was not extended (para. 6.02).
XII. Project Documentation and Data
12.01 The appraisal report and the Loan documents were well-documented and provided
a useful framework for both the Bank and the Borrower for review of project
implementation. Supervision reports, procurement documents and the Bank's response
to the procurement documents, contained in-depth on-going analysis of physical, financial
and operational aspects of the railways (TCDD) in general, and on each project
component as well. Submission of progress reports and audit reports also facilitated
preparation of the PCR.



14
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART II
Project Name          : II Railway Project
Loan No.              : 2739-TU
Project Cost          : US$420 million
Establishment         : Turkish State Railways (TCDD) and General Directorate
for Railways, Harbors and Airports Construction (DLH)
Evaluation of Bank's Performance and Lessons Learned
1.   The mission members coming to TCDD between 1987, when the
implementation of the project began, and 1993 when it ended, were experts in the
fields. The missions were technically strong and there was good staff continuity
between missions. This has very positively contributed to the solution of problems
sowing up from time to time during the implementation of 5 sub-projects of the II.
Railway Project.
2.   Thanks to confidence as a result of the rapport with the Bank officials, a year
extension was favored for the Kayas-Cetinkaya Signalization project which had not
been completed in time. The important lesson learned is that project management
type of organization is indispensable for the success of projects that embrace several
different technical fields.
Evaluation of Borrower's Performance
3.   TCDD's performance, in terms of physical implementation,was of success in
most of the project components. The total project was composed of the following 5
components:
*    Diesel locomotive Improvement: This very important project
component was completed with success resulting in the improvement in
the operation and thus high availability of diesel mainline locomotives.
The capacity at main workshops and depots has been increased as well.
As a consequence, some surplus locomotives were even leased to Iran
in 1991 and 1992.
*    Track rehabilitation program: The track rehabilitation program (about
740 km) was completed on time and track maintenance machines have



15
ben put into operation, that have been yielding satisfactory resuits.
*    Technical Assistance and Training: All training programs were
completed on time and the locomotive driver's simulator with two control
desks has ben put into operation, that has been measuring driver skills
and thus improving traffic safety and increasing the efficiency of fuel
usage.
*    The other very important component of the project was the signalling
component that could not be completed on time, mainly due to the
rebidding process; Gulf war and the unexpected events in Yugoslavia.
Though TCDD had exerted every effort to speed up the project, there still
remains some work to be completed in 1994. The physical realization as
of the end of April 1994 is 81%.
As for DLH components, procurement of super-structure materials,
substructure works and the following technical acceptance on Hanli-
Bostankaya line and the training program were completed. Track laying
work on the same line has been going on. After the cancellation of the
Bank loan, TCDD is in a financially difficult position that would jeopardize
the completion of the project.
*    The Bank cancelled the part of the loan that would be used to finance
Specialized Management Information System (SMIS) due to the reason
that TCDD lacked the commitment to efficiency improvement. The
establishment of such system would be the first step to an integrated
information system that would provide an essential amount of cost
reduction.
It is TCDD's understanding that recognition of the need for such system
is, in itself, one of the indicators for the commitment to efficiency
improvement and TCDD has been looking for sufficient financial sources
to back up the establishment of such systems.
As for the operational and financial targets set by the loan agreement,
TCDD has been quite successful in attaining the operational targets but
not the financial covenants. TCDD has taken several such measures for
cost reduction as reducing staff and increasing productivity which are the
main areas under control, but it has not been able to cover its
operational costs mainly due to the factors beyond its control.
Operational expenses have increased more than the revenues in real
terms. This is primarily, on the one hand, due to the increases in wages



16
and salaries which lie outside the jurisdiction of TCDD. Wages and
salaries account for 63% of the operational expenses. On the other
hand, tariff increases have not been sufficient to cover the variable cost,
since the strong competition from the roads results in high price elasticity
in the railways.
Failure in attaining even the revised financial covenants has forced TCDD
to carry out studies for efficiency improvement. TCDD is now fully aware
of the fact that it is only through restructuring it can ensure financial
viability and this is the most important lesson learned. With the help of
Bank's experts, TCDD management has started discussing this new
concept of restructuring the related strategies in different railways;
TCDD's probable strategic approach etc., and work has been going on
within the Ministry together with TCDD to prepare the ground for
restructuring.
Relationship Between the Bank and the Borrower
The Bank relationship with TCDD and the Ministry was very constructive, that
contributed much to the progress of the project.



17
LROJECT  MLION RBERT
PART HI: Statistical Tables
Table 1: RELATED BANK LOANS IN THE RAILWAY SECTOR
Title       Loan No.  Year of    Loan Amount   Purpose                  Comments
Approval   (US $ Mill.)
The First    893-TU     1972       47.00            To cover the first    Completed in 1981 and an Audit
Railway                                            three-year tranche    Report (No. 5768 of June 30, 1985)
Project                                             of the railways     has been issued. Operational and
1972-77 Investment   financial improvements
Plan and to         contemplated  in appraisal were not
improve operational  achieved due to poor availability of
and financial       locomotives, lack of spare pau and
performance.        insufficient tariffadjustment.  Cost
overrun was 100% mainly due to
inflation and time overrun wa 220%
primarily due to delay in
procurement actions and slow
progres in arranging technical
auitance.
Source: Bank Mission



18
Table 2: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Item                        Date Planned                Date Actual
Time taken to prepare                                   About one year - TCDD
project by the Country.                                 and DLH prepared the
project.
First Presentation to the                               June 1984
Bank and first Bank
Mission to consider the
project.
Appraisal mission.          July 1985                   July 1985
Negotiations completion                                 February 1986
date.
Board Approval                                          July 8, 1986
Loan Signature                                          July 24, 1986
Loan Effectiveness                                      January 27, 1987
Loan Closing                December 31, 1992           December 31, 19931
Project Completion                                      May 11, 1994
Source: Bank Mission / President's Report P-4223-TU
I/    Delayed due to difficulties experienced in shortage of financial resources, sub-project redesign,
invoking rebidding and import authorization of trak materials for new construcion.



19
Table 3: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS
(in Millions US Dollars)
IBRD                                 Appraisal                 Actual             Actual as %
Fiscal Year                          Estimate           Disbursement               of Estimate
1987
September 1986                           1.00
December 1986                            4.00
March 1987                              12.00
June 1987                               22.00                     .07                     3.2
1988
September 1987                          33.00                   12.90                    39.1
December 1987                           44.00                   20.84                    47.4
March 1988                              54.00                   26.52                    49.1
June 1988                               64.00                   31.26                    48.8
1989
September 1988                          76.00                   39.28                    51.7
December 1988                           87.00                   49.61                    57.0
March 1989                              98.00                   68.08                    69.5
June 1989                              109.00                   75.84                     69.6
i99
September 1989                         119.00                   85.37                    71.7
December 1989                          128.00                   92.97                    72.6
March 1990                             137.00                  101.45                    74.1
June 1990                              146.00                  108.29                    74.2
1991
September 1990                         154.00                  114.55                    74.4
December 1990                          162.00                  123.58                    76.3
March 1991                             169.00                  127.19                    75.3
June 1991                              176.00                  133.34                    75.8
1992
September 1991                         182.00                  138.42                    76.1
December 1991                          186.00                  139.72                    75.1
March 1992                             190.00                  150.05                    79.0
June 1992                              193.00                  153.43                    79.5
1993
September 1992                         195.00                  155.70                    80.0
December 1992                          197.00                  158.20                    80.0
March 1993                             197.00                  159.75                     81.0
June 1993                              197.00                  161.76                     82.0
1994
September 1993                                                 164.64                     84.0
December 1993                                                  169.41                    85.0
March 1994                                                     171.81                    87.0
June 1994                                                      171.83                     87.0
Source: Supervision Mission & SAR



20
Table 4: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Schedule of
Completion at    Actual Completion
Appraisal           Date                     Comments
A. Imorovement of Diesel Locos                                             Resulted in increased availability of
Workshop equipment modernization    December 1988    December 31, 1992  diesel locos. from 62% at appraisal
Phasing out of weak points in diesel   September 1988   December 31, 1992  (1986) to more than 80% in the 90s
loco. design                                                         allowing TCDD to lease surplus
Part exchange system              December 1988    December 31, 1992  locomotives and cut down investment
Fundamental overhaul of           June 1988        December 31, 1992  in new loco6.
immobilized locos.
Improvement of communication links   December 1986    December 31, 1992
for loco. control
Data Processing (SMIS)            December 1989   Incomplete           contract negotiations took too much
time, the loan dosing date expired and
all remaining items incduding SMIS
were cancelled.
B. Track Overhaul                                                          Quality of work is satisfactory and most
Ankara-Hyderpasha (164 km)        March 1991       December 1990       of these works were completed ahead
Irmak-Kayser (98 km)              March 1988       December 1987       of schedule.
Irmak-Zonguldak (137 km)          March 1991       December 1990
Samsun-Kalin (199 km)             June 1989         December 1990
Bogaz Kopru-Kardesgedigi (142 km)   March 1991     December 1989
C. Track Overhaul Machinery                                                The procurement of the main pails of
Tarnping, linning and levelling   June 1989         March 1990         the track maintenance machinery
Machines                                                              progressed satisfactorily though slightly
Workshop rail welding machines    June 1988         September 1990     behind schedule excepting
Track overhaul cars               June 1988        June 1991           procurement of 25 track maintenance
Workshop equipment and tools      September 1988   September 1990      overhaul cars (draizine) where the
Snow ploughs                      December 1988   September 1990       delay was more pronounced. These
cars were not accepted by TCODD for a
long time due to problem of car
stability and excess axle load.
D. Sianallino and Telecommunications                                       Substantial delays occurred. Reasons
of Kavas-Cetinkava Line (including                                     for the delays are: (i) rebidding due to
Hanli-Bostankaya section)         June 1987        Mid 1994            long negotiation hme and bid validity
Station preparation works         March 1987                           expiration (ii) shortage of financial
Designing                         September 1988                       resources provided by the govemment
Delivery of materials and equipment   December 1989                   (iii) frequent changes of the project
Cabling and installation          June 1990                            management, and (iv) the Gulf war and
Testing and commissioning                                              civil war in Yugoslavia affecting one of
the Yugoslav contractors in SEL
consortium.
E. Line Caoacitv Works on Hanli-
Bostankava Line (66km)
Sub-structure works               June 1988         Mid 1994                         - do -
Super-structure works
* Tendering & contract awards     March 1987
- Delivery of matenals/equipment  October 1987
Track laying                      March 1989
Irstallation                      June 1989
,esting and commissioning         December 1989



21
Schedule of
Completion at   Actual Completion
Appraisal          Date                    Commets
F. Technical Assistance and Training                                    Trained staff of TCDD increased from
Consultancy                      June 1987       Continuous         about 3000 in 198 to 32,000 in 1992
Training                         December 1989   process and        The- 'winning' arrmngement worked
Procurement of Teaching Equipment  June 1989     completed by       satisfactorily (see Table 7 Status of
December 1992     Loan Covenant) and the locomotive
drivers' simulator wis instaled and put
into operation in 1992 at the Eskisehir
training center.
Source: SAR/Mission Report



22
TIable 5: PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A - PROJECT COSTS
Appraisal Estimate             Revised Estimate                 Actual
Items           Local    Foreign   Total    Local        Foreign   Total     Local   Foreign   Total
US$ million-         -     USS million-                     USS million-
Improvement of diesel loco.,   82.43  62.70   145.13       82.43     74.53    156.96    82.43     72.33 154.46
maintenance and operation
Track overhaul (740 km)     73.11    45.25   118.36        72.12     38.47    110.59    72.12     38.47 110.59
Track overhaul machinery    5.72     13.50    19.22         5.72     17.18     22.90     5.72     17.15  22.90
Signalling and              28.57    30.60    59.17        15.50     51.36     66.86    15.50     51.36 66.86
Telecommunications of
Kayas-Cetinkaya line (700
km)
Line capacity works         75.55    18.89    94.44        33.00*     9.34*    42.34    33.00      9.34  42.34
(Bedinli/Hanli Bostankaya
Section about 65 km)
Technical Assistance and     1.71     3.12     4.83         1.71      2.75      4.46     1.71      2.75  4.46
training
Total Base Cost            267.09    174.06   441.15      210.48    193.63    404.11   210.48    191.48 401.91
Continaoncdes
Physical                 25.96     15.74    41.70        10.74     -         10.74     2.86      -     2.86
Price                    64.65     34.71    99.36       24.38     19.52      43.90     7.12     7.70  14.82
Total Contingencies         90.61    50.45   141.06        35.12     19.52     54.64     9.98      7.70  17.68
Grand Total                357.70    224.51   582.21      245.60    213.15    458.75   220.46    199.13 419.59
* Approximate break-up.
Source: SAR, Mission Reports
B - PROJECT FINANCING
Source                                             Planned                                 Final
-U      USS Millio    n--
World Bank                                                          197.0                               171.83
Govemment                                                           376.0                               245.17
Suppliers' Credit                                                     9.2                                 2.59
(or Cofinancing)*
582.2                               419.59
Govemment rtined financing responsibilty In cae the anticipated suppliers' credi
(or Co-financing) did not materialize.
Source: SAR and Mission Report



Table 6: PROJECT RESULTS
A - OPERATIONAL TARGETS AND ACHIEVEMENTS - 1985-90
ITEM                      UNIT                      1985                       1986                      1987                       1988                        1989                      1990
PLANNED    ACTUAL    PLANNED    ACTUAL    PLANNED    ACTUAL    PLANNED                        ACTUAL   PLANNED"   ACTUAL    PLANNED                 ACTUAL
Eleciric Locomotives
Passenaer Service
Availability                      %                       83          78             85          61            88           58            89           68             75          86            82           82
Performance                     km/day                   394        372"            398       4230            402        399"            406          393            400         336           500          420
Train Load                       Ions                    300         250            320         250           340          252           350          222            225         217           225          262
Freighl Service
Availabiliry                                              83          78             85          61             87          58            88            68            75          86            80           85
Perfornnace                     km/day                   184        372"            188        4230           192        399"            196           120           130         135           250          249
Train Load                       tons                    670        847"            680        818"           690        916W            700         948"            765         811           770          782
Diesel Locomotives
Passeneer Service
Availability                      %                       75          73             77          70            79           65            87            64            68          77            70           81
Perfonnance                     kn/day                   547        306"            559        316"           573        282"            585          562            500         516           630          597
Train Load                       tons                    310         250            320         250           330          252           335          287            290         278           300          274
Freieht Service
Availability                      %                       75          73             75          70            78           65            80            64            68          77            70           81
Performance                     kn/day                   238        386"            241        316"           244        282"            248          225            255         256           255          210
Train Load                       tons                    790        817"            798        818"            800        916"           814         948"            750         893           755          869
Passenier Cars
Availability                      7                       83                         84                         85                        86            82            75          82             75          82
Perfornance                     km/day                   318                        325                        331                       340           420           420         449           425          452
Freithl Wagons
Availability                       %                      92          84             92          87             92          89            93            91            90          89             90          91
Performance               O00 nr}nV/ons cap.             11.9        11.0           12.1        10.5          12.4         10.4          12.6         11.7           12.1        10.8          12.7         11.3
Average Turn-around              days                    10.7        13.7           9.9         15.2           9.1        16.1            8.6         12.8           12.5        13.8          12.5         13.2
lime
Staff Producaivity           000 TU/ernployee             306.0       326.0          317.0       299.0         328.0       316.0          340.0        357.0          355.0       375.0         390.0        400.0
TU - Traffic Units in lerms of NTKM + PKM
Source: SAR/Mission Reponrs
" As revised on Decenber 22, 1989
2 Average-passenger  and freight carriers                                                                                                                                                                            W
" Average-freight train load of electric and diesel locomotives.
Table6.A



24
Table 6: PROJECT RESULTS
B - ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN (ER)
RE-EVALUATED AT
PROJECT COMPONENTS                           APPRAISAL            PROJECT
ESTIMATE         COMPLETION
A. Improvement of diesel locomotive               26                  22
maintenance and operation
B. Track Overhaul (740 km) and                    16                  14
Maintenance Machinery
(i)    Ankara-Hydar pasa (164 km)             18                  16
(ii)    lrnak-Kayser (98 km)                  17                  15
(iii)   Irmak-Zonguldak (137 km)              16                  14
(iv)    Samsun-Kalin (199 km)                 14                  12
(v)    Bogaz Kopru-Kardezgedigi (142          14                  13
km)
C. Signalling and Telecommunications (700         20                  14
km) - Kayas-Kayseri-Sivas-Cetinkaya
D. New Works (about 65 km) (Bedirli/Hanli-        26                 20
Bostankaya)
Grand Total
Weighted Average                              22                  17
Source: SAR/Mission Reports



Table 6: PROJECT RESULTS
C - FINANCIAL IMPACT - TURKISH RAILWAYS
OPERATING RATIO              OPERATING RATIO+             CUSTOMER
WITH GOVERNMENT             WITHOUT GOVERNMENT          CONTRIBUTION TO         CURRENT ASSETS /             DEBT/EQUITY
PAYMENT                       PAYMENT            OPERATING EXPENSES         CURENT UABIUTIES
YEAR
APPRAISAL      ACTUAL' (WITH      APPRAISAL   ACTUAL1    APPRAISAL    ACTUAL'   APPRAISAL    ACTUAL'   APPRAISAL    ACTUAL'
ESTIMATE       GOVERNMENT         ESTIMATE                  ESTIMATE                 ESTIMATE                 ESTIMATE
PAYMENT)
1985         103              106              210          214         48%          47%          4.04         2.1         0.32         0.22
1986         136              136              163          188         61%          53%          3.02         1.3         0.29         0.27
1987         126              151              150          223         67%          45%          1.69         1.0         0.36         0.32
1988         117              140              135          194         74%          51%          1.42         0.7         0.34         0.35
1989         108              145              124          222         81%          45%          1.38         0.8         0.34         0.48
1990         101              152              115          243         B7%          41%          1.21         0.6         0.36         0.34
Souroe SAR/Supeuivon Mleeions
+ Openin  ratio e    operating s4ene
operatng revenues
1/     fluid an aWihad fai _ms - Deuals we gn ian Aism 3A ad 3C.



26
Table 6: PROJECT RESULTS
D - PROJECT STUDY
TYPE OF STUDY    PURPOSE AS DEFINED                       STATUS                      IMPACTOF STUDY
AT APPRAISAL
(i)   Traffic       To improve TCDD's          The railway traffic costing specialist   Study results could not be
Costing        accounting system  in     (a consultant from SNCF) reviewed   satisfactorily applied because
Study          accordance  with the      TCDD's costing system  and          of TCDD's lack of autonomy
(included in    methodology and          submitted an Analytical Report in    and limited control over
Third Port     recommendations  of the    April 1989. These recommenations    costs, e.g. a 128% real
Project -      study recommendations     have been accepted  by TCDD. The  increase in the cost of wages
Ln.2435-TU)   within a year of its       quality of the study is satisfactory.    and salaries between 1988
completion.                                                   and 1991, inspite of staff
reduction of 4,900 due to
large semi-annual wage
increases sanctioned by the
Government over which
TCDD appears to have no
control.
(ii)  A computer-    The study would be        Study implementation was delayed.   Does not apply as the study
assisted       carried out by TCDD's     Seven bids (CANACCanada, RITES  could not be completed (see
Specialized    electronic data           - India, FINRE - Finland, ICF - USA,  previous column).
Management    processing (EDP) center.   Siemens - Germany, AYDIN- USA
Information    The study should be       and TLC - Germany) were received
System         started not later than    by September 1991 and bid
(SMIS) for     June 30, 1987 and         evaluation was in progress.
locomotive     completed by June 30,     However, since various hardware
maintenance    1989. The terms of        and software together with network
and            reference (Annex 5, SAR)  configurations were quoted in the
operation.     for the study was agreed    proposals, the bid evaluation
to during loan            became time-consuming  as it
negotiations.             needed a lot of clarifications. The
overall financial situation of TCDD
in the meantime, continued to
deteriorate at an alarming rate and
the Government was not able to
establish political support to
reverse the trend- and made
necessary structural adjustments
recommended by the Bank. In the
circumstances to avoid prolonged
delay in project implementation,
Bank Management preferred to
cancel this project sub-component
and the study could not be
completed.



27
Table 6: PROJECT RESULTS
E - TRAINING PROGRAM AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
PURPOSE AS DEFINEDAT
APPRAISAL                        STATUS                         REMARKS
Forty-eight man-months of       TCDD's training program  and    The technical assistance and
technical assistance to         DLH'sprogram  have been         trainng program yielded good
strengthen railway operations,    satisfactorily completed. The  results. Diesel locomotive
locomotive mnaintenance and    'twinning' arrangement with      availability increased from 62%
management information          SOFERAILand DE CONSULT          at appraisal to 81% in 1990.
system  by providing senior 'in   progressed  satisfactorily    For the first time during project
line' positions to international  according to schedule. The    implementation, TCDD had a
experts/professionals  within   simulator was installed and put   significant surplus of diesel
TCDD. In addition, about 350    into operation at the beginning    locos in 1991 postponing the
mon-months (Table 9 - SAR, for  of 1992.                        need to acquire the new ones
details) of technical visits and                                indefintely. Due to over-
training for railway                                            capacity of locomotives TCDD
senior/middle management and                                    negotiated (1991) a leasing
specialists (including craftsmen,                               arrangmenent with Iran to
loco drivers, etc.) through                                     provide some locomotives.
"twinning"arrangements with
other European Railways
engaged in similar works. The
project provided fortraining
equipment and materials
including a 'simulator' for
training of locomotive drivers.



28
Table 7: STATUS OF COVENANTS
Loan Agreement (LA)
Project Agreement (PA)               DESCRIPTION                                  STATUS
REFERENCE
A. General
LA3.02                    The Borrower shall cause DLH to take    Complied with.
timely action to complete all sub-
structural works on the Hanli-Bostankaya
line.
LA3.03                    The Borrower shall cause TCDDto         Complied with.
designate a project co-ordinator and
DLHshould designate a counterpart to
the project co-ordinator.
LA3.04                    The Borrower shall cause DLHto furnish   Complied with.
to the Bank, for its approval, a detailed
plan for the training program under Part
C (2) of the Project.
LA4.02                    The Borrower shall take all actions     The Action Plan Program was established
necessary  on its part to enable TCDDto  and achievements  were reviewed periodically
carry out its Action Plan.              and monitored on a contimuous basis. Action
Plan was implemented in many areas but
performed poorly in operational f _acng
where adequate Government
support/commitment  fell far short of
expctations.
LA/PA 4.03                Until completion of the project and prior   No major investments were undertaken.
to undertaking any investment
exceeding the amount of USS20 million
equivalent, the Borrower shall carry out
economic feasibility studies to justify
such investments.
B. Financial Covenants         Complied with from 1990 onwards with some
LA4.01 (a), (b), (c)      The Borrower shall have separate  .     minor time adjustments.
accounts to record all project funds and
expenditures relating to TCDD and DLH.
The Special Account should be audited
each year by an auditor acceptable to
the Bank and the audited annual
financial statements willbe sent to the
Bank within 9 months of the end of the
financial year.



29
Loan Agreement (LA)
Project Agreement (PA)               DESCRIPTION                                  STATUS
REFERENCE
PA 4.02 (a)               TCDD shall take all measures required to  The Bnlk and the Government revised the
achieve the following percentages  of  targets as follows:
payment by customers to operating
expenses:                                              128   1990   1991
% of cost
1986   1988   1990        coverage for
all categories
Freight        65      85    100         of railway
Passenger -                              users         44      55     58      65
Sub-urban     50     70      75
Passenger -                             Actual
Main Lines    35     45      50         achievement   45     41      34     36
PA 4.02 (a) (ii)          TCDD shall, as from 1986, generate total  The objectives were not met and overall
revenues equivalent to Dot less than the   financial performance was too poor.
sum of (a) its total railway operating
expenses, and (b) the amount by which
debt services requirements exceed
depreciation.
C. Execution of Part A and B of the
Proiect
PA 2.04 (a)               TCDD shall, by December 31, 1987,       Most of the works were completed by the
complete the necessary preparatory      end of 1988. Delay was primarily due to a
work to enable installation of the      shortage of materials.
signalling equipment under Part A (3) of
the Project (Kayas-Cetinkaya line).
PA 2.04 (b)               TCDD shall establish within its Traction    Complied with.
Department a central division with
responsibility for locomotive deployment
and maitenance.
PA 2.08 (a)               TCDD shall implement the foreign        Complied with and the training progm  with
training program  under Part B (2) of the   SOFERAILand DECONSULT progresed
Project.                                according to schedule and completed.
PA 2.08 (b)               TCDD would submit a proposed plan for  The utilization plan was received and agreed
utilization of the simulator for the training  in 1989. The simulator was installed and put
of locomotive drivers by June 30, 1987.   into operation at the beginning of 1992.
D. Management and QOerations        Generally complied with excepting financial
PA 3.01 (b) (i), (ii), (iii),    TCDD shall carry out the Action Plan  performance pan.
(iv)                      agreed between the Borrower and the
Bank; annually review and update its
Action Plan; prepare and furnish to the
Bank annual progress reports.



30
Loan Agreement (LA)
Project Agreement (PA)               DESCRIPTION                                  STATUS
REFERENCE
PA 4.02 (b), (c), (d)     Before October 31 in each fiscal year,  Generally complied with.
TCDD shall review its financial
performance and furnish to the Bank the
results of review upon its completion.
PA 4.04 (a) and (b)       TCDD shall improve its accounting       The railway traffic costing specialist (a
system  in accordance  with the         consultant from SNCF) reviewed TCDD's
methodology and recmmendations  of      costing system  and submitted an analytical
the study included in the Third Port    report (April 1989). The recommendaions
Project (Ln. 2435-TU) and implement the   have been accepted by TCDD but could not
study recommendations  within a year of  be successfully implemented because of
its completion.                         TCDD'slack of autonomy and limited control
over costs (c.f. Table 6 - Project Study).
Source: Supervision Missions



31
Table 8: STAFF INPUTS
A - BANK MISSIONS
STAFF
STAGE OF PROJECT                            NO. OF       NO. OF       WEEKS IN
CYCLE             MONTH/YEAR          STAFF        WEEKS          FIELD        DATE OF REPORT
Identification }        June 1984 to
Preparation   }         May 1985              4 to 5         8             35
Pre-Appraisal }
Appraisal               July 1985               5            4             20        August 1985
Sub Total                                                                  55
Supervisions
1.                      June 1988               4            1              4        August 1988
2.                      April 1989              4            2              8        June 1989
3.                      October 1989            4            2              8         November 15, 1989
4.                      May/June 1990           1            2              2         July 5, 1990
5.                      November 1990           3            2              6        January 4, 1991
6.                      June 1991               1            2              2        August 7, 1991
7.                      September 1991          2            2              4         October 17, 1991
8.                      June 1992               4            2              8        July 24, 1992
9.                      Aug./Sept. 1993         2            2              4         September 17, 1993
Sub Total                                          46
Grand Total-                                       101
Doc: M:\GanguBl\Turkmy\PCR-94\Tabio.A



32
Table 8: STAFF INPUTS
B - AT HEADQUARTERS
STAGE OF PROJECT                               NO. OF        NO. OF       STAFF WEEKS AT
CYCLE            MONTH/YEAR              STAFF        WEEKS         HEADQUARTERS
Preparation/              July 1984/
Preappraisal            June 1985                  4            6                        24
Appraisal                 August 1985               5             5                       25
Loan Negotiation          February 1986             4             1                        4
Sub Total                                                                                 53
Suenrvision
1.                       August 1988                4             1                        4
2.                        May 1989                  4             1                        4
3.                        November 1989             4             1                        4
4.                       July 1990                  1             1                         1
5.                        December 1990             3             1                         3
6.                       July/August 1991           1             2                        2
7.                        October 1991              2             2                        4
8.                       July 1992                  4             1                        4
9.                        September 1993            2             1                        2
Completion Report         March-June 1994           2             4                        8
Sub Total                                                                                 36
: O . A:  .  4 I - ) T O TA L :                                                           89::.    . : i  .      ..................:    -:.E  i : :!; T:      7:X E. E i  :2 Ti -;| 7.; .  E:: -?f --.-iS   T:t i T;-::T ::  :.ii.  .... ..-::  ..
_To _T



33
Annex 1
TURKISH RAILWAYS - TCDD'S & DLH'S
INVESTMENT PLAN - 1985 & 1989
AND ACTUAL IMPLEMENTATION
PLAN                  ACTUAL*
1985-89                   198S-89
---(in US S MILLION)--- -----
T.C.D.D.
A.  Infrastructure
Capital Overhaul                                          172.8                     176.7
(track, Str., Jn.)
Track Material                                            33.2                       25.2
Track Reinforcement                                        13.9                       4.2
Track Doubling                                            24.7                        2.7
Connecting Lines                                          24.7                        4.3
Telecommnunications                                         4.0                       3.7
Signalling                                                161.7                      85.9
Electrification                                          192.9                       48.6
Sub Total                                                627.9                      351.3
B.  Traction & RollinR Stock
Diesel Main Line Locos                                    191.8                     138.1
Diesel Shunters                                           48.5                       88.5
Electric Locos                                            82.6                       60.0
Electric Commuter Trains                                  48.5                       38.7
Loco Renovation                                            15.6                      18.5
Passenger Coaches                                         28.9                       38.6
Wagons                                                    145.2                      89.1
Sub Total                                                561.1                      471.5
C.  Others (Building, Workshop, Depots,                       226.2                      122.9
etc.)
GRAND TOTALTCDD - A+B+C-                                     1,415.2                     94.
D.  DLHProject Construction Works                             213.9                      134.6
TCDD + DLH-                                                  1,629.1                   1,080.3
Source: SAR/Supervision Missions
+ Some adjustments in progress.
Doc: M:AGanguIATurkeykPCR-94'Arnnx. I



TURKISH RAILWAYS (TCDD)
OVERALL TRAFFIC TRENDS
A - FORECAST/ACTUAL (1985-1990)
1985               1986                1987               1988                1989                1990
Traffic             Unit            Approx              Approx              Approx             Approx              Approx             Approx
Forecast   Actual   Forecast   Actual   Forecast   Actual   Forecast   Actual   Forecast   Actual   Forecast    Actual
Freight             Gross ton-km       16.5    16.5        17.9    15.7       19.0    15.1        20.0    16.3       21.3    15.8        21.3      17.0
in billions
Passenger Sub-      Gross ton-km        1.5      1.4        1.7     1.4        2.0      1.4        2.1      1.5       2.2      1.4        2.2       1.5
urban               in billions
Passenger Others    Gross ton-km        5.5      5.5        5.9     5.4        6.1      5.4        6.3      5.1       6.5      5.2        6.5       5.2
in bilions
Freight             Net ton-km in       8.0      8.0        8.3     7.4        8.8      7.4        9.3      8.0        9.9     7.6       10.0       7.9
billions
Passenger Sub-      Net pass-km         3.0      2.9        3.4     2.8        4.0      2.8        4.2      2.9        4.6     3.2        4.6       2.9
urban               in billions
Passenger Others    Net pass-km         3.6      3.6        3.8     3.3        3.9      3.3        4.1      3.8        4.2     3.7        4.2       3.5
in billions
Source: SAR/Supervision Reports.
Doc: M:\Ganguli\Turkey\PCR-94\Annex.2a



35
AXNEX 2B
TRAFFIC TRENDS - TCDD
Appraisal Forecast (1989) and Actual 1984 and 1989
(Commodity-wise Freight Traffic
1984                   1989                     1989
(Actual)          Appraisal Forecast+          (Actual)
Freight Traffic           ('0W0 net   (Mill. net   ('000 net   (MM. net    ('000 net  (Mill. net ton
tonnes)   ton Km.)    tonnes)   ton Km.)       tonns)          Km.)
Domestic                    14,154      6,908      19,600       9,400       11,931       6,516
Intemational transit          617         592         600        600         1,172        1,031
Commodity-wise Frlohht
1. Coke                       211         188         200        200          118           76
2. Lignite                   1,823        562       2,800        700         2,013        1,005
3. Anthracite                1,867        372       2,400        400         1,757         576
4. Sugar beet                1,331        142       1,300         150         312           49
5. Molasses                    35          15           -                      64           17
6. Iron ore                  3,760      2,396       6,300       4,000        3,298        2,021
7. Other ores                 558         209         500        200
8. Chrome                     326         185         300        200         1.307         670
9. Cereas                     488         329         500        350          357          233
10. Fertilizer                465         264         500        300         1'1            85
11. Stee & iron products                    -                       -         195          114
i2. Cement                      6           2           -
13. Petrol, oil & lubricant   293         110         300        100          316          116
14. Other goods              2,991      2,134       4,500       2,800        2,085       1,554
Total Domestic              14,154      6,908      19,600       9,400       11,931        6,518
International                 617         592         600        600         1,172        1.031
GRAND TOTAL                 14,771      7,500      20,200      10,000       13,103       7,547
Sources: SAR/Suporvision Report/Mission Reports
* Approximate.
Doc: M:\Gangull\Turkoy\PCR94\An.x.2



TtJRKISH RAILWAYS (TCDD)
AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
INCOME STATEMENTh
(TI. Billion)
BASC ACTIVrrY                                             1985                     19i6                      1937                      19U                    1939                      1990
APPRAISAL                APPRAISAL                 APAWSAL                   APPRAISAL                 APMAISAL                  APPRAISAL
FORECAST  ACTUAL         FORECASr  ACTUAL          FORECAST  ACTUAL          FORECAST  ACIUAL          FORECAST  ACTUAL    FORECAST  ACTUAL
Flegk                                                  59.6         58.3         9t.9         32.2        1364.4        48.$       17.3         166.7       249.3          300        314.8        540.6
P       Sab-w                                           3.9            4          6.2          5.7         10.2          9.7         15.0         15.9        19.9         25.7           24         56.1
Paa_u-Mi.Lia                                           Is.S         10.3         16.6          14          23.7         23.7        32.4         37.5           43           65         53.7        110.9
S9.TeliOC omu                                        .  74          72.6        121.7        101.9        170.3        1172         234.7        220.1        312.2       390.7        392.5        707.6
Uuecmwic Lima                                           4.7          5.1            0         12.5           0          19.7           0          28.7           0           69            0         132.3
Trac Upkeep                                              23         21.3           25         26.2         31.2         36.6         37.5         53.3          45         112.7          54        232.9
F_*kqavcu                                                46         44.2            0            0           0            0            0            0            0            0            0            0
P      - C Saw                                          3.3          3.1            0            0           0            0            0            0            0          14.4           0          36.1
S+.TowI (Subi")                                          77         73.7           25         31.7         31.2         56.3         37.5          S2           45         196.1          54         40123
TOTALOPERATING*EVNUES                                   151        140.3         146.7       140.6        201.5        173.5        272.2        302.2        357.2        586.3        446.5       1108.9
Wm" u   Suabdis                                        62.3         60.7         75.4         75.7         90.4        1t2.7        103.5        178.1        130.2        411.2        156.3        352.6
Fuel                                                   34.8         37.7         49.1         39.6         65.3         37.7         t2.1         70.6           93        143.1        114.6        255.3
mulias                                                  15.9         3.8         22.4          11.2        29.8         15.4         36.9           21         45.9         53.3         53.3           U
O.he                                                   21.6         25.5         30.4         34.9         40.4         47.7         49.9         75.5         61.7        120.5         71.6        247.6
Su&ToeaWorkingExpe4ms                                  135.1        132.7       177.3        161.4        225.9        213.5        277.4       . 345.2       335.5        723.6        395.3        1444
Depeciation                                            20.2         22.7         21.6         30.3           29         47.6         40.3         32.2         51.2        138.1           56        272.6
TOTAL (ERATIDO                  : E       -           1255.3       155A        IS5.9         191.7       254.9        261.3        3277         427.4          337        t66.7        4512.       1716.6
NetOperaingReveinue(widtGov. psyman)                   (4.3)        (9.1)       (52.2)       (51.1)       (53.4)       (S7.3)       (45.5)      (125.3)       (29.8)      (279.9)        (S.3)      (607.7)
Nd _Opuig Re*vemsm(m1hVA GOVL psyMnct)                (t1.3)       (32.3)       (77.2)       (89.1)       (84.6)      (244.2)       (33.0)      (207.3)       (74.8)      (476.0)       (59.3)    (1.009.0)
Opaaling Raio( wih GOoVtpsynad)                      202.85       206.22       235.53       236.34       126.50       150.62       116.72       141.48       105.34       247.70       202.29       154.30
Operi nRao i(willmuloavtpaynln)                      209.t6       224.05       263.43       258.23       149.63      222.95        135.36       194.15       123.96      221.53        225.11      242.59
Cuaanm Coninbriutiini _peing Expcusi                   48%          47%          61%          53%          67%          45%          74%          51%          32%          45%          87%          41%
Sw5     SAt. SWamI RImi
La



TURKISH RAILWAYS (TCDD)
AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
INCOME STATEMENTS
(USS MilUib)
BASIC ACTIVllY                                              1915                       19t6                       1987                      19S8                    19S9                       1990
APPRAISAL                  APPRAISAL                 APPRAISAL                  APPRAISAL                  APPRAISAL                  APPRAISAL
FORECAST         ACTUAL FORECAST            ACTUAL FORECAST            ACTUAL FORECAST            ACTUAL FORECAST            ACTUAL FORECAST           ACTUAL
Revenuecs
FPrigh                                               $114.18       $111.69      S146.63       S121.87      S159.12       $103.59      $131.69       $117.20      S117.50      S141.40       5120.681     5207.24
Puaeqc--Sub-ura.n                                       S7.47        $7.66        S9.19         S8.45        1I1.90       $11.32       S10.55        Si1.18        S9.38       S12.11         S9.20        S21.51
Passenger - Main Line                                  S20.11       S19.73        S24.61       S20.76       $27.65        $21.S2       $22.78        S26.37       $20.27        $30.64       $20.59        S42.51
Sub-Totalt romCustomer                                S141.76      S139.08      S180.43       S151.07      S198.67       $136.72      $165.01       S154.75      $147.15       S184.14      $150.46       $271.26
Fmrn Govemmnent (Stubsidiesl
Uneconomic Lines                                        S9.00        S9.77         $0.00       S18.53        $0.00        $22.98        $0.00        S20.1S        $0.00        $32.52        $0.00        $50.72
TmckUpkeep                                             $44.06       S40.80       S37.06        $38.84       $36.40        $42.70       $26.37        $37.47       $21.21        $53.12       S20.70        $89.28
FeightServices                                         S88.12      $S4.67          $0.00        $0.00        $0.00         $0.00        $0.00         $0.00        S0.00         $0.00        S0.00         $0.00
Pa_see Services                                         $6.32        S5.94         $0.00        $0.00        $0.00         $0.00        $0.00         $0.00        $0.00         $6.79        S0.00        $13.84
Sub-Total (Subsidies)                                 S147.51      S141.19        $37.06       $57.38       S36.40        $65.68       $26.37        $57.65       $21.21        $92.43       $20.70       $153.84
TOTALOPERATINGREVNUES                                 $289.27      $280.27       $217.49      $208.45      $235.07       S202.40      $191.31       $212.40      S168.36       $276.57      $171.16       $425.09
OF=iang ExDecf
WagesandSalanes                                      S120.31       S116.28      $111.79       $112.23      $105.46       S131.47 .     $76.21       S125.22       $61.37       $193.81       $59.92       $326.14
Fuel                                                   $66.67       S72.22        $72.79       $58.71       $76.18        $43.98       $57.72        S49.64       S46.19        S67.45       $43.93        $98.06
Malesials                                              $30.46       $16.86       S33.21        $16.60       $34.76        $17.97       $25.94        S14.76       S21.63        $25.36       $20.43        S33.73
Other                                                  $41.38       $41.85       $45.07        $51.74       $47.13        S55.65       $35.08        S53.08       S29.0S        S56.79       $27.45        $94.92
Sub-Total WorkingExpenses                            $258.81       $254.21      $262.86       $239.29      $263.53       $249.07      $195.04       $242.71      $158.27      $343.40       $151.73      S553.55
Depreciation                                          $38.70        $43.49       $32.02        $44.92       $33.83        $55.76       $28.33        $57.79       $24.13       $65.09        $21.47      $104.50
TOTALOPERATINOGEXPENSES                              $297.51       $297.70      $294.89       S284.21      $297.36       $304.13      $223.37       $300.50      $182.40      $408.49       $173.20      $651.05
Net Opeating Revenue (with Govt. payment)             ($8.24)      ($17.43)      ($77.39)     ($75.76)     (S62.30)    ($102.43)      ($31.99)      ($88.10)     ($14.05)    ($131.92)       (S2.03)    ($232.96)
NetOpeatingRevenue(withoutGovL payment)             (S155.75)    (S158.62)    (S114.46)    (S133.14)       ($98.69)    ($168.11)      ($58.36)    ($145.75)      ($35.25)    ($224.35)      (S22.73)    ($386.80)
OpuatingRutio(withGovLpaymnent)                       $197.03      $203.49      $201.01       S202.14      $147.57       $175.69       $82.06        $99.47       $51.06       $69.61        $38.79       $59.34
Operating Ratio (without GovL payment)                $402.04      $410.06      $242.30       $278.91      $174.61       $260.09       S95.17       $136.53       $58.42      S104.55        $44.13       $93.00
CuaomnerContributionlOperatingExpenses                   48%           47%          61%           53%          67%          45%           74%          51%           S1%          45%           87/          41%
I0
LI) .-



TURKISII RAILWAYS (TCDD)
AUDIMD IANCIAL STATEMNUTS
Babnee Slo  _"mm
1s5                               10                             J157                              am                          Mp9                             89o
ASSETS                        APPRALSAL                         APPRAISAL                       APPRASAL                        APPKAAL                         AP99.SAL                         APISAL
FORECASr            ACTUAL        FOR.CAST            ACTUAL    FORECAST              ACltAL    FORECAST             ACIUAL    FORECAST               ACUAL    FORECAST                ACtUAL
Cub RedBombA31.                                                         30               35               6.1            42               6.7           5.0              112            6.0              113             6.3              17.6
5aml.                                               107.0             1242            1141              117.3          948              10*            84.1             139.2          96O              270.7           94.0             450.2
22l7              28.7            262              32.0           30.1              4.4           34.6             53.2          329               121.2           43.7             212
o_Z                                                   49               81.9            1i                14.0           3.2              23.1           3.2              44.0           3.3              91.1            5.5            18.4
4A162             1671            140              10.4           1343              1791          129.6            247.7          1451              491-           151.7            92.M
_ _ o Mis.                                                        43.7            55.1              53.0          55.1              69.1          55.1              73.6          53.1             12.3            35.1             135.9
<_ _A nftf.u                                        452.3             50.5            331.2             7X2            7063            1046s            7.             1812           1126.             3272.5        13.7              4531
IA            _   p"m                               11                13336 12.6                       1885.           155.6            27"            195.9              8s9         347.1               A1           3011                .4
3173              4e              4&                3512          3s0.7            711.7         7n0.1             13DNA          5.2              234.0           917.4           3254A
wa         m p2.o                                       4              103             4as              1041             32             177.5          105.S            420.3          91                361.2          96.              6.3
I DAA                                               361.0              W5              60.4              MA.1          0533            12115          8076             20s3s          1175.5            33331          1220.            5a37.7
tL M u                                               41.1              701              493             1349            792             110.2          911              331.6          205.3             6301           123e             151"
La1_D1                                              113               133              126.4            8l9            137.4            3281           2392             595.7          361.1             S2LI           032              I.s
NOWCON"Lkww                                         35"         *                       3.8                            45.7                            49                              3213                             253
*     2049               212J            21U.S            331.           39.3              310.2         377.i            9273           514.7            1433.0          435.             2005S
Cq1                                                 1301              390              227.4            210.6          3333             22.            5.               305.7          681               626.1          .3               901.4
l_w                                                                     4.7                              14J                             ISJ                             241                             3.8                              112
11"Mil"     __ovin                                  17/S              314              171.             351J           17V              J09.9          1719             9381           175t9            17154           17.9            27S45
-s_"&Mk>&ftM                                          11.     4       (154            (                 0(11.2)                         (96          (871.0           (23)             31.1)           (337)          (264.           (lip")
T1  _ afaPus                                         3S.3+             231             73.5              38.3          115.0+            42            160.1+            71,           109.              93.2         2623+               I9.6
STOKBV                                              3502              41.1            430.             3539.1         36.0              705.3          03.6            1127s           670.7           21021           7530             2672L
ToldL                                               361.1             4919             640.4            370.1           253            1215.5         1070.7           75.2           1175.4            353531         123.6            5577.7
4AUU             l.l                                 4.0              271              3.0               1.5            1.7              8.0            1.4              0.7            1.4              0.8            1.2               0.6
Debtff4A1                                            032               0.2             029               027           036               0.32           0.34             0.33           034              0.28           036               034
+   _uh   Ph3 Tax
5S  S                AALdIa'V.m Rap2
1N
ICJ   (..



TURKISH *AILWAYS (TCDD)
AUDITED  IAiJCIAL XTATUMINTS
Balane mt Suammry
(USS MEN)
1965                              1966                              19S7                              198S                          1969                               1990
ASSET S                      APPRAISAL                         APPRAISAL'                        APPRAISAL                         APPRAISAL                         APPRAISAL                          APPRAISAL
FORECAST             ACTUAL       FORECAST            ACTUAL        FORECAST             ACTUAL        FORECAST            ACTUAL       FORECAST             ACTUAL        FORECAST             ACTUAL
C       d B1 60.5                                                    S5.7            S5.2              S9.0            14.9               $7.8            13.5              S7.9            $2.8              S7.2            S2.5               $6.7
R*uvk                                            1205.0            S237.9          S169.2            S173.9          Sll0.6             S1269            S596              $97           S144.3             S127.6           S36.0            s172.6
4.5               S55.0           S33.8             S47.4           135.1               47.4           124.3             $37.4          Sil.l              557.1          S17.5             S10.4
oh,                                                S9.4             S22.8            S76              S202             16.1              1269             S3.7             S309             125              1429             1221              S649
_ub-ToW Cwmt ago                                 S318.4            1321.5          220.8            U251.1          S156.7             S209.1           $91.1            S174.2           S6.4             12349            S58.2             1352.7
P ipm         OUd(                               S1056              137.5           81.7             $78.6           $64.3              St6            S387              $53.2           $26.0             1605            U12.2              $52.1
FiA
GmFiA Asz4    nUL                                SO9.0            12,041 2         $717.5           Sl,00.4         1S24.0            51,244.2          S6862           512274.6         1530.8            $1,542.5         546S.0           $2,02.6
L A        _mbdDqu c_ma                          1202.2 I235.9                     Slt7.7            5275.6           282.5             $3229           S237.7            S3578           5116.5            S4359           $1162              60S.5
NStUedANO                                        1607.9            1785.2          $599.9            1804.7          1642.4             1921.3          S548 5            96.8      S     414.4          S1,106.7     S     351.8      S     1,474.1
Walkn. Sp..                                       142.9             S135.1          S605             S155.5           S994              107.1            S74.4            $301.8           S45.3            S2645            S36.S             12593
Tob[AMM                                        S12074.7           S12.3            $962.S            1.290.0         S962.            $1.412.0          S752.7           $1,445.9         S5540            $1,666.5         S467.9            S2,138.2
Comm Lubbdog                                      S7n.7             S1513            $73.1             00.0            92.4            S210.3           S640             1233.1           $                 SM292.6          $47.9            $581.5
L _U.DA                                          $213.0            S2563           S7.4              S290.7          S2116              S314.9          168.2            $4128           S1223.1             3I2J          S109.4             $532.4
N.       L                                        S95J                80.0           182.0              10.0           13l.l              10.0           S891.              S0.0            73.4               $0.0           148.5               S0.0
S1 01                                           S392.3           S47.7           S32.9             S490.7           3601             $595.2           $265 1             652.0          1237.9             675.4          $167.0           S1,1139
Cod                                              s1250.6            1543            S337.1            SDA7.4          S3m J263.6                         372.4            V2W4.9          S289.3              299.8          133.3             $34L2
t                                                  n00                89.0           10.0              249             10.0       U       23.2            $0.0      5       16.9            $0.0             17.3            $0.0       5       33S
R&40dm-_an mmn                                   SM342.7            101.4           $252             $521.6          VW7                S594.8          531.1             S655.2           554-3            1808.5           1W6              S1,055.9
Ro m       was                                    S21.5            (52.55)          (572S3)          (2101.7)        (5129.7)          (S125.05        (I23D0)           (51445)         (50895)            (2179.4)        (S1015)           ($421.1)
daffakofpwbho                             $567A  +           S49.4          S109.0 +           S57.1          2134.2+             #162           S112.6             S 50.4         S51.4 +           S44.9          2100.6 *             17.3
T.6 m166                                       1l,074.9          51,3293          S9623            Sl200.0           W2J              $1,41210         S752J            31,445.0          554.0            1,666.5          S467.9           $2,13S.2
C     4    Au _1     _ 1~U                          40                 2.1             30                1.3             1.7                1.0             1.4               0.7             1.4               0.1             1.2                0.6
D" Erdy                                            032                0.22            0.29              0.27            036                0.32            0.34              0.35            034               0.28            036                034
* mdatI8 Pon 1A
ll           T I Wk   A
ai
IW    Li






IBRD 19221R
B U L G A R I A    r      \ .~                                              S  /a   c  ke                                        
j .,\ Canoie  S                                                                                                                                                                           GEORGIA
o                                                                               'Sitik             Antokyr Ip ZnR
Anomur               Siik            AI   rO
,,ME D/TE R RA N EA N   S EAJf!
a:-  >_   \   SYRIAN  ARAB               /                   | R A Q               3
TURKEY                                         /CYPRUS
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT                                          0                  ;REPUBLIC)
,1 n
RAILWAY PROJECT                                  PROJECT SUPPORT FACILITIES                              y/ 
Ra- sa~                                                 Coa MIOeh  l9ne                                  lEBANON,f 
-  -                                                                                                                                                                       e rc   crtniIo   r   ia
......sinaIling And Tal.consnunlcatlofla  .     .      . Principal Loading Point. for Lignite     _       I 
New WOrk                                          Stal4 SPlant/
Din li Loconsotiva4.:                      *        PalitlZation And Iron Onr Concentrate PacIIltl.a ,
Hons. Depot.                                [i       Propcned Lignite DunpsgseR 
*       Main Workikop                             Q       Propo.d Steal Stockyards                     |0                             0            0
_                                                            P-r  ME  ie.go                                             100UzoUMo
*       Rework Facilities                                                                             ,I'   0                  
Electric Locorntosti                       4,   tUaior Pomt                                                          KrLOMETEReS
(@  Hown O.Pt po                                    Ralwy                                       / Rh bonasIooI   dnmntosadan   te  nomto
@       Howe Depot. (Futura-                            Main Trunk Roads                            /shsrne houn hris- madof5 denot imp an the port of The World Bank GrouP,
(i     Main Workshop Ipoursie                           Main Roada                                    a ny judgment an the legal status of any territory^, or any endorsement
---  International  oundrla                            a or acceptrnce of such boundaries.
So U                                                          3- a.o
A I..                 _                            -                               DKtMEER 1994












