Innovation for Competitiveness: Promoting Business Innovation in Mexico                                  94120
                                                                                                      April  17, 2012




 A Strong Focus on Private Sector Research and Development,
 Scholarships


Overview
A World Bank project sought to bolster Mexico's economic competitiveness by supporting
programs through the National Science and Technology Council (CONACYT) to promote
business innovation and better prepare Mexican graduates for the private sector. The project
led to a significant increase in the links between enterprises and research centers or
universities, and drove new venture capital investments and the establishment of commercial
high technology projects. It also supported scholarships in high-ranking graduate programs,
fostered doctoral graduates in science and technology, generated new patents and published
articles. For example, 48 consortia were established that link 173 enterprises with research
centers or universities and over 29,000 students received scholarships to study in high-ranking
science and technology graduate programs.


Challenge
The competitiveness of the Mexican economy was at risk in
                                                                  More Results
2004. Fostering greater innovation was seen as important to
improving conditions and restoring long-term

                                                                  US$250
competitiveness. However, the Mexican innovation system
performed below par compared to economies of its income
level due to a combination of: (i) insufficient private

                                                                  million
investment in research and development (R&D); (ii) poor
business innovation in part due to inadequate linkages
between public R&D and the productive sector, and (iii)
                                                                  is the loan from IBRD
insufficient innovation capacity due to low science and
technology skill base.


Approach
The project was designed to support Mexico's efforts to
                                                                  29,000
                                                                  students received scholarships
improve economic competitiveness through strengthening            to study in high-ranking science
CONACYT's institutional capacity, and supporting                  and technology graduate
                                                                  programs
CONACYT's grant and scholarship programs that were
designed to increase the innovative capacity of the private
sector, accelerate advanced human capital formation, and

                                                                  48
increase the international integration of Mexico's innovation
system. The specific interventions supported by the project
were fully aligned with the policy recommendations of the
various studies of Mexico's innovation system undertaken by       R&D consortia established
                                                                  linking over 170 enterprises with
the World Bank and the Organization for Economic                  research centers
Cooperation and Development (OECD), and with Mexico's
competitiveness agenda as defined by the government.

                                                                   LEARN MORE
Results
                                                                  World Bank (2005). Project
Under the Project, CONACYT's programs to promote                  Appraisal Document for the Mexico
business innovation achieved many of the expected results.        Innovation for Competitiveness
Support for the competitive funding lines from 2006 through       Project. Report No: 31146. April 15,
                                                                  2005. World Bank (2005).
2010 resulted in the establishment of 48 consortia linking
173 enterprises with research centers or universities; 34 new     World Bank (2008). Country
venture capital investments; at least 20 projects reaching the    Partnership Strategy for the United
commercial stage with support from the Pre-Competitive            Mexican States, FY2008-2013,
Fund; and the granting of at least 69 patents. Over US$200        Report No 42846-MX.
million was leveraged in private investment associated with          CONACYT (2008). Programa
these funds. Support for the programs to improve the supply          Especial de Ciencia, Tecnología
of advanced human capital resulted in over 35,000                    e Innovación 2007-2012 -
scholarships for masters- and doctoral-level students to             Fondos
study in high-ranking domestic and foreign graduate                  CONACYT (2008). Programa
programs. Of these scholarships, over 29,000 were for study          Especial de Ciencia, Tecnología
in science and technology-related fields. CONACYT also               e Innovación 2007-2012 - Becas
significantly strengthened its capacity to monitor and evaluate
these programs. Indicators of Mexico's strengthened
innovative capacity include a 27 percent real increase in
private investment in R&D between 2004 and 2008, and the
increase in the number of internationally-published articles
from 5,887 in 2004 to 9,488 in 2009.


Bank Contribution
A loan of US$250 million from IBRD financed the following: the scholarship program (US$185.8
million); the program to support the competitive fund lines (US$54.5 million) and the program to
support institutional strengthening (US$6.7 million).


Partners
The implementing agency, CONACYT, was the principal interlocutor with the World Bank on
the project. Nacional Financiera, the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Finance all
played a role in contributing to the achievement of the development objectives. The
government contributed US$81 million to the project, and the private sector contributed
investments worth over US$200 million.


Moving Forward
The programs supported by the project were fully integrated into CONACYT's ongoing
operations. The programs, several of which have been adjusted and improved over the last
three years, are sustainable since they will continue to be financed by budget allocations. In
January 2011, the authorities requested a second phase of the project to help ensure that the
steps taken during the first phase are sustainable and continue to be strengthened.


Beneficiaries
Firms that are or have the potential to be innovative; students interested in pursuing higher
education in science and technology; researchers; and universities that participate in research
consortia with firms. The project directly benefited over 550 firms through a combination of
support for researchers, research consortia, venture capital funding, and matching grants to
support R&D and technology commercialization. More than 600 additional firms benefited from
these programs during the life of the project thanks to complementary financing from the
government. Some 161 higher education institutions and research centers participated in
research consortia financed by the project, and over 35,000 masters and PhD students
benefited from project-financed scholarships.
An example of one of the beneficiaries of the Pre-Competitive Fund is Biograft, a Mexican firm
focused on medical implants of human skeletal muscle tissue. Support from the project allowed
Biograft to construct prototypes for testing before scaling up to industrial production. Another
beneficiary of the Pre-Competitive Fund is Concretos Translúcidos. The World Bank project
helped researchers who had developed an innovative translucent concrete formula to develop a
business plan, apply for patents, and construct prototypes. Through the venture capital fund,
an equity investment was made in International Healthy Snacks, giving the firm additional
capital to develop "nutritious and delicious" snacks using innovative formulas that do not
require the use of oils. A private equity firm subsequently bought out the government's stake,
providing a successful "exit" for the project-supported venture capital fund
.
