                                             Documentof
                                         The WorldBank

                                     FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                              ReportNo: 27585-UG




                                 PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                ONA

                                       PROPOSED IDA CREDIT

                             INTHEAMOUNT OF SDR45.970 MILLION
                                 (US$67.60 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                               AND A

                                       PROPOSEDIDA GRANT

                             INTHEAMOUNT OF SDR27.201MILLION
                                 (US40.00 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                               TO THE

                                       REPUBLIC OF UGANDA




                                               FORA

                                  PROJECTINSUPPORT OF THE

                     THIRD PHASE OF THE ROADDEVELOPMENT PROGRAM

                                            August 9,2004




Transport Sector Unit
Africa Region

This document has a restricteddistributionand may beusedby recipientsonly inthe performance of their
official duties. Its contentsmav not otherwisebe disclosedwithout World Bank authorization.          I

          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

      (Exchange Rate Effective June 30,2004)

         Currency Unit = Uganda Shilling
            Ugsh 1780 = US$1
           US$1.4075 = SDR 1

                 FISCAL YEAR
                 July 1 -- June 30

      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AfDB         African Development Bank
AIDS         Acquired ImmuneDeficiency Syndrome
APL          Adaptable ProgramLoan
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CDP          Cross Domestic Product
DANIDA       DanishInternational Development Agency
DFA          Development Financing Agreement
DUCAR        District, Urbanand Community Access Roads
EDF          EuropeanDevelopment Fund
EIAJSIA      Environmental/Social Impact Assessment
EIRR         Economic Internal Rate of Return
EU           EuropeanUnion
FAD          FinancialAdministrationDivision (MU)
FMR          FinancialMonitoring Report
GOU          Government ofUganda
HIV          HumanImmunodeficiency Virus
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
IDA          International Development Association
MMIS         Monitoring andManagement InformationSystem
MOFPED       MinistryofFinancePlanningandEconomic Development
MOWHC        MinistryofWorks, HousingandCommunication
MTEF         MediumTermExpenditure Framework
NDF          Nordic Development Fund
NEMA         National Environmental Management Authority
NPV          Net PresentValue
NURP         NorthernUganda Rehabilitation Project
PAD          Project Appraisal Document
PEAP         Poverty EradicationAction Plan
PRSC         PovertyReductionSupport Credit
RA           RoadAuthority
RAFU         RoadAgency FormationUnit
RDP          RoadDevelopment Program
RMI          RoadManagement Initiative
RSDP         Road Sector Development Program
RSISTAP      Road Sector Institutional Support Technical Assistance Project

                                                        FOR0FFICXA.LUSEONLY




                     SA            Special Account
                     SDR           Special Drawing Rights
                     SOE           Statement of Expenditure
                     STD           Sexually Transmitted Disease
                     TA            Technical Assistance
                     TRP           Transport RehabilitationProject
                     TSIREP        Transport Sector InvestmentandRecurrent Expenditure Program
                     TYDRIP        Ten-Year District RoadInvestmentProgram
                     URA           Uganda RevenueAuthority
                     URC           Uganda Railways Corporation
                     UWA           UgandaWildlife Authority
                     voc           Vehicle Operating Cost



                              Vice President:    Callisto E.Madavo
                            Country Director:    Judy M.O'Connor
                             Sector Manager:     Sanjivi Rajasingham
                          Task Team Leader:      StephenBrushett




This document has a restricteddistributionandmay be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.
                                                                              ~


                                               UGANDA
                   THIRD PHASEOF THE ROADDEVELOPMENTPROGRAM


                                               CONTENTS




A. ProgramPurpose andProjectDevelopment Objective                                     Page

   1. Programpurposeandprogramphasing                                                   3
   2. Project development objective                                                     5
   3. Key performance indicators                                                        6

B. Strategic Context

   1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supportedbythe project      6
   2. Main sector issues andGovernment strategy                                         7
   3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                9
   4. Programdescription andperformance triggers for subsequent loans                   10

C. Programand Project Description Summary

   1. Project components                                                                14
   2. Key policy andinstitutional reforms supported by the project                      15
   3. Benefits andtarget population                                                     15
   4. Institutionaland implementation arrangements                                      16

D.Project Rationale

   1. Project alternatives consideredandreasons for rejection                           18
   2. Major relatedprojects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies      19
   3. Lessons learned andreflected inthe project design                                 20
   4. Indications o fborrower andrecipient commitment and ownership                     20
   5. Value added o fBank support inthis project                                        20

E. Summary Project Analysis

   1. Economic                                                                          21
   2. Financial                                                                         23
   3. Technical                                                                         25
   4. Institutional                                                                     25
   5 Environmental                                                                      27
   6. Social                                                                            30
   7. Safeguard Policies                                                                32

F. Sustainability and Risks

  1. Sustainability                                                                     32
  2. Critical risks                                                                     33
  3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     34


G. Main Credit Conditions

  1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            34
  2. Other                                                                              34

H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         34

I.CompliancewithBankPolicies                                                            35



Annexes

Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         36
Annex 2: DetailedProject Description                                                    48
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        57
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary          58
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or FinancialSummary    63
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                                   71
          (B)FinancialManagement andDisbursement Arrangements                           81
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    91
Annex 8: Documents inthe Project File                                                   92
Annex 9: Statement of Loans andCredits                                                  94
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           96
Annex 11: GOU Letter o f Development Policy                                             98
Annex 12: Summaries o f Environmental Impact and Socio-Economic Assessment Reports      108




MAP(S)
IBRD33045

                                                  UGANDA
                         THIRD PHASE OF THE ROAD DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM

                                     ProjectAppraisalDocument
                                            Africa Regional Office
                                                   AFTTR

Date: August 9, 2004                                   Team Leader: StephenJ. Brushett
Sector Managermirector: C. Sanjivi Rajasingham         Sector(s): Roads and highways (100%)
Country Managermirector: Judy M.O'Connor               Theme@): Rural services and infrastructure (P),
Project ID: PO74079                                    Administrative andcivil service reform (S), Infrastructure
LendingInstrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)        services for Private sector development (s), other urban
                                                       development (S)
Program Financing Data
                                                                Estimated
 APL               Indicative FinancingPlan             Implementation Period                  Borrower
                                                                (Bank FY)
             IDA               Others        Total     Commitment        Closing
            US$ m      %        US$ m       US$ m           Date           Date
APL 1       90.98     75.9       28.96       119.94     11/22/1999      1213112004 The Republic of Uganda
   Credit
APL 2       64.52     66.5       32.48        97.00    0411112002      06/30/2006 The Republic of Uganda
   Credit
APL 3       107.60    80.9       25.40       133.00    09/30/2004       12/31/2009 The Republic of Uganda
   Credit
     and
   Grant
APLCredit
    4       26.37     74.2        9.17         35.54    09/30/2005      12/31/2010 The Republic ofUganda

Total      289.47                96.01       385.48
[ ]Loan        [XI Credit     [XI Grant      [ ]Guarantee        [ ]Other:
For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): $67.6 million Credit, $40.0millionGrant

ProposedTerms (IDA): StandardCredit ($67.60 million)

  BorrowerlRecipient: THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
  Responsibleagency: MINISTRY OF WORKS, HOUSING AND COMMUNICATIONSIRAFU
  Ministry ofWorks, HousingandCommunications(MOWHC)
  Address: P.O. Box 10, Entebbe, Uganda
  Contact Person: PermanentSecretary
 ,Tel: 256-41-32010191256-41-232814              Fax: 256-41320135             Email: mowhc@utlonline.co
                                                                                                        I



  OtherAgency(ies):
  RoadAgency FormationUnit(MU)
  Address: P.O. Box 28487, Kampala, Uganda
  Contact Person: Director
  Tel: 256-41-232814               Fax: 256-41-232807            Email: Director@rafu.or.ug




  Project implementation period: 60 months
  Expected effectivenessdate: 09/30/2004 Expectedclosing date: 1213112009
OFCSAR PAD P a m e."md7m




                                                     - 2 -

A. Program Purposeand Project DevelopmentObjective
1. Programpurposeandprogramphasing:
The Program:

The primary purpose o f the Roads Development Program (RDP, the Program) is to improve
access to rural and economically productive areas by removing major constraints to transport
services on the country's road network. The Program also supports actions aimed at further
strengthening o f the road sector management. The Program supports Government o f Uganda's
(GOU) ten-year rolling Road Sector Development Program (RSDP) - originally launched in 1996
and subsequently updated in 2001 - through the rehabilitation o f priority links o f the national
roads network and through upgrading or rehabilitation o f district (feeder) roads in selected
districts. Details o f the RSDP are presented in Annex 2, with the financing arrangements
presented inAnnex 2, Table 1. The program has attracted significant financial support both from
GOU and from the donor community.
The Bank agreed to provide hnding to the program through an Adaptable Program Lending
(APL) instrument. The Board approved an IDA Credit (Cr 3267-UG) of US$90.98 million for
RDP Phase 1 on June 29, 1999 and the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) between
Government and the Association was signed on November 22, 1999. The Credit became effective
on February 1, 2000. Subsequently an IDA Credit of US$64.52 million for RDP Phase 2 (Cr
3544-UG) was approved and the corresponding D C A was signed on August 16,2001. The Credit
for Phase 2 became effective on April 11,2002.

The original estimated RDP cost was US$356.5 million with an expected IDA contribution of
US$269 million. The program was expected to be implemented over the period 1999-2006. As
stated inthe RDP Phase 1documents, the credit amounts and expected start dates for subsequent
phases o f the program were estimates to be firmed up at the time o f the respective appraisals.
This was to take into account: achievement o f the stated triggers for each phase; implementation
progress; financing requirements; and lessons learned during the implementation o f the first two
phases o f the program. As indicated below, there have been a number of modifications to the
scope and timing o f the phases but these have all been consistent with the overarching program
purpose and objectives.

The scope and timing o f components to be implemented under the Phases 3 and 4 o f the RDP
have thus been revised to take account o f GOU's emerging priorities and current policies. The
principal changes agreed by the Bank and GOUare as follows:


         (1)    Introductiono f support to a road safety improvement program into Phase 2.

         (2)    Reordering o f priority roads between Phases 2 and 3, i.e. postponing
Kampala-Gayaza-Zirobwe-Wobulenzi to Phase 3 and bringing forward into Phase 2
Katunguru-Kasese-Fort Portal, Kasese-Kilembe and Equator roads.




                                                - 3 -

       (3)      Bringing forward the pilot project on new materials and the design of the Road
Authority building into Phase 2 under co-financing made available by the Nordic Development
Fund(NDF).

       (4)      Dropping the Kapchorwa - Suam road from Phase 3 when the feasibility study
demonstrated that the project was not economically justified. Replacing this road by the
upgrading the Soroti-Dokolo -Lira roadwhich was found to beeconomically
viable.

       (5)      Transferring the rehabilitation of the Atiak-Moyo road into Phase 3 from another
Bank fundedoperation, the ElNino EmergencyRoadRepair Project (ENERR) supportedby IDA
Credit 3064.


       (6)      Adding the rehabilitation of the Busega-Mityana road to Phase 3 at the request of
GOU in view of the withdrawal of financial support for the road by the Danish International
Development Agency (DANIDA).

The total revised RDP cost is US$385.5 million and the expected IDA contribution is US$289.5
million as shown in Annex 2, Table 2. The program is now expectedto be completed by 2010.
The increase in the expected IDA contribution is all accounted for in Phase 3 of the Program.
The current financing ofUS$107.6 millioncompares to the amqunt of US$86.70 millionexpected
at appraisal of RDP Phase 1. The difference arises from the modificationof the scope of the civil
works program supported by IDA financing and primarily, as noted in (6) above, by IDA
assuming responsibility for financing a road link when the original funding proposed by another
donor had to be withdrawn.

The revised andupdatedprogram phasing as it now stands is as givenbelow.

 Phase 1:          Upgrading of two highest priority national roads, Busunju-Kiboga-
 (RDPP1)           Hoima (143 km) andKanuna-Pakwach-Nebbi-Arua (Section Pakwach
                   to Arua, 130km), including related construction supervision, including
                   those related to district roads OriginallyNovember 1999-June2004.
                   The duration of this phase may have to be extendedto allow more time
                   for the completion of the civil works anddefects liability period.

 Phase 2:           IDA-financed:
 (RDPP2)            Upgrading of national roadsto paved standard:
                    Karuma-Pakwach-Nebbi- Arua Road (Section
                    Karuma-Olwiyo-Pakwach, 108 km) in2 constructionpackages; and
                    strengtheningnational roadsKatunguru-Kasese-Fort Portal,
                    Kasese-Kilembe and Equator Roads, in3 constructionpackages (163
                    km); Consultancyservicesfor Construction Supervision;
                    Implementation of Phase Iof National Road Safety Action Plan (NRSP)
                    includingcapacity building support to the National Road Safety Council



                                                 - 4 -

                    (NRSC) andtraffic police, as well as the improvement o f accident 'black
                    spots'; andPreparation o f a National Transport Master Plan including
                    plans for Greater Kampala metropolitan area; Originally April, 2002 -
                    June 2006. The duration o f this phase will probably have to be
                    extended to July to allow more time for the completion o f civil works
                    andthe respective defects liability periods.

                    NDF-financed:
                    Pilot project for demonstration o fuse o f innovative technologies in
                    constructiono f low-volume traffic roads (Matugga-Semuto-Kapeeka,
                    39 km), including (i) Feasibility Study, (ii) engineering designs,
                                                                 Detailed
                    cost estimates andpreparation o fbiddingdocuments; (iii)     Construction
                    andsupervision; (iv) Performance monitoringduringandafter
                    construction; and (v) Preparation o f designmanuals, specifications and
                    guidelines; andFeasibility Study andDetailed Engineering Designof
                    new RoadAuthority headquarters buildingand construction
                    supervision.

 Phase 3:           UpgradingofNational Roads to PavedStandard:
 (RDPP3)            Kampala-Gayaza-Zirobwe-Wobulenzi (67 km), and
                    Soroti-Dokolo-Lira Road (123 km), and rehabilitationand
                    strengthening o f Busega-Mityana road (57 km) and related
                    constructionsupervision. Detailed Design for upgrading o f district
                    gravel roads to be reclassified as National Roads (about 300 km);
                    feasibility studies and detailed design o f selected roads thereof for about
                    600 kmo f national roads for upgrading; and construction o fnew Road
                    Authority headquarters building. RehabilitatiodRegravellingo f
                    Atiak-Moyo Road (91 km) Estimated September 2004 -December
                    2009; and

 Phase 4:           Rehabilitatiordimprovemento f selected district (feeder) roads (about
 RDPP4)             1,000 km)identified bythe Ten Year District RoadInvestment Program
                    (TYDRIP). Upgrading o fabout 300 kmo freclassified NationalRoads.
                    (September 2005-June 2010)


2. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)

The development objective o f the RoadDevelopment Program, Phase 3 Project (the Project) is to
improve access to rural areas and economically productive areas and to progressively continue to
buildup sustainable road sector planning, design and program management capability including
road safety management. The Project comprises: (i)       upgrading and strengthening o f three high
priority national roads, i.e. Kampala-Gayaza-Zirobwe-Wobulenzi; Soroti-Dokolo-Lira; and
Busega-Mityana; (ii)detailed design o f the upgrading o f about 300 km o f District Roads
reclassified to the National Road Standard; (iii)  consultancies for feasibility studies o f upgrading



                                                 - 5 -

to bitumen standard about 600 km o f priority national roads (iv) rehabilitatiodregravelling o f the
Atiak-Moyo road; (v) construction o f a proposed Road Authority headquarters building; and (vi)
Institutional support to the establishment o f the Road Authority, including the provision o f
external auditing services. These Project objectives complement the objectives o f the Phase 1and
2 projects inmeetingthe overall objectives o f the Program.

3. Key performanceindicators: (see Annex 1)

The key performance indicators include: increased industrial and agricultural activity; increased
traffic growth; reduced travel time; and reduced transport rates and vehicle operating costs over
the national road network. Improvement and integration o f the national road network under the
Program is subject to an appraisal process aimed at evaluating its technical feasibility and
economic viability, as well as at learning from previous phases. Trigger indicators have been
presented inAttachment 2 o f Annex 1that provide an assessment o f readiness for implementation
o f subsequent phases, early identificationo frisks, and implementationo f corrective measures.

B. Strategic Context
1.Sector-related CountryAssistance Strategy (CAS) goalsupportedbythe project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: IDA/R2000-187 (IFCR2000-202)           Date of latest CAS discussion: 11/16/2000

The Four Phase Roads APL is consistent with and was envisaged inthe Bank Group's CAS
discussed by the Executive Directors inNovember 16,2000. A primary objective o f IDA%
assistance strategy to Uganda i s to reduce poverty, through a medium-termstrategy focused on
private investment-led growth and export diversification. Lowering transport costs, and
improving reliability of accessto infrastructure, i s assumed inthe CAS as a key element to
facilitate business development andto support poverty reduction. Regionally targeted public
investment, mainly inthe North, is also considered as a key element inIDA'Sstrategy. Currently,
the Bank andother development partners arepreparing anew, result orientedjoint Assistance
Strategy, which will clearly spell out outputs leading to poverty reduction ina measurable fashion.



The emphasis inassistance will increasingly shift to the sector level andcross-cutting public sector
management issues. Effectively addressing these issues and facilitating economic transformation
calls for broadening o f the decision-making process to involve all key stakeholders, particularly
the sector ministries, local governments and civil society. It also calls for a change inthe Bank's
lendingmodalities. This would entail moving away from the traditional combination of adjustment
operations with discrete investment projects, to supporting a comprehensive reform program
through the government's budget, via a series o f PRSCs. The first PRSC Credit (PRSC 1) was
approved by the Board on May 30,2001. PRSC4 will go to the Board inearly FY05. Inaddition
to PRSCs, the Bank would also continue supporting some self-standing projects, for example in
capacity buildingandinfrastructure development.

The RSDP is a critical element o f GOU's overarching strategy for poverty reduction. RSDP
nonetheless requires regular, susbstantial infusions o f capital support for infrastructure
improvement and maintenance. IDA resources in support o f RDP P3 are to be provided as a
blend o f grant and credit to ensure that these financing requirements can be met commensurate



                                                  - 6 -

with the borrowing capacity o f GOU and with acceptable progress towards debt sustainability.
The current CAS was prepared prior to the introduction o f IDA grants in September 2002 - the
allocation o f the use o f grants will be covered inthe next CAS. RDP P3 was selected to receive
IDA grant financing inview of the complementarity of the RSDP goals with those of the PRSC;
andthe specific contributionof infrastructure improvements under RDP P3 to increasedmobility
and access to services andmarkets o f the rural poor.

2. Mainsector issues and Government strategy:

The Bank prepared a Transport Sector Memorandum in February 1991 (Report No 9346-UG).
The main conclusions and actions recommended were: (i)         strengthen investment planning and
program prioritization across the various transport modes; (ii)   maximize the role o f the private
sector in transport activities; (iii)undertake a balanced program o f road rehabilitation and
maintenance; (iv) prepare a strategy for air transport development; (v) undertake a commercial
strategy for the Uganda Railways Corporation (URC); and (vi) develop the local construction
industry. Many o f these recommendations have been followed under the ongoing IDA-financed
TRP. In addition, IDA assisted GOU in the preparation o f its 1992 Rural District Roads
Rehabilitation and Maintenance Strategy document, which formed the basis for Government and
donor assisted district roadprograms included inthe TRP.

Implementation o f the TRP has laid the groundwork for the subsequent development and
implementation o f the Program inparticular through: (i)     selection and prioritization o f transport
sector investments and recurrent expenditures within the framework o f the Government's rolling
three-year Transport Sector Investment and Recurrent Expenditure Program (TSIREP); (ii)
contracting out of road construction, rehabilitation, and maintenance works for both national and
district roads; and (iii)  development o f a national road maintenance program, with Government
contributions for example rising to US$32 million in FY2000/01 from US$15 million in
FY1996/97. Inaddition TRP helped in:(a) the establishment o f a Civil Aviation Authority (CAA)
carrying the responsibility for oversight o f the aviation sector; and (c) signing o f a Performance
Contract between URC and the Government. URC i s presently in the preparatory privatization
phase andboth local and foreign companies have shown interest inprivatization. The consultant in
this process has prepared a due diligence document which is at present in the legal preparation
stage. This will then be adapted so as to enable transfer o f URCto the private sector.

In the roads sector, areas where progress is continuing are: (i)establishment of the Road
Authority to further enhance road sector program management and project implementation
capabilities; (ii)exploring alternative financing sources andto ensure sustainable financing for the
expanded road program; and (iii)       ensuring comprehensive coverage of district road needs and
improving the management and financing o f district roads maintenance for a sustainable road
condition.

A major restructuring effort has also been initiated in the road sector - with support o f IDA
through RSISTAP. This process has contributed to the creation o f the Road Agency Formation
Unit(RAFU)as atransitional step towards the establishment ofanautonomous andcommercially
oriented Road Authority. This will bring the benefits o f commercialization o f services by



                                                   - 7 -

providing a comprehensive network management (including maintenance) capability and the
ability to recruit professional staff on appropriate terms and conditions. The establishment o f
RAFUis continuing to show positive results and expected improvements to Government's road
project management capabilities have become evident, thus maintaining conditions required for
the effective implementation o f RDPP3. A related aspect o f this reform process i s the conversion
o f the Ministry o f Works, Housing and Communications (MOWHC) into an oversight body
focusing on policy formulation, regulationandon multimodal transport strategic planning.

GOU reiteratedits commitment to these reforms inthe road sub-sector at the Roads Conference
in April 2002 in Kampala. High level assurances were given to stakeholders and development
partners o f the GOU's continuing support for constantly increasing expenditures on road
maintenance over the medium term covered by the TSIREP and consistent with the MediumTerm
Expenditure Framework (MTEF). The Government targets to assume full responsibility for all
road maintenance by 2010/11 on latest projections. Up to 2002/2003 GOU has assured adequate
budgetary resources for road development and maintenance.           However, the impact o f the
expanding road development program on the limited resources base will need to be carefully
monitored in view of a cut back in allocations in 2003/2004 which is expected to be carried
forward into 2004/2005. More active consideration o f sources of financing alternatives to the
GOU budget must now be explored. As part o f this process and in line with the April 2002
decision to favor performance based maintenance management, GOUhas started discussions with
the Bank on a performance-based maintenance contracting pilot project in Eastern Uganda for
which external funding from IDA will be sought.

GOUhas recently completed consultancy studies to review the strategy for the Transport Sector,
and prepared in March 2002 a Final Draft White Paper on Sustainable Maintenance o f District,
Urban and Community Access Roads. Under RSISTAP, two major studies have been established
to (i) upgrade about 300 km o f District Roads to National Road Standards, and (ii)      establish a
Ten Year District Road Investment Program. This has created the necessary background for
interventions under the Program and under PRSC4 and subsequent tranches to start to address
the under provision o f district road services. The next stage is to undertake a review o f the
institutional requirements to ensure the timely and effective implementation o f district road
interventions and to ensure asset preservation.

The evolving institutional arrangements for the road sector provide for a progressive
improvement inthe scope o f monitoring and evaluation activities under the program. Under RDP
P3, it is anticipated that financial monitoring reports (FMR) will be prepared on a quarterly basis.
These reports will enable specific physical outputs under RDP P3 - and subsequent phases - to be
tracked inrelation to procurement by contract and input o f financial resources. The basic formats
were defined at negotiations and are in the process o f finalization for adoption not later than
effectiveness. The formats will specifically distinguish the IDA contributions whether by grant or
by credit so that the impact on output on the provision o f these resources can be monitored. The
grant element o f IDA support to RDP P3 i s explicitly allocated to specific components o f the
project - as set out in Section C and inAnnex 2. Under these components, the grant element will
fund specific civilworks andconsultancy contracts which will eachhave defineddeliverables.




                                                 - 8 -

3. Sector issuesto be addressed by the project and strategic choices:

RDPP3 will address all three o f the sector issues in the roads sub sector. The strategic choices
shownbelow have been discussed and agreed with the GOUduringthe design o fthe Program and
have beenreconfirmedduringappraisal o f the RDPP3 inFebruary 2004.

(i)Roadsector institutional arrangements. The creation ofaneffective RoadAuthority isbeing
pursuedfollowing the results of the recently completedUgandaRoadAgency Study, covering the
statutory, legal and regulatory framework required for its establishment and operation. Principles
underlying the eventual legislation are expected to be presented for Cabinet adoption in 2004.
Legislation should be introduced before the end o f 2004 to create the authority, support to which
will be tendered through one component o f the Project. The Road Authority is expected to be
operational and fully staffed by end 2005. These steps and the necessary actions to restructure
the role o f MOWHC are reflected inthe updated letter o f sector development policy, the draft o f
which was submitted as a condition on negotiations for RDPP3 and the final version agreed prior
to proceeding to Boardpresentation.

(ii) Adequate domestic funding for roads.       A Road Management and Financing Study was
undertaken to assess the funding arrangements for the road sector and for the operation o f the
Road Authority. GOU rejected the proposed option o f puttinginto place a road fund supported
byuser charges andrelated revenues - instead undertakingto continueto fundthe road sub-sector
through the enhanced budgetary process.         The adequacy o f domestic funding - and the
identification o f any alternative sources that may be needed in future to supplement budgetary
support - will continue to be reviewed by GOU and the Bank on an annual basis through the
preparation and agreement on the three year rolling TSIREP to be adopted before each
succeeding fiscal year.    Following this, the TSIREP for 2004/2005 to 2006/2007 had to be
submitted as a condition o f negotiations for RDPP3 and had to be agreed prior to proceeding to
Boardpresentation.

(iii) Appropriate management and financing for district roads. As part o f its decentralization
strategy, the GOU has recently initiated a program o f directly allocating central revenues to
sub-national levels o f Government for rural infrastructure, including district roads, through
conditional grants. Through their local representatives, beneficiaries are thus called upon to play a
more important role than hitherto inselecting expenditure. This is inline with the final draft of the
white paper on" Sustainable Maintenance o f District, Urban and Community Access Roads".
G O U is now expected to adopt the white paper as a Cabinet policy document to provide the
framework for the implementation on the investment programs for these roads as well as the
various measures to strengthen institutional capacity.       IDA support will however mostly be
tendered through the PRSCs as well as RDPP4.




                                                - 9 -

4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans:
The Program, through rehabilitation, strengthening and upgrading of the national trunk rQad
network, benefits the country's economy and supportsthe major institutional reforms inthe sector
relatedto commercialization of the managementandprocurement functions ofthe implementation
agency (MOWHC) and the sustainable secured budgeted financing. The implementation of the
Program's four phases is based on the measured progress of these reforms and on the state of
readiness of the technical documentation for plannedphysical investments.The Program supports
a total of 91km of national road rehabilitation; 163km of national road strengthening and 630km
of national road upgrading, plus 1,300km of development and rehabilitation of district roads. In
addition, the Program has helped prepare sectoral work in the fields of road management and
financing  (national, district and urban roads), environmental and social impact assessment and
mitigation, and roadsafety.




                                                -10-

The Trigger Indicators have been developed for each of the Phases and their assessment and
evaluation for the Phase3, is describedbelow:


 Assessing Project Strategy rrigger Indicators             vleansofVerification
 andInstitutionalBuilding
 Experience from previous        M Ukeypersonnel in        3i-monthly evaluation
 Phases indicates that the       )lace and effectively     eports made available to
 project's institutional         iandlingthe              illparticipatingdonorsin
 arrangements reflect            .mplementationprocess.    CSDP.
 effective decentralized
 decision-making, buildlocal
 responsibility and              4dministrative            3ovemment prepared PIP
 accountability, and             irrangements permit       'or Phase 3 detailing
 implement aneffective           :ffective andtimely       ilannedand actual
 monitoring and evaluation       approval and              ichievements inpreceding
 system.                         implementation.           Jhases.

                                 The monitoring and        FADestablished and
                                 evaluation system permits Financialmanagement
                                 follow-up o f project     Informationtechnology
                                 implementation and        requirements function
                                 assessment of project     satisfactorily.
                                 objectives achievement.
                                                           Quarterly/Annual Cash
                                                           Flow Forecastprepared by
                                                           start o f Phase 2, and
                                                           tmdated for Phase 3.


 Overall strategy for the        Sub-projects meet         Base line established for
 transport sector and for        economic, social, and     voc.
 feeder roads identified         environmental eligibility
                                 criteria. Evidence o f
                                 adequate implementation
                                 o f environmental
                                 mitigationmeasures
                                  designed inPhase 2

                                  Designdocumentation      Detailed Designsand
                                  preparedand contract     biddingdocuments
                                  documents ready for      accepted by IDA. The
                                  bidding.                 document incorporate
                                                           requiredenvironmental
                                                           mitigationmeasures.




                                                 -11 -

                                                             Pre-qualificationo f
                                                             contractors and
                                                             short-listing o f consultants
                                                             completed.

                                                              Studies for updating of
                                                             transport sector and feeder
                                                             road strategies and
                                                             financing accepted by GOU
                                                             and IDA.
 Government strictly adheres      TSIREP for 3-year rolling TSIREPupdated every
 to providing the financial       periods adequately cover   year inNovember and
 requirements for road            sector requirements.        accepted by IDA.
 rehabilitation and
 maintenance projects under                                   Performance audits o f
 the TSIREP.                                                  maintenance budgeted
                                                              resources including physical
                                                              road condition to be carried
                                                              out by independent
                                                              consultants.
                                                              Procurement evaluation
                                                              reports continue to be
                                                              professionallyprepared on
                                                              schedule.


Evaluation of the Triggers Indicators for moving to Phase3

The following represents the assessment o f actions taken with regard to the above triggers in
establishing the readiness o f the Phase 3 project for implementation.

1.    Institutional & Administrative Arrangements

1.1     The RSDP recognized the need to address the limited MOWHC implementation and
coordination capacity and supported the idea of institutional reforms inorder to better coordinate,
manage and implement the 10-year plan. The most significant re-organisation so far has been the
creation o f the semi-autonomous, professionally managed performance based RAFU set up with
the aim o f managing the national road improvement program. RAFU, which was established in
1998, is a transitional arrangement leading to the future establishment o f a fully fledged road
authority. It i s stated Government policy - since 2002 - that RAFU will take on board the
management o fmaintenance which will be transferred from MOWHC.

1.2     RAFUhas so far beensuccessful through improvedquality ofoutputs andby substantially
shortening the time taken for procurement o f major civil works. R4FU now manages the full
national development program, including all activities funded by IDA and other external donors.



                                                - 12-

Further improvements canbe expected as staffing is increased andexperience i s enhanced. Sector
management capability has been increased as a result. A major challenge will be absorbing the
transfer o f the maintenance function from MOWHC and to this end a new department is being
created with a department head to report to the RAFUDirector.

1.3      The Finance and Administration Division (FAD) o f RAFU has been established to take
responsibility for Project financial management. FAD's financial management system has been
developed inaccordance with the FinancialManagement Action Plan that was preparedjointly by
the Government and the World Bank during RDP Phase 1. The Financial Management System
(including quarterly reporting and cash flow management) is functioning satisfactorily and the
technology requirements to support the same are inplace.

1.4      A well-documented Financial Management Manual has been developed for the Program.
The Manual outlines internal control procedures as well as financial reporting arrangements
(interim andfinal) to Government andthe Bank.The Accounting Systembased on a conventional
accounting package i s operational. Interim and Final reports and Cash Flow Forecasts are
prepared and a Fixed Assets Register is maintained. In addition, the composition and terms o f
reference o f the Financial Management Sub-committee (FMSC) have been finalized andmembers
appointed. This is inline with the Action Plan agreed by IDA duringPhase 1appraisal.

1.5      External auditors have been selected. The audits for all IDA funded programs as well as
those supported from other sources are up to date.

1.6      Bi-monthly evaluation reports have been made available to all participating donors in
RSDP through the Coordination Unit in MOFPED. The Coordination Unit has assumed its
functions as the Secretariat o f the RSDP Steering Committee, monitoring and evaluating the
RSDP as well as reviewing and updating the Program. The Steering Committee overseeing the
work of the office i s chaired by the Permanent Secretary o f Finance. Following a review o f the
Unit,carried out by a consultant inDecember 2001,the Unithas beenstrengthenedbyrecruiting
its full complement o f staff.

 1.7     A PIP for Phase 3 has been prepared by RAFUand was submitted to IDA as a condition
for negotiations.

2.    Project Preparation and Sector Studies

2.1.     All the studies for updating o f transport sector and district (feeder) road strategies and
financing have been completed with one exception. These studies have been accepted by GOU
andthe Bank. Preparation o fthe outstanding National Transport Master Plan(TMP) study is well
advanced and should be completed by July 2004. Through these studies, the GOU has been able
to carry out major sectorial analytical work including safeguards for transport e.g dealing with
National Road Safety, the development o f a national transport master plan, national guidelines for
resettlement and social impacts of transport sector development.      Studies dealing with network
and road management and financing have made a contribution to the development o f the draft
legislation for the Road Authority, particularly in respect o f the Authority's role in network



                                                -13-

maintenance. Other studies have supportedthe development of a government policy document on
management of the district and urban road network. Ten year rolling investment plans and
programs have been developedfor all roads.

2.2      Detailed designs and bidding documents incorporating environmental mitigation measures
and RAP for Kampala-Gayaza-Wobulenzi-Zirobwe and Atiak-Moyo road projects have been
completed and approvedby the Bank. Similar documents for the Soroti-Dokolo-Lira roadproject
are inthe final stage of preparationandwere to be completed by the end of March2004 andto be
submitted as a condition for the credit negotiations. Regarding Busega - Mityana road the
documents are being preparedandwill be completedby end 2004, whilst construction of the road
i s scheduled to commence not earlier than January 2006. The documents for construction of the
Road Authority Headquarters are being prepared and construction is scheduledto commence in
the first quarter of 2006.

2.3      Baseline VOCs for all roads includedinthe project have been establishedandverified and
havebeen usedinthe evaluation of economic viability of the roadcomponentsof the project.

3.    ProgramBudgetingandMaintenancePerformanceAudits

3.1.     The TSIREP for 2003/04-2005/06 was issued inSeptember 2003 to reflect the budget for
FY2003/04. The TSIREP for 2004/2005-2006/2007 was preparedinMarch 2004 and inadvance
o f credit negotiations in order to demonstrate the impact of the most recent budgetary shortfalls
on the availability of sector funding, inter alia for RDPP3, including the specific budget provision
for roads in2004/2006.

3.2.     Performance audits o f budgeted resources for the maintenance of the national road
rehabilitation program, including physical road conditions, have been carried out on a regular
basis, by independent consultants appointed by GOU and funded by DANIDA. GOU and all
donors at the Steering Committee meeting for RSDP have agreed the TOR for the assignment.
The most recentreport submittedby the consultantscovers the financial years 2001/02 -2002/03.

C. Programand Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description andAnnex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown):
Annex 2, Table 1 provides detailed RSDP description and cost and Annex 2, Table 2 the Program
description and cost. Through a blend of grant (US$40 million equivalent) and of credit (US$67.60 million
equivalent), IDA will cover a portion of the required financing for civil works and consultancy services.
The IDA grant component is generally allocated to those components which are expected to disburse
earliest.  For civil works and the associated supervision consultancy services, this will be for the
Kampala-Gayaza-Zirobwe-Wobulenziroad and for the Atiak-Moyo road, a total o f US$35.8 million
equivalent or 27% o f total project cost. For capacity buildingsupport, this will be for institutional support
and establishment of the road authority and for the design of the upgrading of about 300 km of district
roads and their reclassification as nationalroads, a total o f US$4.2 million or 3% of total project cost.




                                                    - 1 4 -

                                                              lndicative          Bank-
                          Component                             costs    YOof   financing
                                                               (US$M)    Total   (US$M)
  ~
  Kampala-Gayaza-Zirobwe-Wobulenzi,Civil Works                   31.18     23.4    24.94       23.2
  Atiak-Moyo, Civil Works                                        10.88      8.2     8.70        8.1
   Soroti-Dokolo-Lira, Civil Works                               47.00     35.3    37.60       34.9
   Busega-Mityana,Civil Works                                    24.30     18.3    19.44        18.1
   RoadAuthority Offices, Civil Works                             7.50      5.6     6.00        5.6
   Supervisionconsultancy servicesfor roads (Kampala, AtiaE       5.44      4.1     4.89        4.5
   Soroti andBusega)
   Detaileddesign ofupgradingof 300km from district (gravel       1.60      1.2     1.44         1.3
  to national(bitumen)
   Feasibility anddesign consultancy services for 600km           2.00      1.5     1.80         1.7
  upgradingof nationalroadsto bitumen
   Consultancyservices institutional supportto RAFUkoad           3.10      2.3     2.79        2.6
   Authority
                                           Total Project Costs  133.00    100.0   107.60   I   100.0
                                   Total Financing Reauired     133.OO    100.0   107.60   1   100.0

2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The main sector policy reforms under the Project are aimed at building on those supported under
RSISTAP andRDPP1and RDPP2 including:


0    improving road sector management through the establishment o f a sustainable and effective
     implementationandprocurement capability initially developed inR4FUand later inthe Road
     Authority;
0    ensuring sustainability o f funding for roadimprovements andmaintenance;
0    increasing the effectiveness andinvolvement o fprivate contractors inroadworks through
     strengtheningproject management andcontract administration;
0    improving the environmental andtraffic safety management o f the roadnetwork; and
0    enhancing the planningo f districufeeder roads development, maintenance and financing.

3. Benefitsand target population:

The road paving and strengthening works will lead to substantial savings invehicle operating and
infrastructure maintenance costs, as well as reductions intravel time and transport costs for road
users in the rural population. Since the identified subprojects are part o f a comprehensive
countrywide investment strategy for road development, they will contribute to fostering economic
growth and poverty reduction through improvements in market integration and accessibility.
These anticipated impacts are consistent with the objective o f strengthening economic
infrastructure, which has been identified in the CAS as a key element in GOU's growth and
poverty eradication strategy. The national roads selected for inclusion in the Program have all
been subjected to standard economic analyses carried out on all components proposed for
inclusioninthe RSDP (summary results are given inAnnex 4).



                                                    - 15-

The components covering the construction o f a Headquarters for the Road Authority and
Institutional Support to the Establishment o f the Road Authority are directly targeted at assisting
the rationalization o f road sector management, thus addressing the pressing need for improvement
o f public sector implementation capacity. This activity builds upon the institutional restructuring
already started under RSISTAP. By identifying activities which can better be performed by the
private sector (project management and execution), and target capacity buildinginitiatives for the
activities which will continue to be discharged by the state (road safety, environmental protection,
budget management), these components would contribute to the Government's civil service
reform program. These objectives have also been identified inthe CAS as a central element to be
pursued incapacity buildingefforts.

4. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements:
RAFUunder MOWHC will be responsible for the overall implementation of the project - until
such time as the road authority is in a position to take over. RAFUhas been the implementing
agency for four IDA financedprojects to date inaddition to other donor financedprojects.

Duringproject execution RAFUwill coordinate project implementationandmanage:


(a)      procurement, including purchases o f goods, works, and consulting services,
(b)      project monitoring, reporting and evaluation;
(c)      contractual relationships with IDA and other co-financiers; and
(d)      financial management andrecordkeeping, accounts and disbursements.

RAFUwill ensure efficient coordinationamong different elements ofMOWHC that participate in
the project and with other main stakeholders, including, but not limited, to National
Environmental Management Authority (NEMA), participating Ministries andagencies. RAFUwill
also constitute the operational link to the IDA and other co-financiers on matters related to the
implementation o f the project.

The Permanent Secretary (PS), MOWHC, will be the "Accounting Officer" (to be assumedby the
Chief Executive Officer o f the road authority when established) for the project, assuming the
overall responsibility for accounting for the project funds.

The financial management arrangements used for RDPP 3 will be based on those for the other
IDA financed projects.

The flow of funds arrangements are as follows:

The following bank accounts will be maintainedfor the purposes o f implementing the project:
e    Special Account : Two accounts denominated inU S dollars will be opened respectively for
     disbursements from the IDA Credit and for disbursements from the IDA Grant.
0    Project Account: This will be denominated inlocal currency. Counterpart funds andtransfers
     from the Special Accounts (for payment o f transactions inlocal currency) will be deposited on
     this account inaccordance with project objectives.


                                                - 16-

These bank accounts shall be opened at a commercialbank acceptable to IDA by effectiveness
date. Initial cash flow forecasts uponwhich the advance disbursement will be made from the IDA
Credit and Grant should also be prepared by the same date. The account signatories are
documented inthe FMM.

Fundsflow arrangements for the project (through the two bankaccounts above) are as follows:

0   IDAwill makeaninitial advance disbursement from the proceeds ofthe Credit and ofthe
    Grant by depositing into Borrower-operated Special Accounts (SA) held at a commercial
    bank acceptable to IDA and denominated inU S Dollars.
0   Actual expenditure will be reimbursed through submission o fWithdrawal Applications and
    against Statements of Expenditure which will be approved inaccordance with internal control
    measures applied inRAFU.
0   While the activities are implemented inthe field, the payments will be done centrally from the
    RAFUofice inKampala.

Initial and subsequent quarterly deposits o f counterpart funds and transfers from the SA (for
payment o f transactions inlocal currency) will be deposited inthe Project Account inaccordance
with project objectives and to be agreed at negotiations. The Government will allocate and pay
over counterpart funds for the project by cheque (warrant o f funds).          Counterpart funds are
allocated through the normal central government budgetary process. Counterpart funds i s
accessedthrough compliance with the country specific Financial Regulations.

The project financial management i s strengthenedby the following salient features:-

*   The accounting personnel are adequately qualified and experienced. The project i s a follow-on
    project to RDPP1 and RDPP2 andthe staff o f this project are beingretained. These staff are
    conversant with the World Bank FinancialManagement andDisbursement Guidelines;

    RAFUisusingPastelAccounting software whichcanproducethe FinancialMonitoring
    Reports; and

    There is an adequate Financial Management Manual that is already inplace.

The project financial management i s weakenedby the following salient features:

    The project is subject to statutory internal audit regulations through which the internal audit
    function is providedby the MOWHC. However, the performance o fthis function is only
    limited to the pre-audit inspection o f the project's transactions, andno internal audit reviews
    are undertaken to ensure, for instance, that internal control guidelines are complied with.
    However, it i s envisaged that this shall be sorted out once the road authority is established and
    an internal audit function can be created.




                                                  -17-

    RAFUis not a legalentity.Thisslows downsomewhat the efficiency ofimplementingthe
    projects; and

    There i s need to improve on the linkages between physical progress and financial outcomes.

D. Project Rationale
1. Projectalternativesconsidered and reasonsfor rejection:
No alternatives were considered for the Project. The Project is the Phase 3 o f a Program. The
triggers for moving into Phase 3 have been met as demonstrated elsewhere. Some changes have
been incorporated into the design o f Phase 3 at appraisal compared to what had originally been
anticipated - inresponse to emerging opportunities and to GOUpriorities andpolicies.
Consideration was given to combining Phases 3 and 4 inorder to advance implementationo f the
Program. This option was however rejected giventhat the principal elements o f Phase 4
concerning support to the district, urban andcommunity roadnetworks are still under preparation
andgiventhat policy framework andimplementationarrangements are not finally agreed.
Combining the two phases would thus risk delaying, rather than accelerating the Program.




                                                -18-

2. Major related projects financed by the Bank andor other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).




                                                                               Implementation    Development
Bank-financed                                                                   Progress(IP)    Objective (DO)

Nationalroads strengthening and              Fourth Highway                          S                 S
improvement
Roadrehabilitation, maintenanceand           Transport Rehabilitation (TRP)          S                 S
strengtheningof district feeder road
maintenancecapacity, andprivate
contractor development
Institutionbuilding                          RSISTAP                                 S
Nationalroads improvements and               RDPP1 and RDPP2                         S
sector institutional reform
Emergency restoration of damaged             ElNino Emergency Road                   S
roads and bridges                            Repair (restructured)



3ther development agencies
EU
                                             StrengtheningNorthern
                                             Corridor
                                             KampalaNorthern Bypass
                                             Jinja-Bugiri
                                             Kagamba-Rukungiri
                                             Malaba-Broadcast
                                             Ntungamo-Kagamba

AfDB                                         Central'Uganda maintenance
                                             and regravelling

Nordic Development Fund                      RDPP2 -
                                             Pilot Study, Designof Road
                                             Agency Offices
PlDO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory),S Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory),t    (Highly Unsati: ICtOry)
Note:   Inthe PAD for Phase 2, the ElNino Emergency RoadRepair credit reflectedUnsatisfactory ratingmainly
        due to lack o f capacity and expertise within MOWHC establishment (not including RAFU) and a new tax
        law, which complicated and delayed contract awards. However, during 2002, the contract for the repair of
        damaged bridges across the country was tendered and awarded and due to close supervision by RAFUis
        nearing completion with an additional structure constructed within the contract amount.




                                                      - 19-

3. Lessonslearnedandreflectedinthe project design:
Experience from past projects inUgandaindicates that the main risk has been the limited capacity
o f the implementation agency, in particular the ability o f the agency to effectively address
problems related to contract management, contract administration, and financial and technical
monitoring. There have been substantial delays in the processing and awarding o f contracts,
leading to substantially higher costs at the initial stages o f commencement and to delayed
completion. The lessons from the modest success o f technical assistance provided to develop the
implementation andplanning capacity o f MOWHC is that major policy changes need to be carried
out prior to undertakingmajor investment programs, andneed full commitment by Government to
ensure success.

Major institutional and policy changes, including reorganization and institutional strengthening o f
road administration, as well as changes in the decision-making process, have therefore been
undertaken by the Government. These include the creation o f RAFU, designed to form the
nucleus o f a future Ugandan Road Authority, the size and scope o f which i s presently being
formulated by the GOU on the basis o f the recently completed RoadAgency Study.

Other lessons are that inadequate engineering design and weak documentation resulted in
implementation delays and cost overruns. Steps have been taken during the implementation o f
Program Phases 1 and 2 to ensure the readiness and availability o f completed contract
documentation before commencement o f works. These steps include, inter alia, recruitment by
RAFU of the proper skills mix of professional staff with the ability to oversee the work of the
various consultants preparing the designs. The latter is inprogress under the RSISTAP.

4. Indicationsof borrower andrecipientcommitmentandownership

Three main factors are indicative o f the Borrower's commitment to the Program. First, GOU
considers the availability o f basic road infrastructure as a key strategic element in the
implementation o f Uganda's economic program. Second, the MOFPED has consistently allocated
the agreed resources for road maintenance since 1993/94, showing its commitment to the
sustainability o f the proposed investments. Third, it is the Government's decision to initiate a
major sector restructuring including the road sector institutions.       Policy commitments are
enshrined in a periodically updated letter o f sector development policy submitted in March 2004.
Financial commitments are reflectedinthe three year rolling TSIREP latest version.

5. Value addedof Banksupportinthis project:

An important source of value added by Bank support is its comparative worldwide experience in
the preparation and implementation o f major capital expenditure programs. GOU as well as the
donor community active in Uganda has acknowledged and recognized the Bank's leadership role
during preparation of the RSDP. The Bank also benefits from the experience gained in
implementing comprehensive road sector development programs in conjunction with institutional
reforms in African countries such as Ethiopia, Mozambique, Tanzania and Zambia. Another
 source o f advantage is the Bank's experience inroad sector reform in the Region gained over the
last ten years through its leadership o f the Road Management Initiative (MI),      a donor-funded
program under the SubSahara Africa Transport Policy Program (SSATP) to support policy


                                                - 20 -

formulation and implementation for road management and financing. T h s has provided the Bank
with the goodwill of beneficiaries and donors in creating a cooperative framework where sector
reforms have gradually been shaped, implemented andmonitored.

The Bank has responded to the Government's request by flexibly targeting, and quickly delivering,
its array of financing instruments in support o f a credible assistance strategy, emphasizing sector
and institutional reform prior to the commitment o f resources to finance physical components.
The APL instrument is also providing great flexibility inadapting project design and financing to
client needs as they evolve, as evidenced by the redesign o f the Phase 2 and 3 project components
and the inclusion o f NDF-financed components during Phase 2. The Bank's participation thus
provides for continuity in the implementation o f the long-term national program. In addition, in
support o f the work carried out by the professional services employed by GOU on the Program,
the Bank continues to make critical interventions regarding quality assurance inthe procurement
andtechnical fields.

E. Summary ProjectAnalysis (Detailed assessments are inthe projectfile, see Annex 8)
1. Economic(see Annex 4):
0 Costbenefit        NPV=US$60 million; ERR= 18 to 28 % (see Annex 4)
0 Costeffectiveness
0 Other(specify)

Road investments under the proposed Program are part o f the RSDP. The RSDP reflects
investmentrequirements and economic priorities, andrespects macroeconomic constraints such as
overall spending ceilings, inflows o f foreign assistance and domestic counterpart funding. Overall,
the road expenditure program is balanced, and adequate priority is given to the selective
upgrading o f roads to paved standards, rehabilitation, and maintenance o f existing national roads,
as well as district road development. Investments to be undertaken under the RSDP must yield an
EIRRinexcess o f 12%, the value assumedfor the opportunity cost ofcapital inUganda.

Investments in three o f the four roads included in Phase 3 o f the proposed Program have been
subject to specific cost-benefit analyses during appraisal. For the Busega to Mityana road an
initial analysis, which clearly confirms the economic viability, has been carried out (this project
will be implementedduring the second year o f Phase 3). The benefit streams essentially comprise
the savings in vehicle operating costs and travel time accruing to road users through
improvements in road condition. The cost streams comprise the costs to the road agency arising
from the proposed investments, net o f any incremental maintenance cost savings. Inorder to carry
out the analyses, traffic projections for various categories o f vehicles were prepared, based on
base-line traffic counts carried out at the time o f study and on Government's GDP andpopulation
growth projections. The interaction between traffic, road condition, and vehicle operating costs
through time was then modeled using the Bank-developed Highway Design and Maintenance
Model (HDM).

The four roads were for purposes o f analysis split into homogeneous sections in order to reflect
varying road conditions and other physical characteristics along their routes, as well as different
traffic levels and composition. Several investment and maintenance alternatives were generated



                                                 -21  -

and evaluated for each road section, and the one yielding the highest NPV (at a 12% discount
rate) was selected in each case. As a result, the investments proposed under Phase 3 o f the
proposed Program are estimated to yield a consolidated NPV o f about US$ 60 million, with each
yielding an EIRR above 12%. Each of the road sections was subject to sensitivity analysis in
regardto assumptions conceming the benefit and cost streams. An additional riskto the assumed
benefits - which has not been quantified - i s continued instability inthe north and east o f Uganda
whichmay be expectedto reduce traffic level andeconomic activity. This situation may impact in
particular on the Atiak-Moyo and Soroti-Dokolo-Lira roads.

The Kampala-Gayaza-Zirobwe-Wobulenzi roadwas characterized by an overall EIRRo f 22.3 %.
All sections showed positive economic criteria with the exception of the Zirobwe-Wobulenzi
section which was characterized by a base case estimate for the EIRR o f 10.8 %.Under sensitivity
assumptions o f respective increases and decreases o f 20 % in construction cost and traffic, the
first four sections o f the road to Kiwenda remain viable with all EIRRs in excess o f 12 %. The
Kiwenda-Zirobwe shows an economic return lower than the threshold, however, andthe retum o f
Zirobwe-Wobulenzi decreases to 8.5%. Upgrading o f this latter section i s still recommended in
view o f the anticipated external benefits accruing to traffic on linked roads not captured in the
analysis made - due to the improved interconnection between Kampala-Luwero and
Kampala-Zirobwe-Kikywa roads.

The feasibility study for Soroti-Dokolo-Lira concluded that the option o f upgrading o f the road
on its existing alignment should be adopted.         This option offers an EIRR well above the
opportunity cost o f capital, 22.2% for the section o f the road between Soroti-Dokolo and 21.0%
for Dokolo - Lira. The NPVs for the two sections are US$ 9.9 million and US$10.2 million
respectively. Tests for the sensitivity o f the appraisal results to changes in assumptions on levels
o f costs and benefits indicate that this is a robust investment, with increases in investment costs
and reductions inbenefits o f 20% resulting in economic returns that are still above the threshold
level.

The analysis of the feasibility o f rehabilitating/regravelling the Atiak - Moyo Road indicates a
positive NPV o f US$ 6.3 million and an EIRR o f 21% for the preferred option. The key
assumption in this regard attaches considerable weight to the rate o f uptake by area farmers o f
cash crop production once the road is improved. Generally, the sensitivity analysis indicates that
the economic criteria are quite robust with EIRRs staying well above 12% even with assumptions
o f a 25 % reduction in benefits or a 25 % increase in construction and maintenance costs. Even
with a very moderate rate o fuptake o f commercial farming practice, the roadremains viable.

The 57km long Busega-Mityana road i s part o f the Kampala-Fort Portal corridor connecting
Kampala, Mubende and Fort Portal with Kasese, Mbarara and Masaka. It is therefore a very
important linkinthe national roadnetwork, vital to the economic prosperity o f western Uganda in
particular and Uganda in general. The road serves rich agricultural areas where both commercial
and subsistence farming are practiced. The area is known for growing tea, coffee and bananas,
andfood crops are grown extensively. Timber is also an important source o f income for the area.
The road is ina state o f disrepair and it is proposed that the roadbe reconstructed. The last major
intervention (repair and resealing) was done between 1989 and 1991. Other sections o f the



                                                 - 22 -

corridor have either been upgraded to bitumen standard, improved or are planned for upgrading.
The     Busega-Mityana          section     remains     the      last    link to           complete the upgrading/
strengthening/reconstruction o f the entire corridor. The results o f the preliminary analysis carried
out showed that the reconstruction is economically feasible, with an ERR o f 18.3 % for the
investment and on NPV o f US$10.3m at the test rate o f 12%. A more detailed and updated
estimate will be carried out as part o f the detailed design o f the roadreconstruction.

2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR= % (see Annex 4)

The road sector continues to be one of Government's fastest growing programs, with GOU
spending increasing from about US$ 45 million in 1996/97 to a projected US$ 90 million in
2003/04 according to TSIREP and the recent RSDP update. This represents a percentage increase
o f almost 100% over a five-year period. Simultaneously, the sectoral allocation to roads and
works have risen to 8.1% in 2002/03 and from 5.8% in 1996/97 (see Table 5.2, Annex 5). The
medium-term sectoral allocations are also shown inAnnex 5a. Table 5.2. This level o f expenditure
has been discussed with IDA and i s considered acceptable, subject to hture annual review o f the
TSIREP and the MTEF which is provided for under the Project. The TSIREP will be updated
annually by March 31 and will provide adequate domestic resources to cover at least the
counterpart finding requirements o f the project as well as the maintenance requirements for the
national road network.

Fiscal Impact:

The fiscal impact of RDPP3 can be briefly assessed as follows with a more detailed analysis
provided under Annex 5.c). The incremental taxes that would result from the project and during
its life-time can be summarized by the taxes receivedfrom the different components o f the Project
as follows:




 of RoadAuthority
 ExtemalAuditing Services                         0.09       0.13           0.00            0.00   0.00 0.00
  Total Taxes                                     0.90       8.51           7.97            5.81   0.76  1.45
 Notes:
 1. Becausethere is a tenyear grace period, no reimbursement o f capitalor interest i s included
 2. Assuming 17%taxes on civil works, 10 % on other activities.



                                                         - 23    -

 3. There is only a very minor change inrecurrent expenditures as investments occur on existing roads.
 4. Changes inmaintenance costs will not occur before the end of the credit period
 5. Incremental recurrent costs for RoadAuthority HQstill being determined.

No increase inrecurrent costs is expected from the Project because duringthe construction phase
the constructioncosts are inlieu ofthe recurrent expenditures relatedto the respective roads; and
the only apparent marginal increase in recurrent costs as forecast in the TSIREP are associated
with the possibility of higher recurrent costs of the paved roads as compared to gravel, and the
project's upgrading o f 91 kmo f gravel roadto paved which would have minimal effect.

The Government's fiscal strategy entails maintaining strict budgetary discipline in order to
minimize government borrowing from the domestic banking system, which would either be
inflationary or would crowd out private sector borrowing. This has meant that Government must
maintain tight control over its aggregate expenditures.

Budgetary policies also aim to improve the supply side o f the economy and therefore to boost
economic growth inthe medium term, through two channels. Firstly, the expenditure policies are
focused on expandingthe provision o f public goods and services which cannot be supplied by the
market but complement private sector investment or enhance the productive capacities o f ordinary
people, through for example, the construction o f rural district feeder roads, agricultural research
and extension, education and health services, and secondly, the tax policies aim to promote
efficient resource allocation by ensuring that the induced distortions are minimized and that the
tax system is conducive to private investment. Direct and indirect tax rates are very competitive
both regionally and internationally, and there are generous depreciation allowances for capital
investment inplant andmachinery andthe degree o f horizontal equity o fthe tax system i s high.

The overall level o f recurrent costs required to operate the sector adequately and the volume o f
financing provided by the Government inthe recent past can be derived from the Transport Sector
Investment and Recurrent Expenditure Program (TSIREP). This report states that in order to
optimize the investment made in roads, Government has highly prioritized national road
maintenance, to preserve and reinstate the road network to the required level o f services.
Financing o f main road maintenance is basically the responsibility o f the Government.                           The
Government has committed itself to continue increasing funding for maintenance by an equivalent
inUS$ 2 millionannually. Government will inprinciple, finance all maintenance costsby2010/11,
and seek donor support only for road rehabilitation andperiodic maintenance operations.

The Table below shows funding commitments to RSDP National Roads maintenance programs
and recurrent expenditures between 1998/99 and 2004/05 for both the Government and its
development partners:




               1998/99        1999/00      2000/01       2002/02          2002/03       2003/04        2004/05
              Actual          Actual       Actual        Actual           Actual        Budget         Projected
   GOU       23.90            31.67        32.61           37.80          29.80         31.68          35.00
    Donor     18.24           14.58        4.74            8.70           3.86          3.25           6.27
   Total     42.14            46.25        37.35          46.50           33.66         34.93          41.27




                                                            - 24 -

Government has demonstrated its commitment to provide the necessary counterpart funds for the
Project and indeed for the entire roads sector over the medium term. This i s clearly illustrated in
Government's Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) which is a mechanism for
determining Government medium term expenditure priorities and allocating these funds through
the budgetary process. The MTEF gives three-year expenditure projections, which are revised
annually as part o f the budgetprocess. The commitment to allocations to the roads sector are also
shown inthe TSIREP, developed by MOFPED.

3. Technical:

The main component of the Project comprises civil works and consultant services in respect o f
upgrading and strengthening o f national roads. GOU, with the assistance of consulting services
provided under RSISTAP and TRP, had already prepared detailed designs, economic feasibility
analyses and environmental impact assessment (EIA) reports for the roads proposed. In many
cases, the economic feasibility analyses comprised o f review, verification and update o f existing
designs and EIA reports. No major issues have been identified. Final designs are based on
Ugandan national road design standards and specifications including safety satisfactory to IDA.
Under the same feasibility and detailed design services, contract documents were prepared. The
project costs have been arrived at on the basis o f the completed detailed designs for all roads
included in the project, except for Busega-Mityana Road for which the designs are ongoing, and
the engineer's estimates compared with available cost data for ongoing contracts. Construction
supervision will be carried out by consultants recruited on an international competitive basis.

4. Institutional:


4.1 Executingagencies:

The project builds on the existing institutional arrangements and will contribute to a sustained
effort o f institutional strengthening. As discussed under Section C.4, overall responsibility for
Project implementation rests with MOWHC. The main executing agency i s RAFU which will
convert to a fully fledged Road Authority. Ln the interim, RAFU will continue to serve as the
institutional nucleus. The Director o f RAFUand other key technical staff have been appointed, as
well as the remaining key technical staff already on board since December 2003. Therefore,
RAFUwill be fully capable of meeting all the procurement and implementationdemands of the
Program including Phase 3, being responsible for processing and managing all construction and
supervision consultancy contracts, as well as the consultancy services for various studies. RAFU
also have capacity and is responsible for meeting all the procurement and implementation
demands of the EU, AfDB and GOUprograms.

4.2 Project management:

Project management will be carried out under RAFUuntil full responsibility has been transferred
to the future Road Authority. Financial and procurement management systems were reviewed
duringproject preparationstage and found to be fully capable, with capacity to handle the project
inaddition to current requirements. Action plans have been developed to ensure that the RAFU
will operate efficiently untilits absorption into the plannedRoadAuthority.



                                                 - 25 -

4.3 Procurement issues:

There are no major procurement issues. RAFUhas employed qualified procurement staff and a
detailed procurement plan has been prepared. The RAFUprocurement management under Phases
1 and 2 has been efficiently and professionally implemented within the given timetable, while
meeting necessary quality requirements. Additional qualified staff are being recruited inresponse
to increased requirements brougth about by RDP as well as to address the procurement issues
associated with the transfer o f maintenance to RAFU. An action planhas been agreed to address
document management andfiling.

4.4 Financialmanagementissues:

Fiduciary

The Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) carried out by IDA in 2001, in
collaboration with the GOU indicated that inadequate financial accounting and auditing systems
both at the centre and in the districts pose a major fiduciary risk. Some o f the reforms aimed at
addressing existing weaknesses have yielded positive improvements in the accountability
environment inthe public sector.

The project's transactions will be managed within the existing set-up inM Uunder MOWHC.
This is headed by the Finance and Administration Manager who is assisted by a Senior Finance
and Administrative Officer who is in charge o f maintaining the books and records o f the projects
financed by donors and as well as supervising the other accounting staff who include two
accountants and one accounts assistant. This accounting unit currently i s computerized using
Pastel Accounting system software. A FinancialManagement Manual is inplace andit documents
all the accounting and internal control procedures used for the project. The project's financial
statements will be audited in accordance with statutory requirements, and under suitable TOR
based on experience under Phases 1and2.

Actions outlined in the Financial Management Action Plan will be undertaken by the project to
strengthen the financial management system. The actions consist o f the appointment o f an
additional accountant once the road maintenance function i s transferred to RAFUfrom MOWHC
and appointment o f an Internal Auditor once M Ubecomes a legal entity. The Action Plan also
includes actions that are necessary for the project before the commencement o f the disbursement
of the Credit such as opening bank accounts, setting up books o f accounts, agreeing Financial
MonitoringReport (FMR) formats.

In order to ensure that the project is effectively implemented, the Government will ensure that
appropriate staffing arrangements are maintained throughout the life o f the project.

The conclusion o f the assessment is that the financial management arrangements for the project
satisfy the Bank's minimum requirements under OPh3P10.02 and are adequate to provide, with
reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information on the status o f the project required by
IDA. With the implementation o f the action plan, the project would be capable of handlingthe
FMR-basedmethodo f disbursement o f the Credit.



                                                - 26 -

5. Environmental:                       EnvironmentalCategory: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertakenfor environmental assessment andEMP preparation(including
consultationanddisclosure) andthe significant issuesandtheir treatment emerging from this analysis.

The steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation have included the
following: determination o f the scope o f the EIA; preparation o f the TOR for the EIA that
capture the importance o f preparing and implementing a comprehensive EMP; review o f the
coverage o f the TOR; approval o f the TOR by the National Environmental Management
Authority (NEMA); carrying out EIA studies which cover field investigations, information
retrieval and consultation with the affected people and local NGOs; comparison o f altematives;
assessment o f impacts, and proposal o f mitigation and monitoring measures. Inview o f the fact
that there were no controversial issues, the approach used for disclosure was mainly through
meetings aimed at consultation and public participation. Meetings were also held with officials
from relevant MinistriedAgencies.

An environmental assessment was carried out for each road project as part o f the detailed
feasibility study o f each project. The main purpose o f the road specific EIAs was: (i)   to cany out
a comprehensive investigation delineating any environmental impacts o f the proposed road works;
(ii)to describe andquantify these impacts; (iii) draw up feasible mitigationmeasuresfor
                                                       to
minimizing, eliminating, or offsetting any adverse effects; and (iv) to recommend the most
appropriate mitigation and/or enhancement measures.

The potential environmental impacts along the proposed road sections include: stripping o f top
soil and loss o f vegetation due to the creation o f borrow pits, soil erosion on road cuts and fills
and stripped borrow areas, silting o f road side ditches and subsequent sedimentation downstream
o f water bodies, soil contamination and water pollution due to the spillage o f toxic materials,
slope stability problems and slopes affected by erosion, poor drainage, various forms o f temporary
landtake, and impacts on human settlements including spread o f HIV/AIDS and other infectious
diseases, and increased levels o f accidents. Inaddition, the potential impact on wildlife along the
sections o f road passing through forests, wetlands and wilderness were considered, so as to
provide adequate controls to protect the animals.

Inadditionto the road specific EIAs, a Sector EnvironmentalAssessment hasbeenundertaken to
review the environmental aspects o f the RSDP with respect to (i)        the adequacy o f the current
national system o f environmental policies and regulations regarding environmental impact
assessment, resettlement policies and strategies, mitigation, monitoring, and management o f road
network activities; (ii)the capacity o f the MOWHC and the National Environmental Management
Authority (NEMA) to commission, facilitate and implement future environmental assessments o f
road projects; (iii) the identification o f programs and organization o f training courses targeted to
appropriate government staff and consultants in environmental assessment techniques and
methodologies for road projects, and (iv) an assessment o f local consultant capacity and training
needs to conduct relevant environmental assessments.




                                                  - 27 -

5.2 What are the mainfeatures of the EMP and are they adequate?
The main features o f the EMP are: summary o f impacts, description o f mitigation measures,
description o f monitoring program, legal and institutional frameworks, implementation schedule
and cost estimates. These features are adequate as they cover all key aspects o f environmental
management o f the projects.

Funds have been provided under RSISTAP for the establishment o f an environmental
management /liaison unit within MOWHC. This support has helped provide the needed capacity
to coordinate environmental and social policies under the RSDP and will facilitate coordination
between RAFU, MOWHC, NEMA and the Uganda Wildlife Authority (UWA) on the
implementation and monitoring o f the mitigation measures. These would work closely with the
Engineer, the contractors, local administrations, and members of the local communities that are
affected by the roadrehabilitation.

The success o f the proposed EMP rests with: (i)        ensuring adoption o f appropriate work practices
through their specification in a management plan; (ii)          contract documentation; (iii) and
                                                                                              costs
schedules; and (iv) on-site monitoring. The relevant parties have agreed to the institutional,
financial, technical, legal, and logistical implications o f the implementation o f the proposed
mitigation measures. In addition, M O W H C R A F U have ensured that mitigation measures are
incorporated in final road designs and contract documentation, and that appropriate expertise is
included inthe supervision consultants' staff to carry out such measures.

5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
                    Date of receipt o f final draft: March 15,2004
The final drafts o f the EA reports were received as follows:
August 2000 for (Atiak-Moyo Road), December 2003 for Soroti-Dokolo-Lira (EA) and
November 2003 (Kampala-Gayaza-Zirobwe-Wobulenzi).The first draft o f the EA report for
Mityana-Busega report will be received in September 2004.            The Atiak - Moyo EA report has
been approved by the World Bank and released by RAFU for disclosure on 5 December 2003.
The Kampala-Gayaza-Zirobwe-Wobulenzi and Soroti-Dokolo-Lira reports have been also
approved by the Bank and released on January 23,2004 and February 3, 2004 respectively. Only
for Busega-Mityana Road, which has been added to the program recently, at an urgent request o f
the GOU, the designs are ongoing. The detailed designs andbiddingdocuments for this road will
be completedby September 2004, which is prior to the effectiveness of the credit. The disclosure
o f E I N S I A and RAP for Busega-Mityana road therefore can be done in October 2004 before
commencement o f the related civil works for the particular road. As a condition o f disbursement
for the IDA credit on this road, the EA will be finalized and disclosed in the country and by the
Bank.

1.       How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage o f (a) environmental screening and(b)
draft EA report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan?
Describe mechanisms o f consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?

The EIA study teams identified the different groups o f stakeholders and their views were
established with regards to potential impacts o f the proposedroad works. As indicated above, the
main mechanisms o f consultation were meetings and interviews. Groups that were consulted


                                                     - 28 -

included Local Administration leaders, representatives o f NGOs working in the project areas,
opinion leaders and affected persons. Key stakeholders including NEMA, UWA, RAFU, and
MOWHC were involved in the process. Certificates o f approval for the environmental
assessments        have      been       issued      by       NEMA         for   Atiak-Moyo        and
Kampala-Gayaza-Zirobwe-Wobulenzi. The conditions for approval were integrated into the
biddingdocuments.

5.4 How have stakeholdersbeenconsulted at the stage of (a) environmental screeningand (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts andproposedenvironment managementplan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were usedandwhich groupswere consulted?


  The EIA study teams identified the different groups of'stakeholders and their views were
established with regards to potential impacts o f the proposed road works. As indicated above, the
main mechanisms o f consultation were meetings and interviews. Groups that were consulted
included Local Administration leaders, representatives o f NGOs working in the project areas,
opinion leaders and affected persons. Key stakeholders including NEMA, UWA, RAFU, and
MOWHC were involved in the process. Certificates o f approval for the environmental
assessments have been issued by NEMA. The conditions for approval were integrated into the
biddingdocuments.
5.5 What mechanismshave beenestablishedto monitor andevaluate the impact ofthe project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?

An environmental and social monitoringplanhas been developed for eachproject road - outlining
the nature, location and methodology o f monitoring that should take place duringthe construction
and operational phases o f each project. The indicators reflect the objectives and results o f the
EMP. An evaluation has also been made o f the bodies/offices responsible for supervising the
monitoring tasks. The environmental liaison unit within MOWHC will have the overall
policy-coordinating role. RAFUand NEMA will work closely with the Engineer, the contractors,
members o f the local communities, and the representatives o f the respective Local
 Administrations inmonitoringthe mitigation measures.

 Additionally, environmental specialists will be part o f the Engineer's teams and RAFU will
 monitor the implementationo f mitigation measures. Construction related mitigation will be part o f
 the routine inspection o f contractor's work which will be included in contract documentation. As
 the mitigation measures were agreed with NEMA, the latter will be involved in monitoring
 activities. Particular care will need to be given to controlling and restricting the extraction of
 construction materials, construction o f camp development, restoration o f construction sites to
 natural habitat and control o fvehicle speeds androad signing.

 Monitoring and evaluation o f the impacts of the projects has been designed to determine whether
 the Contractor i s carrying out the project in conformity with environmental safeguards and
 contractual arrangements, identify problems as they arise during implementation and recommend
 corrective measures. The approach i s to involve visits to project sites and facilities, participation
 inproject site meetings andreview ofprojectprogress reports.




                                                   - 29 -

6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevantto the project objectives, and specify the project'ssocial
development outcomes.

 The key issues relevant to the project objectives include the likely impacts on road safety due to
increase inthe number o f accidents, impact on public health resulting from dust and the spread o f
STDs and HIV/AIDS, and degradation o f air and water quality caused by dust, soil erosion and
siltation o f water bodies/sources. Issues o f adequate and timely compensation o f affected persons
are key concems as well.

The project social development outcomes include improved accessibility, better investment
opportunities, improved household incomes andincreased opportunities for social services.

Social assessment for the physical components has been conducted in conjunction with the EIA
for the roads to be implemented under Phase 3. The EIA team included social and environmental
scientists providing a multi-disciplinary approach to preparing the EIA. Socioeconomic data have
been collected and analyzed from each o f the areas where the roads are to be improved. This also
included an analysis o f the temporary and localized microeconomic impacts resulting from
construction activities, as well as the potential for involuntary resettlement. A resettlement and
land acquisition policy framework covering the road sector was prepared inMay 2002 and has
been judged as satisfactory by the Bank. The policy framework includes the basic principles
concerning: the quantification o f the number o f dwellings to be removed, the associatedrelocation
o f households, as well as the policies for compensation. Individual resettlement actionplans have
been or are being finalized in line with the provisions o f this policy framework. Completed plans
for the road sections are as follows with the indicated disclosure dates: December 4, 2003 for
Atiak-Moyo; January 11,2004 for Soroti-Dokolo-Lira and Kampala-Gayaza-Zirobwe-Wobulenzi.
The plan for Busega to Mityana will be completed and disclosed as a condition for disbursement
o f IDA funds for the civil works. Road safety audits have been carried out under the RSISTAP,
which would further provide a basis for road safety education programs to the public, as well as
safety considerations inroad design, construction andmaintenance.

Minimizing the adverse impact of HIV/AIDS i s a critical dimension o f the Project. HIV/AIDS is
associated with the extensive network o f truck/bus rest stops and terminals as well as with
contractors camps during construction stages o f the project. The issue has to be addressedwithin
the sector strategy and within each individual contract. An HTV/AIDS policy which is currently
under appraisal, deals with all sectors and their related Ministries, who will assume leadership and
responsibility for implementing these strategies with professional and technical support o f health
agencies. In addition, each of the physical components included in the Phase 3 Project include
provisions for qualified on-site clinic screening and counseling for HIV/AIDS and STD, and
awareness and training programs for workers and local people, with associated costs included in
the construction contracts. Treatment of the STD cases will also be provided by the on-site
clinics, with the HIV/AIDStreatment coordinated through the national program.




                                                  - 30 -

6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participatinginthe project?

Key stakeholders including NEMA, UWA, RAFU, MOWHC, concerned groups, NGOs andlocal
communities participatedthrough public consultations, field visits, and surveys for the project. In
addition the Road Safety Study results have been publicly discussed at various seminars including
government (traffic police andhospitals), private stakeholders andNGOs.

6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?

NGOs with experience and knowledge can assist the resettlement process effectively in many
ways.   Involvement o f NGOs in resettlement projects is considered particularly useful in the
following areas.

e      Gathering and sharing information and avoiding potential problems;
0      Planningandimplementingincome-generating schemes;
e      Developing information campaigns and community participation;
e      Strengthening local institutions and community self-reliance; and
0      Delivering services to reach communities ina more efficient andcost-effective manner.

The project involves consultations through meetings and public forums including workshops and
seminars to discuss the results o f various studies. Consultations with local representatives,
women's groups and youth groups have shown that rehabilitation and regravelling of Atiak-Moyo
Road and upgrading o f the Kampala-Gayaza-Zirobwe-Wobulenzi, Soroti-Dokolo-Lira and
Busega-Mityana Roads are strongly supported.

6.4 What institutional arrangementshave beenprovidedto ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?

As per 5.5 above
6.5 How will the project monitor performance interms of social development outcomes?
        As per 5.5 above. RAFUwill pay particular attention to ensure the following matters are
        addressed:
        (i)     Schedule for monitoringis established
        (ii)    Responsibilities for monitoring are clearly set out
        (iii)   Types o f resources needed and their sources are determined and acted on.




                                                  - 31 -

7. Safeguard Policies:


    EnvironmentalAssessment (OP 4.01, BP4.01, GP4.01)                      0 Yes 0No
    NaturalHabitats(OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP4.04)                    3
    Forestry(OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                             0Yes0     No
    PestManagement(OP 4.09)                                                0Yes0No
    CulturalProDertv (OPN 11.03)                                           0Yes 0    No
                                                                           0Yes0No
                L   Y .
    IndigenousPeoples(OD 4.20)
    InvoluntaryResettlement(OP/BP 4.12)                                    0Yes0No
    SafetyofDams(OP 4.37, BP4.37)                                          0Yes 0No
    ProjectsinInternationalWaters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)              0Yes 0No


7.2 Describe provisions madeby the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguardpolicies.

Mitigation measures associated with the impacts are addressed in the environmental and social
management plans. The institutional, financial, and contractual arrangements have been articulated
in these plans. In particular, the implementation of an environmental liaison unit within the
MOWHC, the appointment o f an environmental specialist in RAFU and the establishment o f a
working relationship with relevant parties will contribute to the overall environmental and social
management o f the program. Resettlement plans have been drawn up for three o f the four roads
inline with the provisions of OP/BP 4.12. Plans for the remaining road Busega-Mityanawill be
assessedaccording to the same criteria and IDA funding will not be released until the finalization
o f an acceptable resettlement plan.

F. Sustainabilityand Risks
1. Sustainability:

The critical factor required for sustainability o f the Program and Project benefits is continued
Government commitment at the highest level to sector and institutional reform to establish
effective management, coordination and implementation, and to assure provision o f funds and
other resources required for maintaining the road network. By involving, right from the start, key
stakeholders, including direct beneficiaries, lawmakers and the civil society, the framework has
been set for the sustained mobilization o f Government and public support. Another key element
for sustainability i s that producers and road users, through improved accessibility and
infrastructure condition, quickly realize benefits from the reforms. To this end, RAFU will
contribute to ensuring the successful and timely implementation o f the Project. In addition,
Government must strictly adhere to providing the financial requirements for road rehabilitation
and maintenance projected under the TSIREP.            Government should be prepared to evaluate
alternative financing, including private sector participation androad user financing, inlight o f the
expanding investments and fbture maintenance needs inthe road sector.




                                                 - 32 -

2. CriticalRisks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptionsfound inthe fourth column of Annex 1):

The tablebelow identifiesthe keyrisks thatprojectmanagementmay face inachievingits
objectives andprovidesa basisfor determininghowmanagementshouldaddressthese risks.

                                                                              Risk Mitigation Measure

Total annual development and recurrent                 M         Three year rollingTSIREP produced on every
budget estimatesarenotmade in                                    year inconsultation with the Bank andin
accordancewith projections.                                      consistency with the MTEF. Fundingtargets
                                                                 for the life of the program confmed inletter of
                                                                 development policy
Annualroadnetworkmaintenance                           M          daintenanceprogram updatedinline with the
program is not implementedas scheduled                            ipdating o f the TSIREP eachyear by March

                                                                  I1, maintenance functionwill betransferred to
                                                                  oad authority
Government does notpreparelegislation                  M          :abinet approval sought before end 2004 so
and support proclamationof Road                                   hat legislationcan be tabled inParliament ina
Authority by end 2005.                                            imely fashion. Commitments to complete the
                                                                  iecessaryactions contained inletter of
                                                                  ievelopment policy
Security problems insome project areas                 M          W U / r o a d authority managework programs
inhibitsurveys, detailed engineering, and                         mdallowances made for additional measures
                                                                  mdtime that may benecessary to complete


                                                       M          Zffectivenessconditionto ensure substantial
GOU counterpart funds are neither                                 ipfi-ont deposit of local resources. Monitor
budgetednor releasedon time                                       eegular payments to RAFUlroadauthority of
                                                                  mounts set aside for the Project inthe TSIREP
Detailedstudies o f individualroads do not             N          For first year works, all studies andassessment5
c o n f m the economic viability of selected                      ;ompleted by appraisal. For Busega-Mityana,
roads anddo not address social and                                satisfactorycompletion of designs and
environmental aspects;                                            issessmentsandthe adoption of an agreedwork
                                                                  3rogram are conditions for disbursement on this
                                                                  :omponent
GOUi s not supportive of institutional                 M          Underlyingcommitments are containedinthe
change process instaff selection and                              letter of developmentpolicy which c o n f m
appointment for RAFUand road                                      agreements inprinciple made inApril 2002
authority; no transfer o f agreed
managementfunctions for nationalroads
from MOWHC to road authority;
adequate social planfor redundant
MOWHC staff i s neither developed nor

Linkages between physicalprogress and                  M          M Uis startingto addressthisbyensuring
financial outcomes are not improved                               reconciliation o fphysicalprogress andfmancia:
                                                                  outcomes. This needs to be followed inregular
                                                                  reviews associatedwiht supervision missions
Intemal audit procedures are not improvec              M          The current intemal auditors limited-preaudit of


                                                      - 33

                                                                expendituresandno reviewo f intemal control
                                                                system. In responseto prior audit queries,
                                                                MOHWC has agreedto expand the scope of
                                                                work as far as possible inthe current legal
                                                                framework. Once M Uis converted into a
                                                                roadauthority however, a properly constituted
                                                                internal audit function will be included
Overall Risk Rating                                 M




1. Effectiveness Condition

  (1) Borrower has establishedthe Project Account and deposited the initial amount of US$2.5 million
equivalent to ensure early andeffective project implementation.
  (2) Borrower has provideda Project ImplementationPlan (PIP) satisfactory to the Association.
   (3) Borrower has openedbooks of account andhas completed the Chart of Accounts for the Project.
    (4) Borrower has adopted a Financial Management Manual in form and substance satisfactory to the
Association.
    (5)   Borrower has demonstrated ability to prepare FMRs in accordance with the Guidelines for
Borrowers inrelation to FinancialMonitoring Reports for World BankFinancedProjects.

2. Other [classifyaccordingto covenant types used in the LegalAgreements.]

Condition of disbursement tor clvil works inrespect ot the Busega-Mltyanareconstruction is that:
an agreedprogram for implementationo f works i s inplace; environmental assessmentand
social/resettlement planshave been completed ina manner satisfactory to IDA; disclosure o f the
documents has taken place inthe Bank and in-country.

H. Readinessfor Implementation

    1.a) The engineering design documentsfor the first year's activities are complete andready for the start
            .....'-.:,.-.+
         Ul PlUJGbL llll~lGlllGllLClLlUll.
         ,c                 :m..l,m.%.+n+:n..

17 1.b)Not applicable.

[XI 2. The procurement documentsfor the first year's activities are complete andready for the start of
       project implementation.
[XI 3. The Project ImplementationPlanhas been appraisedand found to berealistic andof satisfactory
       quality.
174. The following items are lackingandare discussedunderloanconditions (Section G):




                                                    - 34 -

1.Compliancewith Bank Policies

  1.This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[?2. Thefollowingexceptionsto Bankpolicies arerecommendedfor approval. Theproject complies with
     all other applicable Bankpolicies.




StephenJ. Brushett                     C. Sanjivi Rajasingham          Judy M.O'Connor
Team Leader                            Sector ManagerlDirector         Country ManagedDirector




                                                  - 35 -

                                       Annex 1: Project Design Summary
                 UGANDA THIRD PHASE OF THE ROAD DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
                                        KeyIndicators
                                            Performance            Data CollectionStrategy
  Hierarchy of Objectives                                                                            CriticalAssumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:         ISector  Indicators:            ISector/ country reports:        rom Goal to Bank Mission)
To achieve effective market       Increasingvolume o f            -Annual Economic Review         Effectivemarket integration
integrationby removing            transport o f agricultural,     -ESW(periodic)                  r i l llead to additional
existing constraints to road      commercial and industrial                                       :onomic growth andthe
transport services.               goods nationally inall seasons                                nprovement o f critical
                                                                                                overty indicators.
                                                                 I




Program Purpose:                  End-of-Program Indicators: Program reports:                   'rom Purpose to Goal)
                                  1. Highpercentage o f           -Annual Public Expenditure      Program roads are
The primary purpose o f the       primary, secondary, tertiary,   Review;                       ppropriately selected and
Roads Development Program and district (feeder) roads in          - Survey o f industrial and   /ell prioritized.
(RDP, the Program) i s to         traffic worthy condition at all agricultural product flows;   . Road improvements have a
improve access to rural and       seasons.                        - Traveltime survey reports;    ieasurable and timely imapct
economically productive areas 2. Agricultural production          -Regular and annual data        nactivity withinthe related
by removingmajor constraints Isurplus increased.                  collection and review o f     ural and economically
to transport services on the                                      transport prices and vehicle    roductive areas.
country's roadnetwork. The                                        operation costs (VOC).
Program also supports actions
aimed at hrther strengthening
o f the road sector
management. The Program
supports Government o f
Uganda's (GOU) ten-year
rolling Road Sector
Development Program
(RSDP) through the
rehabilitation o f priority links
o f the national roads network
and through upgrading or
rehabilitation o f district
(feeder) roads inselected
districts.

ProgramPhasing:
PhaseI: reforms,
          Sector
policy and management
studies (including district
(feeder) roads); upgrading o f
two national gravel roads
sections to paved standards;
Phase 2: Upgrading and
strengthening o f two national
roads sections; Phase 1Road
Safety Action Plan;
preparation o f National
Transport Plan and Greater
Kampala Master Plan; Pilot


                                                              - 36 -

project for demonstration o f
use o f innovative technologies
and materials inconstruction
o f low-volume traffic roads;
feasibility study and detailed
engineering design o f new
RoadAuthority headquarters
building
Phase 3: Upgrading and
strengthening o f two national
roads;
rehabilitationhegravelling o f
one national road inNorth;
District (feeder) roads
upgrading; to National road
Standard. Feasibility Study -
600 kmNational Roads;TA
for establishment o f Road
Authority
Construction o f Road
Authority Offices;
Phase 4:
Rehabilitaliodimprovement
o f district (feeder) roads in
selected districts.




Project Development            Outcome I Impact              'roject reports:              from Objective to Purpose)
Objective:                     Indicators:
                                - Reduction in
The development objective of                  average travel Supervision and evaluation    'Specific roads selected for
                               time on national roads
the RoadDevelopment                                          nission reports (including  ?hase3 have the most and the

Program, Phase3 Project (the   comparedto baseline           nid-term review and ICR);   nost timely impact on
                               - Reduction inoperating costs -Baseline surveys of
Project) is to improve access                                                            :conomic improvements

to rural areas and             on national roads compared to ndicators not later than 6   ' Institutional arrangments
                               baseline.
economically productive areas                                nonths after commencement   :ontinue to be supportive o f

and to progressively continue                               Ifworks contract;              :heachievement o f the

to buildup sustainable road                                  Final indicator surveys       ihysical goals.

sector planning, design and                                 within6 months after           .Financing provided from all

program management                                           :ompletion o f the works      sources is sufficient to suppor

capability including road                                    :ontracts                     .mplementationo f Phase 3.

safety management. The
Project comprises: (i)
upgrading and strengthening
o f three highpriority national
roads, i.e.
Kampala-Gayaza-Zirobwe-
Wobulenzi; Soroti- Dokolo-
Lira; and Busega-Mityana;
(ii) designofthe
     detailed
upgrading o f about 300 kmof
District Roads reclassified to
the National Road Standard;


                                                         -37-

iii)consultanciesfor
'easibility studies o f
ipgrading to bitumen
itandard about 600 kmo f
iriority national roads (iv)
.ehabilitation/regravelling o f
he Atiak-Moyo road; (v)
:onstruction o f a proposed
toad Authority headquarters
iuilding; (vi) Institutional
;upport to the establishment
iftheRoadAuthority,
ncluding the provision o f
:xternal auditing services.
rhese Project objectives
:omplement the objectives o f
:he Phase 1and 2 projects in
neetingthe overall objectives
Jf the Program.



                                                                                            I
Outputfrom each                 Output Indicators:              Project reports:             (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Nationalroads upgraded       1. 167kmo fNational Roads       Quarterly review of          - Government   drafts
to bitumen standard ontime      upgraded from gravel to         implementation progress      legislation and supports
andonbudget.                    bitumen standard; 82 kmo f      reports and IDA supervision  proclamation o f Road
                                bitumen standard roads          missions;                    Authority by end 2005.
                                reconstructed                   -Progress and final study    - Securityproblems insome
                                                                reports:                     project areas do not inhibit
2. Gravel roads rehabilitated   2.91 kmo f gravel roads          -Road authority annual      surveys, detailed engineering,
on time and on budget.          improved                        reports                      and construction.



 3. Road authority HQ           3. RoadAuthority HQdesign
 completed on time and on       completed end 2005; occupiec
 budget                         andfunctioningby end2008
 4. Supervision services
 carried out, contracts         4. Completion of supervisior
 completed on time and on       contracts
 budget
 5. Detailed designs            5. Detailed designs for 300
 completedand approved          kmcompleted

 6. Feasibility studies         6. Feasibility studies o f 600
 completed and approved         kmcompleted

 7. Roadauthority legally       7. Road authority staffing is
 established and operationally  complete andoperational and
 functional                     developmental budget
                                provided for by end 2005.




                                                             - 38 -

                                     Key Performance        Data Collection Strategy
 Hierarchyof Objectives                  indicators                                     CriticalAssumptions
Project ComponentsI              Inputs: (budgetfor each    'roject reports:         (from Componentsto
Sub-components:                  component)                                          Outputs)
1. RoadUpgrading/                1.US$ million 113.36       ,Disbursement reports    -GOU counterpart funds will

Strengthening                                               ,quarterly);             be budgeted and released on
                                                            ,Implementationprogress  time;
                                                            .eports (quarterly);     -Detailed studies o f individual
2. RA Head Quarters              2. US$ million 7.50                                 roads confirm the economic
Construction                                                                         viability o f selected roads and
                                                                                     addresssocial and
3. Construction Supervision      3. US$ million 5.44                                 environmental aspects;
                                                                                     -GOU is supportive of
4. Detailed Design- 300 km, 4. US$ million 1.60                                      institutional change process
district reclassified to national                                                    i.e. instaff selection and
roads                                                                                appointment for RAFUand
                                                                                     roadauthority; complete
5. Feasibility Studies and       5. US$ million 2.00                                 transfer of agreed
design o f selected roads - 600                                                      management functions for
kmupgrading nationalroads                                                            national roads from MOWHC
                                 6. US$ million 3.10                                 to road authority; put inplace
6. Institutional Support -                                                           and fund an adequate social
RAFUiRoad Authority                                                                  plan developedfor redundant
                                                                                     MOWHC staff.




                                                        -39 -

                                                                          Annex UAttachment1


                Developmentof District,Urbanand CommunityAccess Roads

1.1     District andCommunityAccess Roads,EconomicDevelopmentandPoverty
        Alleviation

Government recognizes the central role District and Community Access Roads play in the
country's overall economic growth, especially with regard to complementing the agricultural
sector, which is the core foreign exchange earner for the country. They are therefore a viable and
integralpart o fthe road system. District and Community Access Roads provide access to the rural
productive areas o f the country where presently over 80% o f the population lives. This population
derives its income mainly from agriculture, which contributes 42% o f the GDP and accounts for
over 80% o f the country's export earnings. The District roads provide links from the rural peasant
farmers to markets and to rural industries. They also provide access to health centers, educational
institutions and administrative centers and other services. These roads are critical to
Government's 1998 Poverty Eradication Action Plan (PEAP) and the Plan for the Modemisation
o f Agriculture (PMA) and the PEAP therefore accords top priority to the rehabilitation and
maintenance o f District and Community Access roads.

1.2      Developmentofthe Strategy for DistrictandCommunityAccess Roads

Since 1987, the Government o f Uganda has carried out an extensive district road rehabilitation
and maintenance program. Inthis context, a Strategy for Rehabilitation and Maintenance o f Rural
Feeder Roads was developed in 1992 by the Ministry o f Local Government (MOLG). The
strategy document elaborated a five-year plan for the sub-sector and provided the basis for
implementing a program for district roads reconstruction, rehabilitation and maintenance by
Government with the assistance o f various donors including IDA. The IDA supported the
Program through the 1994195 Uganda Transport Rehabilitation Project (UTRP) Feeder Roads
Component. This initiative, together with assistance from other donors (including AfDB,
DANIDA, GTZ, IrishAid, UNCDF, UNDP and USAID), has resulted in the rehabilitation o f
about 10,OOOkm the District roads network and a total o f 18,500km are receiving regular routine
maintenance. Only 10% o f the Community Access Roads have been rehabilitated, however, and
many are still inaccessible.

There have at the same time been new policy initiatives and programs, including the new
decentralization policy, civil service reforms and privatization which have necessitated the
drawing up o f another strategic framework for rehabilitation and improvement o f District, Urban
and Community Access Roads (DUCAR). A study to review and update the 1992 Strategy
Document was completed in 1999 and its major recommendations were incorporated in
Government's draft White Paper on Sustainable Maintenance o f District, Urban and Community
Access Roads (October 2000), which was received by the Bank in February 2001. The Paper
outlines a plan o f action for a sustainable o f DUCAR for the next 10 years based on a set o f
strategies including (i)institutional strengthening; (ii)mobilization, allocation and efficient



                                               - 40 -

utilization of funds; (iii) resource development (iv) modalities for execution of physical
                          human
works; and (v) planning and programming. It has been disseminated and discussed among key
stakeholders including the developmentpartners. A Cabinet Memorandum has been preparedand
the White Paper is awaiting approvalof the Cabinet, which is anticipatedbefore the endof 2004.

2.0      Developmentof a 10-year DistrictRoadsDevelopmentPlan

In 1996, Government formulated a 10-Year Road Sector Development Plan (RSDP) for the
period 1996/97 -2005/06. It was decided at the time of the launch of the RSDP that, given the
available absorptive capacity of the sub-sector, that the focus of the RSDP effort would be the
development, including rehabilitation of the National Road network. Further bolstering of the
National Roadmaintenanceeffort andthe development of complementary efforts inDistrict Road
improvements would be deferred until the RSDP was well under implementation. For its part,
Governmentpledgedto annually increaseits allocation to roadmaintenance.

A major conclusion of the Roads ConferenceheldinKampala inApril 2002 was that the role and
scope of work in the RSDP should inter alia be increased to take on board DUCAR in the
updated Rolling Plan for RSDP runningfrom 2002/03-2011/12. To implement its new long term
strategy, and as recommended in the Review and Update Study of 1999, Government therefore
commissioned in November 2002 the RSISTAP-funded Ten-Year District Roads Improvement
Program (TYDRIP) to focus on the nationwide rehabilitation, improvement and maintenance of
the District and Urban roads network. Phase I,preparation of the investment program for the
entire District and Urban roads network with a prioritized program of investments, i s now
complete. Phase I1of the study involves detailed engineering design and preparation of bidding
documents for the rehabilitation and improvement of about 1,OOOkm of District Roads, and will
be completedinDecember2003.

Another study is at present being conducted on the feasibility of upgrading about 300 km of
District roads to the national road standards on the basis of an analysis o f their network functions
andtheir economic viability. The upgrading of these roads will be carried out under the proposed
Phase4 of the RDP.

The full details of the District Roads Plan will be confirmed after completion of the above
mentioned consultant studies and the Bank's appraisal of the projects for implementation under
the RDP Phase4.

2.1      Scope of IDA supportto DistrictRoadsunderthe RDP

A review was carried out during the appraisal of the RDP on possible IDA support under the
Programthat would include the following activities:

(i)      Detailed Design for the rehabilitation of about 300 km of District roads to be reclassified
to the national road systemand implementedunder Phase 3 o fthe RDP.




                                                -41 -

(ii) Anestimated72man-months oftechcalsupport(Transport EconomisdPlanner anda
Roads/Transport Engineer) will be provided through the MOWHC/RAFU beginning in Phase 3.
The objective will be to strengthen the existing institutional capacity, and increase the
effectiveness o f RAFU in providing planning and programming, administration and management
support to district administrations in implementing a national strategic plan for district roads
development and maintenance, and for planning and improving rural transport services. The
proposed scope o f the support will be in close coordination and collaboration with the other
donors who have already expressed interest inparticipating inthe TYDRIP. The EU, AfDB and
DANIDAinparticularhaveplans for major schemesinthis sub-sector.

(iii) Financingtherehabilitationandimprovementofabout1,000kmofhighpriorityDistrict
and Urban Roads inabout 20 Districts based on the results o f the Phase ITYDRIP prioritization
studies.

2.2     ProgramCost Estimates

As indicated above, the District and Urban Roads have now been integrated into the RSDP
framework because o f their importance to poverty reduction. The RSDP currently includes a
preliminary cost estimate of US$577 million for these roads, o f which about 80% should be
committed to maintenance. This reflects Government's position that it makes little sense to
implement a large improvement program without ensuring that improved roads are immediately
placedunder an adequatemaintenance regime.

This amount and the program underlying it has been refined inthe course o f the TYDRIP. This
investment plan comprises a program of interventions (upgrading, routine and periodic
maintenance) for District roads until 2012 that will put inplace a road network that will provide
easy accessibility to rural areas. Inthe process the plan will enable farmers to access markets for
their produce and basic services, thus promoting economic growth and alleviating poverty,
consistent with the goals o fthe PEAP.

TYDRIP-Phase Ireport was presented at a stakeholders' workshop held inKampala inJuly 2003.
It concludes that inthe Baseline Case, based on the present GOU's budgetary ceilings for District
and Urban roads, and constrained by local institutional capacity limitations, the projected budget
i s US$236 million for the 10 years. This sum allows for the maintenance and upgrading o f
16,372km of District and Urban roads, or 62% o f the total network.

A possible alternative, the Required Alternative, assumes an increase in the current budgetary
ceilings, either by the GOU directly or by the Donors and the expansion o f the District's capacity
to absorb budgets. This will be done through the creation o f Technical Support Units (TSUs) as i s
stated in the White Paper. Based on these assumptions the budgets for District and Urbanroads
can be approximately doubled to US$441 million for 10 years compared with the baseline case,
with the entire network maintainedandupgraded by the endo f TYDRIP.




                                               - 42 -

Under unconstrained conditions, in which there are neither budgetary nor institutional capacity
constraints, the real needs o f the entire network can be met. This desirable alternative i s expressed
as US$718 million with the entire District and Urban network maintained and upgraded by the
end o f TYDRIP. In this case, 3,529km o f unpaved roads are upgraded to current or higher
standard and a further 1,645km upgraded to bituminous roads. .

2.3      Implementation

Funds for rehabilitation of DUCAR will through the Action Plan in the White Paper be sourced
mainly from development partners, but funds for maintenance will be raised mainly from local
sources, and Government i s to ensure that all resources available to local authorities will be
harnessed. The present backlog and recurrent needs cannot be addressed in the next 10 years but
Government will inthe short to medium term aim at ensuring that 85% o f District andUrbanand
50% o f Community Access roads are in a fair to good condition. More use o f labor-based
methods will be encouraged, together with measures to develop the local construction industry.
Appropriate guidelines and manuals have been developed to assist the Districts in classifying,
designing and prioritizing road investments.

TYDRIP has been designed and will be implemented within the framework o f the Fiscal
Decentralisation Strategy and the Local Government Act. The local governments will therefore be
fully involved and will play a major role in the execution of projects under the program. They
often, however, lack the capacity and resources to manage the road network effectively and may
be too small to plan and manage road schemes. The concept for the implementation o f the Action
Plan is therefore through District-based Technical Support Units (TSUs) which will be set up as
transitional arrangements for implementation o f the TYDRIP. It i s anticipated that development
partners will fund these structures and their functions while the GOU will fund activities o f a
sustainable nature. The TSUs will ensure efficient program and project implementation and
capacity buildingo f the local authorities, with each being able to exploit economies o f scale andto
create a common pool o f technical skills and support equipment.

The TYDRIP consultant supports the establishment o f the TSUs recommended in the White
Paper as a way to facilitate and support the local governments to buildthe desired capacity. It i s
further recommended that a detailed investigation on implementation o f the TYDRIP should be
carried out to make a final recommendationo f the institutional framework for the master planthat
is consistent with the decentralization policy.

Once the institutional capacity has been enhanced through the TSUs and GOU would have the
funds available for the first 5-year plan, the Districts would be able to manage more than the
Baseline Case, equivalent to 45% o f the total desirable budget. It is hoped that the TSU will be in
place by in2004. The need for their services will decline as the capacity o f the Districts increases
and it i s anticipated that there will be no need for TSUs by the end o f the 5 year maximumperiod
when the Districts will have fully capable staff inplace. Thus the TSUs will eventually be divested
andwill form the nucleus of a private sector consultancy industry at the local level.




                                                  - 43 -

The over-arching objective o f the Bank Group's Country Assistance Strategy i s to support
Uganda's economic transformationandpoverty reduction strategy spelled out inthe Government's
Poverty Eradication Action Plan (PEAP) and Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) which
was discussed by the Board on May 2, 2000 (document number: IDAISECN2000-145). The
emphasis in assistance will increasingly shift to the sector level and cross-cutting public sector
management issues. Effectively addressing these issues and facilitating economic transformation
calls for broadening o f the decision-making process to involve all key stakeholders, particularly
the sector ministries, local governments and civil society. It also calls for a change in the Bank's
lending modalities, entailing moving away from the traditional combination o f adjustment
operations with discrete investment projects, to supporting a comprehensive reform program
through the government's budget, via a series o f Poverty Reduction Support Credits (PRSCs). In
addition to PRSCs, the Bank would continue supporting some self-standing projects for capacity
building and large infrastructure investments (for example, power and roads) which involve
international competitive bidding, and, in the case o f power, supporting a shift to private sector
participation.




                                               - 44 -

                                                                                                    Annex 1
                                                                                              Attachment 2

Trigger Indicatorsunder the Adaptable Program LendingInstrument

It is envisaged to implement the program for road development infour phases, each phasebeing
constituted by a new group o f roads. The Bank will support each phase distinctly through a new
Credit. The project described in this PAD refers to the third phase o f the Road Development
Program (RDP, Phase 3) as inthe logical framework matrix inAnnex 1. The Phase 3 project, and
eachnew phase, is appraised inorder to evaluate its technical, economic, social andenvironmental
feasibility, in accordance with criteria satisfactory to IDA, as well as to factor in the experience
gained during implementation o f the previous phases. This approach o f learning by doing allows
for continuous adjustment o f the individual project design, early identification o f risks, and the
implementation o f corrective measures, before geographic coverage expands. An assessment has
been made o f the triggers defined previously for Phase 3 to determine the appropriateness and
readiness for starting a new Phase.

The focus on the third phase o f the program and thus the triggers for Phase 4 are based on
evidence that the road sector management through the establishment o f a sustainable and effective
implementation and procurement capability is taking place as planned. As the program rolls out
and implementation results are available, triggers for Phase 4 will be monitored on the basis o f
indicators spelled out inthe logical frameworks o fprevious phases.

Assessment of Triggers for additionalIDA assistance (Phase 3 of the RDP):

  Assessing Project Strategy and            Trigger Indicators               Means of Verification
       Institutional Building
 Experience from previous Phases RAFUkey personnel inplace and         Bi-monthly evaluation reports
 indicates    that  the   project's  effectively handling the          made available to all
 institutional arrangements reflect  implementation process.           participating donors inRSDP.
 effective            decentralized
  decision-making,    build local Administrative arrangements          Government prepares PIP for
  responsibility and accountability, permit effective and timely       Phase 3 detailing planned and
  and implement      an   effective  approval and implementation.      actual achievements inpreceding
  monitoring      and   evaluation                                     phases.
  svstem.
                                     The monitoring and evaluation     FADestablished and financial
                                     system permits      follow-up  o f management information
                                     project    implementation    and technology requirements function
                                     assessment o f project objectives  satisfactory.
                                     achievement.
                                                                        QuarterlyIAnnual    Cash   Flow
                                                                        Forecast prepared by start o f
                                                                        Phase 2. and uDdated for Phase 3.




                                                       - 45 -

Overall strategy for the transport Sub-projects meet economic,         Base line established for VOC.
sector and for feeder roads        social, and environmental
identified.                        eligibility criteria. Evidence o f
                                   adequateimplementation o f
                                   environmental mitigation
                                   measures designed inthe Phase 2
                                   Design documentation prepared       Detailed Designs and bidding
                                   andcontract documents ready for     documents acceptedby IDA. The
                                   bidding.                            document incorporate required
                                                                       environmental mitigation
                                                                       measures.

                                                                       Pre-qualification o f contractors
                                                                       and short-listing o f consultants
                                                                       comdeted.
Government strictly adheres to     TSIREP for 3-year rolling           Studies for updating o f transport
providing the financial            periods adequately cover Sector     sector and feeder road strategies
requirements for road              requirements.                       andfinancing acceptedby GOU
rehabilitation and maintenance                                         andIDA.
projects under the TSIREP.
                                                                       TSIREP updated every year in
                                                                       November andacceDtedbv IDA.
                                                                       Performance audits o f
                                                                       maintenance budgetedresources
                                                                       including physical road condition
                                                                       to be carried out by independent
                                                                       consultants.

                                                                       Procurement evaluation reports
                                                                       professionally continue      to be
                                                                       prepared on schedule.




                                                       - 46 -

Triggers for additional IDA ssistance (Phase 4 of the RD
 Assessing Project Strategy and           Trigger Indicators               Means of Verification
       Institutional Building
RAFUintransition to a fully        Uganda Road Authority being       Legislation prepared and under
established dedicated Road         established.                      discussion by National Assembly.
Authority incharge o f managing
and operating the roadnetwork.
Effectiveness o f matching scheme  District roads program and        FAD financial system operational
for financing district roads       financial management capacity     with      appropriate      systems
maintenance and rehabilitation,    (resources) and systems assessed  compatible with central systems;
and introduction o f a financially and developed; and                including   budget     framework
sustainable scheme through, e.g.,                                    development                systems
fostering community-based                                            implemented        under        the
revolving funds for maintenance.                                     decentralization process;
                                   Each district demonstrates a      Bi-annual evaluation report
                                   substantial adoption o f proposed carried out by independent
                                   finalized scheme.                 consultant inevery district
                                                                     incorporating analysis o f results.
                                                                     Agreement with beneficiaries and
                                                                      the implementation agencies.
                                                                      Detailed designs andbidding
~
Priority district road candidates  The implementation capacity in
 for rehabilitation inselected     the district is adequate to usage  documents incorporate required
 districts identified and          andoperation ofthe district roads  mitigation measures.
 maintenance programprepared.      network.




                                                      -47-

                            Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
             UGANDA THIRD PHASEOF THE ROAD DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM

1. GOU's10-Year RoadSector DevelopmentProgram(RSDP) andthe ProposedRoad
   Development Program (RDP)

1.1     A key element inthe implementation of the GOU's sector strategy was the original RSDP
for the national road network, which was originally endorsed at a Donor's Conference held in
Paris on November 20, 1996. The initial RSDP was updated to a rolling RSDP and was
endorsed by stakeholders (including the development partners) at the Roads Conference held in
Kampala on April 23-24, 2002. The RSDP was developed after a thorough optimization and
rationalization process, by reviewing the performance o f the road sub-sector reform program
over the previous five years; taking on board new challenges and recent policy initiatives,
especially focusing on poverty eradication; highlighting the further institutional reforms necessary
within the sub-sector; and prioritizing the current needs of the road network, especially for the
elimination of backlogs inmaintenanceand rehabilitation and for development of the network by
upgrading of the more important road links. Funding is fully within the set national
macro-economic framework.

1.2     The objectives of RSDP are to:

    Provide a safe andefficient roadnetwork capable of meetingthe present andfuture traffic
    demandwhile harmoniously integratingroad safety andenvironmental protection
    requirementsinsupport ofmarket integrationandpoverty alleviation;
0   Continue with the establishment anddevelopment of arobust administration for effective and
    efficient managementof the National roadnetwork as amajor component ofthe road
    sub-sector;
0   Enhancethe development of the road construction industry so that it canmeet the required
    construction standards; and
    Promote and develop cheap, efficient, more reliable and safer transport services to support
    growth inthe different sectors ofthe economy.

1.3     The RSDP took on board the District, Urban and Community Access Roads (DUCAR)
under its portfolio. Per Table 1, the projected expenditure for the RSDP amounts to US$ 2.28
billion (in constant 2001 prices) over the 10 years running fiom 2001/02-2010/11 and has three
main components: the national road Network (69.5% of total program cost), the DUCAR
network (25.3% of total cost), and road sector institutional development and capacity building
(5.2% of total cost). Out of the total RSDP cost, US$ 1,354.34 million has been secured or
pledged leaving a funding gap of US$ 925.72 million. The projectedtotal expenditure level under
the original RSDP was estimated at US$1.5 billion for only the national road network over 10
years. IDA assistanceunder the proposed RDP i s being provided to support a part of the RSDP
(see Table 2 attached).




                                               -48-

1.4     Realistic and efficient implementation mechanisms have been developed to ensure
maximum implementation efficiency of both the program's managerial and operational functions
through (i)the re-definition of the MOWHC's role with focus on policy, regulatory and
monitoring functions; (ii) the commercialization of road managementby establishing RAFU, a
performance oriented organization that will be transformed into a filly fledged road authority
during FY2004/05; and (iii)  the establishment of the RSDP Coordination Unit under MOFPED
for the purpose of sector planning updates, performance monitoring andauditing.

1.5     Expendituresunderthe RSDP reflect a strategy focusing on the preservationand selective
upgrading of existing road assets. Improvement of main paved and gravel roads would account
for some 46% of total expenditures, followed by maintenance for national roads (24%), upgrading
and maintenance of District, Urban and Community Access Roads (25%), and institutional
development including capacity building(the remaining 5%). Expendituresover the period of the
RSDP are estimatedat US$2.28 billion. O f this amount, projects worth more than US$ 1billion
would be financed through commitments from donors. The Government presented to IDA its
proposal for assistance over the period which, after screening of the physical components,
amounts to a total cost of about US$ 356 million. This includes funds under TRP, and the
ongoing RSISTAP and ENERR project (total amount approximately US$ 100 million), with the
balancebeingprovided under the proposedRoadDevelopment Program (RDP).

2.      Road Development Program, Phase 3

The development objective of the RoadDevelopment Program, Phase 3 Project (the Project) is to
improve access to rural areas and economically productive areas and to progressively continue to
build up sustainable road sector planning, design and program management capability including
road safety management. The Project comprises: (i)     upgrading and strengthening of three high
priority national roads, i.e. Kampala-Gayaza-Zirobwe-Wobulenzi; Soroti-Dokolo-Lira; and
Busega-Mityana; (ii)detailed design of the upgrading of about 300 km of District Roads
reclassified to the National Road Standard; (iii) consultancies for feasibility studies of upgrading
to bitumen standard about 600 km of priority national roads (iv) rehabilitatiodregravelling of the
Atiak-Moyo road; (v) construction of a proposed Road Authority headquarters building; (vi)
Institutional support to the establishment o f the Road Authority, and (vii) the provision of
external auditing services. These Project objectives complement the objectives of the Phase 1and
2 projects inmeeting the overall objectives of the Program.

By Component:

Project Component 1 US$113.36 million
                    -
CivilWorks for Upgrading, Rehabilitation and Reconstruction

(1) Soroti-Dokolo-Lira Road(125 km)-US$47.00 million (US$37.6 millionIDA credit,
US$9.40 million GOUcontribution)
The Soroti-Dokolo-Lira road comprises 114 km of gravel road and 11.0 km (totaling 125 km) of
bitumen surface road between the towns of Soroti and Lira. The road forms part of the arterial
network serving the capital from the north and contains the only remaining section of the national
road circuit as yet unpaved. The eastern arc o f the circuit comprises the Kampala-Jinja-Kenya


                                                - 49 -

border-Mbale-Soroti roads. The western arc comprises the Kampala-Karuma-Kamudini-Lira
paved roads. The road i s therefore an important link inthe National road network and vital to the
economic prosperity o f northernUganda.

The bitumen sections o f the road are inan advanced state o f deterioration and require substantial
reconstruction, whilst the gravel section requires substantial earthworks) drainage improvements
and construction o f a sealedpavement to meet the growing volume o f traffic.

The main activities inthe project area o f influence are arable andpastoral agriculture and fishing.
Traffic surveys indicate that over 75% of tonnage out o f the area comprises pastoral crops
marketed south o f Soroti, o f which the largest single category is cotton. The project area i s inone
o f Uganda's most important cotton growing areas. Cotton remains a significant cash crop but,
despite the evident success o f the GOU inrebuilding a shattered economy, production has yet to
recover to anything approaching historical levels. Experience gained by the Bank during the
implementation o f the Integrated Road Program in Tanzania has indicated that upgrading roads
from gravel to bitumen surface in fertile areas can often lead to a shift towards the production of
higher value crops. There is a major cotton processing facility in Lira and the prospect o f
rehabilitating the factory would increase substantially were the anticipated increase in cotton
production to be realized. Interest in Ugandan cotton remains keen amongst international cotton
concerns.

Upgrading the road would also extend the paved road network to the North, providing for
significant improvements to road transport services between Kampala andthe North andbetween
the North, the border regions centred on Malaba and Busia, and on to the East African seaboard.

Construction o f 125km o f the Soroti-Dokolo-Lira Road is estimated at US$ 47.00 million,
including physical and price contingencies. The TORrequire the roadto be split intwo contracts.

(2) Kampala-Gayaza-Zirobwe-Wobulenzi Road (68km) - US$ 31.18 million (US$ 24.94
million IDA grant, US$6.24 million GOUcontribution)
This Road can be divided into the following sections: Kampala-Gayaza (15.0 km),
Gayaza-Kiwenda (11.0 km), Kiwenda-Zirobwe (19.0 km) and Zirobwe-Wobulenzi (23.0 km).The
initial stretch o f the road to Gayaza i s paved; the remaining 52.7km to Wobulenzi, where the road
joins the primary road linking Kampala with the Gulu area in the north of Uganda, are gravel.
Engineering investigations indicated that the condition o f the paved section is generally
inadequate and that the unpaved section is damaged.

The hinterland o f the road constitutes an important part o f the lakeshore banana-coffee system, a
mainstay o f Ugandan agriculture. The fertility o f the soil is high and suited for the production o f
other high value crops. The Luwero triangle is centered on the north end o f the hinterland) and
upgrading this road would substantially strengthen the ties between this important region o f
Buganda and Kampala. Upgrading would substantially reduce VOCs and travel time along the
road and commercial freight and passenger services would be upgraded. The lower tariffs and
fares available to shippers and travelers would in consequence foster the competitiveness o f
agriculture inareas neighboring the road.



                                                   - 50 -

The cost o f upgrading the Kampala-Gayaza-Zirobwe-Wobulenzi Road would be US$ 31.18
million including physical and price contingencies. It should be noted that the road has been
dividedinto two packages for purposes ofconstruction.

(3) Rehabilitation and regravelling of the Atiak-Moyo Road (91km) -US$10.88 million
(US$8.70 million IDA grant, US$2.18 million GOUcontribution)
The rains associated with the ElNino events o f 1997/98 and 2002 destroyed much o f the surface
o f the Atiak-Moyo Road, located inthe North West o f the country. Economic development inthe
area served by the road has been severely depressed due to insecurity problems, and it i s believed
that rehabilitation andregravelling o f the roadwill facilitate recovery. Like other parts o f Uganda,
much o f the immediate development in the area will be agriculture-based. The hinterland o f the
road is known for cotton production and the soil is also suitable for the production o f simsim,
tobacco and various food crops. Livestock andfishproduction also occur inthe hinterland.

Without rehabilitation, transport costs will increase making items brought into the area expensive.
Transporters may opt to use the Moyo-ha-Kampalaroute insteado f the Moyo-Atiak-Gulu road
which is at least 200km shorter. It would also discourage produce buyers going into the project
area. The few buyers who do go will exercise near-monopoly influence and offer farmers low
prices for their exportable agricultural surplus. The combination o f high input costs and low
commodity prices will act to discourage farmers from increased production, perpetuating poverty
in the area and hampering access to social services. The road also has a regional significance,
connecting through Moyo to the Sudan border. Given the recent rapprochement between
Kampala and Khartoum, regional trade could be expected to resume at reasonable levels. The
regravellingo fthe roadwill cost US$ 10.88 million including physical andprice contingencies.

(4) Reconstruction of the Busega-Mityana Road (57 km) -US$24.30 million (US$19.44
million IDA credit, US$4.86 million GOUcontribution)
As part o f its RSDP, Government requested DANIDA for assistance towards the cost of
rehabilitation, strengthening and reconstruction o f the entire Kampala-Fort Portal corridor,
including the Busega-Mityana road (57km). A feasibility study was undertaken in 1997 and
detailed design in 2001, but the Danish Government decided in January 2002 to exclude the
corridor from the RSDP. The GOU has therefore now requested the inclusion of the
Busega-Mityanaroad inthe RDP.

A consultant was engaged in February 2003 to review the existing design and documents
prepared under DANIDA funding, and the draft report submitted inJune 2003 recommended that
a comprehensive review and update o f the documents be undertaken to meet IDA standards. A
comprehensive review and update o f the detailed engineering design and preparation o f tender
documents for International Competitive Bidding (ICB) to meet IDA and GOU guidelines,
including EIA, SIA and RAP, are to be undertaken. The services will include the pre-qualification
o f contractors and the invitation and evaluation o f bids and contract award. A re-run o f HDM-4
will be includedto verify the economic feasibility o f reconstructing the existing pavedroad, but in
view o f the highADT (approximately 1600) and the urgency o f implementing this important link
inPhase3, ithasbeen agreedthat the feasibility study neednotberepeated.



                                                 - 51 -

Project Component 2 US$7.50 million
                      -
Civil Works for Construction of Buildings (US$6.00 million IDA credit, US$1.50 million
GOUcontribution)
The facilities of the MOWHC date largely from the colonial era andmany offices and workshops
have reachedthe endof their economic life. It is proposedto buildthe Headquarterson MOWHC
land near the Central Mechanical Workshop in Kampala. The construction of the headquarters
housing a commercially orientedRoadAuthority will signify to Stakeholders the new approachto
the management of roads. The Construction of the Headquarters i s expected to cost US$ 7.50
millionincluding physical andprice contingencies.

Project Component 3   - US$5.44 million
Roads Construction Services Construction Supervision (US$2.76 million IDA credit, US$
                                 -
2.13 million IDA grant, US$0.55 million GOUcontribution)
Covers the following estimated costs for the supervision cervices the construction of project
roads: Soroti-Dokolo-Lira US$2.04 million; Kampala-Gayaza-Zirobwe-Wobulenzi US$1.36
million; Atiak-Moyo US$0.94 million; andBusega-MityanaU S $ l.10million.

Project Component 4 US$1.60 million
                      -
Detailed Design of about 300km of Upgrading of District GravelRoads and Reclassifying to
NationalRoad Standard (US$1.44 million IDA grant, US$0.16 million GOU contribution)
Consultants services are being undertakenunder RSISTAP for the execution of full feasibility
studies on the upgrading to National Road Standards of a number of District Road Sections as
NationalRoads as per Table A2.1

Table A2.1      District Roads Reclassified to National Roads

    Original District Road         District           RoadName           Length (km)
        LinkNumber
    12051                   Luwero             Luwero-Zirobwe                36.7
   12061                    Luwero             Luwero-Wakyato                34.2
   14051                    Mpigi              Mityana-Kanoni                37.2
   13071                    Nebbi              Nebbi-Goli                     14.4
   31081                    h a                Ocoko -Inde                   32.8
   46141                    Mbarara            Muzizi-Rwemiyaga              77.3
                                                     -
  ~
   Na                       Soroti             Katine Ochero                 69.2
    Total                                                                      302


The studies commenced in 2003. Detailed design will cost US$ 1.60 million including physical
and price contingencies. Undertaking the detailed designs on these sections does not guarantee
that the upgrading will be carried out as that will depend on a final assessment of technical,
economic andfinancial feasibility.




                                              - 52 -

Project Component5 US$2.00 million
                     -
FeasibilityStudies andSelected Designof about 600 kmfor Upgradingof PriorityNational
Roads(US$1.80 millionIDA credit, US$0.20 millionGOUcontribution)
Preliminary feasibility statements on about 600 km o f gravel National Roads to paved (bitumen)
standard were carried out by RAFU in 2001/02. The initial results, prepared inthe course o f the
update o f the Ten Year Rolling Road Sector Programme appear promising. Consultants services
will be procured in 2004 with the feasibility studies being completed in 2005. Those roads
meetingrequiredeconomic and environmental criteria will then be designated for detailed design
selected section thereof to be funded under the project with the balance under Phase 4 o f the
RDP.

ProjectComponent 6 US$3.10 million
                     -
InstitutionalSupport andEstablishmentof the RoadAuthority (US$2.79 millionIDA
grant, US$0.31 millionGOUcontribution)
The need to consolidate the institutional reformprocess initiatedunder the TRP andRSISTAP
has been identified inthe recently completed Uganda RoadAgency Study. The Consultants
identified the areas for further work as shownbelow:

      Parliamentary Proclamationo f Road Authority
      Procurement o f Consultant to assist with RAFUTransformation
      Restructure Internal Head Office Organization
      Develop Performance Agreement
      Develop Financial Management Systems inRoadAuthority
      Establish Internal Audit
      Develop Management Information Systems
      Develop Management Systems for Subsidiary Activities
      Develop HumanResources andManagement Skills
      EstablishFundingArrangements
  b   Develop RoadAuthority Business Plans
      Establish Regional Managing Engineering Consultants

A total of 52 person-months of consulting services will beprocuredfor this component. The
balance o f the component funds will provide continuing institutional support to RAFU.

External Audit Services estimated to cost US$ 1.1million are included to cover the projected life
o f Phase 3.




                                               - 53 -

                                                               Annex 2

GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA RoadSector DevelopmentProgram(RSDP) 2002 2011
                    -                                        -
                         Table 1




                           - 54 -

                                                               Annex 2

GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA-RoadSector DevelopmentProgram(RSDP) 2002-2011
                     Table 1(Continued)




                           - 55 -

                                                                                                       Annex 2: Table 2

Program Activities                                                      Estimated Costs (million)                  Proposed Financing
                                                              Phase IPhase II Phase 111 Phase IV Total RDP         IDA       NDF    GOU
Phase 1(Nov. 99 -June 04)


1. Busunju-Kiboga-HoimaRoad(incl.spn)                           68.08                                    68.08      51.28      -    16.80
2. PakwachArua Road (incl. spn)                                 48.96                                    48.96      36.88      -    12.08
3. EternalAuditingServices                                       0.40                                     0.40       0.32      -     0.08
4. PPF Studies                                                   2.50                                     2.50   --- 2.50      -
                                               Sub-total:      119.94                                   119.94      90.98      -    28.96
Phase 2 (July 01-June 06)
1. Kat.-Kas.-Ft. Portal, Kilembe& Equator Roads(incl.spn)                43.45                           43.45      32.73      -    10.72
2. Karuma Pakwach Road (incl. spn)                                        34.09                          34.09      25.68      -     8.41
3. RoadSafety (incl. consultancy & spn)                                   5.08                            5.08       4.01      -     1.08
4. NationalTransport MasterPlan& KCC                                      2.66                            2.66       2.13      -     0.53
5. PilotProjectfor Constr.of low traffic Vol. Rds (incl. spn)             10.79                          10.79                 8.16  2.63
6. RoadAuthorityOffices       - Consulting  Services                    - 0.92                            0.92   ---           0.74  0.18

                                               Sub-total:                 97.00                          97.00      64.55      8.90 23.55
Phase 3 (Sept. OCSept. 09)
1.Soroti-Dokolo-Lira(3)                                                             49.04                49.04      39.45            9.59
2. Kampala-Gayaza-Zirobwe-WobulenziRoad(3)                                          32.54                32.54      26.13      -     6.41
3. Busega-MityanaRoad(7)                                                            25.40                25.40   ---20.44      -     4.96
4. Atiyak-Moyo Road                                                                  11.82               11.82       9.55            2.27
5. RoadAuthorityOffices Construction(6)
                               -                                                       7.50               7.50       6.00             1.50
6. Det. Des.   - Upgrade  300 km Reclassif.Rds (3)                                     1.60               1.60       1.44            0.16
7. Consul.Serv. Forabout 600 km of Nat. Rds (5)                                        2.00               2.00       1.80            0.20
8. Consultingservices TA to RAFU                                                       3.10               3.10       2.79            0.31


                                               Sub-total:                           133.00              133.00    107.60       -     25.40
Phase 4 (Sept. 05      - Sept.  10)
1. District RoadsRehabilitationProgramfor 1000km (3)                                            10.00    10.00       7.42             2.58
2. Reclassif.Nat. Rds Upgrad. Forabout 300 km (3)                                             --- -
                                                                                                25.54    25.54      18.95             6.59
                                               Sub-total:                                       35.54    35.54      26.37             9.17


                                             Grand Total:                                               385.48    289.47       8.90  87.11


Note 1: Construction including supervision, 10% physical contingencies& 10%price contingencies.
Note 2: Construction including supervision, 10%physical contingencies& 10%price contingencies.
Note 3:  Construction including supervision, 10% physical contingencies& 5% price contingencies.
Note 4: Feasibility, design, supervisionandprojectmonitoring &manuals.
Note 5:  To be implemented inthe 10-YearRSDP rollingprogram. Includesonly feasibility studiesanddetaileddesignsofselectedroads.
Note 6: Construction including 10% physicalcontingencies& 5% price contingencies.
Note 7: Costsre-allocatedfrom Phase4, District RoadProgram& Upgradingof DistrictRoadsto National Standards. Itshould benotedthat the
         total length ofroadsremainsapproximately the same.




                                                                    - 56 -

                                           Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
              UGANDA THIRD PHASE OF THE ROAD DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM

                                                                                                Local              Foreign                  Total
                        Project Cost By Component                                          US $million          US $million             US $million
                                                                                                                                           ~


Roadupgradingtrehabilitationand r egravelling of                                                39.44                58.58                  98.02
Kampala-Gayaza-Wobulenzi,Atiak-Moyo, Soroti-Dokolo-Lira
and BusegaMityana
Roadauthority headquarters construction                                                          2.44                  4.26                   6.70
Contructionsupervision of Kampala-Gayaza-Wobulenzi,                                               1.44                 3.51                   4.95
Atiak-Moyo, Soroti-Dokolo-Lira and BusegaMityana
 Detaileddesign ofupgrading of 300kmof district roads (gravel)                                   0.43                   1.01                  1.44
 reclassified to national roads(bitumen)
 Feasibility studies on 600km ofnational roads and selected                                       0.52                  1.24                  1.76
 detailed design
 Institutionalsupport (TA) to road authority/RAFU                                                 0.81                  1.90                  2.71
 Total Baseline Cost                                                                             45.08                70.50                115.58
  Physical Contingencies                                                                          4.60                  7.00                 11.60
  Price Contingencies                                                                             2.40                  3.40                  5.80
                                         Total ProiectCosts1                             I       52.08       I         80.90         I     132.98



                                                                                                Local               Foreign                 Total
                           Project Cost By Category                                         US $million          US $million             US $million
 Goods                                                                                              0.00                    0.00                   0.00
 Works                                                                                            48.41                    72.45                 120.86
 Services                                                                                           3.67                    8.47                  12.14
 Training                                                                                           0.00                    0.00                    0.00
I                                                       Total ProiectCost:                         52.08                   80.92                 133.00   1
                                                Total FinancingRequired                  II        52.08      II           80.92     II          133.00   I

   1
     Identifiable taxes anddutiesare 25.4 (US$m)andthe total projectcost, net oftaxes, is 107.6 (US$m). Therefore, the projectcost sharingratio is 100%of
   total project cost net of taxes.




                                                                    - 57 -

                           Annex 4: Cost BenefitAnalysis Summary
             UGANDA THIRD PHASEOF THE ROAD DEVELOPMENTPROGRAM

                                           Annex 4, Table 1



             -        I         I       I                                              SensitivityAnalysis
                                           Economic                          Higher                Lower
                        Length   ADT         Costs           BaseCase        Constr.cost
  r-                                                                                               ADT
                      Ikm       I       I US$OO I  SCF NPV         EIRR      NPVO       EIRR       NPV@ EIRR
                                                          @                  -
                                                                             12Yo                  12%
                                                          12%                US$m                  US$m
                                                          US$m

       Package 1          44.3    986        413   0.83      23.3    27.5%       21.9      23.9%       21.5  25.8%
       Package 2          23.0    446        378   0.83    (-)0.4    10.8%      (-)1.7      8.5%      (-)1.5  8.4%
       Total              67.3    801        401   0.83      22.9    22.3%       19.7      19.8%        17.9 20.0%




           Note 1 ADT = weighted average in2001 ranging from 10,638 Kampala-Nsooba to 294 Kiwenda-Zirobwe
           Note 2 ADT=weighted average in2003 ranging from 205 Agwata-Dokolo to 525 Lira-Boroboro
           Note 3 ADT = weighted average in2000; economic evaluation based on baseline average of 73 in 1995
           Note 4 ADT =weighted average in2003 ranging from 2,226 Busega-Buloba to 1,349 Muduma-Mityana



Summary ofBenefitsandCosts:
The proposed investments are expected to yield substantial direct benefits to road users, through
reductions in vehicle operating costs and in travel time. Since the trucking industry in Uganda is
competitive and the roads under the Program serve areas o f good agricultural potential, at least
part o f the vehicle operating costs savings are expected to be passed through time to agricultural
producers and consumers. Furthermore, the privately providedbus services are highly competitive
in Uganda, and have already shown their capability to quickly extend coverage and improve
frequencies to more remote areas in reaction to improvements in road condition. To this extent,
vehicle operating cost savings are also expected to ultimately benefit low-income bus users
leading to improvements intheir accessibility to markets and intheir availability o f social services.


MainAssumptions:
1. Methodology
The economic analysis methodology for road investments under the project is based on either the
Bank's HDM suites o f software (version 3 or 4). The HDM model allows for the modeling,
through time, of the interaction between traffic volume and composition, and road condition and
vehicle operating costs. As roads deteriorate due to vehicle usage and weather conditions, vehicle


                                                 - 58 -

operating costs increase. Investments targeted at improving road condition will therefore
contribute to reducing vehicle operating costs and to slowing the rate o f deterioration o f road
infrastructure. The life-cycle costs o f road usage (to be directly born by vehicle operators) and
up-keep (to be directly born by the RoadAgency) can then be estimated for alternative investment
strategies. These strategies cover the trade-offs between rehabilitation, periodic maintenance, and
other mutually exclusive road interventionalternatives.

HDM-4is the latest version of the HDMmodel, developed with IDA assistance inconcert with
other development partners. It contains improved pavement deterioration relationships, a
congestion reduction appraisal module, allows for the calculation o f the impact o f non-motorized
traffic on journey times over particular links, and calculates basic environmental outputs. It has
come into widespread use since 2001.

The selected investment strategy, irrespective o f model used, is the one yielding the highest N P V
for a discount rate o f 12%, the value taken to represent the opportunity cost o f capital inUganda
under the RSDP.

The economic appraisal o f the proposed works for the Kampala-Gayaza-Zirobwe-Wobulenzi,
Busega-Mityana and the Soroti-Dokolo-Lira Roads has been carried out using the HDM-4model;
the appraisal o f the Atiak-Moyo Roadhas been carried out utilizing HDM-3. Each o f the analyses
considers the potential for additional traffic generation resulting from the road upgrading. For the
two former roads, a simple assessment has been undertaken o f likely traffic generation, based on
the conclusions o f other studies, a review o f economic activity inthe study area and an assessment
of the deterrent effects o f the existing condition o f the study roads.

For Atiak-Moyo, however, a more formal producers' surplus estimate has been included to take
account o f the length o f time, up to 16 years, during which the security situation has prevented
the commercial agriculture practices which hadprevailedpreviously. For this approach, data was
obtained on household crop production and on input prices and output prices, an important issue
when considering the production o f cash crops. Production increases arising from road upgrading
arise from : (i) an increase in the area devoted to cash crops, i.e exportable produce production,
from current levels which have dwindled to about half those characterizing fertile areas o f
Northern Uganda, and (ii)    the growth inpopulation andhence area farmed. Although there will be
increases in the volume o f all crops, it is the induced production o f simsim (sesame seed), cotton
andsunflower which would account for most o fthe benefits.

2.      PluriannualExpenditureandFundingProgram
Regarding the national road network, in the course o f the 2002 update o f the RSDP which
resulted in the adoption by GOU o f the Ten Year Rolling Road Sector Development Programme
(RSDP), the HDM-4framework has been initially used at a more aggregate and strategic level. At
this level o f analysis, network-wide traffic projections and pre-engineering investment costs are
considered, with traffic levels and road conditions averaged-out throughout parts o f the network.
The results o f this analysis lead to the preparation o f an economically justified pluriannual
expenditure program. This allowed for the identification o f a portfolio o f national road
subprojects (i.e. paving, strengthening), and the associated investment requirements, which were



                                                  -59   -

capable o f meeting the economic screening criteria under the RSDP and should be considered
under the Program.

The national network-wide analysis, initially developed in 1996, was updated during appraisal for
RDPP1by RAFUinApril 1999 for the period 1996/97-20051'06. Within an exogenously assumed
US$1.5 billion budget constraint for national roads under the RSDP, uncommitted resources
amounting to US$512 million were allocated to road expenditures, in order to maximize
investment efficiency. Subsequently, in 2001/02, the RSDP2 was generated in a collaborative
effort between the RSDP-CU, RAFU and the MOWHC, assisted by DANIDA funded
consultants.

A discrete modeling approach was followed in which multiple maintenance and improvement
strategies were initially generated and selected for each network link. These embraced various
routine maintenance, periodic maintenance, and upgrading options for both paved and unpaved
roads. The resulting expenditure program, basically covering the 2002/03-2005/06 period, and
including the road subprojects under the proposed Program, is summarized in financial and
physical terms inTable 1o f this Annex 4. Overall, the study concluded that investments under this
Program are expected to yield a consolidated NPV o f about US$ 60.0 million for the road
improvement andthe periodic andrecurrent maintenance components.

3.       Specific Road Subprojectsunder the ProposedProgram
For the identified national road subprojects, specific traffic counts and projections, as well as
preliminary engineering designs, were prepared in order to appraise their economic feasibility.
Separate consultant studies cover the roads identified under the different phases o f the proposed
APL. For the road subprojects under Phase 3, final engineering design and a revised economic
analysis were subsequently prepared. The final reports for the consultant feasibility studies, as
revised by RAFU and reviewed by the Bank mission, are available in the Project File. As noted
above, the methodology used was also based on the HDM models taken in conjunction with a
generated traffic or agricultural production surplus approach. Only investments yielding an EIRR
estimated at above 12% are considered to be eligible for financing under the Program. The
economic analysis o f the proposed subprojects was subjected to sensitivity andto risk analysis.

 Traffic Projections
For the base year traffics, RAFU have employed the results o f the consultants'            surveys,
cross-checked as appropriate with the MOWHC traffic database. Traffic growth rates reflect
 GOU's GDP anddemographic projections, and havebeen disaggregated on a regionalbasis. From
2011 onwards, a lower growth rate o f three-four percent per annum was assumed and applied to
 all traffic and vehicle categories countrywide. These growth-rates have been applied to normal
 and to diverted traffic. Generated traffic estimates were directly taken from the consultant's
 studies.

Road Costs
 The unit construction and maintenance costs are based on engineering design estimates prepared
 by the consultants and were reviewed during appraisal. Construction costs considered in the
 analysis include allowances for physical contingencies and for supervision costs. These rates vary



                                                - 60 -

depending on the particular characteristics o f the road. An implementation schedule for physical
works o f between 1.5-2.5 years was assumed depending on the scope o fthe project. The financial
and economic values for vehicle operating costs and infrastructure costs are largely based on
RAFU estimates and conversion rates recommended in the "Procedural Guide to the Economic
Aspects o f Conducting Road Feasibility Studies in Uganda" initially produced under the IDA
supported TRP which concluded inmid-2001.

Alternatives
For purposes o f analysis, the four roads under RDPP3 (Kampala-Gayaza-Zirobwe-Wobulenzi;,
Atiak-Moyo; Soroti-Dokolo-Lira; and Busega-Mityana) were disaggregated into sections, to
reflect varying road condition and other physical characteristics, as well as different traffic levels
and composition. Several investment and maintenance alternatives were generated and evaluated
for each road section, and the one yielding the highest NPV (at a 12% discount rate) was
selected. As a result, the investments proposedunder Phase 3 o f the proposed Project would yield
a consolidated NPV estimated at US$60 million, with no investment in any road section yielding
an EIRRbelow 12 %.

Sensitivity analysis :
The appraisal results for each o fthe Phase2 road sections were then tested for their sensitivity to
changes inthe basic assumptions on investment costs and on traffic levels and growth. Inthe case
o f the rehabilitatiodupgrading o f the Kampala-Gayaza-Zirobwe-WobulenziRoad the sensitivity
o f the analysis was tested in respect o f 10-20% increase o f construction costs and 10-20%
decreases intraffic volume.

The final report, completed inJune 2003, concluded that the Project road showed a very positive
overall rate o f return of 22.3%. Package 1, the 44.3km between Kampala-Zirobwe has an
economic return of 27.5%; the EIRR decreases in relation to the distance from Kampala but i s
always higher than 12% at section level. This Package is also feasible in the presence o f an
increase o f 20% in construction costs or a decrease in traffic volume o f 20%. The analysis did
indicate, however, that Package 2, Zirobwe-Wobulenzi has an economic return o f lO.8%, i.e.
below the threshold o f 12%, because o f a lower volume of traffic. The EIRR falls to 8.5 and 8.4%
when construction cost increases by 20% or traffic decreases by 20%. The entire Project road
(Packages 1 and 2) remains feasible, however, when these sensitivity tests are carried out, and is
recommended for implementation throughout because of its                   interconnection between
Kampala-Lower0 and Kampala-Zirobwe-Kikyusa roads and thw wider benefits to the area o f
generated traffic.

In order to allow for the possibility of underestimating investment                  costs for the
Soroti-Dokolo-Lira road, costs under this heading were increased by 10% and 20% in the
sensitivity analysis. Assumptions with respect to the traffic levels and growth included inthe initial
HDM-4runs were also tested, with the level of benefits being reduced by 10% and 20%. For
Option 1, a reduction inbenefits o f 20% would reduce the estimated NPV and EIRR to US$5.7
million and 18.3% between Soroti - Dokolo -Lira.            An increase in costs o f 20% between
Soroti-Dokolo would leave NPV and EIRR at US$7.3 million and 19.0 % respectively.                  An
increase in costs o f 20% between Dokolo-Lira would leave NPV at US$7.5 million and EIRR at



                                                 - 61 -

17.9%. A switch analysis shows that for each o f the sections Option 1would stand a near 50%
reduction inbenefits, or a 75% increase incosts, before investment becomes marginal.

A revised analysis of the feasibility o f rehabilitating/regravellingthe Atial-Moyo Road conveyed
to RAFUinMarch 2003 indicates a positive NPV o f US$ 6.3 million and an EIRR o f 21% .The
key assumption inthis analysis relates to a rapid rate o f uptake by area farmers o f traditional and
non-traditional cash crop production once the road i s improved. The sensitivity analysis indicates
that the economic criteria are robust, and the road improvements remain viable even with a quite
moderate rate o f response.

In the case of the Busega-Mityana Road, the results of the HDM-4 analysis showed that
reconstruction is economically feasible, with an EIRR o f 18.3% for the investment and an NPV o f
US$ 10.3 million at the test rate o f 12%. When the sensitivity o f these results was analysed
according to changes in forecast traffic growth and to changes in the estimated investment costs
the investment alternative was found to still be economically feasible. Thus a 25% reduction in
traffic growth rates indicates an EIRR of 16.5% and an increase o f 25% in investment costs an
EIRRof 15.3%; the respective NPVs are US$6.9 millionandUS$6.4 million.

Sensitivity analysis / Switchingvalues of critical items:
                                                                                          Annex 4 /Table 2
                                         National RoadNetwork
                          Financial and PhysicalTargets, 2002/03 -2005/06
                            (expenditures inconstant 2001 US$, length inkm)

                                   2002103     2003104     2004105         2005106      Total
                                                                                       (2002103 -
                                                                                       2005106)
   EXPENDITURES(1)
  Imurovements                         109.55      156.41     135.94          120.89
  Periodic Maintenance                  19.44      37.63       39.65  I         37.58I
  Routine Maintenance (2)               24.12      24.79       24.70 I          19.57 I

  Total Expenditures                   153.11     218.83     200.29           178.04

  LENGTH(1)
  Improvements                          292.2      431.9       445.0            362.2           1,531.3
  Periodic Maintenance
   Paved-reseal                          51.6       150.6      219.3             69.8            491.3
   Unpaved-regravelling                1,201.4    1,172.3    1,208.8          1,173.5          4,756.0
   Routine Maintenance (2)
                                   All network

Note 1: Based on realistic RSDP as presented at Roads Conference o f April 2002.




                                                     - 62 -

                                 Annex 5: Financial Summary
          UGANDA:THIRD PHASEOF THE ROAD DEVELOPMENTPROGRAM

I. TheGOUPovertyEradicationActionPlan(PEAP) identifiessixcriticalsectorsthat
require substantial budget expenditures if the objective o f eradicating poverty i s to be achieved.
Of these, national roads, rural feeder roads and agriculture are seen as directly contributing to
increasing rural incomes and supporting the private sector. The road sector continues to be one o f
Government's fastest growing programs, with GOU spending increasing from about US$50
million in 1998/99 to US$ 82 million in 2001/02 and a projected average o f US$65 million
between 2002/03-2005/06 (see Table 5.1 below), with the allocation to roads and works
representing approximately 6.5% o f total GOUexpenditure.

As indicatedbelow, inthe future the Government will be assuming an increasing share o f the road
maintenance budget, with budget allocations increasing by nearly 60% for national roads from
1998/99 to 2001/02. National road improvement accounted for about a quarter o f Government
financed expenditures in 2001/02 and increasing priority has been given under the Government
budget to district road maintenance and improvements, with allocations increasing by 20% from
1998/99 to 2001/02. In the process, it will be important that the current detailed accountability
and effectiveness measures in place for monitoring development spending should also be
implemented for spending funded under the recurrent budget.




OTHER DONOR             2.3      9.0        2.1      0.0       0.0        4.4        6.7      2.7
FUNDED
TOTAL GOU               61.5    71.0      82.0       88.9      73.5      74.5      82.9      82.3
  TOTAL DONOR         45.1      43.6      20.6       69.7      28.6     117.4     113.7     115.8




                                               - 63 -

Table 5.2:   MediumTermExpenditureFramework(excludingarrears and
taxes). Wage, Non-wage recurrentandGOU-fundedDevelopmentExpenditures




Source: MOFPED, Background to theBudget.




                                          - 64 -

                               Annex 5b: FiscalImpact of RDPP3

                 UGANDA: ROADDEVELOPMENTPROGRAMPHASE 3

The first part o f this analysis deals with the budget issues: (i)Government fiscal situation; (ii)
overall level o f recurrent costs required to operate the sector adequately and the volume o f
financing provided by the Government in the past; and (iii)availability and certainty o f
counterpart funds for the project.

The second part o f the analysis focuses on the direct impacts o f the road construction projects
under RDP Phase 3: (i)incremental revenue from taxes linked to construction projects, (ii)
increase or decrease in recurrent costs resulting from the strengthened or upgraded roads; (iii)
increase or decrease inmaintenance costs resulting from the strengthened or upgraded roads; (iv)
prospects for financing additional expenses linked to recurrent andor maintenance expenditures,
ifany; and(v) needto service the debtincurredtobuildthe road.

The construction projects taken into consideration inthe fiscal impact analysis are: (i)
                                                                                       Kampala -
Gayaza - Zirobwe-Wobulenzi Road, 67 km; (ii)       Soroti-Dokolo-Lira Road, 125 km; (iii) -
                                                                                          Atiak
Moyo Road, 91 km; (iv) Busega - Mityana Road, 57km; and (iv) Construction o f the
Headquarters for the Road Authority.

I. PresentFiscalSituation

The GOU's present fiscal situation can be derived from the "Background to the Budget Financial
Year 2003/04" produced by the MOFPED inJune 2003. The provisional fiscal data for 2002/03
indicate that Government expenditures will be equivalent to 23.4% o f GDP. This is an increase o f
6.1% over the outturn for 2001/02. Domestic revenues are projected at 12.1% o f GDP, o f which
Ushs 1393 billion are URA revenues and Ushs 25 billion are non-URA revenues. URA revenues
are projected to achieve their budget target for 2002/03, which is a major improvement on
previous years' performances. Regrettably, non-URA revenues, comprising non-tax revenues
collected by line Ministries and dividends from parastatals, under-performed by Ushs 15 billion.

The overall fiscal deficit, excluding grants, is projected at 11.3% o f GDP. While this i s still
considered to be too high, it represents a marked improvement on the previous fiscal year's
outturn o f 13% o f GDP. Its reduction has been achieved by a combination o f slowing the growth
inGovernment expenditure and stronger growth indomestic revenues.

The donor budget support outturn is projected to be about Ushs 40 billion higher than
programmedlargely because o f a larger than expected depreciation o f the Ush.

Domestic revenues, which are predominantly tax revenues, are projected to rise by 0.6 percentage
points o f GDP in 2003/04, from 12.1% to 12.7% o f GDP. Expenditures under the Government
budget will remain almost flat as a percentage of GDP, at 18.1% o f GDP. It is not possible for
GOU expenditures to be any higher if Government is to control liquidity creation, maintain



                                                - 65 -

microeconomic stability and stem the rise in Government's domestic interest costs. Starting in
2004/05, sector ceilings which cover both the GOU budget and externally fundedprojects will be
imposed in order to exact better control over the growth o f Government's expenditure. Because
the Government deficit i s linked most closely to liquidity creation, the reduction inthe deficit will
help to reduce the pressure inthe domestic financial markets, and therefore should allow greater
stability ininterest rates andmake more roomavailable for private sector borrowing.

Government's primary economic policy objective is to promote rapid, broad-based and
sustainable, private sector-led economic growth, which i s a prerequisite for poverty eradication.
To achieve this objective, fiscal policy must be consistent with macroeconomic stability. At the
same time fiscal policy must also ensure that the private sector is not crowded out o f key
domestic markets by excessive demand from the public sector. The supply side policies that are
neededto boost growth, include the Plan for Modernization o fAgriculture andthe MediumTerm
Competitiveness Strategy (MTCS) for the private sector (2000-05).

The MCTS was prepared during 1999/2000 through a consultative process with stakeholders to
deal with the major constraints to private sector development. The key elements include reforms
in infrastructure provision, particularly the utilities; strengthening the financial sector and
improving access to credit; reforms in the commercial justice sector; institutional reforms which
include dealing with corruption, reforms in public procurement, simplifying administrative
procedures, and improving tax administration; and strengthening the export sector. This initiative
continues to inform the budget preparationprocess for the 2003/04 Budget.




                                                - 66 -

Summary of Government Budgetary and FinancialOperations,2001102 - 2002/03 (Billion
Shillings)

                                      2001102         2002103        2002103     2002103
 Budgeminancia1                       Actual          Budget         Approved    Projected
                                      Outturn         Estimates      Budget      Outturn
 Revenue and grants                   1,998.20        2,293.82       2,293.80    2,322.00
Recurrent 11                          1,253.60        1,432.60       1,432.60    1,408.46
Grants                                744.60          861.22         861.20      913.54


Expenditure and lending               2,467.90        2,684.73       2,685.96    2,713.67
Current expenditures                  1,429.90        1,536.16       1,537.49    1,583.94
Wages & Salaries                      541S O          627.73         627.00      612.78
Interest payments                     153.48          145.83         145.83       181.47
Statutory 2/                          121.13           102.70        101.46       102.81
Other recurrent 3/                    613.79          629.90         663.20      586.88

Development expenditures             I1,033.15       I 1,119.90    1 1,119.80   I 1,144.20
External                             \578.00         I 632.20      I 632.20     I 701.50
Domestic 4/                          I455.15         I487.70        1487.60     I 442.70
Net lending                           4.85             -21.33        -21.33       -14.47


Overall balance
Excluding grants                      1,214.30         -1,252.13     -1,253-36    -1,305.21
Including grants                      -469.70          -390.91       -392.16      -391.67


Financing                             469.70           390.91        392.16       391.67


External financing (net)              465.70           450.60        450.58       749.54


Domestic financing (net)              -124.45          -40.00        -40.00       139.43
Banking financing                     21.37            0.00          0.00         105.53
Bank of Uganda                        -190.33          0.00          0.00         -74.47
Commercial banks                      211.70           0.00          0.00         180.00
 Non-bank financing                   145.82           -40.00        -40.00       33.90
Note:
I/       revenue includes non tax revenue and dividends
2/       excludes PAF
3/       includes total recurrent PAF
4/       includes Development PAF
Source:   MOFPED

The overall level of recurrent costs required to operate L e transport sector adequately      an^the
volume of financing provided by the Government in the recent past can be derived from the
Transport Sector Investment and Recurrent Expenditures Program (TSIREP) dated March 2003.
This report states that "in order to optimize the investment made inroads, reinstate andpreserve
the road network to required level of services, Government has highly prioritized national road
maintenance. Financing of national road maintenance is basically the responsibility of the


                                                    - 67  -

Government". Government has recently committed itself to continue increasing funding for
maintenance by an equivalent inUS$ 2 million annually. Government will, inprinciple, finance all
national road maintenance costs by 2010/11, and seek donor support for road rehabilitation
operations only.

The Table below shows funding commitments to RSDP national roads maintenance programs
from 1998/1999to 2004/05 for both the Government andthe Development Partners:

Fundingcommitmentto NationalRoadsMaintenanceProgrammeinUS$ million

I          I1998/99   I 1999/00   I 2000/01   12002/02    I2002/03  I2003/04   I2004/05      I
            Actual      Actual      Actual    Actual       Actual    Budget     Projected
 GOU       23.90        31.67       32.61      37.80       29.80      3 1.68    35.00
Donor       18.24       14.58       4.74       8.70        3.86       3.25      6.27
 Total     42.14        46.25       37.35      46.50       66.00      34.93     41.27


Over the RSDP period, Government has committed US$472 million for national roads
maintenance and development partners have committed about US$62 million.                  Further,
Government has committedUS$277million for district, urban and community roads maintenance.



The Government has demonstrated its commitment to provide the necessary counterpart funds for
the project and indeed for the entire road sector over the medium term. This clearly illustrated in
the Government's Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) which is a mechanism for
determining Government medium term expenditure priorities and allocating these funds through
the budgetary process. The MTEF gives three-year expenditure projections, which are revised
annually as part o f the budget process. The allocations to the roads sector are shown in the
TSIREP.

I1.     FiscalImpact

The second part o f the analysis focuses on the direct impacts o f the road construction projects.
The incremental revenue from taxes linked to construction, the increase or decrease in recurrent
expenditures and maintenance costs resulting from the strengthened or upgraded roads and the
need to service the debt incurred to build the road are enumerated in the attached Table shown
below.

The following assumptions have been used:

(i) yearsunderreviewarethosepertainingtothecreditperiod, Le. September30,2004to
   the
December 2009;

(ii) onlyfiscalimpactregardingthedisbursementofthecreditrelevanttothisanalysisisthe
    the
credit inflow of capital, as reimbursement o f the principal and the interest will not take place
duringthe period o fanalysis;



                                               - 68 -

(iii) leveloftaxationoncivilworkshasbeenassumedtobe17%, 10%representingnetVAT
     the
paidby contractors and 7% representing levies, mostly on imported goods;
(iv) there is only a very small increase inthe level of recurrent expenditures, that is expenditures
which are implemented at least once a year, because no new roads are being built, but only
existing roads strengthened or upgraded. The following additional costs have been calculated:
additional routine maintenance costs = approximately UGS 448,000/ x 67 km from upgrading
Kampala-Gayaza-Zirobwe-Wobulenzito paved standards=US$ 15,000 per annum based on the
difference o f annual routine maintenance costs between unpavedandpaved roads described inthe
10 Year RSDP Update dated March 2002. On a similar basis, an annual incremental routine
maintenance cost of US$28,000 has been assumed for the Soroti-Dokolo-Lira Road.

(v) there is no change inperiodic maintenance costs as the roads under review will not incur any
substantial maintenance investment duringthe period of analysis.




                                                - 69 -

FISCAL IMPACT OF RDPP3 (up to the closing date)


                                                     2004/05     2005/06       2006/07       2007/08  2008/09  2009/10

Loan Disbursement(1)                                5.05         14.8          22.44         26.61    26.61   4.11




ofpriorityNationa1Roads
RoadAgency Headquarters                                                       0.62           0.83     0.16
Institutional Support                                0.16         0.24
ExtemalAudit Services                               0.09          0.13
TotalRevenue                                        4.51          41.12         38.42        26.83    3.43     6.53

Debt Service (1)
IncreaseinrecurrentCosts (3)(5)
 ChangesinMaintenance Costs (4)
Notes:
1. Because there is a ten year grace period, no reimbursement o f capital or interest is included
2. Assuming 17% taxes
3. There is only a very minor change inrecurrent expenditures as investments are made on existing roads
4. Changes inmaintenance costs will not occur before the end o f the credit period
5. Incremental recurrent costs for Road Agency HQstill being determined.




                                                            - 70 -

                           Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
          UGANDA THIRD PHASE OF THE ROAD DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM

Procurement

Procurement Policy and Regulation

1.      A Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) for Uganda completed inApril 2004
updated the 2001 CPAR.        It concluded that the Public procurement procedures in Uganda
continue to undergo reform. In November 2002, a new procurement legislation based on the
UnitedNations Commissionon InternationalTrade and Law (UNCITRAL) model, was passedby
Parliament and subsequently signed into law by the President o f the Republic o f Uganda on
December 19, 2002, resulting in "The Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets Act,
2003". The new law came into force when the Minister o f Finance, Planning and Economic
Development, by Statutory Instrument, appointed February 21, 2003 as the commencement day
o f the Act. The Minister also made the supporting regulations in September 2003. The Bank
contributed substantially to the development o f the new legislation.

2.      The Public Procurement Act, 2003 applies to all public procurement anddisposal activities
undertaken by public institutions, including parastatal organizations and defense procurement. It
specifies Procuring and Disposing Entities (PDEs), and for each PDE, an Accounting Officer, a
Contracts Committee or Tender Board (in case o f a Local Government), a Procuring and
Disposal Unit (PDU), Evaluation Committees and User Departments                all with different
responsibilities. However, the Local Governments (LGs) and statutory bodies unlike the Central
Government (CG) ministries still have to harmonize their procurement systems andpractices with
the provisions o f the new law, and in some cases this may require amendment o f the relevant
statutes. The LGs therefore continue to follow procurement procedures provided under the Local
Government Act, 1997 as amended, while other statutory bodies operate on interim arrangements
which depict varying levels o f implementation o f the new Act from body to body. Ingeneral, all
C G ministries now have contract committees and PDUs to carry out procurements and the
Permanent Secretaries (Accounting Officers) provide the first line o f appeal         in case of
complaints.    The Public Procurement and Disposal o f Public Assets Authority (PPDA) has
replaced the former Central Tender Board which had been renamed the Reformed Central Tender
Board (RCTB) in anticipation o f the new law. The PPDA is a procurement regulatory body.
Thus public procurement has been effectively decentralized to the PDEs, leaving the PPDA the
functions o f developing regulations, guidelines, standard bidding documents and carrying out
compliance checks and audits, publishing contract awards, and pre-qualifying and approving the
use o f Third Party Procurement Agents (TPPA) by PDEs. The Authority also provides a second
line o f appeal incase o f complaints. There is no formal appeals body beyond the PPDA but the
2004 CPAR recommended that appeals and complaints beyond the PPDA and against the PPDA
be handledby a body appointedby the Inspectorate o f Government.




                                                - 71 -

3.      Studies have been carried out to assess the capacity building needs at the LGs and other
studies are underway on the harmonization o f the procurement systems and practices at the LG
levels, the statutory bodies, and Communities with the provisions o f the new Act. The Bank is
providing assistance in implementing the new procurement legislation and regulations using
various instruments. The harmonization process i s being supported through the Bank funded
Second Local Government Development Project (LGDP II),            while the implementation o f the
recommendations o f the 2004 CPAR will be followed up usingthe PRSC instrument. The PPDA
has prepared drafts o f national procurement guidelines, national standard bidding documents and
evaluation forms and has pre-qualified TPPAs that, with PPDA approval, assist weak
procurement units on an as-needed basis.

Use of Bank Guidelines

4.      Procurement o f civil works will take place in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines:
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (May 2004) ". The most current versions o f
the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) for Works,                     Standard Prequalification
Documents (SPD) and the Standard BidEvaluationForms will be used.

5.      Procurement o f consulting services will take place in accordance with the Bank's
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (May 2004) ".
The Bank's Standard Request for Proposals will be used and forms of contracts as needed
(lump-sum, time-based, andor simplified contracts for short-term assignments and individual
consultants), as well as the Sample Form o f Evaluation Report for the Selection o f Consultants.

Advertising

6.      A General ProcurementNotice (GPN) will be prepared and issueduponboard approval in
the United Nations Development Business (UNDB online) and in the Development Gateway's
dgMarket listing all International Competitive Bidding (ICB) contracts for works, and large
contracts for consultants services (above US$200,000 equivalent) to obtain expressions o f interest
(EOI) and to draw-up a pool o f solid candidate firms from which to compile the short lists.
 Sufficient time will be allowed (minimum o f 14 days from date o f posting on UNDB online)
before preparing the short list.

 7.      The related prequalification or bidding documents, as applicable, will not be released - or
the short list for consultant services will not be prepared -until at least eight weeks after the GPN
has been published. Inaddition, EOIs may be sought from prospective consultants by advertising
 ina national newspaper, official gazette or technical magazine. A GPNwill also be issued inthe
national press and official gazette and Specific Procurement Notices (SPNs) for works will be
 advertised in the national press o f wide circulation, and internationally for large (ICB) contracts.
 Sufficient time will be allowed to obtain the bid documents.            In the case of consultancy
 assignments estimated to cost US$200,000 equivalent or less, the assignment may only needto be
 advertised nationally.




                                                 - 72 -

Procurement Capacity

8.      RAFUwill retainresponsibilityfor procurement as part ofits overallresponsibilityfor the
implementation o f the Program and the Project. The PDU which was established in RAFU in
January 2000 will be responsible for coordinating project management, implementation, reporting
and execution o f procurement activities. A procurement management capacity assessment o f
RAFU was carried out by the Bank in September 2003 to determine their ability to manage
procurement in accordance with Bank procurement guidelines.           The PDU has experience with
Bank-financed contracts under the first two phases o f the Roads Development Program under
which procurement management has been implementedsatisfactorily. Consultants have been hired
to assist with work in the PDU under the Road Sector Institutional Strengthening and Technical
Assistance Project (RSISTAP), but there remains a need for two additional staff,           (i) Senior
Project Engineer (Procurement), and (ii)     Legal Officer both o f whom are required to strengthen
the PDU. It was noted that record keeping o f key documentation related to procurement
activities i s not systematic and there is, invariably, a considerable time lag between bid opening
and contract signature. The overall procurement risk for the project is rated as "AVERAGE."

9.       Based on this assessment, thresholds for prior review o fprocurementprocedures by the
Bank have been set and are presented inthe paragraphs on "Prior Review" below. These
thresholds will be reviewed annually when ex-post procurement reviews are carried out to update
this initial procurement management capacity assessment. To enhance the Procurement
Management Capacity the following actions shall be taken by RAFUwithin the first year o fthe
project. (i)  Fillthe vacant positions ofthe Senior ProjectEngineer (Procurement) andLegal
Officer o f qualifications acceptable to IDA; (ii) train the relevant RAFUstaff on procurement
management o f Bank-funded contracts; and (iii)     set up a procurement filing system satisfactory to
IDA.

Scope of IDA financed procurement under the project

10.      Total project cost is estimated at US$ 133.0 million. IDA will contribute US$ 107.60
million towards the financing o fworks and consultant services as detailed inTable A. The civil
works will comprise: the upgrading o f about 67 kmo f Kampala-Gayaza-Zirobwe-Wobulenziroad
and 123 kmo f Soroti-Dokolo-Lira, each dividedinto 2 packages; strengthening andrehabilitation
o f about 57 kmo f Busega-Mityana road; re-gravelling o f Atiak-Moyo road; and construction o f
the RoadAuthority Offices. The consultancy services will cover: the supervisioncontracts o f the
seven civil works contracts, including feasibility and design updating for Busega-Mityana; detailed
designof 300 kmo f district gravel roads to be reclassified to National roads andupgradedto
paved (bitumen) standard; feasibility studies o f 600 kmo fpriority National roads for upgrading to
paved (bitumen) standard; and institutional support to the establishment o f the proposedRoad
Authority. The project will also finance audit services on an annual basis.




                                                  - 73 -

ProcurementPlan

11.     A procurement planfor the project preparedby the Borrower as part ofthe Project
Implementation Planhave been agreedto as satisfactoryby IDAonJuly 16,2004. The
ProcurementPlans are keptwithin the RAFUheadoffice on Plot 11,Yusuf Lule Roadin
Kampala. Under the plans, the Contracts for upgrading o f 125kmof Soroti-Dokolo-Lira road,
are dividedinto 2 packages. The 67 kmof Kampala-Gayaza-Zirobwe-Wobulenziroad, is
estimatedat US$ 78.18 million; strengtheningandrehabilitation of Busega-Mityanaroad is
estimated at US$ 24.31million; re-gravelling of Atiak-Moyo road is estimatedat US$ 10.88
million; andconstruction of RoadAuthority Offices has beenestimatedat US$ 7.5 million all to
beprocured through ICBproceduressatisfactoryto the Association. Prequalification of civil
works contractorswill be done for large contracts costing US$ 10million equivalent or above per
contract. The total amount for civil works is US$120.87 million.

12.      Contracts for consulting services for (i)Construction supervision of roadupgrading
(estimated at US$ 5.44 million); (ii)Detailed Designof 300 kmof district gravel roads reclassified
to National road standard (estimatedat US$ 1.60million); (iii)   Feasibility Studies of 600 kmof
priority national roads for upgrading (estimated at US$ 2.0 million); and(iv) Institutional support
to the establishment ofthe RoadAuthority (estimated at US$ 3.1 million) will be procured
following the Quality and Cost-BasedSelection(QCBS) method. To ensure that priority is given
to the identification of suitable andqualified national consulting firms, shortlists of consultantsfor
services estimatedto cost less thanUS$200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely
national consultantsinaccordancewith the provisions of paragraph2.7 of the Consultant
Guidelines.For Services for assignmentsof aroutine nature, for which well-establishedpractices
and standards exist such as financial audits, the Least Cost Selection(LCS) method may beused
inaccordancewiththe provisions ofparagraphs3.7 ofthe ConsultantGuidelines. For tasks that
meet requirements set forth inparagraph3.8 to 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines, consultant
services may with the Bank'sprior agreementbe procured on single source basis. The total
amount for consulting services is US$12.13 million.

13.     Procurementdocumentation for civil works contracts above US$ 1,000,000 and
consultancycontracts above US$200,000 for firms andUS$ 100,000 for individuals will be
subject to prior review by IDA. The Borrower will obtain IDA'Sno-objection to technical
evaluation of consultant's proposalsbefore proceedingto public opening of the financial
proposals. Post review of the contracts below the above thresholdswill be carried out selectively
by IDA supervisionmissions and/or independentauditors. All consulting services contractsbased
on single-source appointments, irrespective of their cost, will be subject to prior review by IDA.




                                                - 74 -

Procurement methods(Table A)

   Table A: ProjectCosts by ProcurementArrangements(US$ millionequivalent)


    ExpenditureCategory       ICB              Procuremen         Method           N.B.F.       Total Cost
                                               t                   Other
                                               NCB




   Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA credit and grant. All costs
   include contingencies.

   Table Al: ConsultantSelectionArrangements(optional)
   (US$ millionequivalent)



    ConsultantServices
    Expenditure            QCBS         QBS       SFB        Least                                Total
    Category                                                 cost                                 Cost1
                                                             Selection

                                                             LCS                          I
    A. Firms                11.03     I 0.00      0.00       1.10         ;To) I    0.00   0.00    12.13
                           9.93)      I(O.00)    (0.00)     (0.99)                 (0.00) (0.00) :10.92)
~    ~~
 B. Individuals                                                           0.00    10.00   10.00   1.00
                                                                          (0.00)   (0.00) (0.00)  :o.oo>
 Total                                                                                           12.13
                                                                          ~



                                                                           (0.00)   (0.00) (0.00)  (10.92)
        Including contingencies
       Note:
       QCBS         -        Quality and Cost Based Selection
       QBS          -        Quality based Selection
       SFB          -        Selection under a FixedBudget
       LCS          -        Least Cost Selection
       CQ           -
                    -        Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
       Other        -        Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
                    Commercial Practices, etc.
       N.B.F.       -        Not Bank-financed
       Figures inparentheses are the amounts to be financed by the IDA credit and grant.




                                                    - 75 -

    Prior Review Thresholds (Table B)

    Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review

      Expenditure Category            Contract Value        rocurement    Contracts Subject           Remarks
                                      Threshold             Zethod               to
                                                                           Prior Review
                                                                           (US$ millions)
1.Works                               US$    1,000,000 and                      All
                                      above

1. Consultant Services
    US$200,000 andabove              QCBS                         All
   Firms                          Less than US$200,000      .cs                None         LeastCost Selectionto
                                                                                            beusedfor contractsof
                                                                                            routinenaturewherewell
                                                                                            establishedpracticesand
                                                                                            standardsexistsuchas
                                                                                            for financial audits. All
                                                                                            contractsfor which single
                                                                                            source selectionmethod
                                                                                            is usedwillbe subjectto
                                                                                            IDA priorreview.



Total value of contracts subject to prior review:     US$125.66 million

Overall Procurement RiskAssessment: AVERAGE

Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 12 months (includes special procurement
supervisionfor post-reviewlaudits)

Detailsof the ProcurementArrangementinvolvinginternationalcompetition.

Works.

14. All the Works contracts will be procured usingthe International Competitive Bidding(ICB) method as
detailed inthe project procurement plans. Below i s a description of the procurement arrangements. Direct
contracting which isn't a competitive arrangement may also involve sourcing contractors or suppliers
internationally butthe current plandoesn't include any contracts to beprocuredby direct contracting.




                                                       - 76 -

Table of List of contract Packageswhich will be procured following ICB procedures:

        1                 2             3                 4                5                6
   Contract         Estimated         Pre-            Domestic        Review by        Expected
(Description)           Cost      Qualificatio      Preference          Bank               Bid
                       (US$             n             (Yes/No)       (PriorRost)       Opening
                     `000,000)     (YesRost)                                              Date
Kampala-Gayaz          21.06           Yes              Yes              Prior        March 22,
a-Zirobwe Road                                                                            2005
Zirobwe-Wobul          10.12           Yes              Yes              Prior        March22,
enzi Road                                                                                 2005
Atiak-Moyo             10.88          Post              Yes              Prior        March22,
Road                                                                                      2005
Soroti-Dokolo          21.10           Yes              Yes              Prior       July 18,2005
Road
Dokolo-Lira            25.90           Yes              Yes              Prior       July 18,2005
Road
Busega-Mityana         24.30           Yes               Yes             Prior      June 12,2005
Road
RoadAgency              7.50           Yes               Yes             Prior         April 27,
Headquarters                                                                              2006
Construction       1
                                                                                                     I

(b) ICB Contracts estimated to cost above US$l,OOO,OOO      for works per contract and all Direct contracting
will be subject to prior review bythe Bank.

Consulting Services.

15. The methods that will be used for the selection o f Consultants include, the Quality and Cost Based
Selection (QCBS), Least Cost Selection (LCS) for firms and Individual Consultants (IC) for individuals.
Current plans don't have any contracts for which selection will be by the Single Source Selection (SSS)
method which is applicable for both firms and individuals.         Below i s a description o f the selection
arrangementsthat will involve short lists of international firms.




                                                    - 77 -

Table of Listof ConsultingAssignmentswith short-list of internationalfirms.

       1                 2               3                     4                5
Descriptionof      Estimated         Selection          Bank Review       ExpectedDate
Assignment             cost          Method              (Prior/Post)      of Proposals
                 (US$ `000,000)                                            Submission
Construction            0.92          QCBS                   Prior         Sept 28,2004
Supervision of
Kampal-Zirobwe                                                          I

Road
Construction            0.44          QCBS                   Prior         Sept 28,2004
Supervision of
Zirobwe-Wobule
miRoad
Construction            0.94          QCBS
Supervision of
Atiak-Moyo
Road
Construction            1.02          QCBS                   Prior         June 24,2005
Supervisionof
Soroti-Dokolo
Road (I)
Construction            1.02          QCBS                   Prior         June 24,2005
Supervisionof
Dokolo-Lira
Road (11)
Construction            1.10           QCBS                  Prior         Jan 24,2005
Supervisionof
Busega-Mityana

                        1.60           QCBS                  Prior          Apr 4,2005
of 300Km of

L
Reclassified
District Roads
Feasibility Study       2.00           QCBS                  Prior          Apr 4,2005
to Upgrade 600
KmofNational
Roads
TA to Road              2.00         Various                                  Various
Authoritv                                                                I
                                                           Prior'Post




                                           -78 -

(b) Consultancy services estimated to cost above US$200,000 for firms and US$lOO,OOO for individuals
per contract andall Single Source selection ofconsultants willbe subject to prior reviewbythe Bank.

(c) Short lists composed entirely of national consultants: Short lists of consultantsfor services estimated
to cost less than US$200,000 equivalentper contract, may be composedentirely ofnational consultants in
accordancewith 1.                Publicprocurement procedures inUganda are undergoingreform. In
November 2002, a new procurement legislationbased on the UNCITRAL model was passedby
Parliament andwas subsequently signed into law by the President o f the Republic o f Uganda on
December 19,2002, resulting in "The Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets Act,
2003 ". The new law came into force when the Minister of Finance, Planning andEconomic
Development by Statutory Instrument appointed February 21,2003 as the commencement day o f
the Act. The Bank contributed substantially to the development o fthe new legislation. The
supporting regulations have been issued.

Disbursement

Allocation of creditproceeds(Table C)

Table C: Allocationof Credit andGrant Proceeds

       ExpenditureCategory                 Amount inUS$    Amount    AmountIDA    PercentageofIDA
                                           million         IDA credit grant       Financing
 Civil Works                                                                             80%
 (a) All works other than Busega-Mityana   64.34            30.70          33.64
 (b) Busega-Mityana                        24.30            24.30
Consultant Services, andaudit fees       10.92              4.56           6.36          90%
Unallocated                              8.04               8.04

 Total                                     107.60           61.60          40.00



Disbursement

16. The IDA Credit and Grant would be disbursed against the categories given inTable C on the
basis o f the schedule o f disbursements shown below. Disbursements would be made against
standard documentation. To facilitate payments from the Credit and the Grant, two Special
Accounts would be established and would be operated and maintained on terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA. The accounts would have an initial authorized allocation as follows: US$ 2.0
million for the credit and US$ 1.0 million for the grant, and would be replenished following
application for reimbursement by MOWHC together with appropriate supporting documentation.
The amount o f IDA replenishment would not exceed the authorized allocation. The closing date
would be December 31, 2009, with physical completion o f works expected 6 months before that
date.




                                                        - 79 -

17. Statements of Expenditures (SOEs): Disbursements for contracts of works and goods
estimated to cost up to US$250,000 equivalent and consulting contracts with firms costing up to
US$200,000 equivalent, and consulting services for individual consultants costing US$lOO,OOO or '


less, would be made against statement o f expenditures.

EstimatedIDA Disbursements(US$ m):

        IDA FY           2005  I2006       12007       I2008    I2009      I 2010

        Annual      7.05         15.85      23.64       27.71    27.61       5.74
        Cumulative  7.05        22.90       46.54       74.25    101.86      107.60




                                               - 80 -

             Annex 6(B): FinancialManagementand DisbursementArrangements
             UGANDA:THIRD PHASEOF THE ROAD DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM

FinancialManaPement
1. Summary ofthe Financial Management Assessment
Countryissues

1.      Inrecent years, significant improvements inpublic sector accounting and reporting have
been achieved. Most notably, the annual public accounts of Government have been produced
within the statutory period o f four months after the end of the financial year for each of the past
four years. Nevertheless, recent assessments undertaken by Government jointly with donors, such
as the Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) that was carried out by IDA in
collaboration with the GOU, have identified a number o f areas that need to be strengthened to
enhance financial management. Inadequate financial accounting and auditing systems both at the
central Government level and in the districts pose a major fiduciary risk. While Uganda has a
relatively good budgeting system, accounting for public expenditure using the present manual
system is weak, largely because o f weak staff capacities, neglect for timely and regular recording
o f transactions, side-stepping o f controls, and low levels o f financial discipline. It was noted
during the CFAA that findings of audit reports were not regularly followed up. There is also a
shortage o f qualified accountants inthe public sector.

2.      With the support of a number o f donor assisted initiatives, such as the Second Economic
and Financial Management Project (EFMP 11) and the Local Government Development Project
(LGDP) supported by IDA, and the Financial Accountability and Decentralization Support
Project funded by DFID, Government is seeking to rapidly enhance the financial accountability
framework in order to: mitigate fiduciary risk in public expenditure management; achieve
economy, efficiency and effectiveness in the use o f public funds; enhance transparency and
accountability; enhance staff capacity in public financial management; and to establish an
appropriate enabling environment for private sector development and regulation. These initiatives
and reforms have been supported and strengthened through the PRSCs. A CFAA update is to be
carried out inFY04as a component o f an IntegratedFiduciary Assessment.

FinancialManagementSystem

3.      The objectives o fthe project's financial management system are:

0    to ensure that funds are used only for their intended purposes in an efficient and economical
    way;
0   to ensure that funds are properly managed and flow smoothly, adequately, regularly and
    predictably inorder to meet the objectives o f the project;
0   to enable the preparation o f accurate andtimely financial reports;
0   to enable project management to monitor the efficient implementation o f the project; and
0   to safeguard the project assets and resources.




                                                - 81 -

4.      Furthermore, the following are necessary features o f a strong financial management
system:

0   the Project Coordination Unit should have an adequate number and mix o f skilled and
    experienced staff;
0   the internal control system should ensurethe conduct o fan orderly andefficient payment and
    procurementprocess, andproper recording and safeguarding o f assets and resources;
0   the accounting system should support the project's requests for funding and meet its reporting
    obligations to find providers including Government o f Uganda, IDA, other donors, and local
    communities;
0   the system shouldbe capable o fproviding financial data to measure performance when linked
    to the output o f the project; and
0   an independent, qualified auditor should be appointed to review the Project's financial
    statements and internal controls.

Strengths and weaknesses
5.      In the case of the Project, the financial management is strengthened by the following
salient features:

0   The accounting personnel are adequately qualified andexperienced. The project is a follow-on
    project o f the earlier phases o f the Program andthe staff o f this project are being retained.
    These staff are conversant with the BankFinancial Management andDisbursement Guidelines;

0   RAFUisusingPastelAccounting software which canproduce the FinancialMonitoring
    Reports; and

0   There is anadequate FinancialManagement Manual that i s already inplace.

6.      The project financial management i s weakened by the following salient features:

0   The project is subject to statutory internal audit regulations through which the intemal audit
    h c t i o n i s providedby the MOWHC. However, the performance o f this function i s only
    limitedto the pre-audit inspection ofthe project's transactions, andno internal audit reviews
    are undertaken to ensure, for instance, that internal control guidelines are complied with.
    However, it i s envisaged that this shall be sorted out when parliament approves the law
    makingRAFUa legalentity which shall allow RAFUto have anInternalAuditor within its
    structure;

0   RAFUisnotyet a legalentity. This slows downthe efficiency ofimplementingtheRAFU
    projects; and

0   There is needto improve onthe linkages between physicalprogress andfinancial outcomes.




                                                 - 82 -

Institutionalandimplementationarrangements

7.      RAFUunder MOWHC will be responsible for the overall implementation of the project.
RAFUhas been the implementing agency for four IDA financed projects which are the earlier
phases of the Program, ElNino Emergency Road Repair Project (ENERR) and the Road Sector
Institutional Support Technical Assistance Project (RSISTAP) inaddition to other donor financed
projects, and it i s expected that initially, the financial management arrangements used for RDPP 3
will be based on those for the other IDA financedprojects.

8.      Duringproject execution RAFU as the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) established by
MOWHCshall coordinate project implementationandmanage:


(a)     procurement, including purchases o f goods, works, and consulting services,
(b)     project monitoring, reporting and evaluation;
(c)     contractual relationships with IDA and other co-financiers; and
(d)     financial management and recordkeeping, accounts and disbursements.

9.      The PCU will ensure efficient coordination among different elements o f MOWHC that
participate inthe project and with other main stakeholders, including, but not limited, to National
Environment Management Authority, participating Ministries and agencies. The PCU will also
constitute the operational link to the IDA and other co-financiers on matters related to the
implementation o f the project.

10.     The Permanent Secretary (PS), MOWHC, will be the "Accounting Officer" (or the Chief
Executive Officer for the road authority on its establishment) for the project, assuming the overall
responsibility for accounting for the project funds.


BankAccounts

11.     The following bank accounts will be maintained for the purposes o f implementing the
project:

0   Special Account : Two accounts denominated inUS dollars will be opened for respectively
    disbursements from the IDA Credit and for disbursements from the IDAGrant.
0   Proiect Account: This will be denominated inlocal currency. Counterpart funds andtransfers
    from the Special Accounts (for payment o f transactions inlocal currency) will be deposited on
    this account inaccordance with project objectives.

12.     These bank accounts shall be opened at a commercial bank acceptable to IDA by
effectiveness date. Initial cash flow forecasts upon which the advance disbursement will be made
from the IDA Credit and the IDA Grant should also be prepared by the same date. The account
signatories are documented inthe FMM.




                                                     -83 -

Flow of Funds

13.      IDAwillmake aninitial advance disbursement from the proceeds ofthe Credit and.the
Grantbydepositing into Borrower-operated Special Accounts (SA) heldat a commercialbank
acceptable to IDA anddenominated inU S Dollars.

Fundsflow arrangementsfor the project will bethrough the two bank accountsdescribedabove.

0     Actual eligible expenditure will be reimbursed through submission o fWithdrawal Applications
      and against Statements o f Expenditure which will be approved inaccordance with internal
      control measures applied inRAFU.
0     While the activities are implemented inthe field, the payments will be done centrally from the
      RAFUoffice inKampala.
0     Initial and subsequent quarterly deposits o f counterpart funds andtransfers from the SA (for
      payment o f transactions inlocal currency) will be deposited inthe Project Account in
      accordance with project objectives. The Government will allocate andpay over counterpart
      funds for the projectby cheque (warrant o f funds). Counterpart funds are allocated through
      the normal central government budgetary process. Counterpart funds are accessedthrough
      compliance with the country specific Financial Regulations.

Staffing

14.       RAFU has a Finance and Administration Department headed by the Finance and
Administration Manager (FAM) who directs and guides the financial management operations o f
the implemented projects. The FAM reports to the RAFU Director. He is assisted by a Senior
Finance andAdministration Officer incharge o f maintaining the books and records o f the projects
financed by donors as well as supervisory responsibilities over the other accountants that include
two accountants and one accounts assistant. Inthe management letter for the year ended 30 June
2002 that accompanied the audited financial statements for the same period, the auditors noted
that the level of staffing in the department was inadequate for the level o f responsibilities o f the
Department. Two additional accountants were recommended to be recruited after an internaljob
evaluation exercise. In response to this, management has recruited one accountant who
commenced to work on November 1 2003 and they plan to recruit the other staff when the
maintenance function of the project begins later next year. In this regard, the staffing
arrangements are adequate for the RDPP 3 project. However once the roadmaintenance function
i s transferred to RAFUfrom MOWHC begins, another accountant shall have to be recruited.

15.       Most o f RAFU's accounting staff have attended a number o f Bank courses on
Procurement, Financial Management andDisbursement Guidelines.




                                                  - 84 -

16.     The staff in RAFU's Finance and Administration Department are experienced and
qualified. This is illustratedbelow:-

(i) FinanceandAdministrativeManagerhasaMastersdegreeinBusinessAdministration
   The
from the University o f Birmingham and a Bachelor's degree inCommerce (Accounting) from
Makerere University with nineteenyears o f experience inaccounting and finance.

(ii) SeniorFinanceandAdministrationOfficerisaprofessionalaccountantwithACCAand
    The
CPA (Uganda) membership. H e also holds a Masters degree inManagement from Uganda
Management Institute and is a member o f the Procurement andLogistics Management
Association o fUganda (PALMA) with nineteen years o f experience inaccounting andfinance;
and

(iii) 2accountantsareprofessionalaccountantswithACCAmembershipwhiletheaccounts
     The
assistant holds a Part 2 ACCA qualification. They are all experienced inthe field o f accounting
andfinance.

Descriptionof FinancialManagementArrangements
InternalControlsandFinancialManagementManual

17.     The project's internal controls are documented in a Financial Management Manual
(FMM).RAFUupdates the Manualregularly to take into account any changes inprocedures. The
procedures usedby the project to maintain its records will be documented in its FMM. These will
include the requirement for cross references to supporting documentation inthe SOE supporting
schedules in order to facilitate the inspection o f these schedules and improve the maintenance o f
the project's records.

18.     The FMM will describe for the accounting system: the major transaction cycles o f the
project; funds flow processes; the accounting records, supporting documents, computer files and
specific accounts in the financial statements involved in the processing o f transactions; the list o f
accounting codes used to group transactions (chart o f accounts); the accounting processes from
the initiation o f a transaction to its inclusion in the financial statements; authorization procedures
for transactions; the financial reporting process usedto prepare the financial statements, including
significant accounting estimates and disclosures; financial and accounting policies for the Project;
budgeting procedures; financial forecasting procedures; procurement and contract administration
monitoring procedures; procedures undertaken for the replenishment o f the Special Account; and
auditing arrangements.


PlanningandBudgeting

19.     Departmental budgeting procedures are used for the project in preparing their budgets.
These procedures are documentedinthe FMM.




                                                   - 85 -

Books of accounts andlist of accountingcodes

20.     RAFU will maintain similar books o f accounts to those for other IDA funded projects.
The books o f accounts to be maintainedspecifically for RDPP 3 should thus be set up and should
include: a cash Book, ledgers, journal vouchers, fixed asset register anda contracts register.

21.     The books o f accounts will be maintained on a computerized system. A list o f accounts
codes (Chart o f Accounts) for the project should be drawn up. This should match with the
classification o f expenditures and sources and application o f funds indicated in the DCA. The
Chart of accounts should be developed ina way that allows project costs to be directly related to
specific work activities and outputs o f the project.

22.     Books o f accounts to be usedfor the project should be opened and a Chart o f Accounts
should be completed by credit effectiveness.

2. Audit Arrangements
InternalAudit

23.     The project i s subject to statutory internal audit regulations through which the internal
audit function i s provided by the MOWHC. The Internal Auditor reviews all transactions before
expenditures are incurred. However, the performance o f this function is only limited to the
pre-audit inspection o f the project's transactions, and no internal audit reviews are undertaken to
ensure, for instance, that internal control guidelines are complied with. GOU has adopted
Government FinancialRegulations that require the performance o f internal audits, including those
for the project, ina scope that is expended beyond the current one.

24.     However, it is envisaged that the issue o f the Internal Auditor carrying out internal control
system reviews shall be sorted out when parliament approves the law converting RAFU into a
legal entity (statutory roadauthority) which shall allow an Internal Auditor within its structure.

ExternalAudit

25.     The Auditor General is primarily responsible for the auditing o f all government projects.
Usually, the audit is subcontracted to a firm o f private auditors, with the final report being issued
by the Auditor General, based on the tests carried out by the subcontracted firm. The audit report
should be submitted to IDA within six months after end o f each financial year. Any firm o f
auditors subcontracted to carry out the audit should meet the IDA'Srequirements in terms o f
independence, qualifications andexperience. This being an ongoing project, the auditor for Phases
1,2 and 3 shouldbe the same inorder to ensure continuity and follow up o fthe trend o f activities
from the beginning o f the project.        Consolidated Audited Project Accounts, taking into
consideration the new Audit Policy Guidelines o f the World Bank, should be produced for the
respective phases (also refer to par. 12 in this regard). This has the implication that for the first
two phases more than one audit opinion is required as per the respective IDA Credit Agreements,
while for Phase 3 only one audit opinion is required. 2 & 3 given that phase 1 i s ending on 31
December 2004 by which time Phase 3 i s expected to begin.




                                                 - 86 -

26.     It is recommended that arrangements for the external audit of the financial statements of
the project should be communicated to IDA through agreed terms o f reference. Appropriate
terms o f reference for the external auditor should be consistent with the terms used for RDPP 2.

Reporting and monitoring
27.     Formats o f the various periodic financial monitoring reports to be generated from the
financial management system will be developed. There will be clear linkages between the
information in these reports and the Chart o f Accounts. The financial reports will be designed to
provide quality and timely information to project management, implementing agencies, and
various stakeholders on project performance.

28.     The following quarterly financial monitoring reports (FMRs) will be produced by the
PCU. They are:

        Financial Reports:
  0   Discussiono fproject progress (including procurement issues)
  0    Sources and Uses o f Funds by Funding Source
  0   Uses o f Fundsby ProjectActivity/Component
  0    Physical Progress (Output Monitoring) Report
  0    Procurement Report

29.     The formats will be defined by negotiations andwill be includedinthe Project
Implementation Plan(PIP). The final form o f the FMRs satisfactory to the Association will be in
the PIP to be adopted by credit effectiveness.

30.     The project may later become eligible to use the FMR-based disbursement method,
provided that during project implementation, it (a) sustains satisfactory financial management
rating during project supervision; (b) submits FMRs consistent with the agreed form and content
as explained below; and(c) submits Project Audit Reports by the due dates.

3 1.    The financial statements should be prepared in accordance with International Accounting
Standards     (which inter alia includes the application o f the cash basis o f recognition of
transactions). The IDA Development Financing Agreement requires the submission o f audited
financial statements to the Bank within six months after the year-end. Inaddition to the monthly
reconciliations and quarterly FMRs, RAFU will produce annual Consolidated Project Financial
Statements for all the ProgramPhases for analytical andaudit purposes.

32.     These Consolidated Project Financial Statements will compose of:

A.      A Statement of Sources and Uses of Funds / Cash Receipts and Payments for each
funded phase which recognizes all cash receipts, cash payments and cash balances controlled by
the entity; andseparately identifies payments by thirdparties onbehalf o fthe entity.

B.      The Accounting Policies Adopted and Explanatory Notes. The explanatory notes
should be presented in a systematic manner with items on the Statement o f Cash Receipts and


                                                - 87 -

Payments being cross referenced to any related information in the notes for each funded phase.
Examples o f this information include a summary o f fixed assets by category o f assets, and a
summary o f SOE Withdrawal Schedule, listing individualwithdrawal applications; and

C.      A ManagementAssertionthat Bank funds have been expended in accordance with the
intendedpurposes as specified inthe relevant World Bank legal agreement for each fundedphase.

33.     Indicative formats o f these statements will be developed in accordance with IDA
requirements by credit effectiveness.

Informationsystems

34.     RAFUisusing PastelAccounting software. The staff are trainedinusingthe software and
the software can produce FinancialMonitoring Reports.

Overallpolicyguidance

35.     A Management Committee overseas the operations of RAFU.It deals with overall policy
guidance matters, including those for donor funded projects. It i s chaired by Minister o f Works,
Housing and Communication. The members it consists are the Permanent Secretary MOWHC,
Engineer in Chief o f MOWHC, Director Transport and Communications o f MOWHC and
Director RAFU.

FinancialManagementAction Plan

36.     The first planindicates the actions that must be taken to allow the Borrower to effectively
implement the Phase 3 project.




      Demonstrateabili




 The second plan represents additional measures that are recommendedto be taken as soon as
possible - but inall events not later than the creation o f the RoadAuthority - inorder to bring
financial management to the next level (that o f an autonomous public enterprise).




                                                 - 88 -

       ~~
     4ction                                                          Datedue bv                 Remonsible
         Appointment o f an accountant handling the maintenance       When the road
         function o f the project who shall report to the Finance and maintenance function is   RAFU&
         Administration Manager o f RAFU.                             transferred to RAFU
                                                                      from MOWHC.               MOWHC

6        Appointment o f an Internal Auditor who shall carry out      When RAFUbecomes a
         the internal control system reviews and report to the        legal entity and can have RAFU&
         Management Committee.                                        an InternalAuditor inits
-                                                                     organizational structure. MOWHC
7        Linkages betweenthe physical progress and financial          To be reviewed during     RAFU
         outcomes to be reported inthe FMRsshould effectively be      the supervision
         done.                                                        missions.

Supervision plan

37.        A supervision mission will be conducted at least every six months. The mission's
objectives will include that o f ensuring that strong financial management systems are maintained
for the project throughout its life. A review will be carried out regularly to ensure that
expenditures incurred by the project remain eligible for IDA funding. The Project Status Report
(PSR) will include a financial management rating for the component. This will be arrived at bythe
Country Office Financial Management Specialist after an appropriate review.

3. DisbursementArrangements

38.        Disbursements from IDA will be on the basis o f incurred eligible expenditures
(Transaction-based disbursements) IDA will make advance disbursements from the proceeds of
the Credit and Grant by depositing into the respective Borrower-operated Special Accounts (A
and B) to expedite the Program implementation. The advance to each Special account will be
used by the Borrower to finance IDA's share o f the eligible Program expenditures under the
Development Financing Agreement (DFA). The Program will also use the Direct Payment
disbursement method, which involves direct payments from the Credit and Grant accounts to third
parties for works, goods and services received by the Program. Payments may also be made to
commercial banks for expenditures against IDA Special Commitments covering Letters o f Credit
issued by acceptable commercial banks. IDA's Disbursement Letter will stipulate the minimum
Withdrawal Application values for these disbursement methods.




                                                            - 89 -

39.        Upon effectiveness, RAFUwill be required to submit Withdrawal Applications for initial
deposits to the Special Accounts drawn from the IDA Credit and Grant Accounts, inthe amounts
agreed to in the DFA. Replenishment o f funds from IDA to the Special Accounts will be made
upon evidence o f satisfactory utilization o f the advances (deposits), reflected inthe Statements o f
Expenditure (SOEs) and/or on full documentation for payments above SOE thresholds.
Replenishment Applications will be required to be submitted regularly on a monthly basis. If
ineligible expenditures are found to have been made from the Special accounts, the Borrower will
be obligated to refund the same. If either o f the Special Accounts remain inactive for more than
six months, the Borrower may be requested to refund to IDA amounts advanced to the account.
IDAhas the right, as reflectedinthe DFA, to suspenddisbursement o fthe proceeds ofthe Credit
and Grant ifreporting requirements are not compliedwith.


 Allocation of crediffgrant proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocationof CreditProceeds



       ExpenditureCategory              Amount inUS$    Amount     AmountIDA   PercentageofIDA
                                        million         IDA credit grant       Financing
 Civil Works                                                                          80%
 (a) All works otherthanBusega-Mityana  64.34            30.70          33.64
 (b) Busega-Mityana                     24.30            24.30
Consultant Services, andaudit fees      10.92             4.56          6.36          90%
Unallocated                              8.04             8.04
                                                         67.60          40.00
 Tntal                                  107.60




                                                     - 90 -

                             Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
           UGANDA THIRD PHASE OF THE ROAD DEVELOPMENTPROGRAM



ITime taken to prepare the project (months)     I        12                    I          21              I
]FirstBank mission (identification)             I        02/01/2003            I                         I
Appraisal missiondeparture                               06/30/2003                       02/04/2004
 Negotiations                                                                             04/05/2004
 Planned Date of Effectiveness                            1213112003                      09/30/2004


Preparedby:
Yitzhak Kamhi,Victor Ocaya (Bank); BemardSperring, Shabirali Alidina, Francis Byaruhanga, Mary
Okwakol (MU)


Preparationassistance:


Bank staff who worked on the Droiect included:


 StephenBrushett                         Task Team Leader
 Yitzhak Kamhi                           Transportation Engineering and Procurement, Senior Consultant
 Victor Ocaya                            HighwayEngineer
 Marius Koen                             Senior Financial Management Specialist
 Nina Chee                               EnvironmentalSpecialist
 EdithMwenda                             Senior Counsel
 Modupe Adebowale                        Senior Finance Officer,Disbursement
 RogatiKayani                            LeadProcurement Specialist
 Ani1 Bhandan                            Lead Specialist and Quality Assurance Control, PeerReviewer
 NadegeThadey                            Language ProgramAssistant
 GordonAppleby                           Social Specialist, Resettlement
 Patrick Umah Tete                       FinancialManagement Specialist




                                                  - 91 -

                             Annex 8: Documentsin the Project File*
           UGANDA THIRD PHASE OF THE ROAD DEVELOPMENTPROGRAM


A. Project Implementation Plan

Draft Project ImplementationPlanfor Phase 3, January 2004 andMarch 19,2004

B. Bank Staff Assessments
- Procurementcapacityassessment
 - Financialmanagementassessment
 - Reviewsof environmentalandsocial impactassessments andresettlementactionplans for 3 roads
 - Appraisal missionAide Memoire, February2004

C. Other

The    Updated    10-Year Road      Sector     Development Program       (RSDP-2:    2001/02-2010/1l),
MOFPED/MOWHC, March 2002.

Aide Memoires for RSISTAP, RDPP 1, 2 & 3, and ENERRP (various up to and including February
2004).

EnvironmentalImpact Studies:
(i) Kampala-Gayaza-Zirobwe-Wobulenziroad,PhoenixEngineering&ResearchLtd,May2002;
   for
(ii) Atiak-Moyoroad,NicholasO'Dwyer &CompanyLtd,February2001;
    for
(iii) Busega-Mityanaroad,COWIConsultingEngineersandPlanners,February2003(preliminary);
     for
(iv) for Soroti-Dokolo-Lira road, GauffIngenieure,July 2003.

ResettlementAction Plans:
(i) Kampala-Gayaza-Zirobwe-WobulenziRoad,PhoenixEngineering&ResearchLtd,June2003;
   for
(ii) Atiak-Moyoroad, NicholasO'Dwyer&CompanyLtd,July2003.
    for
(iii) Busega-Mityanaroad, COWIConsultingEngineersandPlanners,February2003(preliminary)
     for

Draft White Paper on Sustainable Maintenance of District, Urban and Community Access Roads.
MOWHC, March 2002.

UgandaRoadAgency Study. Final Report.March 2002. WSP InternationalManagementConsulting.

UgandaRoadAgency Study -Proceedingsof Stakeholders' Workshop Heldon March 4,2002,

Backgroundto the Budget Financial Year 2003/-2004. June 2003. MOFPED.

Feasibility Study and Detailed Engineering Design for Upgrading to Paved (Bitumen) Standard of the
Soroti-Dokolo-Lira Road. PhaseI:   Feasibility Study. Final. Gauff JBGIngenieure, February2004.

The Status of the Development of the Road Sub-sector inUganda: Institutional DevelopmentandNetwork
Management.Paper Preparedfor the Roads ConferenceApril 23,2002. Kampala-Uganda.

Proceedings of the Roads Conference: 23 - 24th April 2002, Nile International Conference Centre,



                                                  - 92 -

Kampala

The Rehabilitation and Regravelling of the Atiak-Moyo Road. Economic Feasibility Analysis. Final
Report. Nicholas O'Dwyer & Company Ltd, March 2003.

Kampala-Gayaza-Bugema-Zirobwe-WobulenziRoad. Phase11:Detailed Engineering Design. Final Report.
Phoenix Engineering & ResearchLtd, June 2003.

Reconstruction of the Kampala (Busega)-Mityana and Pavement Works on the Kyegegwa-Kyenjojo
Sections o f the Kampala-Fort Portal Corridor, Uganda. Feasibility Study Update, November 2002.
Engineering Report, February 2003. bothC O W Consulting Engineers andPlanners.

Final Report for Reviewing Study Reports on Busega-Mityana Roadand MakingRecommendationson the
Way Forward. Parkman Limited, July 2003

Final Report on Constrained Ten Year District Roads Investment Program (TYDRIP) - Phase I.TNM
Technology and Management Ltd. Phoenix Engineering & ResearchLtd, July 2003

Proceedingso f the Workshop. Ten-Year District Roads Investment Program(TYDRIP). 14-15 July, 2003.
*Including electronicfiles




                                                - 93 -

                                          Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
                    UGANDA: THIRD PHASE OF THE ROAD DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
                                                                29-Apr-2004
                                                                                                                           Difference between expected
                                                                                                                                     and actual
                                                                     Original Amount in US$ Millions                              disbursements'

Project ID  FY    Purpose                                         IBRD        IDA                   GEF    Cancel.  Undisb.       Orig   Frm Rev'd
PO74081     2004 Uganda PRSC 3                                       0.00      0.00                  0.00      0.00   153.87      150.00       0.00

PO79925     2004 UG Natural ResourcesDevTA                           0.00      25.00                 0.00      0.00   28.46         0.06       0.00

PO02952     2003 NorthernUgandaSocialAction Fund                     0.00     100.00                 0.00      0.00   109.23       18.20       -4.47

PO85437     2003 PAMSU                                               0.00      27.00                  0.00     0.00    25.28        7.67       0.00

PO75932     2003 PAMSU-GEF                                           0.00       0.00                  8.00     0.00     7.37        2.15       0.00

PO77477     2003 Second LocalGovernment Development Proj             0.00      50.00                  0.00     0.00   111.69        2.53        0.00

PO69996     2002 UG: Energyfor RuralTransformation                   0.00      49.15                  0.00     0.00    51.85        6.87        0.00

P070222     2002 UG Energy/RurTrans                                  0.00       0.00                12.12      0.12    11.08        4.53        0.00

PO74078     2002 MakererePilotDecentrlService Delivery               0.00       5.00                  0.00     0.00     4.19        0.93        0.00

P065436     2002 UG 2ND PHASEOFTHE RD. DEVE PROG                     0.00      64.52                  0.00     0.00    70.29       33.61       14.48

PO02984     2002 UG FOURTH POWER PROJECT                             0.00      62.00                  0.00     0.00    52.47        -0.53       0.00

PO70627     2001 RegionalTrade Fac. - Uganda                         0.00      20.00                  0.00     0.00    15.96         8.60       0.00

PO50439     2001 PRIVATIZATION8 UTILITY SECTORREFORM                 0.00      48.50                  0.00     0.00    33.93       36.11        0.00

PO73089     2001 EMCBP II                                            0.00      22.00                  0.00     0.00    14.23         7.36       0.00

P072482     2001 HIV/AIDSControlProject                              0.00      47.50                  0.00     0.00    26.87        19.88       0.00

PO44695     2001 UG:National Agric. Advis Services Proj.             0.00      45.00                  0.00     0.00    49.85         4.63       0.00

PO02992     2000 LOCAL GOV DEVE.PROGRAM                              0.00      80.90                  0.00     0.00     14.23      -64.28       0.00

PO44679     2000 Second Economicand Fin. Mgmt. Project               0.00      34.04                  0.00     0.00    29.53        12.74       0.00

PO02970     1999 UG ROADS DEVT PROGRAM                               0.00      90.98                  0.00     0.00    53.64        39.13      38.34

PO59223     1999 NAKIVUBOCHANNEL REH                                 0.00      22.40                  0.00     0.00      5.16        5.07       0.00

PO59127     1999 AGRIC.RES 8 TRNG. Ii                                0.00      26.00                  0.00     0.00     14.85     .  8.33       0.00

PO49543     1998 UG ROAD SECT/INST.SUPP                              0.00      30.00                  0.00     0.00     14.21       13.83      13.85

PO40551     1998 Nutrit. Chiid Dev.                                  0.00      34.00                  0.00     0.00      0.22        1.22       0.00

PO46870     1997 UG LAKE VICTORIA ENV. PROJ. (GEF)                   0.00       9.80                  9.80     0.00      0.00        1.05       0.00

PO46836     1997 UG:Lake Victoria Env. Proj. (IDA)                   0.00      12.10                  0.00     0.00      4.77        0.42       0.00

                                                          Total:    0.00      905.89               29.92       0.12   901.21       320.12       62.21




                                                                     -  94 -

                                            UGANDA
                                      STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                     HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                          Mar 2004
                                               -
                                      InMillionsUSDollars

                                                       Committed                        Disbursed
                                                      IFC                             IFC

FY Approval  ' Company                         Loan    Equity    Quasi Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1996           AEF Ago Mgmt                    0.60     0.40      0.00   0.00   0.55    0.40    0.00  0.00
1992           AEF Clovergem                   0.84     0.00      0.00   0.00   0.84    0.00    0.00  0.00
1997           AEF ConradPlaza                 0.64     0.00      0.00   0.00   0.64    0.00    0.00   0.00
1998           AEF Exec. Invmnt                0.50     0.00      0.00   0.00   0.50    0.00    0.00   0.00
1999           AEF Gomba                       0.53     0.00      0.00   0.00   0.53    0.00    0.00   0.00
2000           AEF Ladoto                      0.80     0.00      0.00   0.00   0.80    0.00    0.00   0.00
1998           AEF MosaCourt                   0.08     0.00      0.00   0.00   0.08    0.00    0.00   0.00
1994           AEF Skyblue                     0.31     0.00      0.00   0.00   0.31    0.00    0.00   0.00
1998           AEF White Nile                  0115     0.00      0.00   0.00   0.15    0.00    0.00   0.00
2000           CelTelUganda                     1.00    0.00      0.00    0.00   1.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
1984192        DFCU                            0.00     0.60      0.00    0.00  0.00    0.60    0.00   0.00
1998           Tilda Rice                       1.07    0.00      0.00    0.00   1.07   0.00    0.00   0.00
1983           UgandaSugar                      1.70    0.00      0.00    0.00   1.70   0.00    0.00   0.00

                      Total Portfolio:         8.22      1.00     0.00    0.00    8.17    1.00   0.00   0.00



                                                   Approvals PendingCommitment

FY Approval    Company                            Loan      Equity    Quasi    Partic
2002           Bujagali                           70.00       0.00     0.00    40.00

               Total PendingCommitment:           70.00       0.00     0.00    40.00




                                              - 95 -

                                              Annex 10: Country at a Glance
                UGANDA THIRD PHASEOF THE ROAD DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
                                                                    Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                Saharan     Low-
                                                       Uganda       Afrlca  Income      Developmentdiamond'
2003
Population,mid-year (miihons)                               25.5      689     2,495                  Lifeexpectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                           240      450       430
GNI (Atlas method, US$bji//ons,l                                                                           T
                                                             6.2      311     1,070

Average annual growth, 1997-03

Population (%)                                               3.7       2.4      I.9
Laborforce (%)                                               2.5       2.5      2.3     SNI                                Gross
                                                                                        per                               primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1997-03)                                   :apita                          nrollment
Poverty(% ofpopulation belownationalpovertyline)              38
Urban population (% of totalpopulation)                       16        33       31
Lifeexpectancyat birth (years)                                42        46       59                        I
Infantmortality (per 1,000 l                                  88      103        79
Childmalnutrition (% ofchildren under 5)                      38                 42           Access to improvedwater source
                                                                                              -
Access to an improvedwater source (% ofpopulafion)            55        58       76
Illiteracy (% ofpopulation aqe 15+)                           69        37       37
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-aqepopulation)          127        87       94                   Uganda
    Male                                                     130        94      100            __ Low-incomegroup
    Female                                                   125        80       88

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOSand LONG-TERMTRENDS

                                                            1993     2002     2003
                                                                                        Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                                           3.2       5.8      6.3
Gross domestic investment/GDP                                15.2    20.0      20.7
Exportsof goods and serviceslGDP                                                                         Trade
                                                           L 7.1      12.1     12.3
Gross domestic savings/GDP                                    1.1      5.9      6.9
Gross national savingslGDP                                   3.0      13.0     14.1                         T
Current account balancelGDP                                 -12.3    -14.3      -5.6
Interest paymentdGDP                                          1.6      0.2       0.2
Total debffGDP                                               81.9     49.1     43.6
Total debt service/exports                                   72.5     22.0     20.6
Presentvalue of debt/GDP                                     41.O     19.9      18.2
Presentvalue of debWexports                                 545.2   158.3     144.0
                                                                                                      Indebtedness
                                      1983-93 1993-03       2002     2003   2003-07
(average annualgrowth)
GDP                                       4.5       6.7       6.8      4.7       5.7                   Uganda
GDP per capita                            1.6       3.0       1.o       1.8      2.0            -Low-incomegroup
Exportsof goods and services              2.3      14.4      26.0     -3.3       4.8




                                                            '993     2o02      2003     Growth of investmentand GDP (%)
(%of GDP)
Agriculture                                                  51.5     31.5      32.4   15

Industry                                                     13.1     20.2      21.2   10

   Manufacturing                                              6.0     10.1       9.3    5
Services                                                     35.4     48.3      46.4

Private consumption                                          89.1     78.5      75.0    -5
Generalgovernmentconsumption                                  9.8     15.7      15.2
Importsof goods and services                                 21.2     26.9      26.4               -GDI          *GDP



                                                1983-93 1993-03      2o02      2003  I  Growth of exports and imports(%)
(average annualgrowth)
Agriculture                                         3.5       3.9       3.9      2.3   80

lndustly                                            7.4      11.0       7.9      7.2   60

    Manufacturing                                   7.0      11.6       5.3      4.0   40

Services                                            5.4       7.6       8.0      6.3   20
                                                                                         0
Private consumption                                 4.1       6.2       6.2      3.0   -20
Generalgovernmentconsumption                        3.5       6.5       4.6      6.4
Gross domestic investment                           7.0       7.5       9.9     10.0
Importsof goods and services                        2.6       9.4     18.2      -2.3




                                                                  - 96 -

PRICES and GOVERNMENTFINANCE
                                          1993    2002    2003      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)
Consumer prices                            30.0    -2.0     5.7
Implicit GDP deflator                     30.1     -5.4    11.9

Governmentfinance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                                              I
Current revenue                             7.3    12.4    12.1    -10 1
Current budgetbalance                      -1.1    -1.6    -1.1              -GDP      deflator - 0 I C P I
Overall surpiusldeficit                   -11.3   -12.9   -11.3

TRADE
                                          1993    2002    2003
(US$ millions)                                                       Exportand import levels(US$ mill.)

Total exports (fob)                        157     457     498
 Coffee                                     99      85     106
 Cotton                                       5     18      17
 Manufactures
Total imports (cia                         531   1,031   1,151
 Food
 Fueland energy                             58     123     134
 Capitalgoods

Export priceindex (1995=100)                                                                                     I
                                                                                                   01
                                            42      35      41              97   98   99   00            02

Importprice index (1995=100)                95      83      90                      Exports          imports  O3
Terms of trade (1995=100)                   44      43      45

BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                          1993    2002    2003     1 Currentaccount balanceto GDP (%)
(US$ millions)
Exportsof goods and services               242     726     798        0
Importsof goods and services               693    1,554   1,663      -2
Resourcebalance                           -455    -857     -885      4

Net income                                  -49   -127     -145      -6

Net current transfers                      108     161     680        8
                                                                    -10
Current account balance                   -396    -823     -350
                                                                    1 2
Financingitems (net)                       425     996     483      -14
Changes in net reserves                     -29   -174     -133

Memo:
Reservesincludinggold (US$ millions)       112     840     931
Conversionrate (DEC,/oca/lUS$)          1,201.8 1,755.0 1,882.8

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                          1993    2002    2003
(US$millions)                                                        Composition of 2003 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed     2,638   2,832    2,747
  IBRD                                       11       0       0                     E 133 F:20
  IDA                                     1,267  2,077    2,046

Total debt service                         175     160      165
  IBRD                                       10       0       0
  IDA                                        13      14      20

Composition of net resourceflows
  Officialgrants                         206.1   407.3    458.2
  Officialcreditors                        230     259      229
  Privatecreditors                          -11       3       8
  Foreigndirect investment                    4    182      220
  Portfolioequity                             0       0       0

World Bank program
  Commitments                              224     234      407      A IBRD
                                                                       -                             E Bilateral
  Disbursements                            135     256      353      B IDA
                                                                       -        D Othermultilateral
                                                                                 -                   F Private
  Principalrepayments                       12      21       28      C- IMF                          G Short-term
                                                                                                      ---
  Netflows                                 123     235      325
  Interest payments                         11      16       19
  Nettransfers                             112     219      306




                                                       -97  -

                                     Additional Annex 11
           UGANDA THIRD PHASE OF THE ROAD DEVELOPMENTPROGRAM

                            LETTEROF DEVELOPMENTPOLICY


1.      The following describes the Government of Uganda's medium term Strategy for the
Transport Sector and is to serve as the agreed framework within which the Government intends
to implement the Road Development Program (RDP) 1999- 2008, which is a component o f
Government's 1O-Year Rolling Road Sector Development Programme.

GENERALPRINCIPLES


2.      The Government's medium term transport strategy hinges on the promotion o f cheaper,
efficient and reliable transport services as the means o f providing effective support to increased
agricultural and industrial production, trade, tourism, social and administrative services. This
would ensure an efficient transport sector andwould play a critical role for the development o f an
integrated and self-sustaining economy to promote growth in line with Government's strategy o f
poverty eradication and economic development throughout the country.

3.      To implement this, emphasis will be placed on the provision o f a technically sound,
economicallyjustified and financially sustainable infiastructure through the active participation o f
the private sector.

4.      The Government will not, as a rule, directly participate in the provision o f transport
services, except in the case o f strategic activities and investment in public goods. Its role with
respect to the supply o f transport services is to provide policy guidelines, a clear legal framework
and efficiently exercise its non-economic regulatory powers ensuring the establishment o f a level
playing field for the competitive provision o f services.

5.      In this context, the Government will continue the policy of de-facto free access to the
transport sector market and o f letting market forces determine tariffs. The Government has
embarked on the implementation o f Axle Load Control and transport safety measures for
reduction o f road damages and accidents respectively. These are being co-ordinated with
neighbouring countries through the East African Co-operation Arrangement and the Northern
Corridor Transit Agreement to ensure efficient and safe use o f the road infrastructure.

6.      However, the Government will continue to play a dominant role in the provision and
cost-effective development o f transport infrastructure. In order to sustain this effort, appropriate
priority is givento the preservationo f existing infrastructure assets. For roads, the implementation
o f the Government strategy would also lead to an increased participation o f the private sector in
the preparation, execution and supervision o f road works, in tandem with efforts to develop the
domestic construction and consulting industry.




                                                 - 98 -

7.      Funding for the road sector will be secured according to a two-fold operation whereby
network development and maintenance o f the national roads i s secured through the sectoral
investment strategy, with District, Urban and Community Access Roads (DUCAR) network being
financed through a series o f Poverty ReductionSupport Credits (PRSCs).

ISSUES AND ACTIONS


TransportPlanning


8.      The Public Investment Plan (PIP) defines all Government sector investment priorities. The
Plan is reviewed annually and inclusion o f new projects i s made after thorough analysis o f the
socio-economic, technical, and financial considerations talung into account safety precaution,
environmental factors and gender issues. The selection criteria used in considering projects are
biased towards their direct impact'onpoverty eradication.

9.      PIP is linked to Government's Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) that
ensures macroeconomic stability and the sectoral allocation o f public expenditure with strategic
priorities. MTEF gives the overall government budget strategy in the medium term with the
objective o f

        -       Promotion o f rapid broad-based economic growth by enabling the private sector as
                the engine o f growth for further economic growth;
        -       Reduction o fpoverty by implementing the poverty eradication actionplan; and
        -       Improvement ofthe effectiveness andefficiency o f government andpublic services.

 10.    MTEF has provided the budgetary framework inwhich to find priority initiatives such as
roads. In line with the three year rolling MTEF, the Government will continue to select and
prioritise transport sector investments and recurrent expenditure in a rational manner, within the
available resource constraint to ensure that expenditures are within the sector budget ceiling.

 11.     Government will ensure the provision o f timely and sufficient budgetary resources for
Ministry of Works Housing and Communications (MOWHC), the Road Authority and other
sector agencies to fully carry out their assigned mandates and agreed work programs.
Government will also ensure provision o f any extraordinary funding needed to cover the social
implications o f the MOWHC restructuring, including redundancy/reassignment o f personnel and
disposalhemoval o fphysical assets.

 12.     Government will continue to ensure the orderly planning and provision o f financial
resources to the road sector and will produce an updated Transport Sector Investment and
Recurrent Expenditure Program (TSIREP) (rolling three year program) not later than 3 months
before the beginning o f each financial year. For 2004/2005 to 2006/2007 a copy attached to this
 letter o f development policy, the TSIREP will provide resources: to fully fund the poverty
 eradication action plan and maintenance interventions in the sector; to fund the counterpart and
 other requirements of a focused program o f rehabilitation and upgrading o f the national road



                                                 - 99 -

network; to fund DUCAR road maintenance and improvement in line with policy statement and
the Ten Year District Roads Investment Plan (TYDRIP) to be adopted in 2004/2005. Funding
for DUCAR, estimated at not lessthanUS$20 millionper annumthrough PRSC is planned.

13.     Under the TSIREP: (i)   maintenance funding by the government will not be less than $35
mn per annum with a commitment to steadily increase the funding amount to what is need for
100% funding o f the national and priority DUCAR networks by 2009/2010; (ii) provision o f
                                                                                  full
the government funding obligations to RDP whose Phase 3 i s expected to become effective in
2004/2005 and whose Phase 4 in 2005. Government Counterpart funding for RDPP3 and 4 is
estimated at US$ 34 million(US$25,40 million for Phase 3 andUS$ 9.17 million for phase 4).

14.     Government has already started the process o f establishing a long-term multi-modal
transport master plan to guide the rational and complementary development o f all the transport
modes, namely: road, rail, water and air transport. The process will examine the realistic
complementary and the appropriate maintenance and improvement measures o f the various
transport modes in terms o f safety, efficiency, and cost effectiveness for the mobility of people
and their goods. Government will complete a national transport master plan, including Greater
Kampala Area master plan, in 2003/2004.            The recommendations o f the study will be
incorporatedinto the next review o f the RSDP in2004/2005 with a view o f determining the scope
and objectives o f the revisedRSDP3 running2005/2006 to 2014/2015.

The RoadNetwork


15.     Roads have been identified as one o f the six priority areas concerned with poverty
eradication and are critical in the transformation and development o f the economy. Government
has long recognised this and has deliberately injected substantial resources in the sector. From
fiscal year 1998/99 to 2001/02 resources allocated to national roads (maintenance, improvement,
studies andcapacity building) increasing from Ushs. 50 billion to more than doubling, to Ushs.117
billion, registered one o f Government's fastest growing expenditure.

16.     Government up-dated and rolled the initial Road Sector Development Programme,
(RSDP-1) into RSDP-2 (2001/02-2010/11). The programme was presented to the Development
Partners and other stakeholders at the Roads Conference held in April 2002.        The programme
prioritised and ranked all maintenance and investment projects in the National (Main) Roads
sub-sector. This was developed after a thorough optimisation and rationalisation process by
reviewing road network maintenance and improvement as a single process aimed a't minimizing
total transport costs. The total RSDP-2 programme cost i s estimated at US$ 2.28 billion and
reflects investment requirements and economic priorities within the macro-economic constraints,
expressed in terms o f domestic counterpart funding and inflows o f donor assistance. Only US$
1.354 billion o f the programme cost has been pledgedcommitted from both Government and
Donors. This leaves a funding gap o f US$ 926 million. The RSDP-2 has the following four major
components:


i)      NationalRoads Maintenance and Rehabilitationto optimise the investment in
roads and to reinstate andpreserve the road network to required level o f services;


                                               - 100-

ii)    Improvement o fparts o f the National roadnetwork to meet traffic demand,
safety and environmental requirements;

iii) Rehabilitationandmaintenanceofdistrict,urbanandcommunityaccessroads;                and


iv)    Capacity buildinginroadadministration and the local construction industry.

NationalRoadsMaintenance

17.    In order to optimise the investment made in roads, reinstate and preserve the road
network to required level o f service, Government has highly prioritised national roads
maintenance. Financing o f national road maintenance i s basically the responsibility o f the
Government. Funding from Government for national roads maintenance has increased from US$
16.42 million in 1996/97 to a level o f about U S $ 32.61 million in FY 2000/01, representing one
o f the fastest growing rates o f Government expenditure. The more than doubling o f
Government's contribution towards road maintenance over the past five years has placed a major
strain on budgetary resources at a time when Government is faced with several other priorities.
The updated RSDP-2 estimates annual national roads maintenance expenditure to average at
about US$ 54 million over a decade.

18.    Inthis regard, Government, while remaining fully committed to the need for appropriate
road maintenance and the need to achieve self-sufficiency, i s fully committed to increasing
national roads maintenance funding by an equivalent o f US$2.0 million in shillings. Government
finances all routine maintenance costs in principal but seeks donor support in periodic
maintenance operations androad rehabilitation. The table below indicates the financing plano fthe
RSDPNational Roads Maintenance Component.

             FundingCommitmentto NationalRoadsMaintenanceProgramme
                                          InUS$ million




19.    Government will continue to fund national roads through the normal budgetary allocation
andfunds would be released infull.




                                              - 101-

20.     Government will continue to explore ways to increase private sector participation inroad
management, investment and maintenance. Inparticular, it will lend support to pilot activities to
be launched in2005/2006 for area wide long-term maintenance contracts on a performance basis.
Such contracts are expected to include specific obligations on the contractor to maintain specified
service levels through planned and periodic interventions at the contractors' option and will also
cover overloading control.

District Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance

21.     It has been recognised that an efficient district road network is at the core of the poverty
eradication strategy and o f enhancing rural incomes. Inthis respect, the Government i s pursuing
in the first instance improvement of selected roads to all weather road surface standard,
countrywide. Priority will be given to those roads which could first unlock areas with potentially
highagricultural surplus andalso enable the ruralpopulace to accessbasic social services.


22.     The responsibility for maintaining district roads is already vested inthe respective districts.
The Central Government will continue to provide financial resources for district roads
maintenance through conditional and unconditional grants to the districts. The updated RSDP-2
estimates a total o f US$ 577 million to be spent over the next ten years for district roads
rehabilitation and maintenance. The study on the Ten Year Districts Roads Investment Plan
completed inJanuary 2004 and to be adopted by Government inFY 2004/05, gives a framework
for investment inDUCAR.

National Road Improvement Strategy


23.     Under the RSDP, parts o f the road network will be upgraded and improved as
economically justified to standards commensurate with the projected traffic demand, safety and
environmental protection requirements. The programme puts emphasis on drawing up o f a
feasible, integrated maintenance and improvement programme for the road network, which is
consistence with the overall national development objectives. Under the programme the following
measureswill be undertaken:


(i)     Capacity improvement to ease congestion;
(ii) Strengtheningofweakpavements;
(iii)   Upgrading o f gravel roads to bitumen standards;
(iv)    Upgrading o f about 2000 kmo fpriority district roads to the classified national
        roadnetwork standards;
(v)     Strengthening o f bridges;
(vi)    Provisionof road safety facilities; and
(vii)   The Kampala Northern Bypass wouldbe constructed.




                                               - 102-

InstitutionalArrangements


24.     The role o f the Government in the development and management o f transport
infrastructure is mostly discharged through M 0 W H C . h the case o f district, urban andcommunity
roads, MOWHC provides policy guidance in liaison with Ministry o f Local Government (MOLG)
to the district administrations.

25.     Inline with Government policy ofrationalising the management of sector agencies andof
reforming the civil service, the potential for the commercialisation o f road administration,
including the involvement o f users and other stakeholders in road management and financing, i s
continuously being assessed. As a result, the Government has already decided to establish an
autonomous Road Authority.

26.     The Authority will be responsible for the management, operation, development and
maintenance o f the road network in Uganda. However, as an immediate step towards the
establishment o f the Road Authority, the Government has already established a Road Agency
Formation Unit (RAFU). The RAFUi s a transitional institutional set up untilthe establishment o f
the Road Authority. R4FU is established outside the present organisational set-up o f the
MOWHC but accountable to the MOWHC. Recruitment o f staff into the unit is being carried out
on a competitive basis and the staff salary pegged at market rates. In addition, the Unit is
supported by commercially hiredmanagement consultant personnel.

27.     Government is committed to complete the process o f transformation o f the road sector
institutional structure during FY2004/2005 and not later than December 31, 2005 intends to
establish a National Road Authority, which will take full responsibility for maintenance and
management of the national network and which will subsume the current functions and structures
o f RAFU. To this end, the Government shall take all measures necessary, including, as required,
the preparation o f appropriate legislation. The Government will ensure that the selection o f the
Road Authority staff, the terms o f reference and conditions o f employment are commensurate
with the strategy o f commercializing road management. Inview o f the critical importance o f this
reform for a sustainable road network, the government will afford stakeholders a reasonable
opportunity to comment and advise on its design andimplementation.

28.      Inview ofthe proximate completion of the road sector institutionalreforms, some ofthe
functions o f the Coordination Unit in MFPED will transfer to the restructured MOWHC and to
the National Road Authority. MFPED will continue to retain a transport section to ensure the
effective integration o f the RSDP and the TSIREP inthe MTEF, PEAP and PRSC.

DomesticConstructionIndustry

29.      Efforts to develop the domestic construction industry include implementation o f measures
conducive to market creation through contracting out o f road works including maintenance.
Currently, all manual routine maintenance and 60% o f mechanised maintenance and all periodic
maintenance is by contract.



                                               - 103-

30.    Targets for the share of contractor executed road maintenance works as contrasted to
Force Account Works are as tabulatedbelow:



2002/03       2003/04     2004/05      2005/06     2006/07
Actual        Planned     Projected    Projected   Projected
70%           75%         80%          85%         90%



31.    To improve the domestic contractors' access to equipment measures to facilitate
equipmentpooling on a commercial basis andplant acquisition through leasingarrangements will
be implemented.


PROGRAMDEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES
RoadDevelopmentProgrammePurpose


32.     Road Development Programme is in support of the RSDP, which reflects a strategy
focusing on the preservation and selective upgrading of existing road network. At present,
committed expenditures under the RSDP are estimated at US$ 700 million for GOU, the EDF
would finance investments amounting to US$223 million; IDA US$ 363.5 million of which US$
289.5 million is under the proposed Program and the remainder under the completedon-going
Transport Rehabilitation Project (TRP), Road Sector Institutional Support Technical Assistance
Project (RSISTAP-G-2987-UG) and El Nino Emergency Road Repair Project (Cr. 3064-UG);
andvarious bilateral donors the balance.

33. The on-going Road Sector Institutional Support Technical Assistance Project
(RSISTAP-G-2987-UG) IDA, supports the institutional capacity building in the road sector by
the creation of a professional dedicated Road Agency Formation Unit (RAFU) to manage and
operate the road network untilthe establishment of a Road Authority in2004/05. Inaddition, the
IDA-TRP completed in December 2000, supported capacity building of the local construction
industry by conducting training of contractors and creating business opportunities for local
participation.

ProgramdevelopmentobjectiveandProgramphasing


34.     The Road Development Program was developed as an IDA-financed Adaptable Program
Lending (APL) instrument. IDA Credit for Phase IProject (worth US$ 90.98 million) was
approvedby the Bank inJune 1999 andthe Development Credit Agreement between Government
and IDA was signed in November 1999.        IDA Credit for Phase I1Project (worth US$ 64.52
million) was approvedby the Bank inJuly 2001 and the Development Credit Agreementbetween
Governmentand IDA was signed inAugust 2001.



                                            - 104-

35.     The primary objective of the Program is to improve access to rural and economically
productive areas by removing major constraints to transport services on the country's road
network. The Program would also support actions aimed at further strengthening of the road
sector management. The Program supports the implementation of the RSDP by supporting the
rehabilitation of priority links of the national trunkroadsnetwork and feeder roadsto beupgraded
or rehabilitated in selected districts. The Program's development objectives will be achieved with
steady progress over an eight-year period, andwould includethe following phases:

Phase 1:     Upgrading of two priority national roads, Busunju-Kiboga-Hoima (143km)
(ZDPP 1) and Karuma-Pakwach-Nebbi-Arua section: Pakwach-Arua (130km), and
             related construction supervision. Carrying out a number of sector policy and
             management studies, including analytical work for feeder roads policy and
             strategy, (November 1999-2004);
Phase 2:     Upgrading         of      national      roads    to     paved       standard:
(ZDPP2)      Karuma-Pakwach-Nebbi-ha (section: Karuma-Pakwach (108km), and
             strengthening the national road Katunguru-Kasese-Fort Portal-Kilembe
             Road (155 km), andrelated construction and supervision. Implementation of
             phase 1of the National Road Safety Action plan; Preparationof the National
             Transport Master Plan; and NDF financed Pilot project on use of new
             materials for stabilization of low cost roads and Feasibility Study and
             DetailedEngineering Design of new RoadAgency headquartersbuildingand
             construction supervision (July 2001-June 2006).
Phase 3:     Jpgrading of NationalRoads to Paved Standard:
(RDPP3) Campala-Gayaza-Wobulenzi (67 km), and Soroti-Lira Road (125 km), an
             ehabilitation and strengthening of Busega-Mityana road (57 km) and relate
             :onstruction supervision.      Detailed Design for upgrading of reclassifie
             qational Roads to paved standard (about 300 km); feasibility studies for ab01
             io0 kmof national roads for upgrading; andconstruction of new RoadAgenc
             leadquarters building. RehabilitatiodRegravelling of Atiak-Moyo Road (9
             m)(September2004-June 2009); and
Phase 4:     Rehabilitatiodimprovementof selected district (feeder) roads (about 1,000
(RDPP4)      km) identifiedby the TenYear District RoadInvestment Program. Upgrade
             of about 300 km of reclassified NationalRoads September 2005 June 2010).




                                                  - 105-

Project development objective

36.      The objective o f the Road Development Program, Phase 3 Project (the Project) is to
improve access to rural areas and economically productive areas and to gradually continue to
buildup road sector planning, designand program management capability, as well as road safety
management. The Project comprises (i)upgrading and strengthening o f three high priority
national roads; (ii)detailed design of the upgrading o f about 300 kmo f District Roads reclassified
to the National Road Standard; (iii)  consultancies for feasibility studies o f upgrading to bitumen
 standardabout 600 kmofpriority studies (iv) Rehabilitationhegravelling of an important road in
the north and (v) construction of a future proposed Road Agency headquarters building, (vi)
Institutional support to the establishment o f the Road Authority, and (vii) the provision o f
external auditing services. These Phase 3 project objectives complement the objectives o f the
Phase 1and 2 projects, inmeetingthe overall objectives o f the Program.

 Key performance indicators

 37.     The key performance indicators include increased industrial and agricultural activity;
 reduced travel time; and reduced transport and vehicle operating costs over the national road
network. Improvement and integration o f the national road network under the Program i s subject
 to an appraisal process aimed at evaluating its technical feasibility and economic viability, as well
 as to learn from previous phases. Trigger indicators will be used to assess readiness for
 integration, early identification o f risks, and implementation o f corrective measures before
 undertaking subsequent phases o f the Program.

 Indicative Financing Plan

 38.     IDA would allocate an amount ofUS$289.47 millioninsupport ofthe implementation of
 the four phases indicated above. The funds would be progressively committedunder a succession
 of four Credits as determined by progress in the program implementation. The Credits would
 support the implementation o f each o f the four phases indicated above. The corresponding
 indicative financing plani s shown inthe Table below.




1On                   I            I             I            I            I
     Rounding Off     1289.50      1 9           I87          I 385.50 I
 Note: Costs include physical andprice contingencies.



                                                - 106-

Conclusion


39.     The Government's medium term strategy hinges on the promotion of cheaper, efficient
and reliable transport services as the means for providing effective support to increase agricultural
andindustrial production, trade, tourism, social and administrative services. This would ensure an
efficient transport sector and would play a critical role for the development o f an integrated and
self-sustaining economy to promote growth in Government's strategy o f poverty eradication and
economic integration o f the country as a whole.

40.     In addition to the substantial support already provided through earlier programs, by
supporting Government inthe Road Development Program, the World Bank would be promoting
the above Government's policy.




                                               - 107 -

                                      Additional Annex 12
          UGANDA THIRD PHASE OF THE ROAD DEVELOPMENTPROGRAM

              Summariesof EnvironmentalImpact& SocialAssessmentReports

                                         Atiak-Moyo Road

1.      Introduction

An environmental impact assessment (EIA) has been undertaken, as part o f the feasibility study,
inorder to identify the likely beneficial and detrimental environmental and social consequences
that may arise as a result o f the rehabilitatiodregravelling o f the Atiak-Moyo road. This EIA has
been carried out with the primary aim o f recommending appropriate actions to mitigate any
adverse effects on the physical, biological and human environment.

UgandanEIA guidelines as well as those contained inthe World Bank Operational Directive 4.01:
Environmental Assessment         have been followed. In addition, the National Environment
Management Authority (NEMA) issued a certificate o f approval o f the environmental impact
assessment in March 2002. The conditions for approval are integrated into the Contractor's
contractual documents.

An environmental and social monitoring plan has been developed outlining the nature, location
and methodology o f monitoring that will take place duringthe construction and operation phases.
An evaluation has also been made o f the bodiedoffices designated to supervise the monitoring
tasks.

2.      ProjectDescription

The project road i s an existing road, which had been rehabilitatedto various stages o f completion
before it was abandoned in February 1996 due to security reasons. Consequently, many o f the
structures, such as culverts, are already in place but need to be completed, while the camber
essentially requires reshaping, rather than extension. No realignments are proposed. However all
seven bridges will be either substantially rehabilitated or expanded to allow two-way traffic flow.

3.      Socio-economicand CulturalEnvironment

The main source o f household livelihood inthe project area is subsistence farming. An average o f
80% of the total households grow various crops on small-holdings using rudimentary methods
andrelying on family labor especially women and children. Incomes from activities such as petty
trading and formal employment are typically used to augment the income from subsistence
farming. The project area is potentially a highly productive agricultural region, which will greatly
benefit from the upgraded road. Improvement to the project road will greatly improve access and
trade to hitherto remote and less developed parts o f the North Eastem region. Improved access to
markets will make it worthwhile for farmers to invest in cash crops.




                                                 - 108-

At present visits to the best equipped health facilities are hampered by road transportation
difficulties that will be alleviated through the road upgrading. Literacy levels in the affected
districts o f the project area are low. Literacy is expected to increase as a result o f the
Government's Universal Primary Education (UPE) Program. With improved accessibility and
increased literacy due to the UPE program, the number o f unemployed youths i s expected to
decrease.

As a special group, women will be affected ina number o f ways by the proposed road upgrading.
The positive impacts include: improved mobility to health care facilities and markets; increased
income fi-om their produce; improvedjob opportunities; increased dealings with other areas o f the
country and their women's groups. Women may experience some negative impacts such as a
reduction inthe availability o f firewood.

The project area supports a number o f intemally displaced people and refugees from Sudan. The
upgrading o f this road will greatly improve accessibility to the refugee camps and protected areas
for relief agencies. The roadhas long been a problem to relief organizations dealing with refugees
innorthem Uganda. Investigations show that this project will not directly affect any knownsites
o f archaeological or cultural importance.

4.       Environmental and Socio-economic Impacts and their Mitigation

Upgrading the existingAtiak to Moyo road will be associated with some minor adverse social and
environmental impacts. However, implementing appropriate mitigation measures as summarized
below will minimize these undesirable impacts:

Land take and Material Sources: The upgrading ofthe project road, which will be almost entirely
restricted to its existing alignment, will involve very little additional landtake. The area traversed
by the road is sparsely populated and there is not expected to be much need for resettlement..
Wherever possible trees within the reserve will be left intact. In some areas crop cultivation and
buildings may have encroached into the roadreserve. Adequate compensation will be paid for any
property affectedby the roadupgrading and quarry andborrow pit development.

Loss o f land will occur where land must be acquired for the workmen's camp, gravel pits and
hard stone quarries, and the crusher plant site. Crops may also be removedat these sites. These
impacts will be temporary, provided rehabilitation o f the sites is done properly.

There is not expected to be muchdisturbance to people inthe main towns o f Atiak, Adjumani and
Moyo during construction.

Borrow pits and quarries will be operated in accordance with a management plan that ensures
environmentally sound development, use and reinstatement o f the land. Spoil materials generated
duringthe upgradingworks will beplacedinworked out borrow areas.

All material sourceswill be operated inaccordance with a management planto be agreedbetween
the contractor andthe resident engineer inadvance. Eachplanwill include:



                                                 - 109-

0   arrangements for consultation with the farmedland-user,andother affected parties;
0   the extent o f eachpiuquarry should be markedon the ground;
0   a compensation agreement must be signed with the farmer/landowner;
0   access arrangements must be agreed;
0   a workingplan must be agreed, givingan outline o fthe direction, timinganddeptho f works;
0   a reinstatement planmustbe agreed, givingdetails o fthe final profile, method o f achieving the
    final profile, drainage andsediment control, re-soiling and re-vegetation measures.

Pollution of Water Courses and Drainage: The most likely source o f water course pollution is
from loose soil being washed into rivers and streams. This hazard is not thought to be serious, but
appropriate precautions will be implemented to prevent soil, lime or fuel pollutants from entering
watercourses.

Erosion ofEarthworks Slopes: Soil erosion will be a major issue duringthe rehabilitation works,
and will result from earthworks, borrowing/quarrying anddeviations. Improper drainage o f runoff
from the road to the lower catchment can also cause erosion. Improvement o f the ferry landing
will result in protection of the riverbank, as well as contribute to the functioning o f the ferries
themselves.

Prevailing experience inthe project area shows that climatic and other conditions are favorable for
natural re-vegetation o f slopes. The contractor's responsibilities for re-vegetation should, if
possible, extend over two growing seasons to ensure full establishment.

Construction Camps: Though covering a relatively small area, contractor's camps can cause
significant environmental damage for a considerable time if not controlled. The major causes are
pollution (due to all forms o f waste), indiscriminate fuel wood collection, soil erosion, spillage o f
oils and fuel, land take, dust and noise from construction traffic. Many o f the impacts can be
prevented or mitigated. The contract documentation will make clear the contractor's
responsibilities with respect to the operation and reinstatement o f construction camps and
workshops.

Road Safety: Improvement o f the road will encourage more traffic andhigher vehicular speeds. A
major part o f the traffic will be long-distance haulage trucks to and from southern Sudan.
Increased traffic speed due to a better standard o f road will have an effect on road safety for
pedestrians, cyclists, livestock andtheir owners andon animals within the National Park.

Particular attention has been given to designingmeasures that will increase road safety along the
rehabilitated road. The main safety improvements include:

0   roadwidening andimprovedjunction lay-outs
0   provision of sealed shoulders, bus bays andparking spaces insettlements
0   improvedroad signs androadmarking
0   all new bridgeswill be constructed with 1.5 meter wide raised footpaths on both sides o f the
    carriage-way



                                                - 110-

Proliferation of Disease: Spread o f HIV/AIDS, STDs and other infectious diseases along the
project road could have a significant social impact. Strengthening the medical facilities and
improving people's awareness based on current active programs will help in reducing the rate o f
infection.

Scarcity of Fuel wood and Roadside Trees: Inthe vicinity of settlements fuel wood consumption
along the project road i s likely to increase when it is upgraded. The mainreason being that new
and enlarged trading centers are likely to develop along the road. Since electric power i s not
widely available, these communities will use fuel wood for most o f their energy requirements. The
workforce may put an additional demand, albeit temporarily, on fuel wood andwater supplies.

The end result will be that the now well-vegetated areas along the proposed road will be targeted
for charcoal production. Strengthening afforestation programs and supporting the use o f fuel
saving cook moves should significantly contribute towards the mitigation o f increased fuel wood
demand.

5.      Environmental Management Plan

Mitigation in some form i s possible for all adverse impacts that may result from the proposed
rehabilitation works.

Hydrological impacts can be minimized by allowing unimpeded flow o f water, i.e. through the
provisionof an adequate number of culverts inthe road design.

Impacts due to earthworks and quarry excavation can be reduced by exercising care, and if
possible, carrying out these activities during the dry season. Reinstatementllandscapingo f gravel
pitdquarries, replanting areas cleared for deviations, and vegetating the road embankment in the
steep section would help to prevent soil loss and reduce visual intrusion.

The introduction of speed restrictions intowns and villages can reduce dust emissions. Crushing
plants should be located downwind o f households to lessen disturbance caused by noise and dust
pollution. Sensitizing motorists and providing special parking areas for trucks at Adjumani and
Moyo can control oil and noise pollution.

Deviations should remain within the road reserve as far as is practically possible. Crops and
existing structures on land that is temporarily acquired for deviations and lies outside the road
reserve shouldbe compensated.

Locating the workmen's camp at either Adjumani or Moyo will minimise some impacts. The
workmen's camp should use gas or electric cookers to preclude the need to buy charcoal, and a
central canteen for the workforce would reduce energy andwater consumption andthe amount o f
solid waste generated. STD awareness campaigns should be conducted inthe camp as well as in
the towndvillages.




                                                - 111  -

Workmen should be provided with suitable protective working gear. Fully equipped first aid kits
should be kept on site andthe contractor musthave workmen's compensation cover.

Road safety canbe enhancedthrough installing clear andfrequent road signs andmarkings.

Diligence on part o f the contractor is essential in mitigating negative impacts, and therefore
mitigation measures should be specified inthe tender documents andconditions o f contract.

6.      ResettlementAction Plan

Good practice inresettlement planningand implementationare key to fulfillment o f the objectives
o f involuntary resettlement.

Consequently, the Government o f Uganda (GOU) prepared a Resettlement Land Acquisition
Policy Framework. The main objective o f this framework is to ensure that the displaced people
receive benefits from the displacing project. It gives the institutional and legal framework, and
guidelines for socio-economic       surveys, community participation,      compensation system,
implementation monitoring andevaluation, and preparation of an adequate budget. Preparation o f
the Resettlement Action Plan(RAP) is completed.

7.       PovertyAlleviation

The baseline condition survey has been carried out during environmental impact assessment and
complemented by the resettlement action planning. The project impacts will be monitored to
assess the poverty reduction progress, identify potential problems and provide corrective
measures. Indicators that measure the poverty impact o f the project road have been integrated
into the indicators system developed to measure project performance.

8.       HIVIAIDS

The Atiak -Moyo project road is likely to stimulate STDs due to influx o f a workforce,
interacting with local people, as well as a greater number o f drivers who are expected to pass
through villages, towns and settlements along the road as a result o f the improved road
conditions.

Impacts o f HIV/AIDS and other STDs on the community along the project road have been
assessedand measures to mitigate them in accordance with the GOU policy have been proposed.
The community facilities andaccess to national programs are also assessed, and recommendations
for mitigationmade.

 9.      Billof Quantities

The estimated cost o f complying with the provisions o f the Environmental Impact Statement in
respect o f prevention, mitigation and monitoring, including preparation o f a management plan, is
Ushs. 800,000.     The cost for RAP implementation on the other hand, is estimated at Ushs



                                              - 112-

551,367,500.   The latter includes the total cost o f compensation to the affected persons,
detachment o f home facilities and services, and RAP implementation. It has been proposed that
these costs be included inthe total cost o f project implementation.

10     Conclusion

A comprehensive management plan has been proposed that is designed to enable effective
environmental and social monitoring throughout the project cycle and to facilitate effective
implementationo fmeasuresrequiredto mitigate potential negative impacts.

Consultations with local representatives, women's groups and youth groups has shown that
rehabilitation and regravelling of the Atiak to Moyo Road very strongly supported. Indeed, it i s
thought to be long over due because the Northern Region has no good road connection to
Kampala (unlike other regions). Undesirable impacts are considered to be o f little significance by
comparison to the major benefits expected to arise from upgrading the road. The environmental
managemenumonitoring plan will be implemented and monitored in accordance with a certificate
of approval issuedby NEMA inMay 2002.

Complete details of the environmental and social management are included in the final
environmental and social impact assessmentstudy.




                                                 - 113-

                           Kampala-Gayaza-Zirobwe-WobulenziRoad

1.       Introduction

The Project Road lies in the districts o f Kampala, Mpigi (now the recently formed Wakiso
District) and Luwero. It extends north from Kampala to Gayaza (13 km, existing paved road),
then continues north on a gravel road to Zirobwe (31 km) before turning North-West to
Wobulenzi (23 km). Total lengthis 67 km. It i s part o f the road network connecting the rural
Central Region with the urbanarea o f Kampala.

The rural area served by the road has a moderate to high agricultural intensity and a relatively
hghrural population density. The road connects several rural townships and scattered along its
length are various villages, trading centers, schools and educational institutes (University and
agricultural research centers). The area is characterized by flat-topped hills that rise to an average
height o f about 1250 m (a.s.1.) and are separatedby broad, uniform valley slopes, which descend
into extensive swamp areas.

The works under this project will comprise o f on-line improvements focused on the following
activities from Kampala- to Gayaza to Bugema to Zirobwe to Wobulenzi:

0   reconstructing, strengthening and sealing o f existing carriageways, and shoulders;
0   localized wideningo f the carriageway within the current roadreserve;
    sealing o f verges;
0   clearing o f ditches;
0   replacement o f three bridges; and
0   repair o f existing, and constructiono f additional, drainage infrastructure.

Construction is expected to extend over 2-3 years and employ 2-300 persons. The works will be
undertaken inthree packages using a combination o f manual labor andmechanized plant. Various
sites have been identified for the sourcing o f murrum and sand and for spoil disposal. Several
work camps will be requiredas well as storage areas along the project roads. Temporary landtake
will also be required for working widths, diversions and parkinghtorage areas. Ingeneral these
will be accommodated withinthe roadreserve.

An environmental and social monitoring plan has been developed outlining the nature, location
and methodology o f monitoring that should take place during the construction and operation
phases. An evaluation has also been made o f the bodiedoffices designated to supervise the
monitoring tasks. Inaddition, the National Environment Management Authority (NEMA) issued
a certificate o f approval o f the environmental impact assessment in August 2002. The conditions
for approval were integrated into the assessment and the management andmonitoring plans.




                                                -  114-

Summary of Findings

The EIA identifies the following various categories o f impacts on the biophysical and human
environments:

Those on the biophysical environment included:; erosion from new excavations and other works;
water and soil pollution; air pollution and dust during and post construction; noise and vibration
during and post construction; landscape deterioration by earthworks; surface and groundwater
drainage obstruction andpollution; soil erosion and sedimentation.

Impacts on the human environment are; loss o f farmland and habitat; construction safety risks;
health hazards duringroad construction; employment generated by the project; benefits for local
SME; water-borne diseases; displacement and Involuntary Resettlement; expansion of feeder
road network; hazards for livestock; activation o f transmission corridors for diseases; pests and
weeds; road safety hazards; demographic pressure and unsustainable land use; community and
environmental services; economic benefits.

The positive and negative effects o f these impacts are assessed in relation to the construction
phase and the post-construction phase since the control and mitigation o f the two phases are
undertaken by different agencies. The construction phase includes all impacts resulting from the
constructiono f the road andthe activities o froad construction itself.

3.      PotentialBeneficial Effects

Although the rehabilitationworks have potential, ifinappropriately undertaken, to present a threat
to the environment, there are also considerable benefits to be gained. These include:

    reduced risk o f erosionand o f malaria as a result o f improvedroad drainage;
    sealing o f verges inareas where traffic movements could pose a risk to cyclists;
    reduction infrequency o f maintenance activities andhence disturbance to flora andfauna, to
    human communities adjacent to the road androadusers;
    opportunity to introduce safety measures inthe vicinity o f towns and settlements e.g. speed
    controls, sealed verges, signs etc.; and
0   economic benefits throughprovision o f an improved and reliable infrastructure to transport
    passengersandgoods. This should encourage economic activity and also, inthe longer term,
    may result inadditional community benefits e.g. improved access to schools, medical centers
    etc.

4.      Environmental Management Plan

An environmental management plan has been prepared which itemizes the required mitigation
measures and identifies the agencies responsible for implementing and monitoring these measures
during design, construction and operation o f the proposed works. The monitoring requirements
have also beendetermined. Provisions for such measures will be included intender documents and



                                               - 115-

the construction management plan. An overview o f the responsibilities, resources available,
capacity o f agencies involved for environmental management and monitoring i s included. Areas
for enhanced capacity, increased resources and interagency co-ordination are also identified. In
particular, the implementationof an environmental liaison unit within the MOWHC, appointment
o f an environmental specialist in RAFU and the establishment of a working relationship would
benefit the environmental management for this operation as well as for future operations.

5.      ResettlementActionPlan

Good practice inresettlement planningand implementationare key to fulfillment       o f the objectives
o f involuntary resettlement. Consequently, the GOU prepared a Resettlement Land Acquisition
Policy Framework. The main objective o f this framework i s to ensure that the displaced people
receive benefits from the displacing project. It gives the institutional and legal framework, and
guidelines    a socio-economic     surveys,   community participation,      compensation system,
implementation monitoring and evaluation, preparation o f an adequate budget. Preparation o f the
Resettlement Action Plan(RAP) is completed.

6.      PovertyAlleviation

The project is expected to contribute to poverty reduction through its indirect impacts on
economic growth or indirect impact on personal welfare of the poor. Baseline data is necessary to
provide the benchmark for measuring the success o f the project. Baseline conditions o f the
affected population have been established during social impact assessment andresettlement action
planning. The project impacts will be monitored to determine the extent to whch it reduces the
poverty relative to what the situation would have been like inits absence. Indicators designed for
measurement of the poverty impact of the road project have been included in the performance
indicators system developed to measure project performance.

7.      HIVIAIDS

Impacts o f HIV/AIDS and other STDs on the community along the project road have been
assessedand measures to mitigate them inaccordance with the GOU policy have been proposed.
The community facilities and access to national programs have been also assessed, and
recommendations for mitigation have been made.

8.      Billof Quantities

Environmental/social mitigation and enhancement measures- including resettlement and remedial
works to offset construction damages and post construction impacts o f road use - range from
US$ 444,000 (U~h.1~339million) for alignment B to US$ 1,021,282 (U~h.1~818million) for
alignment C Additional costs for ancillary infrastructure and other follow-up interventions will be
borne by the central and district administrations, with participatory effort o f local urban and rural
communities.




                                               - 116 -

9.      Conclusion

The recommendation o f the Environmental Impact Assessment is either alignment B or alignment
C canproceedprovidedthat:

0  the Environmental Management Plan described therein be implemented.
0  the budget for the Environmental Management Plan identifiedtherein i s included inthe cost o f
   the project putforward for funding.
0  the budget for the Resettlement Action Plan also identified therein i s includedinthe cost o f
   the project put forward for funding.

Itis also a recommendation ofthe EIAto follow the suggestions of the Bankto limit the areasto
be cleared from constructions and crops to the minimumindispensable for roadwidening.




                                               - 117-

                                      Soroti-Dokolo-Lira Road


1.     Introduction

The road from Soroti to Lira forms a link in the national paved road circuit north of Kampala.
The eastem section o f the circuit connects Kampala with Jinja, the border with Kenya, Ivlbale and
Soroti, while the westem section comprises the Kampala-Karuma-Kamudini-lira paved roads.
The Soroti-Lira section is the only link inthe circuit that is not paved. Its upgrading to bitumen
standard is considered to be very important, not only in terms o f completing the national paved
road circuit, but also for transit traffic from Kenya to the Democratic Republic o f Congo and
southern Sudan.

The road is approximately 125 km in length, connecting key trading centers o f Otuboi, Dokolo,
Agwata and Adwila.

A feasibility and preliminary engineering study was carried out in 1991 and detailed engineering
design in 1992. Under the Northern Uganda Reconstruction Project (NURP), the road was
rehabilitatedin 1995 but no major works have been carried out since then.

Against this background, the Government intends to apply a portion o f the IDA credit towards
the upgrading of the Soroti-Lira Road.        A feasibility study and engineering design for the
upgrading o f the project road is now being carried out in two phases: Phase Icomprises the
economic feasibility, preliminary environmental and social impact assessments and preliminary
design, while Phase I1will cover the detailed engineering design, preparation o f pre-qualification
andbiddingdocuments for the project road.

2. Project Description

The Soroti-Lira Road traverses three districts, namely Soroti, Kaberamaido and Lira Districts,
although there i s a very small section o f road that runs along the border of Akalu sub-county in
Apac District and Amach sub-county inLira District.

The project area's climate i s influencedby its altitude and its proximity to Lakes Kojwero, Kwania
and Kyoga andthe large areas o f swamp that flank the project road.

The project area experiences two rainy seasons: between March and July (peaking inAprilMay)
and AugustISeptember to November. There is a short dry spell between July and August, and a
longer one between November and March.

3. Environmental and Social Impacts and Their Mitigation

Various realignment options have been considered for the project. The primary objective o f
upgrading the Soroti-Dokolo-Lira Road i s to enhance the national road network by providing a



                                                - 118-

paved link connecting the eastern and western sections o f the national paved road circuit.
Currently the road i s functional, but inpoor condition. Inthe shorter term, the upgrading o f the
project road will facilitate trade between Kenya and northern Uganda, as well as the Democratic
Republic o f Congo and southern Sudan. It i s anticipated that inthe long term there will be some
economic gain accruing to the areas o f influence o f the project road due stimulated agricultural
production and fishing activities. It is felt that a better road will lead to improved transportation
services along the project road, which in turn will result in better access to health centers,
improveddelivery o f social services.

The potential environmental impacts o f the proposed project roadinclude: clearance o f vegetation
due to realignment and road works, soil erosion on road cuts, change in hydrology and drainage
patterns and soil and water contaminatiodpollution due to spillage and leakage o f oils and other
toxic materialdsediment load, noise, dust and air pollution from road works, borrow pits and
quarries. In addition, the potential impact on biodiversity following removal o f topsoil and
vegetation, as well as along sections passing through forests, wetlands and wilderness were
considered so as to provide adequatemitigation measures.

The key issues relevant to the project objectives include the likely impacts on road safety due to
increase inthe number o f accidents, loss o f land and property as well as crops, impact on public
health resulting from dust, occupational safety concerns and the spread o f STDs and HIV/AIDS,
and degradation o f air and water quality caused by dust, soil erosion and siltation o f water
bodiedsources. Issues o f loss o f employment are likely concerns as well.

Impacts o f HIV/AIDS and other STDS on the community along the project road have been
assessed and measures to mitigate them in accordance with the Government o f Uganda policy
have been proposed. The community facilities and access to national programmes are also
assessed, andrecommendations for mitigation made.

HIV/AIDS is associated with the extensive network o f truck/bus rest stops and terminals as well
as with contractors' camps during construction stages o f the project.           The issue has been
addressed within the sector strategy and will be addressed within each individual contract. An
HIV/AIDS project currently under appraisal deals with all sectors and their related Ministries,
who will assume leadership and responsibility for implementing these strategies with professional
and technical support o f health agencies. Inaddition, each o f the physical components included in
the Phase 3 Projects include provisions for on-site clinic screening and counseling for HIV/AIDS
and STDs, and awareness and training. programs for workers and local people, with associated
costs included inthe construction contracts.

The project social development outcomes include improved accessibility, improved household
incomes and increased opportunities for social services. A social assessment for the physical
components has been conducted prior to pre-appraisal in conjunction with the EIA for the roads
to be implementedunder Phase 3.




                                                - 119-

4. Environmental Management Plan

The main features o f the EMP are summary o f impacts, description o f mitigation measures,
description o f a mitigation plan, policy andlegal requirements andinstitutional responsibilities. An
environmental management plan has been prepared which itemizes the required mitigation
measures and identifies the agencies responsible for implementing andmonitoring these measures
during design, construction and operation o f the proposed works. The monitoring requirements
have also been included.

An environmental and social management planhas been prepared to cover all the phases of the
project life: planning, design, construction, defects liability, operation and maintenance. The plan
describes how each o f the main mitigation measures should be implemented, how frequently, and
who shouldbe responsible during and after construction. Environmental and social monitoring, as
integralparts o f the EMP, have also been includedtherein.

Prior to mobilisation, the Contractor should also prepare his own EMP/SMP for review by RAFU
and the Supervising Engineer. Inhis schedule o f works, the Contractor must include all proposed
mitigation measures, and the Supervising Engineer should ensure that the schedule and
monitoring plan are complied with. This will also lend a sense o f ownership to the Contractor, in
addition to instillinginhima thorough understanding o f the pertinent issues.

The success o f the proposed EMP rests with: (i)    ensuring adoption o f appropriate work practices
through their specification in a management plan; (ii)contract documentation; (iii)costs and
schedules; and (iv) on-site monitoring. The relevant parties will have to agree to the institutional,
financial, technical, legal, and logistical implications o f the implementation o f the proposed
mitigation measures. Inadditional, MOWHC/RAFU will have to ensure that mitigation measures
are incorporatedin final road designs and contract documentation, and that appropriate expertise
is includedinthe supervision consultants' staff to carry out such measures.

5.      Resettlement Action Plan

Good practice inresettlement planning and implementation are key to fulfillment of the objectives
o f involuntary resettlement. Consequently, the GGOU prepared a Resettlement Land Acquisition
Policy Framework. The main objective o f this framework is to ensure that the displaced people
receive benefits from the displacing project. It gives the institutional and legal framework, and
guidelines for socio-economic         surveys, community participation,        compensation system,
implementation monitoring and evaluation, andpreparationo f an adequate budget. Preparationo f
the Preliminary Resettlement Action Plan(RAP) is near completion.

6.      Poverty Alleviation

The project i s expected to contribute to poverty reduction through its indirect impacts on
economic growth or indirect impact on personal welfare o f the poor. Baseline data is necessary to
provide the benchmark for measuring the success o f the project. Baseline conditions o f the



                                                - 120-

affected population have been established during social impact assessment and resettlementaction
planning. The project impacts will be monitored to determine the extent to which it reduces the
poverty relative to what the situation would have been like inits absence.

7. Environmental and Social Monitoring

Four overall performance targets have beenput forward to cover the construction, operation, and
maintenance phases o f the project. They are:

(i) Improvedenvironmentalmanagement
(ii) Improvedsocialmanagement
(iii)  Enhanced occupational healthand safety
(iv)   Increasedgender sensitivity

In order to achieve these overall performance targets, indicators have been recommended to
monitor specific impacts.




                                               - 121 -

                                     Busega-Mityana Road


1.     Introduction

The purpose o f the Busega-Mityana road improvement project is to upgrade a 57-km section o f
the Kampala-Fort Portal road corridor commencing at the Busega roundabout 7km from the
Kampala City Centre and extendingina westerly directionto Mityana.

A preliminary environmental impact assessment of the Busega-Mityana Road was carried out
during a DANIDA-sponsored feasibility study in 1997, including an Environmental Impact
Evaluation (EIE), a level o f EIA between the Environmental Impact Review and the
Environmental Impact Study (EIS), required by GOU for projects with significant potential
impacts. Because this project requires resettlement it necessarily has impacts that need to be
planned and budgeted for.      Also consultation o f affected primary stakeholders is essential,
together with fair compensation.     Such a Resettlement Action Plan needs to be properly
monitored.

An EIA study report was also prepared during 2001 before DANIDA withdrew funding. IDA
was then approached to take over funding and a relatively detailed Environmental Impact
Statement has been prepared.      This study brings together the previous work undertaken on
environmental and social impacts and recommends a way forward that entails revising the EIA
Report in conformity with GOU (through NEMA) and Bank guidelines and in the format
provided.

2.     Environmental and SocialImpacts and their Mitigation

The potential environmental impacts o f the proposed project road include: clearance o f forest,
trees and other vegetation due to realignment and road works, soil erosion on road cuts, fills and
embankments and barren ground, change in hydrology and drainage patterns and increase in
sediment load o f swamps and waterways as a result o f widening the road embankment across
wetlands, and soil and water contamination due to spillage and leakage o f oils and other toxic
materials. Various forms o f landtake (temporally andpermanent) and loss o f humanhabitation as
well as crops and other property, health risks from pools o f stagnant water, noise, dust and air
pollution from road works, borrow pits and quarries, spread o f HIV/AIDS/STDs, road and
occupational safety problems are likely impacts. In addition, the potential impact on biodiversity
following removal o f topsoil and vegetation, as well as along sections passing through forests,
wetlands andwilderness were considered so as to provide adequate mitigation measures.

The most significant impact will be the land acquisition, which requires a Resettlement Action
Plan, a program o f resettlement and compensation o f affected persons is scheduled and budgeted.
Itincludes details o fwho will be responsible for implementing it. This couldbe a localNGO or a
sociologist consultant.




                                               - 122 -

As the road basically follows the existing alignment, the landtake and vegetation clearance is to
be kept to a minimum. Mitigation includes proper compensation for buildings and crops o f the
affectedpeople, andwarning at least 6 months inadvance.

HIV/AIDS i s associated with the extensive network o f truck/bus rest stops and terminals as well
as with contractors' camps during construction stages o f the project.         The issue has been
addressed within the sector strategy and will be addressed within each individual contract. An
HIV/AIDS project currently under appraisal deals with all sectors and their related Ministries,
who will assume leadership and responsibility for implementing these strategies with professional
and technical support o f health agencies. Inaddition, each o f the physical components includedin
the Phase 3 Projects include provisions for on-site clinic screening andcounseling for HN/AIDS
and STD, and awareness and training programs for workers and local people, with associated
costs included inthe construction contracts.

The significant issues relevant to the project objectives include the likely impacts on road safety
due to increase inthe number o f accidents, loss o f land and habitation as well as crops, impact on
public health resulting from dust, occupational safety concerns and the spread o f STDs and
HIV/AIDS, anddegradation of air andwater quality causedby dust, soil erosion andsalutation of
water bodies/sources. Issues o f adequate and timely compensation o f affected persons are likely
concerns as well.

The project social development outcomes include improved accessibility, better investment
opportunities, improvedhouseholdincomes andincreased opportunities for social services.

Social assessment for the physical components has been conducted prior to pre-appraisal in
conjunction with the EIA for the roads to be implementedunder Phase 3.

3. PublicConsultations

The project involves consultations through meetings and public forums including workshops and
seminars to discuss the results o f various studies.      Consultations with local representatives,
women's groups and youth groups have shown that reconstructiono f the Busega - Mityana Road
i s strongly supported.

4. EnvironmentalManagementPlan(EMP)

The main features o f the EMP are summary o f impacts, description o f mitigation measures,
description o f a mitigation plan, policy and legal requirements and institutional responsibilities.
These features are adequate for the environmental management o f the project, provided a
monitoring plan is included and the adequacy o f the contents o f the EIS are attended to as
indicated inthe Consultant's recommendedway forward.

The success o f the proposed EMP rests with: (i)   ensuring adoption o f appropriate work practices
through their specification in a management plan; (ii)     contract documentation; (iii) andcosts
schedules; and (iv) on-site monitoring. The relevant parties will have to agree to the institutional,



                                               - 123 -

financial, technical, legal, and logistical implications o f the implementation o f the proposed
mitigation measures. Inadditional, MOWHC/RAFUwill have to ensure that mitigation measures
are incorporated in final road designs and contract documentation, and that appropriate expertise
is included inthe supervision consultants' staff to carry out such measures.

5. EnvironmentalMonitoring
No environmental monitoring plan has been developed outlining the nature; location and
methodology o f monitoring that should take place during the construction and operational phases
o f the project. This, however, forms part o f the revision o f the EIS that i s now to be undertaken
at the same time that the detailed designs for the road reconstructionare prepared. An evaluation
has already beenmade o f the bodies/offices responsible for supervising the monitoring tasks.




                                                - 124-

