Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3976 UG 
 
GRANT NUMBER H122 UG 
 
Development Financing Agreement 
 
(Road Development Program Phase III) 
 
between 
 
THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated February 23, 2005
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3976 UG 
 
GRANT NUMBER H122 UG 
 
DEVELOPMENT FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated February 23, 2005, between the REPUBLIC OF 
UGANDA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter from the Borrower, dated    
June 25, 2004, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
improve the Borrower’s road infrastructure, access to rural and economically productive 
areas of its territory, and to enhance its efforts towards the promotion of affordable, 
efficient and reliable transport services as a means of facilitating economic development 
(the Program), and declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of such 
program;  
(B) 
the Borrower has requested that the Association support the Borrower’s 
execution of the Program through a series of grants or credits over a period of 
approximately eight years to be utilized by the Borrower in the implementation of the 
Program;  
(C) 
the Borrower and the Association have entered into two previous 
Development Credit Agreements (the Agreements) in support of the Program: the first 
Agreement dated November 22, 1999, under which the Association has provided 
SDR 67,200,000 (the First Credit) and the second Agreement dated August 16, 2001, 
under which the Association has provided SDR 50,900,000 (the Second Credit); 
(D) 
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to 
assist in the financing of the Project which constitutes the third phase of the Program;  
(E) 
the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable, that 
the proceeds of the Grant be disbursed on account of expenditures in respect of the 
Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the Credit are made; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit and the Grant to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through May 1, 
2004), with the modifications set forth in Schedule 7 to this Agreement (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.  
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“BOU” means the Bank of Uganda, the Borrower's central bank;
 
(b) 
“Displaced Person” means a person who, on account of the execution of 
the Project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts 
caused by the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of shelter; (ii) 
loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or means of livelihood, 
whether or not such person must move to another location; and “Displaced Persons” 
means more than one Displaced Person; 
(c) 
“Environment Management Plan” and “EMP” mean the set of mitigation, 
enhancement, monitoring, and institutional measures to be taken during implementation 
of the Project to mitigate adverse environmental and social impacts, offset them, or 
reduce them to acceptable levels, or to enhance positive impacts; 
(d) 
“Environmental Impact Assessment” and “EIA” mean the specific 
environmental assessment undertaken in respect to the Project activities for: (i) Atiak-
Moyo road, dated December 2003; (ii) Soroti-Lira road, dated February 2004; (iii) 
Kampala-Gayaza-Zirobwe-Wobulenzi road, dated January 2004; and (iv) Busega-
Mityana road in accordance with paragraph 2 (b) (i) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(e) 
“Financial Management Manual” means the finance, accounting and 
administration manual referred to in Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement, including 
internal control procedures relating to the civil works and technical advisory services to 
be carried out under the Project, a chart of accounts, and the format and  content of 
financial reports and cash flow forecasts; 
(f) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” and “FMR” mean each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(g) 
“Financial Year” and “FY” mean the Borrower’s financial year 
commencing on July 1 and ending on June 30 of the subsequent year; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(h) 
“MOWHC” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Works, Housing and 
Communications;  
(i) 
 “Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 3.03 of this 
Agreement; 
(j) 
“Project Implementation Plan” and “PIP” mean the 
implementation plan referred to in Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement, and 
consisting of, 
inter alia
,
guidelines and procedures to be used for the purpose of 
implementation of the Project, including a financial manual and procurement 
plan, and such other administrative, financial, organizational arrangements, as 
such plan may be amended from time to time, and such term includes any 
schedules to the PIP; 
(k) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, 
dated June 16, 2004, covering the initial 18 month period (or longer) of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 
month periods (or longer) of Project implementation; 
(l) 
“Road Agency Formation Unit” and “RAFU” mean the unit established 
within MOWHC in September 1998; 
(m) 
“Resettlement Action Plan” and “RAP” mean the plans for implementing 
involuntary resettlement of Displaced Persons under Project activities on: (i) Atiak-Moyo 
road, dated December 2003; (ii) Soroti-Lira road, dated February 2004; (iii) Kampala-
Gayaza-Zirobwe-Wobulenzi road, dated January 2004; and (iv) Busega-Mityana road in 
accordance with paragraph 2 (b) (ii) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(n) 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” and “RPF” mean the framework dated 
May 2002, outlining the modalities for land taking and/or expropriation, resettlement, 
compensation and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons under the Project; 
(o) 
“Road Authority” means the Road Authority referred to in paragraph 3 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, to be established by the Borrower with the 
responsibility for management and development of the natural roads network; 
(p) 
“Special Accounts” means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and 
(q) 
“Uganda Shilling” and “UShs” mean the currency of the Borrower.   
Page  5
-
4
-
ARTICLE II 
The Financing
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Borrower, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement: 
(a) 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to forty five million nine 
hundred seventy thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 45,970,000) (the Credit); and 
(b)  
an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty seven million two 
hundred one thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 27,201,000) (the Grant). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account and the amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant Account, in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, for expenditures made 
(or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Financing. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in Dollars in BOU, two separate special deposit accounts, on terms and 
conditions  satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of,  each 
respective Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 
5
to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2009 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association:  (i) a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to 
be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, such rate not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum; and (ii) a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Grant not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, such rate not to exceed the rate of one-half of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
Each commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or the Grant Account (as 
the case may be), or canceled; and (ii) at the respective rate set as of the June 30 
immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to 
time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The respective rate set as of June 30 in 
Page  6
-
5
-
each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement. 
(c) 
Each commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.  
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
March 15 and September 15 commencing September 15, 2014 and ending March 15, 
2044. Each installment to and including the installment payable on March 15, 2024 shall 
be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of 
each such installment not yet due until the principal 
amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; and 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the 
principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual 
payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling 
six months or more after the date on which the 
Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out 
in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, 
Page  7
-
6
-
that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
years on such repayment of principal. 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering, environmental and technical practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Financing shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan. 
 
(b) 
the Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance  with 
guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish such update to the Association not 
later  than 12 months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the 
Association’s approval. 
Page  8
-
7
-
Section 3.03. Without limitation to its obligations under Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
open and thereafter maintain, until completion of the Project, an account 
(the Project Account) in UShs in BOU, on terms and conditions acceptable to the 
Association; 
(b) 
promptly thereafter, make an initial deposit of UShs equivalent to 
$2,500,000 into the Project Account to finance the Borrower’s contribution to the costs of 
the Project;  
(c) 
thereafter, on a monthly basis during Project Implementation, timely 
replenish the Project Account with such adequate amounts as shall be required to carry 
out the Project; and  
(d)  
use the Project Account funds exclusively to finance expenditures under 
the Project in addition to those financed from the proceeds of the Credit. 
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a 
plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, adequate to 
reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section and the records and accounts for the Special Accounts, 
for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), audited, in accordance with consistently applied 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association; 
Page  9
-
8
-
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year (or such 
other period agreed to by the Association): (A) certified copies 
of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for such year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such 
statements by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit of such financial 
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Financing Accounts were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Financing Accounts was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in the 
audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section.  
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraphs 6 and 7 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement the Borrower 
shall prepare and furnish to the Association a Financial Monitoring Report, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Credit, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
Page  10
-
9
-
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 
days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not 
later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar 
quarter. 
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall not later than March 31, 2005, appoint the 
auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement in accordance with the 
provisions of Section III of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that an extraordinary situation shall have 
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program or a significant part thereof will 
be carried out. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in Section 5.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Financing Agreement within the meaning of Section 
12.01 (b) of the General Conditions: 
(a) 
the Borrower has adopted a Project Implementation Plan, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association;  
(b)  
the Borrower has established the Project Account and deposited therein 
the initial deposit referred to in Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement;  
(c) 
the Borrower has adopted a Financial Management Manual in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association; and 
Page  11
-
10
-
(d) 
the Borrower has: (i) demonstrated the ability to produce an FMR; and 
(ii) opened books of accounts and completed the chart of accounts for the Project, all in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. 
The Borrower’s Minister for Finance is designated as representative 
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development 
 
P. O. Box 8147 
 
Kampala 
 
Uganda 
 
Cable address:   
 
Telex: 
 
FINSEC  
 
61170 
 
 
Kampala 
     
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
64145 (MCI) 
 
 
Page  12
-
11
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Kampala, The Republic of Uganda, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA 
 
By 
  /s/ 
Ezra 
Suruma 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION 
 
By  
 
/s/ Judy O’Connor 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  13
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Financing, the allocation of the amounts of the Financing to each 
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each 
Category: 
 Category
Amount of the 
Credit Allocated 
(Expressed in SDR 
Equivalent)
Amount of the Grant 
Allocated 
(Expressed in SDR 
Equivalent)
%
of
Expenditure
(1) Civil works 
 
80% 
(a) for Parts 
A.1, A.2, 
A.3 and B 
of the 
Project 
 
(b)  for Part A.4 
of the 
Project 
 
20,884,000 
 
16,530,000 
 
22,876,000 
 
(2) Consultants' 
services, 
including audit 
fees 
 
3,105,000 4,325,000  90% 
(3) Unallocated 
 
5,451,000  
 
 
TOTAL 
========
45,970,000
========
27,201,000
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made in respect of: 
(a) 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and 
(b) 
Category (1) (b), unless the Borrower shall have furnished to the 
Association: (i)  the EIA for implementation of Project activities on Busega-Mityana 
road; and (ii) the RAP for involuntary resettlement of Displaced Persons under Project 
Page  14
-
13
-
activities on Busega-Mityana road, all in a form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association.  
3. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Financing Accounts to be 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) 
works costing less than $250,000 equivalent per contract; (b) services of consulting firms 
under contracts costing less than $200,000 equivalent per contract; and (c) services of 
individual consultants costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract; all under such 
terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
Page  15
-
14
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to support the Borrower in implementing the third 
phase of the Program, including improving access to rural and economically productive 
areas of its territory, and building a sustainable road sector planning, design and program 
management, and road safety management. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective: 
Part A
:
Civil Works for  Upgrading, Rehabilitation and  Reconstruction
:
Upgrading of national roads including:  
1. 
carrying out of civil works for upgrading of about 125 km to paved (bitumen) 
standards, including, reconstruction, drainage improvement and construction of pavement 
on Soroti-Lira road; 
2. 
carrying out of civil works for upgrading of about 68 km on Kampala
–Gayaza-
Zirobwe-Wobulenzi road, including: (a) about 11 km on Gayaza-Kiwenda road; (b) about 
19 km on Kiwenda-Zirobwe road; (c) about 23 km on Zirobwe-Wobulenzi road, all 
gravel to bitumen standard; and (d) reconstruction of about 15 km on Kampala-Gayaza 
road; 
3. 
carrying out of civil works for rehabilitation and regravelling of about  91km on 
Atiak-Moyo road; and  
4. 
carrying out of civil works for reconstruction and upgrading of about 57km on 
Busega-Mityana road. 
Part B
:
Civil Works for Construction of Buildings
Carrying out the construction of headquarters’ building for MOWHC and the 
Road Authority. 
Part C
:
Roads Construction Services 
Carrying out: 
1. 
supervision services for construction of roads referred to in Parts A.1 through A.4 
of the Project; and 
Page  16
-
15
-
2. 
review and updating of detailed engineering design and preparation of tender 
documents, verification of economic feasibility for reconstruction of the paved road and 
completion of environmental and social assessments for Busega-Mityana road, all 
through the provision of technical advisory services.  
Part D:
Roads Feasibility and Design
Carrying out of: 
1. 
detailed designs for upgrading of about 300 km of district gravel roads to 
national roads at paved (bitumen) standard; and 
2. 
feasibility studies for upgrading of about 600 km of national roads to paved 
(bitumen) standard and detailed design of selected roads thereof, all through the provision 
of technical advisory services. 
Part E
:
Institutional Support and Establishment of the Road Authority
1. 
Provision of training and technical advisory services to consolidate the 
institutional reform process, including establishment  and commencing operations of the 
Road Authority, through, 
inter alia,
 developing  a performance agreement and a business 
plan, establishing a financial management system and internal audit function, 
restructuring internal office organization and staffing, and developing management 
information systems.  
2. 
Strengthening institutional support for implementation of Parts A through E of 
the Project, including the provision of external audit services. 
** * 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2009. 
Page  17
-
16
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of particular contracts, 
have the meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Works and Services (other than 
Consultants’ Services)International Competitive Bidding
Contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.  
The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, providing for 
domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to works to be carried out by 
domestic contractors. 
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
For  purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines, the short list of consultants 
for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may comprise 
entirely national consultants. 
Page  18
-
17
-
B. Other 
Procedures 
1. Least-cost 
Selection
Services for assignments which the Association agrees meet the requirements of 
paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 
3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Single Source Selection
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the requirements of paragraph 
3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection, may, with the 
Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines.  
3. Individual 
Consultants
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set forth in the first sentence 
of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded 
to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 
of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the circumstances described in paragraph 5.4 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded to individual consultants on a 
sole-source basis. 
Section IV.
Review by the Association of  Procurement Decisions
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, 
the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association: 
 (a) 
 each contract for works and services (other than consultants’ services)
 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more procured on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding; 
(b)  
each contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $200,000
 
or more; and 
(c) 
each contract for consultants’ services provided by individuals estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more.   
All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Association. 
 
Page  19
-
18
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
A. Institutional 
Arrangements 
:
1. 
The Borrower shall implement the Project or cause the Project to be implemented 
in accordance with the Project Implementation Plan, the Financial Management Manual 
and the Environmental Management Plan, and, except as the Borrower and the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or waive any provision 
of the Project Implementation Plan, the Financial Management Manual and the 
Environmental Management plan, if in the opinion of the Association, such amendment 
or waiver may materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the Project or the 
achievement of the objective thereof. 
2. 
The Borrower shall: (a) maintain at all times during Project implementation, 
MOWHC  with the overall responsibility for the implementation of the Project through 
RAFU; and (b) cause MOWHC to maintain RAFU with functions, staffing, terms and 
conditions of service satisfactory to the Association. 
3. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(a) 
not later than December 31, 2005, establish the Road Authority. To this 
end the Borrower shall take all measures necessary, including, if required,  the 
preparation of appropriate legislation; and  
 
(b) 
upon establishment of the Road Authority: (i) notify the Association; (ii) 
in consultation with the Association designate the Road Authority, to carry out the 
responsibilities of RAFU set forth in paragraph 2 (a) of this Schedule; and (iii) recruit to 
the Road Authority staff, having terms of reference and conditions of employment 
satisfactory to the Association. 
B. 
EMP and  EIA , RPF and RAP
4. 
EMP and EIA
The Borrower shall carry out the EIA, and shall: 
(a) 
prior to: (i) commencement of the civil works for upgrading, 
rehabilitation, reconstruction or construction of any roads infrastructure; and (ii) 
construction of the headquarters’ building, implement the EIA in accordance with the 
procedures set forth in the EIA, and in the form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association; 
(b) 
in the event that an environmental impact assessment determines that 
such civil works, if carried out, would have in the opinion of the Association a potential 
Page  20
-
19
-
for negative environmental impact, the Borrower shall not carry out such civil works until 
an appropriate action has been discussed and agreed upon by the Borrower and the 
Association to mitigate such potential negative impact;  
(c) 
thereafter the Borrower shall carry out such agreed mitigation plan 
referred to in sub-paragraph (b) above; and  
(d) 
in carrying out civil works for  the upgrading, rehabilitation, and 
reconstruction  of Atiak-Moyo road, Soroti-Lira road and Kampala-Gayaza-Zirobwe-
Wolubenzi road, implement specific EIAs in accordance with the environmental impact 
assessment reports. 
5. 
RPF and RAP
The Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prior to commencement of any civil works for rehabilitation, 
construction, reconstruction  or upgrading a road infrastructure, or construction of the 
headquarters’ building, involving resettlement or involuntary resettlement or acquisition 
of land, prepare and implement, in accordance with the initial works program, 
appropriate resettlement plans for compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation of 
Displaced Persons, in accordance with the Resettlement Policy Framework, and in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Association; and  
 
(b) 
(i) carry out the RAP, in involuntary resettlement of Displaced Persons  
under Project activities on Atiak-Moyo road, Soroti-Lira road and Kampala-Gayaza-
Zirobwe-Wobulenzi road; and (ii) ensure appropriate compensation, resettlement and 
rehabilitation of such Displaced Persons. 
C. 
Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting
6. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 6 to 
this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objective 
thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about  March 31 of each year, an annual report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objective thereof during the period following such date; and 
Page  21
-
20
-
(c) 
review with the Association, by June 30 of each year or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (d) above, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required for the achievement of the Project objectives based 
on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s view on 
the matter. 
7. Midterm 
Review
(a) 
The borrower shall not later than March 31, 2007, or such later date as 
shall be agreed by the Association, prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association, a midterm review report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 6 of 
this Schedule, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and 
(b) 
review with the Association, by June 30, 2007, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (a) above, and, thereafter, 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Associations views on the matter.  
Page  22
-
21
-
SCHEDULE  5 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “Eligible Categories” means Categories (1)  and (2) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
the term “Eligible Expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means:  
(i) 
 an amount equivalent to $2,000,000 in respect of the Special 
Account for Parts A, B, C, D and E of the Project to be 
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the said 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, 
provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the said Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Credit Account allocated to Categories 
(1)(a), 1(b) and (2) plus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for Parts A, B, C, D and 
E
of
the Project shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of 
SDR3,000,000.  
(ii) 
 an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 in respect of the Special 
Account for Parts A.1, A.2, A.3, B, C, D and E of the Project to 
be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the 
said Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this 
Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the said Authorized Allocation shall be limited 
to an amount equivalent to $500,000 until the aggregate amount 
of withdrawals from the Grant Account allocated to Categories 
(1)(a) and (2) plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions for Parts A.1, A.2, A.3, B, C, D 
and E shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of 
SDR2,000,000. 
Page  23
-
22
-
2. 
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the respective 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective  Special Account shall be made as 
follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special Account of 
an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the Grant Account and deposit into 
the respective Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits 
into the respective Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify. 
 
(ii)  
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account or Grant Account and deposit into the respective 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Association from the Credit Account or Grant Account under 
the respective Eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, 
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account: 
Page  24
-
23
-
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account or Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account and the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Grant  allocated 
to the Eligible Categories for the respective Special Account minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account and the Grant Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Grant allocated to the Eligible Categories shall 
follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall 
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the respective Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) 
deposit into the respective Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof 
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further 
deposit by the Association into any Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has 
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
Page  25
-
24
-
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account or the Grant Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of 
this Agreement, including the General Conditions. 
Page  26
-
25
-
SCHEDULE 6 
Performance Indicators 
 
Unless otherwise agreed to by the Association, for the purpose of this 
Agreement, the performance indicators for implementation of the Project are as follows: 
1. 
Road Authority operational and fully staffed by end of 2005. 
2. 
167 km of national roads upgraded from gravel to bitumen standard, by the end 
of the Project. 
3. 
82 km of bitumen standard national roads reconstructed, by the end of the 
Project. 
4. 
91 km of gravel standard national roads reconstructed, by the end of the Project. 
5. 
Detailed designs completed for 300 km of district roads for upgrading to bitumen 
standard and reclassification as national roads, by the end of the Project. 
6. 
Feasibility Studies completed on upgrading of 600 km of national roads to 
bitumen standard, by the end of the Project. 
7. 
Road Authority headquarter’s building: (a) design completed by end of 2005; and 
(b) construction completed by end of 2008. 
8. 
The Borrower’s transport sector investment and recurrent expenditure program 
updated on annual basis by March 31 of each year, providing domestic financial 
resources adequate to at least cover its Project contribution and maintenance 
requirements on the national road network. 
 
Page  27
-
26
-
SCHEDULE 7  
Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows: 
1. 
Section 1.01 is modified to read: 
“Section 1.01. 
Application of General Conditions
 
These General Conditions set forth the terms and conditions generally 
applicable to the Development Financing Agreement to the extent and 
subject to any modifications set forth in such agreement. 
2. 
Section 2.01 is modified to read as follows: 
(a) 
Paragraph 3 of Section 2.01 is modified to read as follows: 
“3. 
“Borrower” means the party to the Development Financing 
Agreement to which the Financing is made.” 
 
(b) 
Paragraph 8 of Section 2.01 is modified to read as follows: 
“8.  “Development Financing Agreement” means the particular 
Development Financing Agreement to which these General Conditions 
apply, as such agreement may be amended from time to time.  
Development Financing Agreement includes these General Conditions as 
applied thereto, and all schedules and agreements supplemental to the 
Development Financing Agreement.” 
(c) 
The following new paragraphs are added after paragraph 11 of Section 
2.01, and paragraphs 12 through 14 are renumbered as paragraphs 16 through 18 
accordingly: 
“12. 
“Grant” means the development grant provided for in the 
Development Financing Agreement.” 
“13. 
“Grant Account” means the account opened by the Association 
on its books in the name of the Borrower to which the amount of 
the Grant is credited.” 
Page  28
-
27
-
“14. 
“Financing” means, collectively, the Credit and the Grant.” 
“15. 
“Financing Accounts” means, collectively, the Credit Account 
and the Grant Account (or, where the context so requires, either 
of the Credit Account or the Grant Account).” 
3. 
The term “Credit”, wherever used in the following Articles and Sections of the 
General Conditions, is modified to read “Financing”:  Sections 2.01(3), 2.01(12), 4.01, 
Article V, Article VI (excluding Section 6.05), Section 7.01(d), Article VIII, and Article 
IX. 
4. 
The term “Credit Account”, wherever used in the following Articles and Sections 
of the General Conditions, is modified to read “Financing Accounts”:  Section 2.01(6), 
the heading of Article III, 4.01, Article V, Article VI, and Section 12.03. 
5. 
The term “Development Credit Agreement”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, is modified to read “Development Financing Agreement”. 
6. 
Article III is modified as follows: 
(a) 
Section 3.01 is modified to read as follows:   
“Section 3.01.  
Financing Accounts   
The amount of the Credit shall be credited to the Credit Account and 
may be withdrawn from the Credit Account by the Borrower as provided 
in the Development Financing Agreement and in these General 
Conditions.  The amount of the Grant shall be credited to the Grant 
Account and may be withdrawn from the Grant Account by the Borrower 
as provided in the Development Financing Agreement and in these 
General Conditions.” 
(b) 
The words “The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit” in 
Section 3.05 are modified to read “All amounts required to be paid under the 
Development Financing Agreement”. 
7. 
Article IV is modified as follows: 
(a) 
Section 4.02(a) and the heading of Section 4.02 are modified to read as 
follows: 
“Section 4.02.
 
Currencies in which Payments are to be Made
 
(a)  The Borrower shall pay all amounts required to be paid by it 
under the Development Financing Agreement in the currency specified 
in such agreement or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may 
Page  29
-
28
-
from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to paragraph (c) or 
(e) of this Section.” 
(b) 
Wherever used in Section 4.02(c) and (e) of the General Conditions, the 
words “principal and service charges” are modified to read “amounts”. 
(c) 
Section 4.06(b) is modified to read as follows: 
“(b) All amounts which the Borrower shall be required to pay under 
the Development Financing Agreement shall be paid without restrictions 
of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower.” 
8. 
Section 6.02 is modified as follows: 
(a) 
The words “development credit” in Section 6.02(a)(ii) are deleted. 
(b) 
The words “loan or guarantee” in Section 6.02(a)(iii) are deleted. 
(c) 
The words “development credit” and the word “loan”, wherever used in 
Section 6.02(c), are deleted. 
9. 
Section 6.05 is modified to read as follows: 
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, any 
cancellation of any amount of the Credit shall be applied 
pro rata
 to the 
several installments of the principal amount of the Credit maturing after 
the date of such cancellation.” 
10. 
Section 7.01 is modified to read as follows: 
(a) 
The words “principal or interest or any other amount” in Section 7.01(b) 
are modified to read “any amount”. 
(b) 
The words “development credit” in Section 7.01(b)(i) are deleted. 
(c) 
The words “loan or guarantee” in Section 7.01(b)(ii) are deleted. 
11. 
Section 8.01(a) is modified to read as follows: 
“(a) All amounts which the Borrower shall be required to pay under 
the Development Financing Agreement shall be paid without deduction 
for, and free from, any taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the 
Borrower.” 
12. 
 Paragraph (c) of Section 9.06 is modified to read as follows: 
Page  30
-
29
-
“(c) Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a 
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the Project, its cost and the 
benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the 
Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations under the 
Development Financing Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Financing.” 
 
