Page  1
C
ONFORMED COPY 
             
 
GRANT NUMBER H122 UG 
 
Development Grant Agreement 
 
(Fourth Poverty Reduction Support Operation) 
 
between 
 
THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated  December 1, 2004 
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H122 UG 
 
DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated December 1, 2004, between THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA (the 
Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated July 28, 2004, (the Letter of 
Development Policy) from the Recipient describing a program of actions, objectives and policies 
designed to eradicate poverty from the Recipient's territory (hereinafter called the Program), 
declaring the Recipient's commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance 
from the Association in support of the Program during the execution thereof; 
(B) 
the Recipient has carried out the measures and taken the actions described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Association; and 
(C) 
on the basis, inter
alia
,
of the foregoing, the Association has decided to, in 
support of the Program, provide such assistance to the Recipient by making the Grant as 
hereinafter provided; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” 
of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (as amended through May 1, 2004), with the 
modifications set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:  
(a) 
“BOU” means the Bank of Uganda, the Recipient's central bank; 
(b) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement; 
(c) 
“Local Government” means a local government established under the Recipient’s 
Local Government Act of 1997; 
(d) 
“MoPS” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Public Service; 
(e) 
“MoFPED” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic 
Development; 
Page  3
-
2
-
(d) 
“FY” means the Recipient’s fiscal year commencing on July 1 and ending on 
June 30 of the following year; 
(e)       “Letter of Development Policy” means the Recipient’s letter referred to in 
paragraph (A) of the Preamble to this Agreement; and 
(f)       “Social Sector Ministries” means the Recipient’s ministries responsible  for: (i) 
health, (ii) education and sports, (iii) water, lands and environment, and (iv) gender, labor and 
social development. 
ARTICLE II 
The Grant 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Grant  Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to one hundred two million and six hundred thousand  Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 102,600,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section, the 
Recipient shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Grant from the Grant Account in 
support of the Program. 
(b) 
The Recipient shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first request 
for withdrawal from the Grant Account, and thereafter maintain in BOU, a deposit account in 
Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. All withdrawals from the Grant 
Account shall be deposited by the Association into the Deposit Account. 
(c) 
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Grant shall not be used to 
finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. If the 
Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Grant shall have been used 
to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Association: (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount of said 
payment; or (ii) if the Association shall so request, refund such amount to the Association. 
Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be credited to the Grant Account 
for cancellation. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2005 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Recipient shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Grant not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days after the 
date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be 
withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the 
Page  4
-
3
-
June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as  may be set from time 
to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be 
applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association shall 
reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the 
Recipient; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of 
the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time 
be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. Commitment charges shall be payable semiannually on February 15 and 
August 15 in each year. 
Section 2.06. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
Section 2.07. BOU is designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of 
taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III
 
Particular Covenants 
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient undertakes to implement the Program with due diligence 
to ensure that actions and policies adopted under the Program are put into effect. 
(b) 
The Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either 
party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program. 
(c) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
(d) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the 
Recipient shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be taken after the 
disbursement of the Grant which would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of 
the Program, or any action taken under the Program. 
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Recipient shall: 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(b) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
Page  5
-
4
-
(c) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Event of Suspension 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
Termination  
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement  is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  6
-
5
-
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses 
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister of 
Finance, Planning and Economic Development of the Recipient is designated as the 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions: 
 
For the Recipient: 
 
Ministry of Finance, Planning 
and Economic Development 
 
P.O Box 8147 
Kampala 
Uganda 
 
Cable address:   
Facsimile: 
 
FINSEC 230163 
 Kampala 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association  
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
    248423 (MCI) or 
    (202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
      64145 (MCI) 
Page  7
-
6
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District 
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA 
 
By 
/s/ Edith Ssempala                      
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
 /s/ Judy O’Connor 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Grant shall not be 
used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Recipient; 
2. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have financed or agreed 
to finance under another Grant or a loan; 
3. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the United Nations in 
Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or 
subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Recipient:  
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112 - 
 
 
Alcoholic 
beverages 
 121 
-  
 
Tobacco, 
unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122 
- 
 
  
Tobacco, manufactured  
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525 
- 
  
Radioactive and  
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
  
Pearls, precious and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
 
718 
718.7 
 
  
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
728 728.43 
 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery 
 
897 
897.3 
 
  
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971 - 
 
 
Gold, 
non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
4. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
5. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph the 
term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import of which 
is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international agreements to which the Recipient is 
a
party, and any other goods designated as environmentally hazardous by agreement between the 
Recipient and the Association);  
6. 
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or 
for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on account of any 
payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or import is prohibited by 
a
decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
7. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines that corrupt 
or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Recipient or of a beneficiary of 
the Grant during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the Recipient having 
taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to remedy the situation. 
Page  10
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Actions Taken By the Recipient 
 
(a) 
(i) The Recipient has: adopted a medium term expenditure framework, satisfactory 
to the Association, for FY2003/04-2005/06, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 23 of 
the Letter of Development Policy; and (ii) executed its budget in FY 2003/04 consistent with the 
allocations made pursuant to subparagraph (i) above; 
(b) 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 40 of the Letter of Development 
Policy, MoPS and MoFPED have put into effect salary adjustments in line with the pay reform 
strategy reflected in the Recipient’s  medium term expenditure framework; 
(c) 
the Inspectorate of Government, has: (i) completed the analysis of declared assets 
and information obtained from various categories of Leaders; (ii) initiated the verification of 
assets; (iii) investigated all complaints received from the public up to November 2003; and (iv) 
prepared a time-bound action plan for implementing the Leadership Code; 
 
(d) 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 37 of the Letter of Development 
Policy, MoPS and MoFPED have completed a comprehensive draft policy paper on issues, 
measures and modalities for: (i) controlling the size of public administration; and (ii) ensuring the 
cost efficiency and effectiveness in human resource deployment of the social sectors establishment 
and discussed the policy paper with the Social Sector  Ministries; and  
(e) 
 the Recipient’s Ministry of Local Government has submitted to Cabinet  drafts of 
Local Government Procurement and Disposal of Assets Regulations and proposals to amend its 
Local Government Act of 1997, particularly on issues relating to the appointment and removal of  
tender boards members in  Local Governments; 
 
(f) 
the Recipient has implemented the undertakings agreed and confirmed in the 
education sector review held in November 2003, in a manner satisfactory to the Association, and 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 103 of the Letter of Development Policy; 
 
(g) 
the Recipient has implemented the undertakings agreed and confirmed by the 
health sector review held in November 2003, in a manner satisfactory to the Association, and 
consistent with the provisions of paragraph 105 of the Letter of Development Policy; and 
(h) 
the Recipient implemented the undertakings agreed and confirmed by the water 
and sanitation sector review held in March 2004, in a manner satisfactory to the Association, and 
consistent with the provisions of paragraph 128 of the Letter of Development Policy. 
Page  11
-
10 -
SCHEDULE 3  
Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are modified 
as follows: 
1. 
Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04(a), 3.04(b), 6.05 and Article VII are deleted in their entirety. 
2. 
Wherever used in the General Conditions, the following terms are modified to read as 
follows: 
(a) 
The term “Borrower” is modified to read “Recipient”. 
(b) 
The term “Credit” is modified to read “Grant”. 
(c) 
The term “Credit Account” is modified to read “Grant Account”. 
(d) 
The term “Development Credit Agreement” is modified to read “Development 
Grant Agreement”. 
3. 
Section 1.01 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 1.01. 
Application of General Conditions
 
These General Conditions set forth the terms and conditions generally applicable to 
the Development Grant Agreement to the extent and subject to any modifications 
set forth in such agreement.”  
4. 
Paragraph 3 of Section 2.01 is modified to read as follows: 
“3. 
“Recipient” means the party to the Development Grant Agreement to 
which the Grant is made.” 
 
5. 
Article III is modified as follows: 
(a) 
The heading of Article III is modified to read “Grant Account; Partial Payment”, 
and the heading of Section 3.04 is modified to read “Partial Payment”. 
(b) 
The words “The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit” in Section 3.05 
are modified to read “All amounts required to be paid under the Development Grant Agreement”. 
6. 
Article IV is modified as follows: 
(a) 
Section 4.02(a) is modified to read as follows: 
“Section 4.02.
 
Currencies in which Payments are to be Made 
Page  12
-
11 -
(a)  The Recipient shall pay all amounts required to be paid by it under the 
Development Grant Agreement in the currency specified in such agreement or in 
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated 
or selected pursuant to paragraph (c) or (e) of this Section.” 
(b) 
Wherever used in Section 4.02(c) and (e) of the General Conditions, the words 
“principal and service charges” are modified to read “amounts”. 
(c) 
Section 4.03 is modified to read as follows: 
“Section 4.03.
 
Amount of the Grant
 
The amount of the Grant withdrawn from time to time shall be the equivalent in 
terms of SDR (determined as of the date or respective dates of withdrawal from the 
Grant Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn.” 
(d) 
Section 4.06(b) is modified to read as follows: 
“(b) All amounts which the Recipient shall be required to pay under the 
Development Grant Agreement shall be paid without restrictions of any kind 
imposed by, or in the territory of, the Recipient.” 
7. 
Section 6.02 is modified as follows: 
(a)  The phrase “any other development credit agreement” in 
 
Section 6.02 (a) (ii) is modified to read:  “any other development grant agreement or any 
development credit agreement or development financing agreement”. 
(b) 
The phrase “any development credit agreement” in Section 6.02 (c) (i) is modified 
to read: “any development grant agreement, development credit agreement or development 
financing agreement”. 
8. 
Section 8.01(a) is modified to read as follows: 
“(a) All amounts which the Recipient shall be required to pay under the 
Development Grant Agreement shall be paid without deduction for, and free from, 
any taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Recipient.” 
9. 
Section 12.05 and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
“Section 12.05.
 
Termination of Development Grant Agreement. 
 
The obligations of the Recipient under the Development Grant Agreement shall 
terminate on the date 20 years after the date of the Development Grant 
Agreement.” 
 
