Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY FILE  COPY
Report No. 2632-JO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
November 15, 1979
Education and Manpower Development Division
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1.00      = Jordanian Dinar (JD) 0.295
JD 1.000      = US $ 3.39
MEASURES
I m2          = 10.764 sq. ft.
1 km          = 0.38 sq. mile
1 hectare     = 2.47 acres
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
GLOSSARY
BASIC DATA
I.  THE EDUCATION SECTOR ..............*........o.....               1
Socio-Economic Background.. .................             1
Development and Reform of the Education
and Training System      ..              ...    ..      ... 1
Educational Issues......  .........       . -....--        4
Educational Finance  ........7o.... .                      7
Bank Strategy and Lending for Education .... ....         8
II.   THE PROJECT              ........  . . . . . .                  9
Introduction ............9....... o .......... o          9
Objectives and Scope    ........... .      ...... .        9
Saahab Training Complex   .........     o ... .ooo.ooo   10
Comprehensive Secondary Schools ... -..-..               12
Agricultural Secondary School - Extension                13.....  3
Prevocational Teacher Training Institute -
Extension ..................   o   ...............     14
Community College. ...... 0    .     .-.0. ......... .    15
Mobile Building Maintenance Units        .      .        16
Institution Building ........... ...... ...16
Management I nformation              Systemoooooooos    16
Evaluation . ....... --....  oo..-....                 17
Educational Research o..no...a  esear...   ch....o..o  17
Project Management Support ............... .            17
III    PROJECT COST. FINANCING, IMPLEMENTATION
AND DISP-   MENTS- ...       ... . ... ......                18
Cost of the Project        ... . . ... ...                18
Project Financing .     .    ........ -oo ..........     20
Recurrent Expenditure ....... ooo-      ...........      21
Implementation        ..............                     .........  .......... ...  21
Disbursements    ......      - ......... . .  ....       ... 22
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
IV.  BENEFITS, RISKS, AND CRITICAL ACTIVITIES .............      23
Benefits  ..... * ....... *  .......................... *  23
Risks ............................................ .  .......... 24
Critical Activities and Key Implementation Dates.      24
V.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ................       25
ANNEXES
1.  CHARTS, TABLES AND SCHEDULES
Charts    1  Structure of the Educational System, 1979
2  Education Pyramid, 1977/78
Tables    1  Comparative Education Indicators
2  Unit Capital Costs and Areas per Student -
Project Institutions
3  Contingency Allowances
Schedules 1  Implementation Schedule - Civil Works and Procurement
2  Technical Assistance Requirements
3  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
2.  RELATED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILE
A. Reports and Studies Relating to Education
B. Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
C. Selected Working Papers of the Project
MAP Location of Project Institutions



GLOSSARY
DEO    : District Education Office
MIS    : Management Information System
MOE    : Ministry of Education
NPC    : National Planning Council
TTI    : Teacher Training Institute
VTC    : Vocational Training Corporation
VTS    : Vocational Training Society






JORDAN
Basic Data (1977) 1/
Total Population (East Bank Only)                                    2.3 million
Current Rate of Population Growth                                    3.2%
Per Capita GNP (1978)                                             US$1,050
Literacy Rate (over 12 years of age)                                70.0%
Elementary School Enrollment (Gr. 1-6)
As a Percentage of Age Group 6-11 2/                           97.2%
Preparatory School Enrollment (Gr. 7-9)
As a Percentage of Age Group 12-14 2/                          76.0%
Secondary School Enrollment (Gr. 10-12)
As a Percentage of Age Group 15-17                             44.0%
Higher Education Enrollment
As a Percentage of Age Group 18-23                             10.6%
Central Government Expenditures on Education
As a Percentage of Total Central Government
Expenditures (1978)                                             9.0%
Central Government Expenditures on Education
As a Percentage of GNP                                          4.5%
1/   See Annex 1, Table I for comparative educational data.
2/   Gross enrollment ratio including overaged students.






I. THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Socio-Economic Background
1.01      Development Objectives, Strategy and Growth Target.  The main objec-
tives of Jordan's Five-Year Development Plan (1976-80) are to: (a) increase
per capita income; (b) achieve full employment, develop manpower capabilities,
and increase labor productivity; and (c) ensure a balanced regional distribu-
tion of economic activities and the fruits of growth. The macroeconomic
targets of the Plan provide for an average annual growth of GDP of 12% (agri-
culture, 7%, mining and manufacturing, 26%). The Plan allocations reveal a
marked shift in investment priorities towards industry and other commodity-
producing sectors particularly export-oriented activities. To achieve the
growth target almost 20% of investment funds are allocated to agriculture,
irrigation, and water management, and nearly 45% to manufacturing, electricity
and transportation. The major industries employing modern production tech-
niques and which are given high priority include oil refining, phosphate,
potash, fertilizer and cement manufacturing, and vegetable oil production.
1.02      Labor Force, Employment, and Emigration.  In the absence of a favor-
able endowment of natural resources in Jordan, a well-educated and trained
labor force is considered to be the country's most important asset. The
sectoral employment structure has significantly changed since 1970. The
agricultural sector accounted for 33% of the total employment in 1970 but
decreased to 19% in 1975. During the same period, the industrial sector
increased its share from 3.8% to 18%. The number of Jordanians emigrating,
mostly to the Persian Gulf countries, has increased from about 12,000
per year during 1972-75 to about 20,000 in 1977.  The total number of such
workers (from the East Bank only) is estimated at 120,000-150,000, compared
with 150,000 non-agricultural workers in Jordan.  Because of strong demands
for Jordanian workers at home and abroad, only 2% is now unemployed (14% in
1970), and this tight employment situation is expected to continue. Despite
the development constraints arising from this labor emigration, the government
is pursuing an open emigration policy. The government considers emigration to
be economically beneficial as: (a) increasing workers' remittances are an
important source of foreign exchange revenues (from $23 million in 1974 to
$500 million in 1978); and (b) experiences gained abroad contribute to economic
*          development at home.  At the same time, priority is being given to rapid
expansion of vocational/technical education and training and encouraging
increased participation, especially by females, in the labor force to meet the
gap in the availability of skilled workers created by emigration.
Development and Reform of the Education and Training System
1.03      Objectives and Strategies.  The need for a well-educated work force
with the necessary skills to respond to the demands of a rapidly developing
economy is seen by the government as fundamental to its overall development
strategy. Accordingly, under the Three-Year Development Plan (1973-75) and
the current Five-Year Plan (1976-80) the educational development policies and



- 2 -
strategies have been directed towards extending and generalizing basic school-
ing, while reorienting education and training towards meeting skilled
manpower needs. The major educational development objectives upon which this
strategy is based are as follows:
(a) Provision for all children of nine years of basic schooling,
incorporating both the primary (grades 1-6) and preparatory
(grades 7-9) levels.  The government is required by law to
meet the demand for basic schooling by providing the necessary
school facilities and teachers. In meeting this requirement,
the Ministry of Education (MOE) has used rented facilities and
underqualified teachers to a considerable extent;
(b) Improvement in the relevance of basic schooling through the
provision of practical pre-vocational studies for all students
to: (i) prepare them to make more informed choices concern-
ing secondary and post-secondary education and training;
(ii) acquaint them with some of the skills required in future
employment; and (iii) develop in them sound attitudes toward
work-life situations;
(c) Further diversification of secondary education to serve the
needs for vocational/technical manpower by: (i) expanding the
provision of secondary industrial schools (three-year program)
and trade training centers (two-year program) in urban areas;
and (ii) expanding the comprehensive secondary school system
initiated under the first and second IDA education projects,
in particular in the less urbanized areas, with about 30-40%
of students to be enrolled in vocational streams. The goal is
to increase the present 12% enrollment ratio in vocational/
technical courses at the secondary level to 30% by 1987 (the
initial target year was 1980);
(d) Expanding teacher training for both men and women teachers to
ensure an adequate supply of qualified teachers with particular
reference to meeting shortages of subject teachers for grades
7-9 and for secondary vocational/technical programs. To attract
and retain qualified vocational/technical teachers, the govern-
ment recently adopted various incentive measures including
granting a salary differential of 40% for vocational subject
teachers over other teachers. The possibility of further
incentives for teachers is being considered by the MOE;
(e) Expanding post-secondary education through the establishment
of: Ci) a new university at Yarmouk (enrollment target, 20,000
by 1986) with special emphasis on science, agriculture, engineer-
ing, and medical education, and having as a major objective to
reduce the large number of Jordanian youths going abroad to
study (an estimated 43,000 were studying abroad in 1978);
and (ii) a pilot community college, which would provide



- 3 -
experimentally for the training in one institution of required
technicians and subject teachers, as well as providing continuing
education for the adult community; and
(f) Upgrading the skill levels of the labor force in public and
private enterprises through in-plant apprenticeship and
upgrading programs organized and supervised by the Vocational
Training Corporation (VTC) in the Ministry of Labor which was
established under the first education project. These programs
have as their target groups: (i) preparatory school leavers who
do not have the option of continuing at the secondary level
mainly because of poor academic performance; and (ii) workers of
any age, including the self-employed, who need skill upgrading.
The VTC, as part of its charter, also maintains the necessary
coordination between industry and the MOE Directorate of Technical
Education to ensure the continuing relevance of the training
programs in the MOE institutions. The VTC is establishing five
training centers and plans to increase the number of trainees
from about 490 in 1978 to about 2,600 in 1982, with further
expansion to be considered as required in due course. The Voca-
tional Training Society (VTS), with the support of private
contributions, has also been giving skill-upgrading in evening
courses since 1958 to about 2,200 annually, mostly self-employed
adults in a variety of trades: central heating, radio repair,
electricity, auto mechanics, etc. The possibility of absorbing
the VTS activities under the VTC is under consideration. A new
trade testing and certification system applicable to all forms
of vocational training is being prepared.
1.04      Additionally, the government intends to take more effective action
in addressing the education and training needs of the estimated 30% of the
population over 12 years of age classified as illiterate and in providing
continuing education for literate adults. The MOE is encouraging adults and
out-of-school youths to attend day and evening classes that cover in four
years--recently reduced from six years--the content of the primary curriculum
adapted to adult learning needs. Students who graduate are deemed to have
the equivalent of the primary school certificate for admission to preparatory
school education, appropriate skill training programs or continuing education
programs. Literacy training is receiving particular emphasis in rural areas.
Progress to date has been slow, with only 20,000 trained in the past 10 years
from a target population estimated to have numbered 338,000 in 1976. A
national plan of action, aimed at eradicating illiteracy and developing con-
tinuing education programs for adults, is at present under preparation in
the MOE. In the meantime, the necessary legislation is being enacted to
ensure coordination between the MOE and the various other ministries concerned
(Agriculture, Labor, Health, and Islamic Culture) in the provision of adult
education.
1.05      Progress in the overall development of the education system has been
remarkable, especially over the past decade, as a result of the strenuous
effort made by the government in implementing its educational policies and



strategy (para. 1.03) and the high level of demand for education. Between
1972/73 and 1977/78 enrollments increased by 27% at the primary level, 78%
at the preparatory level and 105% at the secondary level. Enrollments in
vocational education increased significantly (more than 300%) during the same
period. However, the 8,800 vocational enrollments in 1977/78 were far short
of the anticipated enrollments of 13,700 in that year. Gross enrollments at
the primary, preparatory and secondary levels now represent 97%, 76% and 44%
of the relevant age groups, respectively.  There are no significant disparities
in the distribution of education opportunities between the regions. Female
enrollments as a percentage of total enrollments vary from 47% at the primary
level to 43% and 39% at the preparatory and secondary levels--among the
highest in the Middle East.
Educational Issues
1.06      Although the government's strategy for educational development has
been pursued with significant success in increasing educational opportunities
and quality and correcting earlier neglect of vocational/technical education,
further steps must be taken to address the principal issues related to:
(a) technical manpower requirements; (b) teacher supply; (c) quality and main-
tenance of school facilities; and (d) research, evaluation, and management.
1.07      Technical Manpower Requirements.  The lack of firm data on popula-
tion, in the absence of a census since 1961, and on labor outflow as well as
the indeterminate quality of labor force statistics, make projections of
manpower requirements difficult. The planned 1979 census and the ongoing Bank
study on migration trends in the Middle East should provide more reliable
data in this respect. In addition, there is an urgent need for the estab-
lishment of a permanent and efficient institutional mechanism which would
constantly review and assess the quality of basic statistical data, labor
market conditions, and emigration patterns by occupational categories and
direction, and regularly update projections of medium- and long-term require-
ments. Such a need is currently recognized by the National Planning Council
(NPC) and ways to strengthen the manpower analysis and projection capability
of the NPC are being considered under technical assistance to be provided
under a United Nations program. Early action is particularly important as
a basis for determining manpower needs under the next five-year development
plan (1981-85) to be formulated over the next 12 months. In the meantime,
an estimate of manpower needs and estimated institutional supply for broad
occupational groups was made by the mission and is summarized below:



- 5 -
Projected Annual Demand and Supply 1979-86
('000)
Projected
Annual                          1986 Output          Expected
Demand In-             All       IDA I                1986
clusive of   1978   Institu-   & II       Bank III  Shortfall
Attrition   Output   tions    Prolects  Project   (Surplus)
Professionals:
Science/engineer-
ing based univer-
sity graduates        1.2         0.3      0.8         -         -          0.4
Arts based univer-
sity graduates        1.5         0.7      2.5         -         -         (1.0)
Technicians:
Two-year post-
secondary
industrial/
commercial
education             2.7         0.9      1.5        0.5       0.2         1.2
Skilled workers:
Industrial           10.8         0.7      4.0        1.1       0.6         6.8
Commercial &
others                3.7         1.6      2.9        0.6       0.2         0.8
1.08      While these figures must be treated with caution in view of the
uncertainties in the data base, they do indicate that further significant
increases will be necessary in the output of technical manpower, particularly
at the skilled-worker level. The institutions under the first and second
education projects when at full capacity in 1983, will increase the annual
output of industrial skilled workers up to 1,100. The government proposes
to increase the supply of such workers to 4,000 annually by 1986 through the
establishment of three new comprehensive secondary schools offering industrial
programs, six industrial secondary schools and three trade training centers,
of which the comprehensive schools, one industrial school and one trade train-
ing center are included in the present project. The additional needs of about
6,800 annually would be met in part at the lower-skill level through the
expected expansion of the apprenticeship scheme (para. 1.03 (f)) but will
require also major expansion of the diversified secondary school system. At
the technician level, the original proposals for Yarmouk University included
provision for technician training. Such provision is not now likely to
eventuate and an early decision will be necessary on arrangements to meet the
shortfall (1,200 annually by 1986) in the output of technicians through the



- 6 -
possible establishment of a new polytechnic (preferably in the South) combined
with the provision of additional community colleges. Industrial technicians
are currently trained in the Marka Polytechnic Institute established under the
first education project while a second polytechnic in Irbid, under the second
education project, is expected to be completed by Autumn 1980. While a short-
fall is also indicated in the output of science/engineering-based university
graduates in 1986, this situation would be corrected quickly if the develop-
ment of Yarmouk University proceeds as planned.
1.09      Teacher Supply.  The rapid growth in enrollments in primary and
preparatory schools has placed heavy demands on the supply of both teachers
and facilities. Between 1974/75 and 1977/78 the number of Teacher Training
Institutes (TTIs) for that level has increased from 5 to 11 and yearly output
has more than trebled to 3,300 teachers. The increased supply of teachers
has resulted in constant improvement of teacher/student ratios which in
1977/78 reached the satisfactory levels of 1:32 and 1:21 in the primary and
preparatory cycles respectively. Future demand for teachers for the com-
pulsory cycle has been conservatively forecast at about 3,200 per year. While
supply and demand, therefore, appear roughly in balance, this does not take
into account: (a) the probable emigration of some of the graduates; (b) the
shortage of teachers for certain subjects, in particular for maths, science
and English; and (c) the need for an annual output of about 120 male prevoca-
tional craft teachers in grades 5-9, for which there is no current provision.
In addition, about 6,200 of the teachers in grades 1-9, 33% of the total, are
underqualified by government standards--i.e., they have not completed two
years of post-secondary training. Upgrading programs are being provided in
the TTIs to cater for the accumulated backlog of underqualified teachers.
To meet the need for prevocational craft teachers, the government proposes
to establish a prevocational teacher training institute under the proposed
project. The shortfall, as yet not fully quantified, in the supply of other
subject teachers mainly for grades 7-9 would be met from the community college
which would be established on a pilot basis under the proposed project with
an expected output of about 270 subject teachers annually.
1.10      The supply of teachers for the secondary schools--who are required
to have a university degree which includes education as a minor subject or a
degree plus an additional post-graduate year in professional education--is
generally adequate. However, secondary industrial instructors are increas-
ingly in short supply. Such instructors are trained in a special one-year
pedagogical training program (grade 15) open to graduates of the Marka Poly-
technic Institute (grades 13-14), who had earlier completed their industrial
secondary schooling. The number registering for this pedagogical course was
only 25 at the start of the 1977/78 session.  The government increased admis-
sion to this training program to about 140 this year and plans to maintain this
level of intake to meet the projected annual needs for industrial instructors
(about 130 by 1984) including those of comprehensive secondary school indus-
trial streams. A new by-law has been prepared to grant qualified teacher
status and the appropriate incremental financial reward for those completing
instructor training at the Institute.



7    -
1.11      Quality and Maintenance of Scinool Facilities.  A nationai survey ot
school buildings, financed under the second education project (Credit 534-JO),
reveals the very poor conditions which have resulted from the extensive use
of rented classrooms (45% of all classrooms and 37% of those under the MOE in
1977/78), especially in overcrowded urban areas. The government plans to
replace all rented classrooms with government-owned schools of better quality
progressively over the next 20 years and is currently undertaking a school-
location study including a survey that will identify: (a) rented primary and
preparatory schools that are most urgently in need of replacement; (b) the
best sites for comprehensive secondary schools in rural areas to replace
secondary schools occupying rented buildings; and (c) the best sites for the
construction of new vocational/trade schools in urban areas. In addition,
poor maintenance of buildings frequently hampers school operations, both
urban and rural. In remote areas, this is an especially urgent problem.
Skilled construction and repairmen have to be brought from elsewhere, which
means costly delays as well as excessive expense. The government proposes to
provide mobile building maintenance units to improve these conditions.
1.12      Research, Evaluation, and Management.  The MOE recognizes that it
needs to carry out considerably more educational research and evaluation
than at present before it can do sound long-range educational planning for
Jordan. As a result of the successful operation of the tracer system estab-
lished under the first IDA education project, the MOE is now actively
interested in setting up a separate entity which would be responsible for
educational evaluation of all kinds. The best location in the MOE for such
a unit has not yet been determined, pending the recommendations of an expert
to be provided under the technical assistance component of this project.
1.13      In 1977 the Cabinet authorized the MOE to convert from a manual data
system to a computerized data system but this decision has not yet been
implemented. Such a system would provide accurate and up-to-date information
not only for a new evaluation unit but also for the use of the MOE Research
Section that has recently been revitalized within the MOE Directorate of
Planning; the Research Section currently has a modest budget and a staff
of three. A proposed modern computerized management information system (MIS)
would provide more quickly and accurately for decision-makers the management
data they need concerning MOE personnel, physical assets, financial resources,
and student records. The computing facilities could also be used by the NPC
for manpower forecasting and planning.
Educational Finance
1.14      Between 1974/75 and 1977/78, the recurrent cost of public education
increased by about 10% per year in real terms, 2% higher than the real increase
in total government recurrent expenditure. This compares with a 6.8% yearly
increase in enrollment; thus there was a modest quantitative improvement in
recurrent educational expenditures over the period. As a result, the share of
educational expenditure increased from 12.9% to 13.9% of the total public
recurrent expenditure. During the same period, allocation of recurrent
expenditures to vocational/technical education increased by 29% per year in
real terms reflecting the high priority given to skilled manpower training.



- 8 -
This trend is expected to continue in the next plan period (1981-85). The
share of capital expenditure on education in the total capital expenditure of
the government decreased from 3.2% in 1974/75 to 2% in 1977/78 due to the
MOE's reliance on renting school buildings rather than constructing new
facilities. Total public education expenditures as a percentage of total
government expenditures varied in range from 8.5% to 9.0% between 1975 and
1978, while education expenditures as a percentage of GNP decreased from 5.1%
to 4.5%.
1.15      Based on projected enrollment increases, recurrent expenditures on
education in 1985 are estimated at JD 41.2 million (an increase of 5.6% p.a.).
Capital expenditures for public education are likely to show a much faster
growth in consideration of the proposed government program to progressively
replace rented school buildings with purpose-built schools and could be
expected to reach about 20% (currently 9%) of total expenditures on education
by 1985. On the above basis, total expenditures on education would amount to
JD 51.5 million (in 1978 prices) in 1985, which represents about 4.5% of the
projected GNP and 9-9.5% of the government budget. The government can be
expected to sustain this level of expenditure in view of the high priority
attached to education.
Bank Strategy and Lending for Education
1.16      The first IDA-assisted education project (Credit 285-JO approved
in 1972 for US$5.4 million) was designed to improve the quality of education
and to address deficiencies in the supply of skilled manpower. Particular
emphasis was given to vocational training for women to improve their employ-
ment potential. The project was innovative. It introduced diversified
secondary education, post-secondary technician training, new forms of trade
training, and agricultural and technical teacher training. Specifically,
the project assisted in providing two comprehensive secondary schools,
a polytechnic and trade training center, a coeducational teacher training
institute and provision for training of agricultural teachers; technical
assistance was provided for institutional support, curricula development
and teacher training. A system to trace the placement of graduates of
the project institutions was also developed and is operational.
1.17      The Project Performance Audit Report (No. 2494) for the first
education project in Jordan concluded that the project was justified and
worthwhile. The report stated that "the project has been catalytic in
that it stimulated educational planning, the concept of diversification of
secondary education, and the better integration of technical/vocational pro-
grams with the needs of the labor market. It has helped to develop project
implementation capabilities and procedures." The recommendations in the
project completion report have been or are being adopted, in particular,
the introduction of improved equipment procurement procedures, better coor-
dination of technical assistance, more effective scheduling of required
inputs and timing of implementation, and arrangements for training in manage-
ment and administration of Project Unit and project institutional staff.



- 9 -
1.18      Continuing this strategy, the second IDA project (Credit 534-JO
approved in 1975 for US$6.0 million) is assisting in providing a polytechnic,
three comprehensive secondary schools, extensions (workshops and laboratories)
to 16 preparatory and secondary schools, a trade training complex, a hotel
training school, and a rural development center, each element including appro-
priate technical assistance. Implementation of this project is proceeding
satisfactorily and is expected to be completed as scheduled.
1.19      The proposed project (a Bank loan for US$19.0 million) would con-
tinue the first two IDA education projects' emphasis upon increasing the
supply of better trained skilled workers, technicians, and teachers for
particular specializations as the shortage of skilled manpower is expected to
be a serious constraint in the implementation of Jordan's economic develop-
ment plan. The project would also provide support in strengthening manage-
ment capability in the MOE by providing the MOE with an evaluation mechanism
and a modern information system to be used as tools for planning and modern
management. With these tools added to a tracer system already installed, plus
added support for research, the elements needed for evaluation of the effec-
tiveness of the whole education system will be in place by the time earlier
project components have operated long enough to be evaluated. Meanwhile, the
next education project is expected to contribute in expanding non-formal adult
education and training and in meeting skilled manpower needs.
II. THE PROJECT
Introduction
2.01      The proposed project was prepared by the government following a Bank
Project Identification Mission in June 1978 and a subsequent Bank Preparation
Assistance Mission in October 1978. The project was appraised by Messrs. M.
H. You (economist, mission leader), R. Savas (agricultural educator), V. DeSa
(technical educator), G. Pampuro (economist, loan officer), R. Van Wagenen
(general educator, consultant), and Ms. R. Montague (architect) in February/
March 1979.
Objectives and Scope
2.02      The proposed project, which would assist the government in imple-
menting programs fully consistent with its educational development strategy
(para. 1.03), would have the following main objectives: (a) expand vocational/
technical training to meet the continuing shortage of skilled manpower in the
commercial, industrial and construction sectors, and to improve the quality of
agricultural secondary education; (b) assist in meeting the needs for tech-
nicians and teachers through the development of a new type of post-secondary
training institution; (c) improve the relevance and quality of basic and
secondary education through the training of prevocational subject teachers
and the expansion of the comprehensive secondary school system; (d) initiate
continuing education using the facilities of the project institutions;



- 10 -
(e) improve the school building maintenance capability of the District Edu-
cation Offices (DEOs) by providing mobile building maintenance units; and (f)
improve the MOE's capability for planning, research, evaluation and management.
2.03      The Project would include the provision of:
(a) construction/extension, equipment and furniture for:
Capacity         Estimated
New/      Annual
Institution                           Grades  Existing  Replacement  Output
1   Training Complex                  10-11)       -        440         200
10-12)      -         680         200
5   Comprehensive Secondary
Schools (two extensions)         10-12      970      3,130       1,300
1   Agricultural Secondary
School (extension)               10-12      240          0          70
1   Pre-Vocational Teacher
Training Institute
(extension)                     13-14        60        196         120
1   Community College                 13-14        -        980         460
1   Management Information System       -          -         -           -
(b) equipment for eight mobile building maintenance units; and
(c) technical assistance: 1/
(i)  related to the above (18 man-years of specialists'
services and 38-1/2 man-years of fellowships); and
(ii)  for advice on operation of an evaluation system and for
strengthening research and project management support
(2 man-years of specialists' services and 3 man-years
of fellowships).
Saahab Training Complex
2.04      The proposed component would help finance construction, equipment,
furniture, and technical assistance to support the government's plan to
expand vocational and technical training to meet the continuing shortage of
skilled manpower (para. 1.07). The training complex would be located within
1/   The technical assistance component is detailed in Annex 1, Schedule 2.



- 11 -
the new Saahab Industrial Estate (southeast of Amman). The complex would
provide: (a) full-time courses of three years duration (grades 10-12) to 680
students in the industrial secondary school and of two years duration (grades
10-11) to 440 students in the trade training center; and (b) part-time non-
formal evening courses of varying durations for apprenticeship training and
skill upgrading. Course specializations would include electrical utilization,
industrial electronics, electrical relays and switchgear, auto mechanics,
general plant mechanics, welding and sheet metal, woodwork, instrument
mechanics (including watch repair), and upholstery, which reflect the per-
ceived needs of the proposed manufacturing establishments in the industrial
estate. The industrial school students satisfactorily passing the MOE general
vocational industrial certificate examinations (estimated at 200 per year)
would be eligible for entry either into industry at the craftsman level or
into a polytechnic for technician training. The trade training center's
program would be terminal and its output (about 200 per year) is expected to
be employed in manufacturing at the appropriate skill level.
2.05      The industrial school curriculum would have 40 periods per week of
which nearly 47% would be devoted to practical training; in the trade center,
of the 37 weekly periods, 67% would be assigned to practical training. The
practical training for both programs would be based on the modular concept,
which has been successfully initiated under the first education project.
The workshop facilities would be used by the students of the industrial school
in the mornings, by students of the trade training center in the afternoons,
and by apprentices in basic training in the evenings, leading to intensive use
of shop equipment and facilities.
2.06      For the introduction of the new course specializations of instrument
mechanics, watch repair and upholstery, 24 man-months of expert services would
be provided in the project. In addition, provision would be made for 141 man-
months of fellowships for 15 instructors including those in the new specializa-
tions to receive advanced training abroad. As trade textbooks in Arabic are
not now available in the specializations of industrial electronics, instrument
mechanics and watch repair, the government provided an assurance that the
instructors in these specializations would be appointed not later than six
months before the opening of the training complex to enable them to prepare
such textbooks for those specializations.
2.07      To operate the training complex, a total of 12 general teachers and
12 technical teachers with university degree qualifications and 38 trade
instructors with technical teacher institute diploma qualifications will be
needed. The supply of degree-level qualified teachers is adequate. In view
of the growing shortage of trade instructors, however, the government provided
assurances during negotiations that to enhance the availability of instructors
required annually (about 130 by 1984, para. 1.10) for the proposed expansion
of industrial secondary schools, trade training centers, industrial streams of
the comprehensive secondary schools and the prevocational teacher training
institute (a) further incentives as needed would be provided to attract
trainees into the instructor training programs of the Marka Polytechnic
Institute; and (b) passage of the new by-law granting qualified teacher
status and appropriate incremental financial reward for those instructors



- 12 -
successfully completing such training at the Institute would be confirmed to
the Bank by September 30, 1980. The government also provided assurances that
to analyze job placement and performance of the graduates of the project
training complex and comprehensive schools the government will extend the
existing tracer system to the graduates of these institutions and the results
of the tracer studies will be sent to the Bank for five years following first
output from the institutions.
Comprehensive Secondary Schools
2.08      This component would help finance construction, equipment, furni-
ture, and technical assistance for: (a) three new comprehensive secondary
schools (two for boys and one for girls); and (b) extensions to and conversion
of two existing general secondary schools (one for boys and one for girls)
into comprehensive secondary schools. This project would form part of the
government's efforts to extend comprehensive education to the less urbanized
areas, with a view to directing secondary education in these areas more
effectively towards social and economic development needs. The three new
schools would be located in small towns and would consist of central and
economically sized comprehensive schools, each replacing a number of small
secondary schools currently housed in unsuitable rented premises. The schools
would combine academic and vocational education and training to assist in
meeting skilled manpower needs, as well as to enhance the employment prospects
of the graduates. They would provide: (a) exposure of students in the
academic streams (science and literature) to vocational subjects; (b) skill
training for the 30-40% of the students who will be directed into vocational
options; and (c) non-formal education for adults consisting of both literacy
and continuing education relevant to local needs. Particular emphasis would
be placed on developing practically-based science teaching, as a further
measure to address a need referred to in the completion report for the first
education project.
2.09      In addition to the two academic streams, the boys' schools would
have an industrial stream with options in four trade vocations (electrical
utilization, metalwork, woodwork and general mechanics, or, in one school,
auto mechanics). The provision of an industrial stream is additional to the
programs offered in the initial development of the comprehensive schools under
the first education project and is expected to be generalized. The girls'
schools would have commercial and home economics streams with options in six
vocations (beauty culture; child care; clothing; art, weaving and ceramics;
secretarial and office practice; and librarianship). Satisfactory outline
curricula for all of these specializations have been prepared and are being
finalized by Jordanian specialists. All students would cover the general core
subjects, specialized subjects in their stream (e.g., industrial chemistry for
the industrial stream) and one vocational option. While those selecting the
vocational streams would take nearly half their class periods in practical
work, those selecting an academic stream would be required to take about 15%
of their periods in one of the vocational options.



- 13 -
2.10      Total enrollments in formal programs in these schools would be
4,100, of which 3,130 places would be constructed under this project. Of the
latter, 1,830 would be in boys' schools and 1,300 in girls' schools. Annual
output of all five schools would be about 1,300, of whom about 400 (30%) are
expected to be vocationally trained. Of the 400, about 150 would be female.
Programs would extend over three years. In the earlier comprehensive schools,
an introductory year (grade 9) was provided to prepare the students for entry
into the comprehensive school programs. In view of the arrangements currently
being made for the provision of prevocational subjects in grades 5-9, with
assistance in the training of the prevocational subject teachers under this
project (para. 2.14), the transitional year will not be necessary beginning
1985/86.
2.11      Experience with the comprehensive schools under the first education
project indicates that the prestige of these institutions should ensure the
availability of an adequate supply of teachers for all subjects other than
those of the industrial stream. For the latter, the government provided an
assurance that the required number of trained instructors (42) would be
available (para. 2.07). In addition, 144 man-months of fellowships abroad
would be provided for 16 vocational instructors for the project institutions,
to upgrade their skills and knowledge of how to teach those skills. In
addition, 30 man-months of fellowships are provided for ten principals and
assistant principals for study tours related to management and administration
of similar-type institutions abroad.
2.12      The project institutions are expected to play a major role in pro-
viding opportunities for non-formal education and training for the adult
population in their areas. Appropriate programs, apart from the ongoing
literacy programs, have not yet been developed but would be expected to pro-
vide opportunities for further education and training, in addition to those
available within the formal system, for those successfully completing the
literacy programs and for other literate adults. The government provided
assurances that no later than six months before the opening of the schools:
(a) adult education programs to be implemented in the project institutions
would be prepared and reviewed with the Bank; and (b) full-time qualified
staff for each school for implementation of these programs would be designated
promptly thereafter.
Agricultural Secondary School - Extension (Shaubak)
2.13      The proposed extension to the existing agricultural school at
Shaubak would provide additional accommodations and refurbishing of existing
accommodations together with equipment to improve the food processing and
poultry broiler production units of the school farm. The school has a total
enrollment of 240 in a three-year program (grades 10-12) and provides prac-
tically-oriented training to produce about 70 middle-level agricultural
technicians per year. The graduates find ready employment in the private
sector and, to a lesser extent, in the Ministry of Agriculture. As the output
from this school and the other existing agricultural school is sufficient to
meet the country's manpower needs at this level, the proposed extension would
not increase the capacity of this program but would improve the range of



- 14 -
specializations and the quality of training in food processing and poultry
production which are rapidly developing subsectors of Jordanian agriculture.
About 39 man-months of fellowships would be provided to train food technology,
poultry and horticulture (green housing) teachers (3) abroad. Satisfactory
outline curricula have been prepared for the new specializations and are being
finalized.
Prevocational Teacher Training Institute - Extension (Shaubak)
2.14      The proposed Prevocational Teacher Training Institute would be the
first and only institution in the country to train male subject teachers
required for the implementation of the new prevocational programs in grades
5-9. An existing teacher training institute in Amman will train the required
female teachers. The new Institute would be located on the same campus as the
agricultural secondary school, with which it will share communal and some
laboratory facilities. Separate agricultural programs for grades 7-9 have
been discontinued, but agricultural activities will form an important part of
the newly-developed prevocational curriculum. Correspondingly, the agricul-
tural teacher training course at Shaubak has been discontinued and will be
replaced by and merged in the proposed training programs of the Prevocational
Teacher Training Institute.
2.15      This project component would provide for additional accommodation
(classrooms, craft workshops, boarding and multipurpose facilities, and
staff housing) to convert the existing agricultural teacher training course
to the prevocational teacher training course with an increased capacity from
60 at present to 256. Due to its location in a rural area, residential
accommodation must be provided for all students and teaching staff. There-
fore, the project will provide an additional 196 boarding places and 10 staff
housing units. The institute would offer a two-year post-secondary course for
academic and vocational secondary school graduates who would be recruited from
all over the country. The output would be about 120 male teachers per year
needed for the gradual implementation of the new prevocational program in
grades 5-9 (para. 1.09). Curriculum developed by the MOE for the training of
teachers in the prevocational education subjects--energy and environment,
industrial activities, agricultural activities, commercial activities, house-
keeping activities, family and social relations, and nutrition, public health
and safety--is about equally divided between theory and practice. General
and professional education subjects are the same as in other TTI's. Due to an
existing salary incentive--vocational teachers receive about 40% more salary
than general teachers--an adequate number of secondary school graduates are
expected to apply for admission to the Institute. The additional 20 teachers
and 12 assistant instructors for the practical training are expected to be
recruited mainly from the proposed expanded program of teacher training at
Marka Polytechnic Institute (para. 2.07). About 52 man-months of fellowships
would be provided to train abroad 6 instructors and the director of the
institute to equip them for the initial development of this new institute.



- 15 -
Community College
2.16      This component would help finance construction, furniture, equipment
and technical assistance for the establishment of a pilot community college in
Zarqa (population 400,000). Programs to be offered would remain flexible and
responsive to needs with particular reference to the needs of the community
in the immediate area. They would include: (a) technician training, initially
in secretarial and office management, accounting, librarianship, laboratory
technicianship, nutrition, catering and institutional management, and clothing
design and tailoring; (b) teacher training for subjects for which a shortage
has been experienced, most especially in the English language, mathematics,
science and home economics, and for primary schools, with particular reference
to the training of teachers for one and two room schools in rural areas; and
(c) continuing education for adults, the programs to be determined by the
needs of the adult community in the Zarqa area. The formal programs would be
of two years duration (grades 13-14) while non-formal programs would be of
varying duration. In addition to addressing community needs, which is
basic to the community college concept, the college would have as a further
objective the achievement of cost economies through the availability of common
courses and the sharing of accommodations and trainers among the trainee
technicians and teachers. Furthermore, the interaction between the various
types of trainees would enrich the training experiences of all. Experience
gained under this component would provide a useful basis for the possible
development of a community college system in Jordan.
2.17      The college would enroll about 1,000 students, of whom about 600
are expected to be women. In addition, an initial enrollment of about 150
adults in continuing education courses is anticipated at any given course
period. As considerable interest in the college is expected nation-wide, an
admission policy would be established in advance. Zarqa citizens would be
given priority in the adult non-formal programs but, for the regular formal
programs during the initial experimental period, the allocation of admissions
would be made on an equitable basis nationally. An annual output of about 270
special subject teachers and 30 primary school teachers, and 160 technical
diploma holders is expected. Employment prospects for the graduating teachers
and technicians are excellent.
2.18      In view of the ready availability of well-qualified teachers for
posts in the Zarqa area, and the MOE's commitment to the success of this pilot
institution, no difficulty is expected in recruiting the about 50 full-time
teachers required, including about 13 vocational/technical subject teachers.
In addition, the full-time equivalent of another half dozen teachers would be
needed to serve the adult non-formal program of afternoon and evening courses,
to be largely drawn from local commercial and industrial firms and secondary
schools.
2.19      Because the community college concept is new in Jordan technical
assistance would be provided. An expert in community college administration
would assist the director for up to one year. Fellowships (57 man-months)
would be provided for four administrators and five selected technical teachers
in four of the subjects, preparing them to upgrade others in their fields.



- 16 -
2.20      In view of the community orientation of the college and the emphasis
being placed on developing appropriate continuing education for adults, the
government provided assurances during negotiations that no later than six
months before the opening of the college: (a) an Advisory Committee, including
prominent Zarqa citizens among its members, and a Department of Continuing
Education under a full-time head would be established; (b) detailed continuing
education programs would be prepared and reviewed with the Bank; and (c)
information on a system proposed by the government to evaluate the effective-
ness of the community college would be forwarded to the Bank for review and
comments.
Mobile Building Maintenance Units
2.21      This component would provide eight mobile building maintenance
units each equipped with carpentry, plumbing and electric tools, a welding
machine, a small lathe, and a generator. The mobile maintenance units would
be stationed at various DEOs, and would be staffed with experienced full-time
maintenance crews, each comprising a carpenter, a plumber and an electrician
along with a driver. The mobile units would be on call for repair work and
would benefit especially those schools which have no maintenance staff of
their own or find skilled craftsmen who will do repair work unavailable in
their communities. Necessary supplies, such as glass and locks, would be
stored in adequate quantities in storerooms at the DEOs and arrangements
would be made in each DEO to allow the maintenance crew to use workshops as
necessary in existing trade training and vocational centers. No difficulty
is expected in recruiting the three-man maintenance crews in the towns where
the DEOs are located.
Institution Building
2.22      This component would be designed to strengthen the MOE itself, with
the focus on its capacity to plan the direction in which its educational pro-
gram should move in the future. This involves strategy for achieving such a
program, the methods of implementing that strategy, systematic evaluation
of the outcomes of the programs that would be supported by the strengthened
research capability, and a modern management information system. Four
elements in that approach would be assisted by this component.
2.23      Management Information System (MIS).  This project component has
been prepared on the basis of a feasibility study, financed by the government,
by an international consulting firm. The study identified the need for a com-
puterized MIS for the MOE, recommended the most appropriate system and prepared
tender documents for procurement of computer hardware, equipment, and related
computer software system. The proposed project would help finance these
items. Accommodation required to house the responsible division of the MOE
will be remodelled from offices in the main MOE complex. The project would
enable the MOE to implement a Cabinet decision made in 1977 to convert the
present manual operations into a computerized system which would be designed
to provide the MOE management with planning, operational control and reporting
information in a more accurate and timely manner. The system would also



- 17 -
provide computing services for education research and recording students'
performances in the annual national examinations, as well as manpower analysis
and projections to be used by the NPC in setting resource allocation priorities
in education.
2.24      There are no Jordanian firms of sufficient size or with the requisite
experience to develop the appropriate software system, comprising six subsys-
tems (finance, student, personnel, school facilities, instructional programs
and miscellaneous functions). Accordingly, the project includes the financing
of a team of experts (about 15 man-years) to design and develop such a system.
During the two-year implementation period, all managerial and technical staff
of the MIS would be given in-house practical training by the experts. The
staff required for full operation of the MIS would be about 40, including
managers, system programmers, analysts/programmers, computer operators and
data/entry operators. During negotiations, the government provided an assur-
ance that the proposed composition of MIS staff would be submitted to the
Bank for review and the required staff would be appointed not later than
December 31, 1980.
2.25      Evaluation.  Technical assistance would be provided in setting up
an evaluation mechanism, defining its task, and starting its operation. For
this, an expert in educational evaluation would work in the MOE for six
months and two staff members would study evaluation methods abroad for six
months each.
2.26      Educational Research.  A recently established Research Section has
yet to develop a research capability. A broad range of research topics has
been identified, including testing and measurement in education, science
teaching methodologies, effective teaching of literacy and continuing edu-
cation programs, educational supervision, use of audio-visual aids, educa-
tion for Bedouins, etc. Three research experts for an average of six months
each would be provided under the project to assist the Section in developing
a research capability mainly by establishing research methodologies and
initiating research in a selected number of topics.
2.27      Project Management Support.  This component would provide 24 man-
months of fellowships abroad to assist the Project Implementation Unit in
improving its project implementation and management capabilities. It would
be directed towards giving six key staff members insights into the management
of education projects elsewhere, and in assessing and applying lessons learned
during implementation.



- 18 -
III. PROJECT COST, FINANCING, IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENTS
Cost of the Project
3.01       Summary of Project Cost.  The total cost of the project is estimated
at JD 11.8 million or US$40.1 million equivalent. The estimated total cost
and foreign exchange components by main project items are summarized below:
% of
JDs Millions             US$ Millions         Baseline
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total    Cost
Construction, equipment
and furniture:
1 training complex        0.7      0.6      1.3    2.4       2.0      4.4      14.6
1 community college       0.7      0.5      1.2    2.2       1.9      4.1      13.3
3 comprehensive
secondary schools       1.6      1.2      2.8    5.5      4.1      9.6      31.5
Extension, equipment
and furniture:
2 comprehensive
secondary schools       0.7      0.6      1.3    2.4       1.9     4.3       14.1
1 prevocational
teacher training
institute               0.6      0.4      1.0    2.0       1.4     3.4      11.0
1 secondary agricul-
tural school            0.1      0.1      0.2    0.2      0.4      0.6        2.0
1 management infor-
mation system           0.0      0.2      0.2    0.1       0.7      0.8       2.6
Equipment:
8 mobile school build-
ing maintenance units 0.0        0.2      0.2    0.0      0.6      0.6       2.1
Technical assistance:
Specialists               0.0      0.5      0.5    0.2       1.6      1.8       5.8
Fellowships               0.1      0.2      0.3    0.2       0.7      0.9       3.0
Baseline cost             4.5      4.5      9.0   15.2    15.3    30.5    100.0
Contingencies:
Physical                  0.4      0.4      0.8    1.5       1.4      2.9       9.6
Price increase            0.9      1.1      2.0    3.1       3.6      6.7      22.0
Sub-total              1.3      1.5      2.8    4.6      5.0      9.6      31.6
Total project cost   5.8        6.0    11.8   19.8    20.3    40.1



- 19 -
3.02      A breakdown of estimated project costs into local and foreign cost
elements by categories of expenditure is summarized as follows:
% of
JDs Millions              US$ Millions         Baseline
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total    Cost
Construction:
Academic and
communal
facilities           2.7      1.7     4.4       9.2     5.6      14.8    48.5
Boarding              0.1      0.1     0.2       0.5      0.3      0.8      2.6
Staff housing         0.1      0.0     0.1       0.3     0.2       0.5      1.7
Site development      0.5      0.3     0.8       1.5      1.0      2.5      8.2
Sub-total             3.4      2.1     5.5      11.5     7.1      18.6    61.0
Professional
services:              0.6      0.0     0.6       1.9     0.0       1.9      6.2
Furniture:              0.2      0.2     0.4       0.8      0.7      1.5      4.9
Equipment:              0.2      1.5      1.7      0.6      5.2      5.8    19.1
Sub-total             0.4      1.7     2.1       1.4     5.9       7.3    24.0
Technical assistance:  0.1       0.7     0.8       0.4      2.3      2.7      8.8
Baseline cost         4.5      4.5     9.0      15.2    15.3      30.5   100.0
Contingencies:          1.3      1.5     2.8       4.6      5.0      9.6    31.6
Total project cost   5.8       6.0    11.8      19.8    20.3      40.1
3.03      Basis of Cost Estimates.  Estimated civil works costs for the pro-
posed project are based on unit prices derived from current contracts and
detailed cost analysis of similar institutions currently being constructed
under the second education project. Furniture and equipment costs are based
on current CIF prices and are adjusted upward to include local transportation
and installation. Costs for professional services are based on current rates
being charged by local architectural firms. In line with recent experience,
the estimate of technical assistance costs is based upon: (a) average costs
per man-month of about US$6,900 for experts (consisting of fees and per diem
allowances) and about US$1,650 for fellowships, of which 80% would be foreign
costs; and (b) average travel costs to and from home office or study base
abroad of about US$1,200 per individual. Baseline cost estimates have been
adjusted to reflect the prices at negotiations. Project cost estimates
exclude any identifiable import duties and taxes.



- 20 -
3.04      Contingency Allowance.  The project cost includes a contingency
allowance for unforeseen physical additions equal to 10% of the estimated
cost of civil works, furniture and equipment and professional services, and
5% of the estimated cost of technical assistance. The project cost also
includes price escalation contingencies calculated for the period beginning
at negotiations and in accordance with an agreed schedule of implementation
(Annex 1, Schedule 1). Annual rates of price increase for various categories
of expenditure are indicated in Annex 1, Table 3. Prices are expected to
increase during the project implementation period by a total of 18.8% for
civil works, 29.3% for furniture, 26.9% for equipment, 12.2% for professional
services and 14.9% for technical assistance. Accordingly, aggregated price
increases are estimated at about 22.0% of baseline cost plus physical contin-
gencies.  Total contingencies are estimated to be about 31.6% of the baseline
cost.
3.05      Foreign Exchange Component.  The estimated foreign exchange com-
ponent is US$20.3 million equivalent or about 50.7% of the total project
cost. The calculations of the foreign exchange component are based on the
assumption that: (a) about three-fourths of the civil works contracts will
be awarded to local construction firms; (b) all professional services con-
tracts will be awarded to local firms; (c) all equipment will be imported;
and (d) about one-fifth of the furniture contracts will be awarded to for-
eign suppliers. The resulting foreign exchange content of each category
of expenditure is as follows: (a) civil works, 38%; (b) furniture, 45%;
(c) equipment, 89%; (d) professional services, 0%; and (e) technical assis-
tance, 80%.
Pro-ject Financing
3.06      The proposed loan of US$19.0 million would finance 100% of the total
estimated foreign exchange cost of civil works, furniture and equipment as
well as part of the technical assistance cost (US$1.5 million). The balance
of the foreign exchange cost of the technical assistance program (US$1.3
million) would be financed by the UNDP. Local project costs would be financed
by the government (US$19.6 million) and the UNDP (US$0.2 million). The
proposed financial plan is summarized below:



- 21 -
Government             UNDP                  IBRD           Total
US$       % of       US$       % of       US$       % of       US$
Million Financing Million Financing Million Financing Million
Construction       12.0     65          0.0        0         6.6        35        18.6
Furniture           0.3     20          0.0        0         1.2        80         1.5
Equipment           0.6      10         0.0        0         5.2        90         5.8
Professional
services         1.9    100          0.0        0         0.0         0          1.9
Technical
assistance       0.2       7         1.3       48         1.2        45         2.7
Baseline cost    15.0       49          1.3        4        14.2        47        30.5
Contingencies:
Physical         1.5      52         0.0        0          1.4       48          2.9
Price
increase        3.1      46         0.2        3         3.4        51         6.7
Sub-total          4.6      48         0.2         2        4.8         50         9.6
Total project
cost            19.6      49         1.5        4        19.0        47        40.1
Recurrent Expenditure
3.07       When fully operational in 1984/85, the project institutions are
estimated to require about JD 0.8 million annually in recurrent costs, cor-
responding to about 0.2% of the projected public recurrent expenditure on
education at that time.
Implementation
3.08       The construction, furnishing and equipping of all schools and the
technical assistance component are scheduled to be completed by June 1983
(Annex 1, Schedule 1). In order to allow sufficient time for submission of
the final withdrawal applications for the last parts of the technical assis-
tance, the Closing Date would be December 31, 1983.
3.09      Administration.  The Project Unit, established in the MOE for the
implementation of the first two IDA education projects and responsible to the
Minister, would also be responsible for the implementation of this project.
The Project Unit has performed very effectively and has recently been rein-
forced by the appointment of a deputy project director, whose duties include
responsibilities for the technical assistance programs under the projects, and
an additional architect/engineer.



- 22 -
3.10      The designs and tender documents for all project items are being
prepared by consultant architects/engineers acceptable to the Bank who have
been appointed under terms and conditions agreeable to the Bank. Substantial
progress has already been made toward preparation of preliminary drawings,
outline specifications, and site plans for all institutions, based on educa-
tional and architectural working papers already agreed with the Bank, and
they are expected to be completed by January 15, 1980.
3.11      Sites.  A suitable site for each new project institution has been
acquired and existing institutions have sufficient land to allow for their
expansion. All sites have adequate sources of water and municipal electricity.
3.12      Furniture and Equipment Lists.  Preparation of furniture and equip-
ment lists with quantities and estimated costs is underway. It is expected
that the first detailed lists together with technical specifications and
related bid documents (mobile building maintenance units) will be completed by
loan signing, with the remaining lists to be completed progressively over the
following 12 months.
3.13      Procurement.  Civil works contracts (amounting to about US$24.3
million including contingencies) would be awarded on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding (ICB). It is anticipated that, due to the recent
steady growth in the construction industry in Jordan, about three-fourths of
the civil works contracts will be awarded to local construction companies
with about one-fourth to foreign construction companies active in the Middle
East. Equipment and furniture items (amounting to US$10.3 million including
contingencies) would be grouped to the extent possible in large packages to
permit bulk procurement. Contracts for furniture and equipment in excess
of US$100,000 would be awarded on the basis of ICB. Small items or groups
of items estimated to cost less than the above figure, or items of a spe-
cialized nature for which ICB would not be practical, would be procured under
normal government procedures which are satisfactory to the Bank and would
include, to the extent possible, quotations from at least three manufacturers
or suppliers; these items would not exceed an aggregate total of US$1.0
million or about 10% of estimated costs including contingency allowances.
In ICB comparisons, local manufacturers of furniture and equipment would be
allowed a margin of preference equal to the existing rate of customs duties
applicable to competing imports or 15% of the CIF price, whichever is lower.
Draft tender and contract documents for furniture/equipment and civil works
would, on completion, be forwarded for Bank review and approval; Bank approval
of tender evaluation documents would be required prior to the award of all
contracts for furniture and equipment under ICB, and for all civil works
contracts. Bank reimbursement for all other contracts would be contingent
upon Bank approval of tender evaluation documents subsequent to contract
awards.
Disbursements
3.14      Disbursements (Annex 1, Schedule 3) would be on the basis of:
(a) civil works: 35% of total expenditure;



- 23 -
(b) furniture and equipment: 100% of foreign expenditures
for directly imported and of local expenditures ex-factory
for locally manufactured items; 85% of local expenditures
of fully imported items procured locally; and
(c) technical assistance: 100% of foreign expenditures for
expatriate consultants; and 80% of local expenditures for
local consultants.
These percentages would be adjusted if required to assure continued financing
from the available loan funds of expenditures for each category for the entire
period of implementation.
IV. BENEFITS, RISKS, AND CRITICAL ACTIVITIES
Benefits
4.01      The proposed project would make a modest but significant contribu-
tion towards meeting manpower needs for skilled workers, technicians and
teachers. The provision included for the training of prevocational subject
teachers would provide necessary support for the reorientation of the school
system. At the same time, by expanding the comprehensive secondary school
system into the less urbanized areas, the project would further reinforce
the government's efforts to divert a higher proportion of secondary school
students into vocational programs, and would at the same time enhance the
employment prospects of the secondary school graduates. The comprehensive
schools would form part also of the government's program of replacement of
unsatisfactory rented buildings, and in the process would meet the educa-
tional needs of the surrounding areas in central and more economical insti-
tutions. Provision would be made for non-formal education and training
programs for adults, which would include literacy training and would initiate
continuing education. The theme of continuing education would be further
expanded in the proposed community college for the community in its catchment
area. In addition the college would provide for the training of needed
technicians and teachers in one institution with a view to achieving economy
in training costs and to provide an opportunity for professional enrichment
through interaction among the various types of trainees. The experiences
gained would provide a valuable basis for determining the appropriateness of
a community college system for Jordan. The additional provision under the
project for the training of agricultural technicians would improve the quality
and expand the training of such technicians to include those required for the
poultry industries and in food processing. Finally, the project would signi-
ficantly enhance the MOE's capabilities in planning, research, evaluation and
management, and its ability to maintain school facilities.
4.02      The major quantifiable benefits of the project are an annual in-
crease in output of: (a) about 650 craftsmen/skilled workers (400 from the
Saahab Training Complex and 250 from the industrial stream of comprehensive



- 24 -
schools) and about 150 female graduates trained in commerce and home eco-
nomics; (b) improved quality and expansion of technical courses for the
training of about 70 middle-level agricultural technicians to include those
required in the poultry industries and in food processing; (c) about 300
teachers for primary and preparatory schools (60% women), and 120 male pre-
vocational subject teachers for grades 5-9; and (d) about 160 technicians
(60% women).
Risks
4.03      The proposed project has been well prepared by the government and
implementation steps required prior to Board presentation have been satisfac-
torily completed on time. Judging from the progress made in project develop-
ment to date, the existence of experienced Project Unit staff, and government
commitment to successful project implementation, no undue risks or delays in
implementation are expected. It may, however, be difficult to recruit quali-
fied trade instructors in certain fields (para. 1.09) because of the attraction
of higher salaries abroad and in the private sector in Jordan. The various
incentives already introduced and further incentives being considered (para.
1.03 (d)), would help mitigate the anticipated recruitment difficulty. The
granting of qualified teacher status and financial incentives to the graduates
of the trade instructor training courses, on which government provided assur-
ances during negotiations, would be a further important step in assuring
instructor supply.
Critical Activities and Key Implementation Dates
4.04      The critical activities in project implementation and the expected
completion dates are indicated in the following table. Such dates are achiev-
able with the proposed project management arrangements, and would serve as a
basis for project implementing and monitoring.



- 25 -
Management
All New Project         Information System,
Institutions              Mobile Units
Civil Works:
Completion of site acquisition
and topographical surveys            October 15, 1979
Completion of design development
drawings and site plans              July 1, 1980
Bidding                               January 1981-June 1981
Commencement of construction          July 1, 1981
Completion of construction            April 1, 1983
Equipment and Furniture:
Completion of preliminary
equipment/furniture lists                  --                   December 15, 1979
Completion of final lists and
bid  documents                      December 31, 1980          February 1, 1980
Completion of installation of
major furniture and equipment       January 1, 1983            January 1, 1981
Technical Assistance:                 July 1, 1983
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.01      During negotiations agreement was reached on the following principal
points:
(a)  instructors in the new specializations of industrial electronics,
instrument mechanics and watch repair, for which textbooks are
not available in Arabic at the Saahab training complex, would be
appointed not later than six months before the opening of the
training complex to enable them to prepare such textbooks (para.
2.06);
(b)  to enhance the availability of the trained trade instructors for
the project institutions: (i) further incentives as needed would
be provided to attract trainees into the instructors training
programs of Marka Polytechnic Institute; and (ii) passage of the
new by-law granting qualified teacher status and appropriate
incremental financial reward for those instructors successfully
completing such training at the Institute would be confirmed to
the Bank by September 30, 1980 (para. 2.07);



- 26 -
(c)  to analyze job placement and performance of the graduates of the
project training complex and comprehensive schools the existing
tracer system would be extended to the graduates of these insti-
tutions and the results of the tracer studies would be sent to the
Bank for five years following first output from the institutions
(para. 2.07);
(d)  no later than six months before the opening of the schools:  (i) the
adult education programs to be implemented at the project comprehen-
sive secondary schools would be prepared and reviewed with the Bank;
and (ii) full-time qualified staff for each school for the imple-
mentation of these programs would be designated (para. 2.12);
(e)  no later than six months before the opening of the community
college: (i) an Advisory Committee including prominent Zarqa
citizens and a Department of Continuing Education with a full-time
head would be established; (ii) detailed continuing education
programs would be prepared and reviewed with the Bank; and (iii)
information on a system proposed by the government to evaluate the
effectiveness of the community college would be forwarded to the
Bank for review and comments (para. 2.20); and
(f)  the proposed composition of Management Information System staff
would be submitted to the Bank for review and the required staff
would be appointed not later than December 31, 1980 (para. 2.24).
5.02      Subject to the above conditions, the project provides a suitable
basis for a Bank loan of US$19.0 million equivalent to the Hashemite Kingdom
of Jordan for a term of 17 years, including a grace period of four years.



HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
STRUCTURE OF THE EDUCATIONAL SYSTEM, 1979
UNIVERSITIES
SEC COMMERCIAL                                               FACULTIES OF
10 ; 11U  12ARTS, EDUCATION, SCIENCE ECONOMICS &
COMMERCE, SHARIA, LAW, AGRICULTURE
SEC. AGRICULTURAL
10_  11  12                 1    2 { 3_ 4              ENGINEERING, NURSING
SEC. POSTAL
1                                       MEDICINE
SEC. INDUSTRIAL
TRADE TRAINING
i                    ~~~~~~~INSTITUTES
TEACHER TRAINING
10 11~~~~~D_ 
COMME  AL TRADES
TRADE TRAINING             POLYTECHNIC
CMPLEX
SOCIAL SERVICE
COMPREHENSIVE SCHOOL       MIDWIFERY
SEC  EEA                   NURSING
-COMPULSORY CYCLE i 3
KINDERGARTEN          ELEMENTARY            PREPARATORY             LITERAY               PARAMEDICAL
SINIFIC            SHAR1IA 
W  SECONDARY EDUCATION CERTIFICATE
SEC. NURSING               STATISTICS
*   UNIVERSITY BACHELOR DEGREE                  -      E 
SEC. WOMEN EDUC.           COMMUNITY COLLEGE
U   EXISTING CLASSES                                                        -       >
HOTEL TRAINING             HOTEL TRAINING
I  I IN THE PROCESS OF CREATION                         r-  SCHOOL- 
RURAL DEVELOPMENT
() BANK PROJECT III INSTITUTIONS                   r-I CENTER
_ _   _      __._                                    J                                                                                               I!!
AGE 4    5   6    7    8    9   10   11  12  13  14              15  16  17                  18   19   20   21  22   23  24
I   I    I     I    I    I    I     I    X    I             I    I     I                I    I X        I l       1 l
World Bank - 20330



HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
EDUCATION PYRAMID 1977/78
,o    D        
2 E
UUX    < o       nF-
Grade   Enrollment  Population                                                         Higher'                                                       Enrollment  Population  < c
FEMALE                                                      MALE
18           8                                                                                                                                           36
17            2                                                                                                                                          38
16         416                                                                                                                                          653
15         550                           fj  Student Enrollment                                                                                         717                 3   11  13  8  37
14       2,538                                                                                                                                        4,226
13       2,844                             g   Population in Age-Group                                                                                 5,097
SECONDARY
12       6,698      21,910                                                                                                                           10,532    22,460
11       8,996      23,830                                                                                                                           12,562     24,770      10  44  58  39  39 
10       9,491      25,670                                                                                          OIIIIIIA13,836    27.000
PREPARATORY
9       15,771     27,540                                                                                                                           21,944     29,290      t   t    t   t    t
8       19,552     29,450                                                   ~                                                                       25,494     31,620      22  76  83  68  43
7      24,971      31,050                                                                                                                           31,069     33.560      2   7        8 684
ELEMENTARY
6       27,739     32,210                                                                                                                            32,535    34,890
5       31,052     33,040             r                                                                                                              36,398     35,810
4       32,394     33,680                                                                                                                            37,223    36,680
3       33,162     34,630                                                                                                                            37,526     37,470     65  97  99  95  47            |
2       33,446     35,300                                                                                                                            36,944     38,140                                    rt |X
1       36,281     35,950                                                                                                                            39,790    38,650                                     t F.
I                      I           I                      I           I                       I           I            I
40          32          24         16           8          0           8           16         24           32          40
'Enrollment excluding 42,800 students overseas                                                                                                                        World Bank -20338



-29-
AnoeK 
COMPARATIVE  EDUCATION  INDICATORS                                                      Table 1
.. ..ass a ...u  ... amunssnaaaa...   aa                                                Pae1f 2
JULY 3. 1979
I  GNPI I 5 GNP   35  TUTALIG   Of PUBLIC  I                               I           IPRI,  IAV.PRI.   I                I         ISEC   I         I
I        aCAPITAI n2EV,)TFDPUBLIC  I EDUCATION    iLITER- 3 pR!.  ICIOMPLE.  ISTU.  ISCH4,TEAC.AuPROGRESS.1 SEC.  3STU.  IRIGHERI
I3           AT   iTO EDO.!   EXP. I RECURRENT    IACY                LENROLLITION          IDENTSISALARY  1N3)UN RATE  ILNRULL3OENTS3ENROLLI
I        IMARKETI  (PUBLICIDFVOTEDIEXP  ALLUCATELD    RATE IRATID IRATE FOlRIPER   IRELATION  IF4O8  PRI.IRATIO  $PER   IRATIU  I
I PUP. sPRICESI FXP.    i  TO    I               T703       8(5 OF   I NET   SPR1.SCH.aTEACHI TO Gt0P/  ITO  SEC.   I NET   ITEACH. GROSS:
YRIMILLS.:  (USS)i (INL0 Y I   I OD.  IPR?. SEC. H0.IADULTS)i (I)   1CYCLk(X)SER                       I CAPITA   i(%)            I (5)   IER    I (M        I 
ofIIa    (21)  I          s3  :   CAl   a    (51        I (RI    I3  7) 8 3    8)    a (9)1 a    100         I (I I I      3(12)   31 C13)  3(341 3)
ADVANCED)
AUSTRIA;          7A    7*SCG 5,620G         5.SY    8.5E0   24Y   5ly   ISV    99            98         930        260)       2.00        99D       510       1Q0     16.Asy
CANADA            75   22.8   1,13s          7.3    16.7        30    37    26       98       99         97         IQ         2.0         99        90        is      16.00
GERMANY F.REP.75   61.8   6,670              5.0)    10.2       3IPO  64'*  2660   99         90         99         23EV       .. .        99V       BAY       22C    20.26Y
JAPAN             79  11 1.   4,05 0         0.3t,  20.70       Aoi,Y  37UY IIUY  99          990        99C        2S         2.08        99C       9900    20C    2a .69Y
NETHERLANDS    79   13.7   5.425             9.4    22.40    21    39    25          99       95         95         29         2.0         97        80        20      12.00
NEO ZEALAND    73    3.10 4,200G             5.2    ...         39    24    29       99       99         99         26         ...         99        67        19      2V.00
NORwAY            7N    4,0   83,043         7.2    14.4        54    20    15       99       99         99         16         1.9         99E       62        it      11.00
3CEDEN            76    V.2  11.15V          V.8    14.0        23    29    la       99       99         99         16         ...         907       RSC       13      30.00CC
U,K.              75   56. 0   3. 780        7.1I    1 3.9      26.   4 1     A      99       99         ...        24         2 .0        ,*I       6R        1 7     21.0CR
U.S.A.            76 2 14. 6 7 795 o         5 . a    5.R    ...    7 2. A2M         99E      99         99         22         ...         99        93        1 9     2Ri. 0V
EUROIPE
GREECEz           76    Q.I  2,590           2.h    10.V        37    26    e1       8cR      99         820        31       2.0           7VE       80        27      15.00
IRELAND           7a    3.10  2.620G         S.I     13.9U    430   410   Jay    98          IORCY       994        39       ...          95A        6900      19      15.470
PURTUGOL          77    9.7   1.850          3.6    19.4        01     1 I   lb      700        82       60*        19       2.0           7Se        35       12       5.00
ROMANI1A          75   21.2   1.2an          4.0      6.4       36    19    13       9V        1o13      ...        21       ...           98        49        22      1 0 . 0
SPAIN             70   3S.RG ?,990G          2.4V   J5.2A    090   220   15Y    940    11900             ..         35A       ...          ...       7800      30      17.680
AFRICA
ALOE-RIA          7 7   1.9       990G       7.5    14.3FY   42    ..         1e     39       780        45         39        4.0          55        26K       13       6.00
RENIN             7 4    3.20    IVoG,       7.2'   36 .00y    470   23D0  100    1(D         4000       7 06c      530      25.06        V38        lIIC      390      0,74v
BOTSWANA          7V    0.4       540        6.0    22.0       92    23    14        lb       8oC        70         It        9.0          08        14        22       2.00
BURUNDI           70 4   3. a     1200       2.5    19.94    478   414   128    IV0           200        30?        38       1 0. 0        104         20 x     M       1.0
CAMEVII2o,        7 6    7 .7     31 4       5. 7    21.5       3 3    4 S   223     ...      60         VS         52       4a0           20          90      24a      0.9OC 
c *A , *          7'4    1.00    220F        3.0OD   17.0D    98H   1 90i... ..               7900       25         69V      . ..          IV          RObY    2780    0.210
CHAD              75    4,0       120        3. 0    1 0 .0     78    22   .,        35I       290RV     30         6540     1 5.0          B          2540   30        0 .0 1 8 
CONGO(H)          714   1. 3F    5(0F        6.0    ( 9.3       00    3e    21       50S?    1330        63         63         6.0         48         033      22       3. 40
EGYPT             76   38V.       310        S. 9,    .. .      30    32    25       44       76         80         3 1        . ..        79        49        d0       32.00
EOTHI OP IA       77   29.3j      1 00       2. 4    1 2. 9     44    31    1 4      1 0      26         . ..       so         . ..        03          A       OR       .  
GABON             7 4    0.50  2.9000        5.00n  20.60       290)   90   II(0           .  1000       25C        46C        5.0         IRA        31o      21 C     0.290
GAK I A           7*    0 .9      170n       3. 3    ((1 .5     46    25      6      10       27         90         335      ...           92         1 3      125        .I..
GHANA             74    Q 9p9   990F          ...    19*7y    430   220   el( 2002.       .6450          624        300      ...           144        OSsov     6c I6      . 090
GUINEA            706   0.7       (ROE       0. 3011  ...       30    31    30       ..         00o      64         45       12e.0          06U         1 30    26        4, 00
IVORY CnAST    7.    7.0          6(0I       h.A    ?3.1        33    46    13        94      50         06         43        7.0          47        I 7o      2   6    1.640
KENYA             76   13.V       2,40       5,9    26.0        67    23    10i      au       807        407        34         6.0         30         16       27       1.0
LES(TOHO          75    (.2       160       (2.00   23.0        09    IV    20       40       As         so         92         7.ON        RI        10       216       1.00
LIBERIA           75     I 1.5    01I0       2.4    1 3. 2      27    15   le 0      7        58s        . ..       35        2.u          .,         1 2      2 6      l.1040
MADAGASCAR        77    V.0       240       a4,0    24.o        93    28    19       so       90         33         44         6 .0        3Vi        14       23       1.70
MALA41            77    9.b       Jan        2.2      9.3       40    17    22       25       960        21         61        5.0           9          So      21       0,47
MALT              79    5,7F        900      4.2*   33.00    415F   370   18F    10F          22XF       ,...       48F      9'5f          SOP         60      21         ...
MAURITANIA        71    1 .0    3200~        4.1Y   20.00... ..... 104A                       j7Sy       ...        224        ...         .           300    24A         .
MAURITIUS         7o    0.9L    600          4.7    12.1       s0    26       6      80C      94         99         24        4.5           90       VS        32       3.50
MOROCCO           76   18.2       520        6.5    19.2        390   OAiR   130    24        650        33         40         .           33         170      22       4.00
NIGERIA           74   75.0F    3400         4.100  24.200   230   160   420         ...      41900      ...        3000       ...         ...       1000    20CY    0.480
ROVANDA           7 3    4.1 IF    000o      3.2C   2A.OD... .....    23                      52         ...        SI         ...         . I.        2       1 3      0.23cy
SENEGAL           77    5,2       420        5.0    23,0        OR    30    20       10       32         ...        49       10.0          20        Io        21       3,5
SIERRA LEOINE   73    3.0F    2000           3.4    23.4        31    36    30       150      34X        45         32         4.06        6V        134       21       0.9380
SOMALIA           7*    3.6       1(0        9.0    I/,0        6,9    31    21      60?       390       RO         27       12.0          76          5       1V       0.10
SUDAN             76   19.9       290        4.9     19.9       48    36    16       2 0      34         74         33         3.8         33        14        24         1.24
SWAZILAND         7V    0.5       560        7.1    12.2        37    33    23       65       920        49         17         4,n.        06        320       20         2,000
TANZANIA          7 6 15.1        10 0       6.6    1 7,.4      42 21 I      12      60       780        01I        4q         3. 0        1 0         04      I9       0.34
YOGn)             7 7    2.04     30 0       S.5    2 6.95      30    28    2 I      I8       7 4        4 0        so        6.0          92          -       04       2.00
TUNI3IA           7 3    5.70   8AOG         6. 3    2 3. 4     37    4 03    I a     9       7 2         I         0 41      6. 0         3~        A1        2 1      3.00
UGANDR            79   11.6       2 30       3.400  15.7DY   3000  0010  22E0   294           - 930Y     ...        3400 v      .          1044A       6XCY  218        0.500
UP0EV  voLTA    77    5.8         118        3.4    23.9        31    16    32        SC       13        23         51       24.0          19          2       25       1.0
ZAIRE             76   25.6       140        6.0    22.0       49    26    25        15       860        04         420       2.0          4I        130       27       1,000
ZAMBIA            76    5.1       44a0       6.8    19.9       54    2?    22        39       970        MO         419       7,.0         21        16        23       1.50
CENTRAL AMERICA AND THE CARIRVEAN
88884000  7*    0.2   1.620       V~~~~~~~.1    2 2. 1  43    31    16    99      1060        99        21         3.0         99q        940       17        .
COSTA RICA        75    2.0       960        5.20   22.78    574   258   12B    89R    30900             65V        294        3.04        588       9200    258       17.150
CUBA              78    9.9   9.500n         8.0    11.0  ... .. . .    96                     98        98         22         2.7         98        69        1s      15.00
DDOmIN1CAN 8t0.72    0.80    7900            3.0    13,9        02    24    22       51       8V         17         54         3.00        63         14       24       7.00
EL 3ALVAOflR    I7    4.1         570        4.0    27.2        64      a    27      62       MRS        32         39         2.2         41        23        21       7,00
GUATEMALA         73    6.20    7000         1.9    16.0        59    23    14       A7       64         26         35         3.0         69          8       25       0,097
HAITI             76    4.7I      200       I1,0      8.0       61    21    It       204a     25F        IS         560        3. 0        62          4       ...        0,17
80900843          79    2.90    4000         4.2G   18.80    620   15G   190    53             78        30         35         3.0         68         11       17       V.00
JAMAICA           76    2.1   1.070          9.9    16.2        37    33    22       860      01         92         39         a.S         9 4        64       25        7.58
MEXICO            75   59.9   1.090          0.100  12.ODQ   5(Y   260   120    74           11200       31         46         3.0         63         3SSo     234      8.97EV
NICARAGUA         74    2.3G    7000         2.5    14.2    fit    13    13          57       65         21         37         2.0         95         17       24       7,00
TRINIDAD A. T. 77    11    2. 185            4 .5    1 4. 1     48    3e    20       95       98k        91         30         3. 0        49        62        24         ..
SOUTH AMELRICA
BOLIVIA           76    S6        3190F      9,0    I7,5F    ..5.              .       8       178e       290       24         5F          ...         48      180,D
BRAZIL            79  110.00  1, 3000        5.0    1 2. 4      42E   20E    37E   64A        MAO         ...       27cy       ...         ...        26G      1500    6. 008 
CHILE             75   10,30  1,050G         3*BRY 12.540   230   IO0   S0Y    ,,.    11900               ...       350        ...         ,,.        4800y    ...    16,550
COLOMBIA          7*4  20. 30    6900        3. 300  21.200Y  0400  2200  1( I        73      10500       20         330       4 .0        90         3600      34A      6,670
ECUADOR           75    7. 30    7000        3.70D  27. 7C  ... II..                69        10207       ..        3823       ...         ...        38Efy   I380       .  
GUYANA            74    0.80    9100 O       5. 8N   14.70    47    35    1 4        83A       920        39        33         6.0          1 9       620       281      1.0 0
PARAGUAY          714   2.60r   6900         1.8    I11. 0      5S     13    e22      RI1      82         26         30        1.9         65         17I       12       5.00
PERU              75   16.00    840G         4.200  21.70Y  40Y  220   ISY    72              11100       38         3R00      3, 0        7 0        4810    2300   14.410
URUGUAY           75    2.8G 1,370G          2.95    19.3       06    34    20       90        934        ...       2 4        ...         83         , ~       I
VENEZUELA         73   12.30  2.400G         4.6    19.9        103 0 2 8 0   3 9    7 7 A     a          ...       33         2.04        ...        53        ..       1 3C



Annex 1
-30-                                                          Table 1
Page 2 of 2
....................................................................................................................................
I       I       I         I         I               I        I       I          S      I          I           I       S       I       I
I       I GNP/ I X GNP  It TOTALI2  OF PUBLIC I              I       I          IPRI. oAV.PRI.  I             I       ISEC   I        I
I       aCAPITAS DEVOTEDIPUBLIC I EDUCATION    ILITER. I PRI. ICOMPLE. iSTU- iSCH.TEACHIPRUGRLSSI SEC. ISTU- IHIGHtRl
I       I  AT  I To EDU,I   EXP. i RECURRENT    sACY         SENROLLITION       IDENTSiSALARY INIZUN RATE IENROLLIDENTSIENROLLI
I       ,MARKETg  (PiJBLICSDEVOTEDIEXP ALLOCATEDS  RATE IRATIO IRATE FORIPER  SRELATION IFROM PRI.IRATIO IPER  lRATIo I
I POP, IP9ICESI FXP.   I  TOl   I         TOt       I(Z OF  I NET  IPRI SCH aTEACHI Tf GNP/ ITU SEC.  I NET  ITEACH; GRUBSI
YAIMILLS..  (uss)1 nNLY)   I  EDU,  IPRl, SEC. Hl.iADULTS)I (I)  ICYCLE(X IER    I CAPITA                                : (22  I (2)  IER    I (2)  a
I (1) SI  (2) a  (3)    1 ')   1           (5)      I (6)    I (7)  I  (8)    1 (9) 1  (10)    s (11)         1(12)  1(13) 1(14)   1
............... ............................._.....__._.........,........,,__.,,,...... ,,....__........................_.....
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
ASIA ANr nCEANIA
................
AFGHANTSTAN   77M 1403    180G         1.8   11.6      47   19   IS    12         2YX      69        37       3.0C        62       Bx      17      1.00
BANGLADESH      73  80 r;   9sn6       1.2   20.2    44Y  22Y  21Y   23D   s5x              ...      48D      ...        .,,      23xD   28        ,.,
CHINA(TAIwAN) 73  16.3G 1,o5OG    3.2   14.0    28   41   22    82                98C      94        40      14.0        84       61C     26     20,00C
INDIA           75 620.4G   1400       2.6VY                              298               ,,Y ...  aA       * ,,,      ,,,      29xY    20AY   2.34EY
INDONESIA       76 130.9G   280G       3.0    11.0     26      32   IS    608    79EX    43E         30E      2,0        52t      19Ex   I1E      2,00
IRAN            73  33.oG 2, 06G       3.3   12.6    50M  188  12H   so           77       74A       32       5.08       BOA      24      32         .32CY
IRAQ            75  10.5r 1,390G    o.7C  16,3DR  ...  ...            2.    C    93XY    ,..         22       ...        ...      35XY   26C       8.47Y
JORDAN          77    2.3  1, 050K     4. 5K    9.OK   25R  SOR    3R   70        97X      81        32       2.0        91       68      22      10.6
KOREA           78  37.0  1,242        2.8    17.5      35   29   36    93       102X      904        9       2.9        91       60      45      18.00
LEBANON         72   3. 2G I,070G      3.5   18. 0      39   40   10    68        86       6S        19       2.0        63       2OU    25      23 00
MALAYSIA        76  12.6      Bao      o.7   26. 0    42   34   IS    bOC    95            93        32       3 7        78       48      28       3. 00
NEPAL           76  12.6F    lloF    11    10.0        29   20   41      19      59       28        31       2. 3       64       14      24       0,8
OMAN            72   0.8F 2.30nF       1.7N   3.8       96    ,   .       20      24x      99        27F      7.0        .,,      0.4X      9      .,.
PAKISTAN        75  71.3G   180G       1.6   16. 2    45   25   18    21          47X      50        39       2. 0       .        17.x     is      600
PAPUA N.G.      75   2.8G   4SoG    5.6   16.1          38   16   24      32      57?       73P      31      11.(        90       12X?   24        0,90?
PHILIPPINES   74  43.2G   420G    2.5   14.9    73   15   12    87               104x       ,..      30      15S,         ..     460      ...    21,00
SINGAPORE       74   2.3G 2,580G    2.7Y   9.2Y    39Y  39Y  17Y   75A   lo9xv             720       31Y      . .        99A      44XY   24        7baY
SYRIA           75   7.6G   830G    3.6        6.9    39   25   26    53          89       70        35       2. 0       92       45      21      12.00
THAILAND        77  40 1      41 0     40.V  20. 0    55   30   15    84F    83             30       35       S,0u       70       28      25       3.00
TURKEY          73 40,96 1,010G  S.6CY 20.6CY.                                    8         .                                     2 ...  8 5Y ..,  . - 24   27DY  5s83Y
YEMEN           73   5.4G   300G    0.5        0.0      5 ZP  23P   IX            1         18       36       5.0        75        2x    19       0,O0BY
YEMEN P,0,R.  76   1.7    280          6.6     ...     57   28      8    20       89x      48        30       s.0        94       21X    24        0.10
SUMMARY FOR DEVELOPING COUNTRIESS
NUMBER OF CUQ,.. lES1                  94    90       88   88   85       87      95       70        9S         o8       77       94      91        80
RANGE                               l(0.5-  (3,8.  125. (5.  (2.   (3-         (14-     (13.      (19.      (1.9.    (7.       (.4.    (9.      (.01.
12.0 ) 33.0)    96 ) 47)  41)   98)         133X)   99 1    69 2    25.0 I   99)           80  )  39)    23.0)
QUARTILESIUPPER I                    S.1   21.2      54   32   22       73      94       76       46          7       83        36      25      7,0
mEDIANS                  3,9    16 3    45   23   18    So          78       SS        36          4       63       17      23       2,3
LnwER I                  3.0    12 4    38   18   12    20          53        30       32          3       43        9      20        .9
;;;L............ A7;'';;;........                                                            ................................. ..,.....     
SYMBOLS.... DATUM UNAVAILABLE                 Am1970 OR BEFORE            MBCURRENT PRICES                         snuRcEsl
MAGNITUDE NIL OR NEGLIGIRLE 831971                          NaGDP                                    ..---.
?  QUESTIONABLF                     CmI972                      PSINCLUDING FUREIGN AID                   COLUMNSII AND 2 WURLD BANK ATLAS
A  INCLUDES PART.TIME STUnENTS Dm1973                           QNCENTRAL GOVT, ONLY                                        OR IBRD MISSIUNS
**  COMBINED WITH PRIMARY           FP1974                       REMINISTRY nF EDUCATION (MOE) ONLY                 3 TO 14 IBRD MISSIONS
.Ce  UNDER REVIEW                     Fa1975                      SXMOE AND STATE GOVT. ONLY                                   AND/OR UNESCO
Gm1976                      ToEXCLUDING CENTRAL GOVT.                                   STATISTICAL
Hi1977                      USPUBLIC ONLY                                               YEARBUOK
881978                      VBINCLUDING PRIVATE EXPENDITURE
X-INCLUDING OVERAGED STUDENTS
YGUNESCO SOURCES
...........................................................................................
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION DATA ARE USEFUL IN THE EVALUATIUN OF VARIOUS EDUCATION SYSTEMS AND ANALYSIS OF RELATIVE STAGES OF EDUCATIONAL
DEVELOPmENT BETWFEN VARIOUS COUNTRIES, HUWEVER,ON THE BASIS OF THE PRESENT DATA,CROSS.NATIONAL COMPARISON SHOuLU BE APPROACHED WITH
GREAT CAUTION, DATA PRESFNTED IN THE ABOVE TABLE HAVE BEEN COLLECTED LARGELY BY THE BANK MISSIONS FROM GOVERNMENT SOURCESI THE
REMAINDER ARE STAFF FSTIMATES OR DATA FROM UNESCO, EFFORTS HAVE BEEN MADE TOJ STANDARDIZE DEFINITIONS AND WITHIN LIMITS, TU CHECK THE
ACCURACY OF THF DATA, NEVERThELESS,SUCH DATA ARE STILL IMPERFECT IN SEVERAL RESPECTS AND THE BANK IS wOHKING TO IMPROVE THEM
PROGRESsIVELY ON THE UCCASION OF ITS OPERATIONAL WORK, IN THE USE OF THESE DATA, THE FOLLOWING QUALIFICATIONS SHOULD BE BORNE IN
MINDS
(M).EDUCATION" AS DEFINED IN THE TABLE INCLUDES ALL EDUCATION AND TRAINING, FURMAL AND NON.FORMALa
(2)7PRIMARY EDUCATInN REFERS Tn EDUCATION AT THE FIRST LEVEL AND "SECONDARY" EDUCATInN REFERS TO ALL EDUCATIUN AT THE SECUNDARY
LEVEL REGARDLFSS OF TYPE (E.G. GENERAL, TECHNICAL, AGRICULTURAL) I
(3)"LITERACY RATES"(COL,.6 ARE OFTEN OBTAINED FROM COUNTRY CENSUSES, IN MANYCOUNTRIES THEY ARE ONLY APPROXIMATIONS AND IT IS
DOUBTFUL THAT ANY UNIFORM DEFINITION OF 'LITERATE' HAS BEEN FOLLOWED CONSISTENTLYI
M4)"PUBLIC EXPENDITURF IN EDUCATION'(COLS.3,4 AND 5) REFER TO ALL CAPITAL AND RECURRENT EXPENDITURES DEVOTEU TO EDUCATIUN BY
PUBLIC AND QUASI-PUBLIC AGENCIESa
(5)"ENROLLMENT RATIOS"(COLS 7, 12 AND 14) REFER TO SCHUOL YEAR AND MEAN THE PERCENTAGE OF ELIGIBLE CHILDREN ENROLLED FULL.TIME
IN THE APPRnPRIATF SCHOOL, PUBLIC AND PRIVATE BY LEVEL, THEY ARE OFTEN SUBJECT TO A WIDE MARGIN UF ERROR IN THE DEVELOPING
COUNTRIES OWING TO VARIATTON IN THE ACCURACY OF BASIC DATA(I.E, AGE.SPECIFIC POPULATION AND ENROLLMENTS). ENROLLMENT FIGURES
FREQUENTLY ARE HIGHER THAN THE NUMBER OF STLIDENTS ACTUALLY IN  SCHOOL. OVERAGED STUDENTS WHnSE INCLUSION IS INDICATED  BY
FOOTNOTES ALSO CAN INFLATF THE RATIOlS,



JORDAN: THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Unit Capital Costs and Areas Per Student/-
Project Institutions
Gross Area   Buildings and
Project Item             Per StudentL2  Site Works       Furniture   Equipment    Total
mT -         -------------------  US$ ---------------------
Training complex:                          3
Academic and communal               11.1          4,470            360        1,150       5,980
Community college:
Academic and communal                6.8          2,730            220          710       3,660
Staff housing:
Director's house                 130.0         47,460            -             -       47,460
Guest rooms                       40.0         15,250            -             -      15,250
3 new comprehensive secondary
schools:
Boys', Kufr Yuba
Academic and communal              8.0          3,060            260          590       3,910
Boys', Kitteh
Academic and communal              8.0          3,190            260          590       4,040
Girls', Salt
Academic and communal              6.2          2,360            200          280       2,840
/1 Excluding professional fees and contingencies.
/2 Excluding covered galleries; the cost of the galleries is included in the unit capital
cost figures.
/3 Based on the industrial secondary school enrollment of 680;  6.8m2 per student when
based on total enrollment.



JORDAN: THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Contingency Allowances
Technical Assistance
Civil Works         Furniture           Equipment        Professional         Specialists        Fellowships         Total Project Cost
Services
Local  Foreign    Local  Foreign    Local  Foreign    Local  Foreign    Local  Foreign    Local  Foreign    Local  Foreign  Total
Contingencies (as % of project cost):
Physical                                  10.0    10.0        10.0    10.0       10.0    10.0       10.0      -          5.0      5.0       5.0      5.0
Price increase                            18.3    19.6        28.5    30.3       25.5    27.1       12.2      -         14.9    14.9        14.9    14.9
Project cost (without contingencies):
Millions JD                                3.4      2.1        0.2     0.2        0.2      1.5       0.6      0.0        0.0      0.5        0.1     0.2        4.5      4.5    9.0
Millions US$                              11.5      7.1        0.8     0.7        0.6      5.2       1.9      0.0        0.2      1.6        0.2     0.7       I. 7    15.3   30.5
% foreign exchange                                 38.0               45.0                89.2                0.0               80.0                80.0                50.1
Contingencies (amounts):
Physical
Millions JD                              0.3      0.2        0.0     0.0        0.0     0.2        0.1      0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0        0.4      0.4    0.8
Millions US$                             1.2      0.7       0.1      0.1        0.1     0.5        0.1      0.0        0.0      0.1        0.0     0.0        1.5      1.4    2.9
Price increase
Millions JD                              0.7      0.5        0.1     0.1        0.1     0.4        0.0      0.0        0.0      0.1        0.0     0.0        0.9      1.1    2.0
Millions US$                             2.3      LII.2              0.32       0.2      1.5    0 .3        0.0        0.0                Q.00    QQ          3        3-     6
Subtotal                                                                                                                                                                          L2
Millions JD                            1.0     0.7        0.1      0.1        0.1     0.6        0.1      0.0        0.0     0.1         0.0     0.0        1.3      1.5    2.8
Millions US$                           3.5      2.2        0.4     0.3        0.3     2.0        0.4      0.0        0.0     0.3         0.0     0.2        4.6      5 O     .
% foreign exchange                                 39.1               46.2                89.7                0.0                80.0               80.0                52.6
Total project cost (including
contingencies):
Millions JD                                4.4      2.8        0.3     0.3        0.3      2.1       0.7      0.0        0.0      0.6        0.1      0.2        5.8     6.0   11.8
Millions US$                              15.0      9.3        1.2      1.0       0.9      7.2        2.3     0.0        0.2      1.9        0.2      0.9      19.8    20.3   40.1
% foreign exchange                                 38.3               45.3                89.3                0.0                80.0                80.0               50.7
L/  Price increases computed on basis of (1) separate annual increase rates for local and foreign exchange costs;
(2) project completion 6/1983 (3.5 years from loan signing including 0.5 years for completion of technical assistance);
(3) estimated progress of work per year;
(4) baseline cost plus the physical contingency;
(5) following yearly percentages:
1979               1980               1981                1982                1983
Local  Foreign    Local  Foreign    Local  Foreign    Local  Foreign    Local  Foreign
Civil works and
professional fees             8.3    10.0         7.7     9.0        7.4      8.0        7.4      7.0         -       -
Equipment                      9.0    10.0         8.5     9.0        8.0      8.0        8.0      8.0
Furniture                      9.0    10.0         8.5     9.0        8.0      8.0        8.0      8.0
Technical assistance           7.0      7.0        7.0     7.0        7.0      7.0        7.0      7.0        7.0     7.0
/2  Total contingencies as % of project cost without contingencies - 31.6x.
(t   i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



JORDAN: THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Training Complex, Community College, New Comprehensive Secondary Schools,
Prevocational Teacher Training Institute/Secondary Agricultural School
Implementation Schedule
1979              1980               1981              1982               1983
1   2   34    1   2   3 4           1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4    1   2   3   4
Design and Construction:
Sites Selected
Site Acquisition and Survey
Preliminary Drawings
Design Development Drawings
Bid Documents                                                        _
Final Drawings and Cost Estimates
Advertise and Issue Documents
Receive and Analyze Bids, Contract Awards
Construction
Guarantee Period
Equipment and Furniture:                                         '_
Final Lists
Specifications and Cost Estimates
Bid Documents
Advertise, Analyze Bids, Awards
Manufacturing, Delivery and Installation
Technical Assistance:                                                                                                                                          CA~
plop
Specialists                                                     .,   _             _
Fellowships                                     ll 
* I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
*  IBRD Review and Approval                           Negotiations                                                                  Csing Dat :e
Board        6-
World Bank-20985



JORDAN: THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Extensions - Comprehensive Secondary Schools
Implementation Schedule
1979              1980              1981               1982              1983
1   2   3   4   1   2  3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4
Design and Construction:
Site Survey
Preliminary Drawings
Design Development Drawings
Bid Documents
Final Drawings and Cost Estimates
Advertise and Issue Documents
Receive and Analyze Bids, Contract Awards
Construction
Guarantee Period
Equipment and Furniture:                             _
Final Lists                                            _
Specifications and Cost Estimates
Bid Documents
Advertise, Analyze Bids, Awards
','
Manufacturing, Delivery and Installation
Fellowships 5t n
'I~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F
SIBRD Review and Approval                           Negotiations-p4                                                               Closing Date-04
BoardW     B                                                                         2
World Bank -20984



JORDAN: THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Management Information System, Mobile Maintenance Units, Studies
Implementation Schedule
1979              1980              1981               1982              1983
1   2   3    4   1   2   3    4   1   2    3   4   1   2   3   4    1   2   3   4
Management Information System:
Feasibility Studys
Design and Construction:
Preparation of Bid Documents                                     =
Bid Announcement, Evaluation and Contract
Award
Construction
Equipment:
Preparation of Bid Documents
Bid Announcement, Evaluation and Contract
Awards
Manufacturing, Delivery and Installation                                    _
Technical Assistance:                                                         - _                                 _
Mobile Maintenance Units:
Specifications and Bid Documents                            _                                                                                                   '
Bid Announcement, Evaluation and Contract
Award
Manufacturing and Delivery
Studies:
Evaluation:
Specialists
Fellowships                                                                                                                                               E
Educational Research:                                           .                                                                                       O     O
Specialists
Project Management Support:                        _        LL
00m
Fellovvships                                                     AIt
*  IBRD Review and Approval                           Negotiations-pa-                                                             Closing Date_
Board                                                                         B      2
World Bank k-20986



JORDAN: THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Technical Assistance Requirements
Experts                                             Fellowships
Project Item and Type of                     Man/Months      Total       Beginning              Man/Months      Total           Beginning
Technical Assistance Required        Number       Each       Man/Months      Date        Number       Each      Man/Months          Date
Training complex:
Experts:
Instrument mechanics                  1          12            12          7/1/82
Upholstery                            1          12            12          7/1/82
Subtotal experts                    2
Fellowships:
Instructors:  Instrument mechanics, upholstery                                            4         12             48             9/1/80
Elect., ind. elect., auto mech., welding, woodworkers, gen. mech.    10                9            90            4/1/81
Director                                                                   1           3             3             4/1/81
Subtotal fellowships                                                                   15                      141
Total training complex              2                       24                         15                      141
Community college:
Experts:
Community college administration    1            12           -L2          5/1/82
Fellowships:
Director                                                                                  1           4             4             1/1/82
Assistant director                                                                        2           4             8             1/1/82
Registrar                                                                                 1           4             4             1/1/82
Dressmaking                                                                               2           9            18             9/1/81
Nutrition & institutional
management                                                                              1           9             9             9/1/81
Librarianship                                                                             1           5             5             1/1/82
Lab technician                                                                            1           9             9             9/1/81
Subtotal fellowships                                                                    9                        57
Total com=unity college             1                       12                          9                        57
Comprehensive secondary schools:
Fellowships:
Principals                                                                                5           3            15              1/1/82
Assistant principals                                                                      5           3            15              1/1/82
Electricity                                                                               3           9            27            10/1/ 81
Metalwork                                                                                 3           9            27             10/1/ 81
Woodwork                                                                                  3           9            27             10/1/81
General mechanics                                                                         2           9            18             10/1/ 81
Automotive                                                                                1           9             9             10/1/81
Ceramics                                                                                  1           9             9            10/1/81
Sewing                                                                                    1           9             9            10/1/81
Beauty culture                                                                            1           9              9            10/1/81
Art & weaving                                                                             1           9             9             1o/l/81
Total comprehensive schools                                                             26                       174                              0
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



JORDAN: THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Technical Assistance Requirements Continued
Experts                                                Fellowships
Project Item and Type of                       Man/Months                   Beginning                Man/Months      Total        Beginning
Technical Assistance Required          Number       Each       Man/Months       Date         Number       Each       Man/Months       Date
Prevocational teacher training:
Fellowships:
Director                                                                                       1          4               4          1/ 1/82
Audio-visual aids                                                                              1         12              12          6/ 1/81
Woodwork                                                                                       1          6               6          1/ 1/82
Metalwork                                                                                      1           6              6          1/ 1/82
Electricity                                                                                    1          6               6          1/ 1/82
Methodology                                                                                    1           9              9          6/ 1/81
Human nutrition                                                                                1          9               9          6/ 1/81
Total prevocational teacher
training                                                                                   7                        52
Secondary agricultural school:
Fellowships:
Greenhouse                                                                                     1          6               6          1/ 1/82
Food technology                                                                                1         24              24          1/ 1/80
Poultry                                                                                        1          9               9          6/ 1/81             4
Total secondary agricultural
school                                                                                     3                        39
Institution building:
Management information system:
Experts                                 15         12             180          8/ 1/80
Evaluation:
Experts                                  1           6              6         10/ 1/80
Fellowships                                                                                    2           6             12         10/ 1/80
Total evaluation                       1                          6                          2                         12
Educational research:
Experts                                  3           6             18           7/ 1/80
Project management support:
Fellowships                                                                                     6          4             24           7/ 1/80
Total institution building             4                         24                          8                         36                           |
Grand total:                                                            /                                                                                  I-
Experts                                 22                        24OL-                       6                         _
Fellowships                             =                                                     68                        499L -
/1  To be financed by the UNDP except for the management information system component which will be financed under the Loan.



- 38 -                         Annex 1
Schedule 3
JORDAN: THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Calendar    Fiscal                       Accumulated       Undisbursed
Year and   Year and   Disbursements   Disbursements          Balance
Semester   Semester   Amount    %       Amount    %       Amount    %
(US$m)           (US$m)           (US$m)
1980
1                                                      19.0  100.0
1981
2          1         0.9    4.7       0.9    4.7      18.1   95.3
1981
1          2         0.6    3.2       1.5    7.9       17.5   92.1
1982
2          1         1.8    9.5       3.3   17.4      15.7   82.6
1982
1          2         3.5   18.4       6.8   35.8      12.2   64.2
1983
2          1         4.7   24.7      11.5   60.5        7.5   39.5
1983
1          2         5.0   26.3      16.5   86.8        2.5   13.2
1984
2          1         2.5   13.2      19.0  100.0        0.0    0.0



- 39 -                        ANNEX 2
RELATED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILE
A.   Reports and Studies Relating to Education
1.   Five-Year Plan, 1976-80, National Planning Council.
2.   Educational Statistical Yearbook, Ministry of Education, 1979.
3.   Study on Curricula and Standards of Education and Training for
Boys and Girls in Secondary Schools and Teacher Training
Institutes in Jordan, Ministry of Education, 1978.
4.   Training Needs in the South of Jordan (preliminary report),
Vocational Training Corporation, Amman, January 1979.
5.   Vocational Training Corporation Five-Year Plan, 1978-82.
6.   Toward a Strategy to Eradicate Illiteracy, Ministry of
Education, 1979.
7.   Employment Survey for Establishments Engaging (5) Persons or
More, Department of Statistics, August 1977.
B.   Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
1.   Project Proposal, Government of Jordan, January 1979.
2.   Guidelines for Pre-Vocational Education in the Compulsory Stage,
Ministry of Education, 1978.
3.   Pre-Investment Study Report for Integrated, Computerized Management
Information System, prepared by Planning Research Corporation (PRC)
International, November 1979.
4.   Tender Specifications for Management Information System Computer
Hardware, prepared by PRC International, November 1979.
5.   Tender Specifications for Management Information System Applica-
tions Software, prepared by PRC International, November 1979.
6.   Project Brief - Proposed Third Education Project, August 8, 1978,
and Update, November 16, 1978.
7.  Directive No. 6 of 1978 - Instructions on Organization of Evening
Classes in Government Schools, 1978.
C.   Selected Working Papers of the Project
1.   Educational Worksheets, November 1979.
2.   Accommodation Schedules, November 1979.
3.   Manpower Projections, March 1979.






IBRD 14381
360                                                                                                          JULY 19791
10~~~~~~~~~~
f,~~~~~~~~~~~~~Kf Y. g Lkb,d >
,4+~~~~ fA                                                                                                                                      . -a)v,
, ~~~~T g.t-ort Seehu                                               To OomoRoi,      S        Y   R  I A 
Abeo SI.e Soo  I
Al-     Rof,nqE                                                                ------
S/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ... qaEAzq
T.  Gaza                                                                      I JeM -o|v   qqar ,
rO G.ZXH    R,9 
S   X                 , t 1 l :_ 6 _,,   X                                                                                 \ \                            SAUDI
_____    t   2  . j   -                                                                 \                  ~~~~~ARABIA
RV~       bb.                   f         ''
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
/s  Aiv-zac \                    tJORDAN
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
*      COMPREEIHINSIVE SECONDARY SCHOOLS
>  \   }F> 0 Qa' el Jinz^A                             TRADE TRAINING  COMPLEX
I R.sh.d,ya                                                                                    Ob EI  Hasa 5>v=\ i X PREVOCATIONAL TEACHER TRAINING
NST TUTE / SECONDARY AGRICULTURAL SCHOOL
4   .         /        .        .               .                                  *      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COMMUN17Y COLLEGE
o      CTIES, TOWNS AND VILLAGES
S          INTERNATIONAL  HIGHWAYS
Rs en  'S  '                                   ".SFCOND CLASS ROADS
Wi d,M-                                         El J.f,                                                             TL .  I  RAILWAYS
Wa11 Muea ) |< El Jafr O. 0 -- ~~~~~~~~~WADIS
V  Ma'anillr                                              9        > ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MUDFLATS
\ \ .......................... : . . ~~~~~~~~~R VERS
,;7>/ t > 82-Aqob                                            .7........................  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Y NR
/   p Quweira  r S  a                                                                 .u.sD/rza:4.v^X.9   |Sf            <    I R A Q~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IR 
S                                                                                          .'                                                                     2 /AXt   ,.~
S                                                                      .2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Y
T /|0    SAL.    Dl-ABI
0    ti   ~~            / .        ....... o IC   20  OR  50    RD
f R,O-AETES 40         D0D
/                                                 36   /                                                                 E r  D T   t          '1          _~~~~~~~~~36'



