Document of                    FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2654-JO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FOR A
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
November 26, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performLnce of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CU.RENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$    1.00       =       Jordanian Dinar (JD) 0.295
JD    1.000       =       US$ 3.39
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
DEO                                    District Education Office
MIS                                    Management Information System
MOE                      -             Ministry of Education
NPC                      -             National Planning Council
TTI                      -             Teacher Training Institute
VTC                      -             Vocational Training Corporation
VTS                      -             Vocational Training Society



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Loan and Proiect Summary
Borrower:            Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
Amount:              US$19.0 million equivalent
Terms:               17 years, including a grace period of four years, at 7.95
percent per annum.
Prolect
Description:         The project is designed to assist the government in train-
ing skilled manpower urgently required for implemetnting
the economic development plan, improving the quality of
education, and enhancing the Ministry of Education's
(MOE) management capabilities. For these purposes, the
project would help the government in: (a) expanding post-
secondary technician and secondary level vocational train-
ing; (b) meeting deficiencies in the supply of teachers;
(c) improving the quality of secondary agricultural
education; (d) expanding adult education and training;
(e) upgrading school building maintenance; and (f) estab-
lishing a computerized management information system in
the MOE and technical assistance to strengthen planning,
management, research and evaluation in the MOE. In
support of these objectives, the project would consist
of: (a) construction/extension of and equipment and
furniture for one training complex, five comprehensive
secondary schools (two extensions), one agricultural
secondary school (extension), one prevocational teacher
training institute (extension), one community college,
and one computerized management information system;
(b) equipment for eight mobile building maintenance units;
and (c) technical assistance related to the above,, and
for strengthening the MOE's capability in research,
evaluation, and project implementation. The project
institutions would provide about 5,400 new training places
(about 3,100 for replacement) and would upgrade about
1,300 existing places. The project institutions would add
about 160 technicians, 390 subject and prevocational craft
teachers and 30 primary school teachers, 650 craftsmen/
skilled workers, 150 female graduates trained in commerce
and home economics, and 70 skilled agricultural workers to
the annual output from the formal education system. The
project faces no special risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performnce
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclsed without World Bank authorition.



Estimated Cost:                                           ----US$ Millions------
Local   Foreign   Total
1 trade training complex                                    2.4       2.0      4.4
1 community college                                         2.2       1.9      4.1
5 comprehensive schools                                     7.9       6.0     13.9
1 prevocational teacher training                            2.0       1.4      3.4
1 secondary agricultural school                             0.2      0.4       0.6
1 management information system                             0.1       0.7      0.8
8 mobile school maintenance units                            -        0.6      0.6
Technical Assistance:
Specialists                                                0.2       1.6      1.8
Fellowships                                                0.2       0.7      0.9
Baseline Cost                                              15.2      15.3     30.5
Physical Contingencies                                     1.5       1.4      2.9
Price Escalation                                           3.1       3.6      6.7
Total Project Cost                                         19.8      20.3     40.1
Financing Plan                                            Local   Foreign   Total
--------$ million------
Bank loan                                                    -       19.0      19.0
UNDP                                                        0.2       1.3       1.5
Government contribution                                    19.6        -       19.6
Total                                                      19.8      20.3     40.1
Estimated
Disbursement:                 Bank FY                   1981   1982   1983   1984
--------$ million--------
Annual                                                   1.5    5.3    9.7    2.5
Cummulative                                              1.5    6.8   16.5   19.0
Appraisal Report:   No. 2632-JO
Date: November 15, 1979



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
LOAN TO THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FOR A THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Bank
loan of US$19.0 million equivalent to the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, to help
finance the Third Education Project. The loan will have a term of 17 years,
including 4 years of grace, with interest at 7.95 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report entitled "Country Economic Memorandum on Jordan" (No.
1738-JO, dated January 9, 1978) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
January 19, 1978. An updating economic mission visited Jordan in July 1978
and its findings are reflected in this report. Country data sheets are
attached as Annex 1.
3.        Jordan is a small country of only 2.2 million people (East Bank).
Due to limited natural resources, the structure of output and employment is
service and trade-dominated. The economy's service-oriented character is
reflected in Jordan's increasing role as a provider of manpower to neighboring
countries and a regional tourist center, particularly since the disruptions
in Lebanon. Jordan has benefited from its regional setting in terms of
foreign exchange inflows in the form of external grants, workers' remittances,
exports and tourism revenues. However, costs of this role to the economy have
been the outflow of scarce skilled labor and the emergence of a saving con-
straint due to the high defense expenditures and the impetus towards higher
consumption.
Recent Developments
4.        During the Three Year Plan (1973-75), GDP grew at about 5 percent
per year. Agriculture stagnated as a result of droughts while the industrial
sector increased its share of GDP, mainly due to increased production and
prices of phosphates and rapid growth in manufacturing output, encouraged by
higher domestic and external demand. Since the country embarked on a Five-
Year Development Plan in early 1976, overall economic growth has atccelerated.
Between 1976 and 1978 GDP at market prices grew at about ten percent in real
terms led by a strong growth in agriculture (13 percent per year) and industry
(15 percent per year). Investment expenditures, which averaged 28 percent of
GDP in 1973-1975, have accelerated further reaching 41 and 42 percent of GDP
1/   Part I of this report is essentially identical, except for updating, to
paragraphs 2-16 of the President's Report No. P-2476-JO on a Loan for the
Third Power Project, dated March 28, 1979.



in 1977 and 1978. This strong upward trend in investment expenditure reflects
the increased availability of foreign resources in the form of grants, foreign
loans and labor remittances.
5.        Despite a significant increase in exports in recent years, increased
investment efforts have led to rapidly rising imports and widening trade
deficit. Nevertheless, the overall balance of payments position has remained
strong owing to increased earnings from tourism and workers' remittances and
the large inflow of foreign aid. Despite a decline in earnings from phos-
phates, between 1975 and 1978, export earnings increased by 20-25 percent
per year (in dollar terms), mainly due to an increase in manufactured good
exports, aided by higher prices of fruit and vegetable exports. Imports in
the meanwhile rose by 37 percent per year, owing mainly to an increase in raw
material and capital good imports. In 1978, however, the growth of imports
declined to about 17 percent over 1977 due to a lower inflow of foreign assis-
tance and the completion of important projects. During the period 1975-1978
Jordan's net earnings on services tripled to over $600 million in 1978 as a
result of increasing inflows of remittances (encouraged by the climate of
financial stability in Jordan and the boom in real estate) and earnings from
tourism. Inflow of foreign aid, although fluctuating from year to year,
continues to play a key role in the Jordanian economy. After peaking to over
$500 million in 1977, foreign aid declined to about $410 million in 1978.
Following the Baghdad Conference in November 1978, inflows are rising again
and are likely to amount to a record high of about $1.0 billion in 1979. The
level of gross reserves increased substantially to $923 million at end-1978
(equivalent to about 7 months of imports) because of foreign exchange appre-
ciation.
6.        Although the Government budget is still heavily dependent on foreign
grants, remarkable improvements have been made in expanding domestic revenues,
which accounted in 1978 for about 64 percent of total revenues as compared to
53 percent in the average of 1975-1977. The increase in domestic revenues was
mainly due to increased custom duties, a higher tax rate on corporate profits
and improved collection of personal income tax. Despite a 90 percent increase
in domestic revenues and the sizeable inflow of foreign grants over the period
1975-1978, the budget deficit has increased considerably as a result of
stepped up government expenditure on both the recurrent (68 percent increase)
and capital (95 percent increase) accounts. Partly also as a result of the
decline in foreign grants, the budget deficit was at a record high of JD 117
million in 1978.
7.        The domestic budget deficit, combined with accelerated private
sector credit led in 1978 to a 29 percent growth rate in domestic liquidity
(compared with 23 percent in 1977). The acceleration in the growth of private
sector credit reflected a policy decision to encourage economic activity
following the slowdown experienced in 1977. The inflationary impact was some-
what mitigated both by the propensity of Jordanians to hold cash balances as
a precautionary measure and the tendency of commercial banks to hold liquid
reserves at higher-than-required levels. Large amounts of credit were
directed to the tertiary sector and revived construction activities. Indus-
trial investment has in the past relied largely on retained earnings or direct
support from Government but is now relying more upon financial resources



-3-
mobilized by the banking sector. Also, the Amman Stock Exchange has been
instrumental in mobilizing financial resources for industrial enterprises
since its inception in January 1977. Lending to industry amounted to 11
percent of all outstanding credit at the end of 1978.
8.        The cost of living index increased by nearly 15 percent per year
during 1973-76. The rate of increase since dropped to 11 percent in 1977 and
7 percent in 1978. Inflationary pressures resulted from both domestic and
external factors. Although the growth in money supply has been a contributing
factor, some causes of inflation were external, such as the sharp rise in the
prices of imported goods, strong demand for Jordanian goods and services by
neighboring countries, growing inflows of workers' remittances, andl the
speculation in real estate which accompanied the influx of refugees and
businesses from Lebanon.
9.        Partly as a result of the continuing migration of Jordanian labor to
neighboring countries and partly because of the rapid economic development,
the labor market has now reached a situation of full employment and pressures
have emerged on the demand side. About 150,000 Jordanians are estimated to be
working abroad, compared to total domestic employment of about 400,000. Labor
force participation rates are low, particularly for women. The Government has
been trying to increase female participation rates by opening up employment
opportunities for women and by expanding child care facilities. It: has also
given increased emphasis to education, particularly to vocational training,
and has provided a broad range of social services to attract Jordanian labor.
There is an increasing propensity, in both private and public sectors, to
increase the capital intensity of projects in order to economize ort labor.
Medium-term Prospects
10.       The primary objectives of the current Five-Year Plan (1976-80) are
to diversify the productive structure of the economy, increase overall growth,
and improve tax and export revenues in order to reduce dependence on external
assistance and achieve self-reliance in the long run. This involves exploit-
ing phosphates and potash resources for export; extending irrigation in the
Jordan Valley to increase agricultural production, particularly of high-value
fruits and vegetables for export where Jordan enjoys a comparative advantage
in the region; promoting production of export-oriented consumer goods indus-
tries; and strengthening infrastructure in the transport and services sector
to serve regional development needs and earn additional foreign exchange.
During the first three years of the Plan the investment targets were attained.
The overall implementation ratio was at the end of 1978 about 95 percent of
the original targets corrected for inflation. Social issues are being given
increasing attention by the Government, which is currently formulating a
program of action to assist low income groups and rural areas.
11.       The medium-term prospects for growth are good, with a likely GDP
growth rate of 6-8 percent per year in real terms. Overall investment is
likely to stay at a high level but may decline as a proportion of GDP from
the exceptionally high rates experienced in 1976-1978 (about 40 percent of
GDP). Jordan's development and export prospects depend on the impLementation



- 4 -
of major projects (phosphate rock mining, potash, phosphatic fertilizer, oil
refining and the Maqarin dam) and the vitality of the private sector. Phos-
phate production may rise to 5 million tons per year by the early 1980s. If
the proposed projects are implemented on time and if the marketing is care-
fully arranged, exports of potash and phosphatic fertilizer should yield
substantial foreign exchange earnings in the early eighties. In industry,
priorities have been well established and the Government encourages industrial
development. In view of Jordan's stock of entrepreneurial skills and the
market for medium-scale industrial products in neighboring countries, the
private sector should continue to show healthy growth. Further improvements
in packaging and marketing, however, are needed for export promotion. In
agriculture, the focus of the Government is correctly on developing irrigated
agriculture. But increased attention will need to be paid to rainfed agricul-
ture in order to correct the weak institutional and coordinating machinery,
reduce fragmentation of landholdings and, improve research and extension
services.
Development Issues
12.       To achieve gradually the Government's self-sufficiency objectives,
domestic resource mobilization will need to be increased. The Government can
restrain current expenditure growth to some extent. But given the impact of
high wages and salaries in neighboring countries, greater possibilities lie
in increased revenues rather than in controlling expenditures. Tax collection
efforts need to be further increased, and consideration should be given to
reducing the high tax holidays and exemptions of business and individuals.
There is also some scope for increasing taxes on real estate and on non-
essential imported consumer goods. Domestic demand management and financial
controls need to be improved, both to reduce inflationary pressures and to
improve domestic resource mobilization. Efforts are currently being made to
issue a variety of debt instruments to cover financing gaps in the Government
sector and to develop a secondary market for these issues. Similarly, the
Government is encouraging public and private corporations to issue bonds so as
to raise capital directly from the public.
13.       Labor migration to neighboring countries is expected to continue
and is likely to cause shortages of labor in Jordan, particularly skilled
labor. The Government has correctly decided to focus on the supply of labor
rather than attempt to restrict its outflow; a 30 percent outflow of skilled
labor is assumed in the education and training plans. The low participation
rates, particularly among women, and the underemployed labor in the rainfed
areas represent potential for increased labor supplies. In order to retain
scarce skilled labor in Jordan, the Government is also providing low cost
housing, and various subsidies to reduce the price of imported food staples.
However, most of the subsidies are provided with insufficient selectivity in
terms of recipients, and the Government intends to review this policy.
14.       Because of their size, Jordan's prospective investments in several
major projects (phosphate mining, phosphatic fertilizer, potash and Maqarin
Dam) require especially careful resource planning. These investments (exclud-
ing the Maqarin Dam, for which works will not start before 1981) are expected



to amount to about one-third of total investment during the remainder of the
current Plan period. Although these projects will tax Jordan's limited
physical, human, and financial resources, they are net foreign exchange
generating projects exploiting Jordan's rather meager natural resources.
Jordan should explore carefully the impact of these projects on its external
debt servicing capacity, as significant amounts of foreign exchange are
required for their financing. So far, Jordan has been successful both in
phasing investment so as not to burden its foreign exchange resources unduly,
and in obtaining substantial amounts of external assistance on relatively
concessional terms for the first three above-mentioned projects; financing of
the large investments related to the Maqarin Dam and associated irrigation and
water supply development is currently under discussion.
External Assistance
15.       External public debt outstanding and disbursed as of December 1978
was $825 million ($1,594 million including undisbursed). Of this total, loans
from bilateral sources amounted to $533 million ($1,052 million including
undisbursed) and accounted for 65 percent. Outstanding debt to IDA and the
IBRD was $54.0 million ($120.7 million including undisbursed). SiLnce the bulk
of Jordan's foreign debt has been secured on concessional terms, the debt
service burden remains low. Debt service payments amounted to $53.9 million
in 1978, equivalent to 6.6 percent of total exports of goods and non-factor
services.
16.       Despite an expected improvement in domestic resource mobilization
(para. 12), Jordan still needs substantial external capital inflows to finance
its development efforts apart from the large external budget support devo.ed
chiefly to military expenditures (para. 5). Judging from past trends in
commitments by donor countries, Jordan is expected to mobilize anaually loan
commitments from USA, Federal Republic of Germany, and UK totalling $75-$90
million at relatively concessionary terms (2-3 percent interest rate, 20-40
years maturity, with 4-10 years grace) in addition to substantial loans from
Arab multilateral and bilateral sources (para. 5). Jordan can also absorb
more borrowings on commercial terms, mostly in suppliers' credits. The debt
service ratio is expected to reach 9-10 percent in the early eighties, but
should remain manageable if the Government continues to exercise the restraint
it has shown in the past.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
17.       Jordan has received two Bank loans totalling $50 million and fifteen
IDA credits totalling $83.8 million (net of cancellations) of which nine have
been fully disbursed. War and local disturbances adversely affected the pace
of economic activity after 1967, and Bank Group lending only resumed in mid-
1971. Project implementation is generally satisfactory. As of June 30, 1979
disbursements amounted to 62 percent of appraisal estimates and 75 percent
of revised estimates. The IDA credits have mainly financed physical and
social infrastructure projects, such as education, highways, water supply and



- 6 -
sewerage, power and irrigation. With Jordan having attained a stage in its
economic development where it can be considered creditworthy for Bank lending,
and having reached a GNP per capita level ($560 in 1976) that exceeded IDA
limits, the Third Amman Water Supply and Sewerage Project, approved in March
1978, was the last project financed through an IDA Credit. IFC has made-four
investments in Jordan consisting of a $244,000 equity participation and a
$1.6 million loan to Jordan Ceramic Industries Limited (JCI) in 1974, a $3.1
million equity participation in the promotion of a phosphatic fertilizer
project in 1975 including a subsequent $20 million loan in June, 1978 (see
para 19), a $667,000 equity participation and a $2.5 million loan to a brick
company in December 1978 and $600,700 equity participation in the Jordan
Security Corporation in June 1979. Annex II contains a summary statement of
Bank loans and IDA credits and IFC investments as of October 31, 1979, and
notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
18.       Unlike past Bank Group assistance to Jordan which was largely for
infrastructure projects, recent and proposed lending is also directed toward
large export oriented projects with foreign exchange earning potential for
which the Bank Group has closely cooperated with the Government in project
preparation and in mobilizing large external financial assistance. In addi-
tion, the Bank Group is assisting the Government in implementing its social
objectives enunciated in the Five-Year Plan (1976-80) aimed at improving the
income and living standards of the rural and urban poor.
19.       In line with these overall objectives, the Bank Group provided
technical assistance for developing and implementing a plan for expanding
phosphate rock production, and a comprehensive program for a second phase of
development of the irrigation and agricultural potential of the Jordan Valley
and for water supply based on the Maqarin Dam. An Engineering Credit was made
in FY1975 to help prepare the project for potash production from the Dead
Sea via solar evaporation, for which a loan was approved by the Executive
Directors on September 5, 1978. In addition IFC has assisted the Government
in preparing a phosphatic fertilizer project to produce diammonium phosphate
(DAP) and triple superphosphate (TSP) for which an IFC loan of $20 million was
approved by the Executive Directors on June 27, 1978, in addition to IFC's
equity participation of $3.1 million in 1975 (see para 17). In support of
the Government's social objectives, projects currently under preparation for
lending in the next two to three fiscal years include proposals for developing
a Municipal and Rural Development Bank which has primarily a rural clientele
and a slum upgrading project. Also under preparation are a water supply
project to expand and improve water distribution in several intermediate
cities and small towns and a rainfed project to help small farmers increase
their yields through improved inputs of seeds and fertilizer as well as
through better cultivation practices.
20.       The Bank was Executing Agent for a two-year UNDP Planning Assistance
Project based in the National Planning Council which was completed in December
1975. It was also Executing Agent for a UNDP-financed study of the manufactur-
ing industry and industrial estates in Jordan. The first phase, consisting of
a study of the industrial sector, was completed in December 1975. The second
phase, consisting of studies of specific industries and proposals for the
establishment of industrial estates during the next Plan period  -   clm:ed
in December 1976.  The establishment of industrial zones and sup5ol"ini



services for light manufacturing would aim at regulating the concentration of
economic activity in the Amman-Zarqa area which has strained the infrastruc-
ture facilities and caused severe pollution. The Bank is at present assisting
the Government in initiating a study for the promotion of export oriented
industries. The Bank may also help the Government to formulate a plan for the
rational use of scarce water resources.
21.       At the end of 1978, the Bank Group's share in Jordan's external
public debt was estimated at 7.5 percent, and its share in debt service was
0.9 percent. By 1980 the Bank Group's shares in debt outstanding and in debt
service are expected to be about 7.0 percent and 0.5 percent respectively.
PART III - THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Background
22.       Labor is a major resource in the Jordanian economy and it is by
far the main earner of foreign exchange (about $0.5 billion in 1978). While
labor emigration acted in the 1960's and early 1970's as a security valve
siphoning out some of the unemployment affecting the economy, since 1973 the
massive investment plans promoted by the Gulf States as a result of oil price
increases, and the acceleration of domestic economic growth have drastically
changed the picture. In a few years Jordan has moved to a situation of full
employment and the continuing manpower outflow has turned into a potential
threat to domestic development opportunities. Jordanians working abroad are
currently estimated at 120,000-150,000 (about 37 percent of the labor force),
largely made up of professionals and skilled workers attracted to the Gulf
States, in particular, by salaries and wages three or four times higher than
in Jordan. The government considers emigration to be economically beneficial
and has been pursuing an open emigration policy. At the same time, priority
is being given to rapid expansion of vocational/technical education aLnd
training and encouraging increased female participation in the workforce to
meet the gap in the availability of skilled workers created by emigration.
Education Policy
23.       The government's education development strategies are directed to-
wards ensuring the availability of a well-educated work force with the skills
required for a rapidly developing economy. Increasingly, while continuing to
pursue vigorously a policy of generalizing basic schooling, greater stress is
being placed on reorienting education and training towards meeting manpower
training needs.
24.       Progress in the overall development of the education system has been
remarkable, especially over the past decade. Gross enrollments at the primary
(grades 1-6), preparatory (grades 7-9) and secondary (grades 10-12) Levels now
represent a high 97 percent, 76 percent and 44 percent of the relevalnt age
groups. There are no significant disparities by region or by sex. Indeed,
female enrollments, as a percentage of total enrollments (47 percent at the



- 8 -
primary level, 43 percent and 39 percent at the preparatory and secondary
levels respectively), are among the highest in the Middle East. Thus major
strides have been made towards the goal of nine years of basic schooling,
incorporating both the primary and preparatory levels, for all children.
25.       The government has been less successful in meeting its goal in
expanding vocational training. Despite a 300 percent increase over the past
five years, enrollments in vocational/technical courses represent only 12
percent of total secondary enrollments, as against the government target of
30 percent by 1980. Attainment of this target by no later than 1987 is now
the government's highest educational priority, towards which the following
measures are being taken: (a) the introduction of prevocational studies for
all students in grades 5-9 so as to acquaint them with some of the skills
required for future employment; and (b) the further diversification of
secondary education to serve the needs for technical manpower through an
expanded provision of training complexes in urban areas and the concomitant
development of the comprehensive school system, particularly in the less
urbanized areas, with about 30-40 percent of students to be enrolled in
vocational streams. To complement the development of the formal training
system, in-plant apprenticeship and skill upgrading programs organized by the
Vocational Training Corporation (VTC) attached to the Ministry of Labor will
be expanded, with the objective of increasing the number of trainees from 490
in 1978 to 2,600 by 1982.
26.       The thrust towards meeting technical manpower needs is being con-
tinued at the post-secondary education level through the development of a
newly established university at Yarmouk, with special emphasis on science,
agriculture, engineering and medical education, and with an enrollment target
of 20,000 by 1986. A major objective would be to reduce the large number
of Jordanian youths going abroad to study. At the same time, the government
proposes to develop a pilot community college, which would combine experi-
mentally the training in one institution of required technicians and subject
teachers.
27.       Additionally, more effective action is planned to address the educa-
tion and training needs of the estimated 30. percent of the population over 12
years of age classified as illiterate and to provide continuing education for
literate adults. The MOE is encouraging adults and out-of-school youths to
attend day and evening classes that cover in four years--recently reduced from
six years--the content of the primary curriculum adapted to adult learning
needs. Progress to date has been slow with only about 20,000 graduating from
literacy classes over the past ten years from a target population estimated
to have numbered 338,000 in 1976. A national plan of action, aimed at era-
dicating illiteracy and developing continuing education programs for adults,
is at present under preparation in the MOE. In the meantime, the necessary
legislation is being enacted to ensure coordination between the MOE and the
various other ministries concerned (Agriculture, Labor, Health, and Islamic
Culture) in the provision of adult education. The comprehensive secondary
schools and the proposed community college are expected to play a major role
in the development of adult education and training programs and in providing
such programs in the areas in which they are located.



-9-
Issues and Problems
28.       The rapid expansion of primary and preparatory schooling inevitably
has brought with it some qualitative problems. In meeting demands for such
schooling, the government has had recourse to a significant extent to rented
accommodation and to underqualified teachers. About 37 percent of the class-
rooms in public schools are rented, and almost all are in extremely poor
condition. The government plans to replace all rented buildings on a phased
basis, in accordance with the availability of the necessary finances, over a
period of up to 20 years and is currently undertaking a school-location study,
including a survey to determine the schools most urgently in need of replace-
ment. Poor maintenance of buildings further hampers school operations. This
problem is being addressed through the proposed use of mobile building main-
tenance units, with particular emphasis on the maintenance of schools in
remote areas, where the problem is most acute.
29.       As a result of the initiatives taken by the government over the past
five years, the output of trained teachers for grades 1-9 now roughly matches
demand, though some shortfall exists due to emigration among newly graduating
teachers. However, extensive in-service training is required and underway to
upgrade the about 33 percent of teachers in grades 1-9 who are underqualified
by government standards, i.e., who have not completed two years of post-
secondary training. In addition, shortages, as yet not fully quantified, are
-being experienced in the supply of certain subject teachers, particularly
maths, science and English, while no provision as yet exists to supply the
annual need for about 120 male teachers for the practical subjects introduced
in the curricula of grades 5-9. The proposed pilot community college and a
proposed new prevocational teacher training institute will address these
needs. Finally, while the supply of teachers for secondary schools is ade-
quate, there is an acute shortage of secondary industrial instructors. Only
25 trainees enrolled for the pedagogical training of such instructors at the
Marka Polytechnic Institute in 1978. The government increased the intake to
140 in 1979 and plans to maintain this level of intake to match projected
needs. To attract and retain qualified vocational/technical teachers, the
government recently raised salaries and adopted various incentive measures,
including granting a salary differential of 40 percent for vocational, subject
teachers over other teachers. In addition, a new by-law has been pretpared to
grant qualified teacher status and the appropriate incremental financial
reward for those completing instructor training at the Institute.
30.       While the expansion of vocational training to meet skilled manpower
needs is the government's highest educational priority, the determination
of such needs is made difficult by the absence of an adequate data base and
manpower planning mechanism. Ways to strengthen the manpower analysis and
projection capability of the National Planning Council (NPC) are being con-
sidered with technical assistance provided under a UN program. In the mean-
time, a preliminary estimate of manpower needs, based on the limited data
available, indicates that further significant increases in the output: of
technical manpower, over and above that currently planned, will be necessary
to meet projected needs. The shortfall of skilled workers is likely to be
particularly acute. Twelve proposed new training institutions, including one
being constructed under the second education project and a further f-Lve (three



- 10 -
comprehensive schools, one industrial secondary school and one training
center) under the present project, would increase the output of industrial
skilled workers from 700 in 1978 to 4,000 by 1986. This compares with esti-
mated needs of about 10,800 annually, net of emigration, in the 1980s. The
shortfall would be met in part at the lower skilled level by the planned
expansion of apprenticeship training but clearly further institutional expan-
sion will also be necessary. A shortage also exists in the supply of indus-
trial and commercial technicians, with the output estimated to reach 1,500
annually by 1986, including about 200 through the proposed project, as against
estimated annual needs of 2,700. The shortfall is expected to be met through
the possible establishment of a new polytechnic in the south, to complement
the two in the central and northern regions financed under the first and
second IDA assisted education projects, combined with the provision of addi-
tional community colleges. While a short-fall is also indicated in the output
of science/engineering based university graduates in 1986, this situation
would be corrected quickly if the development of Yarmouk University proceeds
as planned.
Management Capability
31.       Despite its excellent achievements to date, the government is aware
that, to develop and monitor the educational system more effectively, it will
need to have an improved management information system, as well as a research
and evaluation capability. To this effect the proposed project will include
-the establishment of a computerized information system, and an evaluation and
research unit to provide senior management with effective tools for monitoring
and planning purposes.
Public Finance
32.       Between 1975 and 1978, the recurrent cost of public education
increased by about 10 percent per year in real terms, 2 percent higher than
the real increase in total government recurrent expenditure. Capital expendi-
ture on the other hand stagnated due to MOE's reliance on renting school
buildings rather than constructing new facilities. As a result, the percentage
of total public expenditures devoted to education varied in the range 8.5-9.0
percent, while educational expenditures as a percentage of GNP decreased from
5.1 percent to 4.5 percent. During the same period, the recurrent expenditures
for vocational/technical education increased by 29 percent per year in real
terms, reflecting the high priority given to skilled manpower training. This
trend is expected to continue in the next plan period (1981-85). Based on the
projected development of the education system, and the proposed progressive
replacement of rented buildings, total expenditures on education are expected
to reach JD 51.5 million (in 1978 prices) in 1985. This would represent about
4.5 percent of projected GNP and 9-9.5 percent of the government budget. The
government can be expected to sustain this level of expenditure in view of the
high priority attached to education.



- 11 -
Bank Strategy and Lending for Education
33.       Bank Group lending to education (two credits) has been consistent
with the government's objectives and underlined the twin themes of manpower
development and the qualitative improvement of education. The first credit
($5.4 million in 1972) introduced diversified secondary education, post-
secondary technician training, new forms of trade training, technical teacher
training, agricultural teacher training, and expanded teacher training for
grades 1-9. Technical assistance was provided for institutional support,
curricula development and teacher training. The Project Performance Audit
Report (No. 2494) noted the catalytic effect of the project in many areas,
including educational planning, and concluded that the project was justified
and worthwhile. The lessons learned from the project have been or are being
adopted, including improved procurement procedures, better coordination of
technical assistance, more effective scheduling of required inputs and timing
of implementation, and more extended training in management and administration.
34.       The second credit ($6.0 million in 1975) continued the emplhasis on
meeting manpower needs through the financing of a polytechnic, three compre-
hensive secondary schools, extensions (workshops and laboratories) to 16
preparatory and secondary schools, a trade training complex, a hotel training
school, and appropriate technical assistance. It also included the financing
of a rural development center, which would support rural development projects
in the Jordan Valley. Implementation of this project is proceeding satis-
factorily, and is expected to be completed as scheduled.
35.       The proposed third project would further support the government's
efforts to expand vocational training, and would provide much needed skilled
workers, technicians and teachers for particular subject specializations. An
important feature would be the impetus provided in developing a plan of action
to meet non-formal education and training needs and the support in strengthen-
ing management capability in the MOE. In view of the continuing critical
shortage of skilled manpower, the next project is expected to provide further
support in this area and in expanding non-formal education and training.
IV. THE PROJECT
Project History
36.       The project was prepared by the government following a Bank Project
Identification Mission in June 1978 and a Bank Preparation Assistance Mission
in October 1978. The project was appraised in February/March 1979. Negotia-
tions were held in Washington, D.C. on November 5-12, 1979 with a Jordanian
delegation led by Dr. A. Arabiat, Director of the Project Unit in MOE. A
staff appraisal report entitled "Third Education Project, Hashemite Kingdom
of Jordan" (No. 2632-JO), dated November 15, 1979 is being distributed
separately to the Executive Directors. The main features of the loan and
project are listed in the Loan and Project Summary and in Annex III.



- 12 -
Project Objectives
37.       The project is designed to assist the government in training
skilled manpower urgently required for implementing the economic development
plan, improving the quality of education, and enhancing the MOE management
capabilities. For these purposes, the project would help the government
in:  (a) expanding post-secondary technician and secondary level vocational
training; (b) meeting deficiencies in the supply of teachers; (c) improving
the quality of secondary agricultural education; (d) expanding adult education
and training; (e) upgrading school building maintenance; and (f) establishing
a computerized management information system in the MOE and technical assist-
ance to strengthen planning, management, research, and evaluation in the MOE.
Project Description and Content
38.       In support of the above objectives, the project would consist of:
(a) construction/extension of and equipment and furniture for the Saahab
training complex, five comprehensive secondary schools (two extensions); the
Shaubak agricultural secondary school and prevocational teacher training
institute (extension), the Zarqa community college, and one computerized
management information system; (b) equipment for eight mobile building main-
tenance units; and (c) technical assistance related to the above, and for
strengthening the MOE's capability in research, evaluation, and project
implementation. The project institutions would provide about 5,400 new
training places (about 3,100 for replacement) and would upgrade about 1,300
existing places.
39.       Saahab Training Complex.  The complex would be established at the
Saahab Industrial Estate which is being developed near Amman and would train
craft/skilled workers for which there is an acute shortage. The complex
would consist of two units: an industrial secondary school offering full-
time courses of three years' duration (grades 10-12) to 680 students (esti-
mated annual output, 200) and a trade training center offering two-year
courses (grades 10-11) to 440 students (annual output, 200). The industrial
school graduates would be eligible for entry into a polytechnic for technician
training, while the trade training center's program would be terminal and its
output is expected to be employed in manufacturing at the appropriate skill
level. Part-time non-formal evening courses of varying durations for appren-
ticeship training and skill upgrading would also be provided. Fields of
specializations (e.g., electrical utilization, industrial electronics, auto
mechanics, general plant mechanics, instrument mechanics, upholstery, etc.)
reflect anticipated needs of the proposed manufacturing establishments in the
industrial estate. The industrial school and trade training center curricula
would devote nearly 47 percent and 67 percent of school periods to practical
training. To introduce the new course specializations of instrument mechanics,
watch repair and upholstery, 24 man-months of specialists' services would be
included in the project. In addition, 141 man-months of fellowships abroad,
including those related to the new specializations, would be provided for 15
instructors. The government has agreed that, for those specializations for
which textbooks in Arabic are not available, instructors would be appointed
not later than six months before the opening of the complex to enable them to
prepare such textbooks (para. 4.05 of the Loan Agreement).



- 13 -
40.       To operate the complex, a total of 12 general teachers and 12 tech-
nical teachers with university degree qualifications, and 38 trade instructors
with technical teacher institute diploma qualifications will be needed. An
adequate supply of degree-level teachers is available. In view of the growing
shortage of trade instructors, however, the government has agreed that to
enhance the availability of trade instructors required for the complex and
other project institutions: (a) further incentives as needed would lbe pro-
vided to attract trainees into the instructor training programs of the Marka
Polytechnic Institute; and (b) the passage of the new by-law granting quali-
fied teacher status and appropriate incremental financial reward for those
instructors successfully completing such training at the Institute would
be confirmed by September 30, 1980 (para. 4.08 of the Loan Agreement). To
analyze job placement and performance of graduates of the training complex and
project comprehensive schools, the government will extend the existing tracer
system to cover the graduates of these institutions and the results of the
tracer studies will be sent to the Bank for five years following the first
output from the institutions (para. 4.09 of the Loan Agreement).
41.       Comprehensive Secondary Schools.  Continuing the strategy initiated
with the first two IDA education projects, this project would further assist
the government's efforts to extend comprehensive education to the less urban-
ized areas, with a view to directing secondary education in these areas more
effectively towards social and economic development needs. The three new
institutions (two for boys and one for girls) would be located in small towns,
each replacing a number of small village secondary schools currently accom-
modated in unsuitable rented facilities. Two existing general secondary
schools (one each for boys and girls) would be converted into comprehensive
schools. The schools' formal programs, extending over three years, would
combine academic (literary and science) and vocational streams and would:
(a) expose students in the academic streams to vocational subjects; and (b)
provide skill training to those students who will be directed into vocational
options (30-40 percent). The output from the male vocational streams will be
of the same level of skills as the graduates from the Saahab Training Complex
(para. 39). Practically-oriented science teaching would be emphasized. In
addition to the two academic streams, the boys' schools would have an indus-
trial stream with options in four trade vocations, while the girls' schools
would have commercial and home economics streams with options in six vocations.
Satisfactory outline curricula for the specializations offered have been
prepared and are being finalized by Jordanian specialists. Students in the
vocational streams would be required to take nearly half their class periods
in practical work, while students in the academic streams would be required to
take about 15 percent of their periods in one of the vocational options.
42.       Total enrollments in formal programs in the project schools would be
4,100, of which 3,130 places would be provided under the project. Of the
latter, 1,830 would be in boys' schools and 1,300 in girls' schools. The
annual output of all five schools is estimated at 1,300, of which about 400
(30 percent) are expected to be vocationally trained and about 40 percent
female. Experiences with the comprehensive schools under the first education
project indicate that the prestige of these institutions should ensure the
availability of an adequate supply of teachers for all subjects other than
those of the industrial streams. For the latter, the government has provided



- 14 -
an assurance that the required number of trained instructors (42) would be
available (para. 40). As the provision of industrial streams in comprehensive
secondary schools is new, the project would include 144 man-months of fellow-
ships for the specialized training abroad of 16 vocational instructors. The
project would also include 30 man-months of fellowships for 10 principals and
assistant principals for study tours related to management and administration
of similar types of institutions abroad.
43.       The project institutions are expected to play a major role in
providing opportunities for non-formal education and training for the adult
population in their areas. The government has agreed that, no later than six
months before the opening of the schools, the adult education programs to be
implemented would be prepared and reviewed with the Bank and full-time quali-
fied staff for implementation of such programs would be designated promptly
thereafter (para. 4.07 of the Loan Agreement).
44.       Agricultural Secondary School - Extension (Shaubak).  The proposed
extension to the existing agricultural school at Shaubak would provide addi-
tional accommodation and refurbishing of existing accommodation together with
equipment to improve the food processing and poultry broiler production units
of the school farm. The school has a total enrollment of 240 in a three-year
program (grades 10-12) and provides practically-oriented training to produce
about 70 skilled agricultural workers per year. The graduates find ready
employment in the private sector and, to a lesser extent, in the Ministry
of Agriculture. As the output from this school and the other existing agri-
cultural school is sufficient to meet the country's manpower needs at this
level, the proposed extension would not increase the capacity of this program
but would improve the range of specializations and the quality of training in
food processing and poultry production which are rapidly developing subsectors
of Jordanian agriculture. About 39 man-months of fellowships would be pro-
vided to train food technology, poultry and horticulture (green housing)
teachers (3) abroad. Satisfactory outline curricula have been prepared for
the new specializations and are being finalized.
45.       Prevocational Teacher Training Institute - Extension (Shaubak).
This component would help establish the country's first and only institution
to train subject teachers required for the implementation of the new pre-
vocational program in grades 5-9 (para. 25). This post-secondary institute
(grades 13-14) would be established on the same campus as Shaubak Agricultural
Secondary School (para. 44), with which it will share communal and laboratory
facilities. The project would provide for additional accommodation, including
boarding and staff housing in view of the location of the institute in a rural
area, to convert the existing agricultural teacher training into prevocational
teacher training, and with the capacity increased from 60 at present to 256.
The conversion is a consequence of the merging of the separate agricultural
streams for grades 7-9, for which the teachers were previously trained, into
the new prevocational curriculum. The institute would graduate about 120 male
teachers per year needed for gradual implementation of the new prevocational
program, while female teachers required will be trained at the Teacher Train-
ing Institute for Women in Amman. The training program which has already been
prepared is about equally divided between theory and practice and includes:
energy and environment; agricultural, commercial, industrial, and house



- 15 -
maintenance and repair activities; nutrition; and public health. The addi-
tional 20 teachers and 12 assistant instructors required are expected to be
recruited mainly from the proposed expanded program of technical teacher
training at Marka Polytechnic Institute. Under the project, the director of
the project institute and 6 instructors would be trained abroad (about 52
man-months of fellowships) to equip them for the initial development of this
new institute.
46.       Community College.  The project would help finance construction,
equipment, furniture, and technical assistance for the establishment of a
pilot community college in Zarqa (population 400,000). Programs to be offered
would remain flexible and responsive to the needs of the community in the
immediate area. They would include: (a) technician training in secretarial
and office management, accounting, librarianship, laboratory technicianship,
nutrition, catering and institutional management, and clothing design and
tailoring; (b) teacher training for subjects for which a shortage has been
identified, most especially in English language, mathematics, science and home
economics, and for primary school teachers with particular reference to train-
ing of teachers for one or two room primary schools in rural areas; and (c)
continuing education for adults, the programs to be determined by the needs of
the adult community in the Zarqa area. The formal programs would be of two
years' duration (grades 13-14) while non-formal programs would be of varying
duration. In addition to addressing community needs, which is basic to the
community college concept, the college would have as a further objective the
achievement of cost economies through the availability of common courses and
the sharing of accommodations and trainers among the technician antd teacher
trainees.  Furthermore, the interaction among the various types of trainees
would enrich the training experience of all.  Experience gained under this
component would provide a useful basis for the possible development of a
community college system in Jordan.
47.       Total enrollment would be about 1,000, of whom 600 are expected to
be women. About 150 adults are expected to enroll initially in continuing
education courses at any given course period. Expected annual output is 270
special subject teachers, 30 primary school teachers and 160 techrlical diploma
holders. Employment prospects for these graduates are excellent. Given the
community college location, no difficulty is anticipated in recruiting the
required teaching staff (about 50 full-time teachers, including 13 vocational/
technical subject teachers). The full-time equivalent of 6 teachers needed
for the continuing education courses would be recruited mainly from local
commercial and industrial firms and secondary schools in the Zarqa area. The
project would include technical assistance for an expert in communiity college
administration to assist the director of the college for 12 months, and 57
man-months of training abroad for four administrators and five selected
technical teachers, preparing them to upgrade others in their fields. In view
of the community orientation of the college and the emphasis being placed on
developing appropriate continuing education for adults, the government has
agreed that six months before the opening of the community college: (a) an
Advisory Committee including prominent Zarqa citizens and a Department of
Continuing Education with a full-time head would be established; (b) detailed
continuing education programs would be prepared and reviewed with the Bank;



- 16 -
and (c) information on a system proposed by the government to evaluate the
effectiveness of the community college would be forwarded to the Bank for
review and comments (para. 4.04 of the Loan Agreement).
48.       Mobile Building Maintenance Units.  To improve the maintenance of
school buildings, which is currently inadequate particularly in rural areas,
the project would provide eight mobile building maintenance units each
equipped with carpentry, plumbing and electrical tools, a welding machine,
a small lathe, and a generator. The mobile units would be attached to the
District Education Offices (DEO) and would be staffed with experienced full-
time maintenance crews. Necessary supplies would be stored at the DEO and
arrangements would be made in each DEO to allow the maintenance crews to use
workshops as needed in existing trade training and vocational centers.
49.       Institution Building.  This component would be designed to strengthen
the MOE itself, with the focus on its capacity to plan the direction in which
its educational program should move in the future. This component comprises
four elements:
(a) Management Information System (MIS). This item would assist
MOE in converting the present manual record keeping opera-
tions into a computerized system and thus provide senior
management with effective tools for monitoring and planning
purposes. The system would also provide computing services
for educational research, as well as manpower analysis and
projections to be used by NPC. The proposed project would
help finance computer hardware and equipment, and software
development (about 15 man-years of experts' services to design
and develop six subsystems and local training for staff). The
government has agreed that the proposed composition of MIS
staff would be submitted to the Bank for review and the
required staff would be appointed not later than December 31,
1980 (para. 4.06 of the Loan Agreement).
(b) Evaluation. Technical assistance would be provided in setting
up the evaluation mechanism, defining its task, and starting
its operation. For this, an expert in educational evaluation
would work in the MOE for six months and two staff members
would study evaluation methods abroad for six months each.
(c) Educational Research. A recently established Research Section
has yet to develop a research capability. A broad range of
research topics has been identified, including testing and
measurement in education, science teaching methodologies,
effective teaching of literacy and continuing education
programs, educational supervision, use of audio-visual aids,
education for Bedouins, etc. Three research experts for an
average of six months each would be provided under the project
to assist the Section in developing a research capability
mainly by establishing research methodologies and initiating
research in a selected number of topics.



- 17 -
(d) Project Management Support. This item would provide 24
man-months of fellowships abroad to assist the Project
Implementation Unit in improving its project implementation
and management capabilities. It would be directed towards
giving six MOE staff members insights into the management of
education projects elsewhere, and in assessing and applying
lessons learned during implementation.
50.       Technical Assistance.  In view of the innovative nature of some
of the project institutions and the development of new specializations and
computerized MIS for which local expertise is not currently available, a
substantial technical assistance component has been included. In suimmary,
about 20 man-years of foreign experts' services would be provided to assist
in curriculum development, administration for the project institutions and
institutional support for the Ministry of Education including MIS. In addi-
tion, about 42 man-years of fellowships would be provided for studies abroad
to 68 selected staff of the project institutions and the Ministry of Education.
Project Cost and Financing
51.       Total project cost is estimated at about $40.1 million, of which
$20.3 million in foreign exchange. Project cost estimates exclude any iden-
tifiable import duty and taxes. Physical contingencies have been calculated
at 10 percent for civil works, furniture and equipment and professional
services, and 5 percent for technical assistance. Prices are expected to
increase, during the project implementation period by weighted yearly rates of
about 8 percent for civil works and professional services, 8.5 percent for
furniture, 8.7 percent for equipment, and 7 percent for technical assistance.
Based upon experience in the first two projects, these estimates assume that
about three-fourths of civil works contracts and about four-fifths of furni-
ture contracts will be awarded to local firms and that all equipment will be
directly imported.
52.       The proposed Bank loan of $19.0 million would cover about 94 percent
of foreign costs and 47 percent of the total cost of the project. The balance
of the foreign exchange cost ($1.3 million for technical assistance), is
expected to be met by the UNDP. The local costs amounting to about $19.8
million, or in total 49 percent of project costs, would be financed by the
government ($19.6 million) and UNDP ($0.2 million). In line with recent
experience, technical assistance cost estimates are based upon: (a) average
man-month costs of about $6,900 for experts (consisting of fees and per diem
allowances) and about $1,650 for fellowships, and (b) average travel costs to
and from home office or study base abroad of about $1,200 per individual.
Recurrent Costs of Project
53.       When fully operational in 1984/85, the project institutions are
estimated to require about JD 0.8 million annually in recurrent costs, or
about 0.2 percent of projected public recurrent expenditure for education at
that time.



- 18 -
Iplementation
54.       The Project Unit, a Directorate of MOE established for the implemen-
tation of the first two IDA education projects and directly responsible to the
Minister, would also be responsible for the implementation of this project.
The Project Unit has performed effectively and a deputy project director,
whose duties would include responsibility for the technical assistance pro-
grams under the projects, and an additional architect/engineer have recently
been appointed. Substantial progress has already been made toward preparation
of preliminary drawings, outline specifications and site plans by consultant
architects/engineers appointed for the project. Satisfactory sites for all
project institutions have been selected.
55.       Preparation of furniture and equipment lists with quantities and
estimated costs is underway. The first detailed lists together with technical
specifications and related bid documents are expected to be completed by loan
signing, with the remaining lists to be completed progressively over the
following 12 months.
56.       The construction, furnishing and equipping of all schools and the
technical assistance component are expected to be completed by June 1983. The
Closing Date would be December 31, 1983.
Procurement and Disbursement
57.       Civil works contracts (amounting to about $24.3 million including
contingencies) and contracts for furniture and equipment in excess of $100,000
would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB).
Equipment and furniture items (amounting to $10.3 million including contingen-
cies) would be grouped to the extent possible in large packages to permit bulk
procurement. Small items or groups of items estimated to cost less than
$100,000, or items of a specialized nature for which ICB would not be prac-
tical, would be procured under normal government procedures which are satis-
factory to the Bank. The total value of these items would not exceed $1.0
million equivalent. In ICB comparisons, local manufacturers of furniture and
equipment would be allowed a margin of preference equal to the existing rate
of customs duties applicable to competing imports or 15 percent of CIF price,
whichever is lower.
58.       The proposed loan would be disbursed against:  35 percent of civil
works ($8.6 million); 100 percent for directly imported and for the ex-factory
cost of locally manufactured furniture and equipment and 85 percent for fully
imported furniture and equipment procured locally ($8.9 million); and 100
percent of foreign expenditures for expatriate consultants and 80 percent of
local expenditures for local consultants for software development of the MIS
component ($1.5 million).
Benefits and Risks
59.       Benefits.  The proposed project would make a modest but significant
contribution towards meeting manpower needs for skilled workers, technicians



- 19 -
and teachers. The provision included for the training of prevu ational
subject teachers would provide necessary support for the reorientation of the
school system. At the same time, by expanding the comprehensive secondary
school system in the less urbanized areas, the project would further reinforce
the government's efforts to divert a higher proportion of secondary school
students into vocational programs, and would at the same time enhance the
employment prospects of the secondary school graduates. The theme of continu-
ing education would be developed through the non-formal education and training
programs to be provided at the community college and comprehensive sc]hools.
In addition the community college would provide for the training of nieeded
technicians and teachers in one institution with a view to achieving economy
in training costs and to provide an opportunity for professional enrichment
through interaction among the various types of trainees. The experience
gained would provide a valuable basis for determining the appropriateness of
a community college system for Jordan. The additional provision under the
project for the training of agricultural technicians would improve the quality
and expand the training of such technicians to include those required for the
poultry industries and in food processing. Finally, the project would signif-
icantly enhance the MOE's capabilities in planning, research, evaluation and
management, and its ability to maintain school facilities.
60.       Risks.  No undue risks or delays in implementation are expected.
The government is committed to successful project implementation as evidenced
by satisfactory project preparation and implementation of the two previous
projects. Furthermore, the Project Unit staff is experienced. One possible
problem, however, may be the difficulty in rectuiting an adequate number of
qualified trade instructors in certain fields because of the attraction of
higher salaries abroad and in the Jordanian private sector. The various
salary incentives recently adopted and further incentives being considered
should help mitigate this problem. The granting of qualified teacher status
and financial incentives to graduates of the trade instructor courses, to
which the government has agreed, would be another important step in assur-
ing instructors supply.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
61.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
and the Bank and the draft Report of the Committee provided for in Ariticle
III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distri-
buted to the Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of the
project are listed in Section III of Annex III.
62.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 20 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
63.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Ncvember 26, D9 19
Washingtor, D C.



- 21 -
ANX I
Page 1 of 5
JORDAN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AyJAGS
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                JORDOAN                           - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL             97.7                                                    SAME        SAME     NEXT HIlGHER
AGRICULTURAL      14.7                                 MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  190.0       340.0      710.0          1367.7      926.1       1748.5
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(RILOCRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALErNT)     197.0       306.0     527.0            838.1      730 7       1646.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)       1.7         2.3       2.9
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 42.7         49.6       52.9            49.0       49.0         51.2
POPULATION PROJECYIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        6.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         12.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2090
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        17.0        24.0      30.0             19.9       44.6         28.2
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    133.0        165.0     197.0             99.0      140.7        100.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         44.0         45.8      47.0             45.6       41.3         35.4
15-64 YRS.                         52.0         51.1      50.0             51.4       55.3        56.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   4.0          3.1       3.0              2.8        3.5          5.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               3.2         3.1       3.3              3.0        2.4          1.7
URBAN                               5.0/p       4.5       4.5              5.2        4.5          3.0
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      47.0        48.0       47.0            43.7       31.1         27.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THoUSAND)      20.0        16.0       13.0            13.5        9.2          9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.4         3.5       3.4              3.2        2.2          1.8
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..           ..         ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..            ..        ..               ..       34.7
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)             ..        79.0/f    63.0/f           90.8      104.4        102.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    90.0        92.0      90.0             99.0      105.0        120.8
PROTEINS (GRANS PER DAY)           62.0        60.0      65.0             63.6       64.4         80.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        16.0        18.0/h      ..             16.0       23.5         31.3
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      30.0        22.0       16.0            15.9        8.6          5.1
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    47.0         52.0      56.0             53.8       60.2         65.6
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER THOUSAND)  ..         86.0         ..              ..       46.7         45.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..          ..      56.0             56.4       60.8         69.4
URBAN                               ..           ..      60.0             83.4       75.7         85.1
RURAL                                ..          ..      50.0             34.3       40.0         43.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..          ..         ..            59.1       46.0         70.1
URBAN                                ..          ..         ..            78.2       46.0         88.3
RURAL                                ..          ..         ..            26.4       22.5         33.2
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           5900.0      2680.0    2250.0           3677.0     2262.4       1343.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      1650.0      1050.0     930.0           1730.6      1195.4       765.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             500.0       960.0     950.0            577.0      453.4        197.6
URBAN                                ..       740.0         ..              ..      253.1        260.2
RURAL                                ..      5750.0         *-              ..     2732.4       1055.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..        36.5       39.6            21.8        22.1        17.3
HOUSING 1
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.3         6.1         ..             5.8        5.3          4.7
URBAN                               5.5          ..         ..             5.5         5.2         4.4
RURAL                               5.1          ..         ..             6.0         5.4         5.1
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..          ..         ..              ..         1.9         1.1
URBAN                                ..          ..         ..              ..         1.6         1.2
RURAL                                ..          ..         ..              ..         2.5         1.2
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              17.0          ..         ..            45.1        50.0        66.0
URBAN                              39.2                                   67.9       71.7         85.1
RURtAL                              1.0                          .  _                17.3



- 2 2             -                                  ANNE:X I
Page 2 of 5
JORDAN - SOCtAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
JORDAN                         REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED ALERAGES
- MOST RECENT EST1MATE) -
SAME         SAME      NEXT HIGhER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME        INCOME
1960 lb      1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUiSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:      TOTAL                 77.0          73.0/f    84.0/f            85.0       102.5        101.7
MALE                  94.0          80.0/f    88.0/f           103.7       108.6        110.0
FEMALE                59.0         66.0/f    79.0/f             66.0        97.1         92.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  25.0          33.0/f    49.0/f            27.6        33.5         51.2
MALF                   36.0         41.0/f    56.01?            39.2        38.4         56.4
FEMALE                 13.0        24.0/f    42.0/f             20.8        30.7         43.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OF SECONDARY)   3.0             3.0/f      4.0/f            4.3        11.5          18.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRiMARY                             34.0         39.0/f    36.0/f             32.6        35.8         27.1
SECONDARY                           21.0          23.0/f    21.0/f            23.4        22.9         25.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          32.0           ..       59.0             41.4        64.0         86.1
CONSIIMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           4.0           7.0       14.9             16.7        13.5         53.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          38.0         160.0      196.0            147.9       122.7        225.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                             *-        20.0       32.0              36.0        38.3        102.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    18.0         24.0       18.0             17.9        40.0         78.5
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  3.0             0.9         ..              2.9         3.7           3.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)         390.0/i      350.0/f   418.0/f
FEMALE (PERCENT)                      5.3          5.5/f      6.1/f            8.6        25.0         24.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               43.9          33.8       28.0             43.0        43.5         28.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  26.3          32.R      39.0              23.7        21.5         30.6
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  25.5         24.8       24.2             26.7        33.5         33.8
MALE                                   46.7         45.6       44.4             46.4        48.0          51.3
FEMALE                                  2.7          2.9        3.0              5.1        16.8         16.3
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 2.3          2.4/f      2.6/f             1.8         1.4          1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..           ..       24.6/f,          21.4        20.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..              ..       56.0/f           48.6        52.1         57.6
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HLUSEHOLDS        ..           ..        6. 3             5. 3        3.9          3. 4
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        -            ..       17.0/f.j         15.0        12.6         11.0
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..      230.0            201.3       270.0
RURAL                                  ..           ..      100.0            134.2       183.3
ESTItIATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..      206.0            288.6       282.5        550.0
RURAL                                  ..           ..      135.0            170.0       248.9        403.4
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                  ..           ..       17.5             22.9        20.5
RURAL                                  ..           ..       22.5             31.2        35.3
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverge of contries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961i  for 1970  bet.een 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c    NorLh Africa & Middle East;   /d   Intermediate Middle Income (S551-1135 per capita, 1976);  /e  Upper
Mtld,!le Income (SI!36-2500 per capita. 1976);   if  East hank only;   /_1 1952-61;   /h 1964'-6;
/L  5 years and o-r.  /i  1973.
Moy, 1979



-23-
______________                                                      ~~Pajge    3   of   5-
IXi Altb-og  th. d4ot or. dt  N t-. -oOt-.  NOMt`lly  Jo6.  the met ..thewitateii  0o4 tOltoh, It .bftU  al.. he wtid tbo  theY Mr oMt be ittopW.-
tomloly  oempobhi  b.oo.  of the look of otadeodtoed  Wistiotoew sod ooogto  sued by difftf.st oooootia  L. oolo0gtho deto.  Tb. dat.  r-. ooo,,tht.e-,
ooefol to dee-rtbo ordon  of eoeottd.,  t04i.0 . trde",-od  bheoterts t00e .oocela OOJer Aifttoo0    btemme   MetrieI.
The 4 toted..o  n.o    foroeh tedlo-to  ro  porapetift-m.weihd s tnio  meemo, Melodies the extra   va1... of the teduoetr sod ob.  mdi  Peg. eted
oonoy   . oohg.oop.~.to look of dote, eta.p ever".   of all iedtoe4ters for Ceitei  "oised Oil ft"Ientr  md of dediaetef  of 600.0  t. "0tar .0d oooret.
4i.po.ol  tog,   l.o         dietibstlos eed Poverty t-ot ther o-atty gtOos   an. papolotLow-WOUbtd 0.MtInlI  -IM  nitboos  ..eioo of the  mOrem  nov oe. d5
the   ot pMoapond ootty.   lInl                       f.itio              teideto    eao-oslbiioo   e.a    ooom ..   ot.    m    e..oead
L0 Wigatie at a t      O   m   ib7.0..iO
]~jf,,j~  C bo,ooC                                                                    AM.he    wol         .9 TPWPI----"
lossi -Totol orfoOO  a. .-proI~g 1..d Irno .54  Weeod                                                          it..ooo. 
-  ot mooot .0i00. of asgoiooLttol otee oad tweponoti?y                   Pme"  00 Prosatges of tbeoL  resecetive p.oplatio.O.  !oot.t  diopo.ol
otpr  ooeOtly tot otPo, poatargo, ..rbt.o  ad 0,000.b. gtd.   or to                       my Laclede the ootlectlee aed di.ppoe1, with at wIthut toeatmeto.f
Ha  o17                                                                                hous  forot  .od    O-otby  ote-or-hes  000.t5I or tAo. -o  of Pit
CONp n00CgL' TA (0u3- 10 Gpo ocCi-ito .tieet.o  It onrtooetet            IoteOko.tZooB J                  i.--j   - ftpel.tto    divided by ombor of p-ootolog  p970-t
o.ltootod  y oem ovewr.ios   thod I. woldBok At10  (1971.77 heoio);                                   r-  . Se.01   rbooI It outronoto  1owe.
1960, 1970. ood 1977 dot..                                                           zmIM~.!in~a5aF PolAtI00  divided by -robar of prottiolog
Ithis effft m.  S." ptaotical s00-0, * ad ... Ltetot..t-
EKS%Y C0ONS      ON0 PSI CAPITA - 4--ul o-eeottft of --mroi.1 owore  fo"I                 Ft,iasfo9o    qIIe   e   00..o'ma   osog    poputoti0  (000.1
.0   i t, pt.00I., -.oo 01* S.ad loydr-,-I oalee d .otbOOinOl                         or*.dwe)ti.   ;Yidwir repon    M r of hooptot bed.
*l.itttotity) to kiloete-     of ."I  oqirloo  pr o.Pitei1940, 1970                     .wei1lbLie InPbltc ad private mamorol S"d mpeoL.Io,d hoopit.1 aedto
P dULd 1471 do,,*.                                                                        boliltietia  osutor.  noopiteloero etobltohmeots paefoootly otoffod by
POPUtATifOO OUR VItAl. O7ATiOTICC                                    or l.a.t  _Phyoli_.  to-blibleoto. P.-WtASo potoolpotly coOtOdt.1
Totol pooelstioo   ldn    itfllIlol - A. of joly 1; 1960, 1970, 0d                        o:at.,r000Rt imteod".  N=rl hoepitol., hovoete, iootd. M.elth ad  -di-
1977 data.                                                                              oo   etemtro not per..ematy ot.ff4d by I p"ytoim  (hot by * aditl 10.-
000,0 .ooloion (eroot offotol -  .010of ot..o to toto  poProtiotl;              ltat.t  or.. odotf, I0n.) whtlh off.. tO-p-t-ot .ooo-d-teo  .0d
difforo  d.itioo   of reos  to   syofoto.tbltyo o.                                       p-ovid  I Ildttd tepg  of -d..10  t.Itia
Ir ooott.; 1960, 091 a970 7  dt..                                              AA, 1n.g.km Issb,  - T00n    mb.t of ,dtoi..i     to or di.rh1ti..
!MAOA0lOl0ftilfito   opt    dmi.da  by the .-b, of bod..
ho1-t n " - Cooroo p.pol.tio p.oJottioo - b..ed -
117 toutl poul.ttba by oS. ad ... ad their -00ttity .0d fortility
oat..Po30tioo p.rsot.ro  for  -otaItty r-te  reprO., of 3 i#Vol                    reepo.o    Ioehl  footoR -Pr h-r..holdl - oa.ob.o. mad ror.. I
I.oion  Otto ..poorooy I0 birth i-:rro.oo   with rrot7oP., cOPitO                                                                                         LIS.ohl  o.ttoo      to   fidvdol   h   050000  q-oorto
lo,  toi  od  Me.1  ItII. eopotooo    Ubtbl1ioo   00 77.3 70000.                 .0  their -.00  ojlo.  A b-od-t orI0g.. 00y 0  My Rot 0,. looIdod  in th.
Tb.  Per-otor   for ffotut  ro... o. 3 1-.1. ...-ios dootit                             homobhotd for ottiotio.1  p.rp-....
i rorti,Lltty acoordiog to I---o  loro  ad  p`ot fail.y plonolotpor-                 *woo        e    of aroe       -n ro    - tot.l. rbo. .0 rgodo-     - 00-05   -o.,0
toon....  tEo), c0t0tt  10 theo ..oigo.d ow  o   tho      -9tbinatio                    of prne-  poero   it oIl , otbo..  o0d  -oo1 ooo-pid ooonool  olin.;.,
of  __ttolty oo  ftrtility troodo f or proJootto  P-OPo..                               toetnl.   Dflteipig   .oold. oo-p.roeao  otoo  t.-. -d ooooopiod port..
Ottioo , Poslotia-   h It   'ntottoot  PopoIsti, the.. Lo  - growth              60cc0   tO ,lotioo     (.0r00.t of do..Mloo1   toto. orbo. .0d -rutl -
aloc   Oh.birt  rot  t..Io to the  ...th r-to * .4 .1.. the 050                 Co'ooi.a  d...l . oith ao-ttioity 00 li;isi qU-rt.,. 00 pottatog     of
ototOo0.:,1c0  t.oa.t.  This it  chbiooed -ly oft.r forttuity 0r.0.             tota1, -nbor, aed  __Io d,ooilingo  rop_t-Ivoy
d.cllto  to th. -pleco-et 1-wo  of -it Mat 00ptcdotio  -oto, Ahe  ...h
ooooIloto   O       IL.o    1001  o;tory.  70,0 Sttoioooy P."oiatioo       omUGAI.i
siooa   ctio   ootebo,o t       he proloctod char.tt.rioto    fth              oiatdaol.oo-  rotIov
popuiaCtio  00 t0,0 y000 2000, 01d tbo rot. of 400100- of fortlitty  000               PIleo  oihool - tot.l. .olo ad fosol.   G-oo  otl  soordf0. .Hrll
to .aoI--o  Or-o.                                                                     -o    fal00   0tep607Itt0   .ooo.s  of roootio   Pr=.r
.00  .....ao `- P".1t  I   io I0.c0,8-m    or0,0Ooior    oot                           obl-Ogo9 populatioo; M-Islly 10010.0 childo   ogod6-li poor. b.t
hr  oio bo I     oao rory  od                                                            edioafd for diffo.-ot Ioogthe of p~tieo     edoocioo  to  ootri. oith
Poo.t Ioo   ..                                                                           ,a, Iro  od.ootlo   otroll`-t .0700000d 100 p.rtaot 01000 oI    popilo or.
- Oid-yo.r popolotinpot 0q0.0_ kit-ft.r (100 booror.)                 heioo rvOooteofoo   ool00
of tota  0000.                                                                         lacoodory oobool - touto.  _ol ad f_ob   -  -Potad 00 obo.; o.oad.ty odu.-
Par ,q. he. oorJoultarl lood - Coepntd 00 0100. for qrIcoltol la I1d                     timo roq.ireo It Io-t foot yito of opprond prloory ilt.Oroti.o; provid.s
oly.                                                                                   a rlrctionl,o  tot ...  trottin   io-r-ot1-  for p.pil.  -00107 0f
Po.oloiot *0  altoOoro 100090_ *, ChIldoon (0-14 yMno), torking-OgO               12 to 17 y      .a  of .g.;oropoooo0000OOgo.o                       oldd
(13-   p000),ad  rtird  (6  7000 a   000) 0  porintgo.of od-      aooiool Oorolltu~oo I eoo -tootof  woooaorn   - Vo',-Ioa  ittotio. bOo..
IIrpooato,;16, 1970 o-d 197   oo                                               obool   ootro.o   te .ota t.0h  jrooO i-tpodotlr  r 
Ooooition00000, ro. aOootO     tota  - oml 30000  oWo O  totl  dorhotthofprrondry  dotptoi-1o
00840   1970-75.                                 ptteary ood *00004.07,.    lt b    ivd d b   o,  t   of Iohr dvto  h  c
popoOaolOOO  for 1 00.  , 1   .70. ood                      .Poodioe l.ool..      -a      : Z lole    --.T1I    .               -ll.  L
* nhOotOothroto (.0 thoo _o4       I oto  lvo birth. oar rhooad of               Iot 101..0  rar Mfaoot) - Lint.rr   Adult  (ablo to road  -d wrIt.) I.
I.-yoo  popol00On   090   970a    977 do.                                                  oro a   of totoi 04*10 popnlotoo omod 05 yoIn  .od ovor.
CrudM.dath rot. far t)ronadl  A-..I00  d-ob  000 thoooo,  of sAd-
yaoo p    Iool.,; 190   90. 1977 data..                                              (NLr
G10000   tOtO  oo in 000   A-;S.08   oee ob:tfd daght.-       nn      ill boor          POaoO   0..  0.00 tborooo  oOoIV       tioo  - ft.00000- 000. omp1L:y.0 So or ;
it her 0000*  toprdooi   'p.:1 If oh   ooioo    t00   5-.01010   hn.ztproo    olo    hlot.hoo.oi litar
1970,  O  1975                                                                        t.0  .avr    o   booo   000001-Altpoo   OOor   o   ot
F00i1, tlaioo-oc..ooororo   -001 (thono.=1-  Arot  -,b.r of                               broodt`oo'V't. togorlp0,L .  tto                fPaoLot on   oc7f I       oLioto"
00r.pror  of hirthb-t-Iro  d.,io. ..,dro.Ioo            f osti_oo  f_tly                r ...tor- 10 co-ntri.. 004 it yaors o. rvfI.t-otiono  radio 0t0  00-
PIo_otog P000                                                                           .fot:  .0  for- retort y-n  -y 0.7to  he t-per.blo  ibc. moot 00001.01
F- F01,  PI1.000  La     I0 (p00    f0004wfo     ootooo                                    ahoiohe  ItoooIo.S
sorriod  o     of AthId-hetiog  090 (1-4467.00)  h., -s  birth-control                iV Ioowt  (no  thotod noo -Loion) - TVrotoi-o   f-r broodort ...   .S-r-I
d_vloo t                        LI.00040o   .-of   Id0 9000p.                           poblr p.  tbot..od popl.ttin; ...lod.. ,mItcoood Tv ratoi-or. t  on
FOOD ANp NVMITIOV                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~trio. aed to y.o.. whet rgi.trstioo  of Tv 0.0.0    io J.ffoot.
t~~~LAItJEUfl2U                                                 190w00a.00 oi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ro,tloio  fot herod.oolt 1n   - SIn,'  the  --0000 otto'o
10.0  ffo   rooto   00000  219601   -  01-140of  ..0 ...it                                 t    -o of "oilysosrol totno  oooOpr",80040       00401pb
a.ol  rdoto  o   llfo   teditt...  Pt.d0t10  oocIudo                 d  04          ..ti00 4-votd prteority to rooordiog 10000I 0-0   it Lo cooo -d.dt
food, and toontodor 7e00 boot.            -mdit   0.00r p000007 S004                     he 'daily" if it opp...o   t 1oat fonr t00.0  a o.k.
(0.0.  ooarroa 100004  f 00.01ttoS    r  oO    ..4 01.0.oon         tn.          Cm..  -001 ottondono           ... iOt.O B0 14  -00.  0  tho  mero  tlobl.k.
00.0.ofo..4to  r  00 0)    eArogoto produttto. of .-hb 00-000                          .14 doOloog the yooo, in Lodn   ooS         i.t  400,-to0-    .0d .b011
L.hoo  00; 000001       la,05  p004..0 prioo  -ights.                                oop-dft  it..
.oogy oq.too1ot of 000 food Sopplto.f  MvilbON 00 00r0  PI0tpt                       _______________
prdoy.  oVot1obl. ..PplloO coprio. doevtic p-Odoctlo, tepart. 1...   ~               qulbr fort  (LhboWs)o  - 000 ic.10011  ottivo prooo., tnoldioioro
OtP0Ot, .          ILobo . 10  0k0.  00- ..ppitl.   _1olad  .00001 f-od,  04.           fort- ad o-o..lY.d bot ocuig oowl...                  otgh ev-,.dooto. oto.  Dfloft-
quoilood 10 food proco..loo, and 100.00 to d-Lolbotioo.  p00                    tioto  io Vorioto- c-torios I o.  t oteporoblo.
qofr-noot  0000 000000d by FAO b...d -0pyooo            dol  04  for 00'               aL   .000       a lo  bor forco  0ptotg   fttllbr0,0
.1.Itvt  o4hatho i00d.ri0gooirotitOaratur.  body                                     ArOlo    otot)-aborfroi-ooo, foooop  boIngafioht
ooiihtl.g*.0  sod ooo. dhioribution   of p.Puloti-, 004 I10000           PI0 0f0         0 p.oootomorft0000  laborf 0000
coot fo. 00000 or It oo,o1  lo l.i0d.otn (0000.01t  - Labo  forc. 00 siita,  -t-ftrott, -noof.ct.rtrg .0d
Pe  olaOol of or-tto   (00*.. 00  4,-    P00t010 0000000 of p.0                   01.0000107. 0000  .4 Bo. I0 P0000t005  of total labor fore..
copit. Mt.0opyof-fd P"t dy.7   tot appty of food L. dofin-4 I.                        Prii~to            ~     ~     -100  ol,a    ooo-OritaiO0
00,000.  goqoOOs.ot  tot  l O0tro of  1.1"oohl  p.,e dby 7008  2004  tO?          00i,ty rat" are Competd  0 tent1, inl,.Jfmolbor force Io
o ti.oloaooo   0gu  f hito I 010 pr.oh-do  004 20 stm                            potroo   of00.1, 0.1. ad taalo  popolotto  of oil oId. t.-p-ti-oy;
of ahel ad   uloo  ootolo  of o.ioh  0 se obudh00.1 poeo                     1960. 1970 *.4 1970 dat..  I0,.0 0In 1.00 Oorttcrltpt    r0t0 r-fl-roog
The.. .-00-04  00  i-  tbo cho..f 0075 oem. 0f 0-01 p-00.0 004                          00-       trefotore of the poPo1oia-, 004 1bog  tOm  0e.04.       far e.ttoot-
23 So... 0f onisol PoototoooI o.r--g. for the  -ord, propo..d b "                            0 otOl0000
FAO to the Third 00rl04 . E00rS-voyt0....04..                                                                ..O rc.     ofpo.itoo.dr15odl00   00t
to sta0000   001    r.mm ..0    o*      Pooooplp of food                        .
dortood t. omil  ad paoo0   t                P0dyte100   ortL. tago growpf 15-66  000
Chl   .0. 1r,_1 eo009100, rt. faer taood           Me"I dootho por thou.-
ood 1,5 .rorOp 1-4 ,aor   toVohildo   t  ObO.  Sg rop; for ooot                       CgDSRBTO
doVolopiog 0. I000    -1  d       Mto  foe  Lito  t.bloo.                             Pen    Lo f.:.01V02. itO.. (both 10 ...h04014 roivdbotot
pfst, r       tcheot 20   P00.0.  .teO  20 pot-ot . 00  p000000 40 p00000t
HEALTH                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~of bhnoaholdo.
Lif. o0000too  irh f1yof.  - A00003  -obOr ofyear. of lit. ne0t0-
to    t000;1960,  90          977  00.n
Me fago sofiotli 0E00 foot obOeao    -A 00,01 deoth  of infant. mdoO                  El9ot t     holt .         tol 0o   leva  lusl Or E0i00   ;- ob, ad rra 
S0 700ofa        ..pt  bo Io ilv I blthe.                                        AbolC. poverty Letam  loo   stht1za  lovol belo  hbic  0   Hloso
00000. 0  00000000 (.000.0 of ooILEUMIo                                          - I.,obo..4rrl- notoito-ly   doq-.at. 4000 PI0  00000010ti1 too-food oqi Loot   0 
toobor of pooplo (totol, orb00. aod tarot) olOb 000000.0,10 000000C.    to  ofod bto.
.ofoooto.r.a-ppip   tcMotooo    of               c...0 or -t00.0.0t4 boO.090. pitlo Ponft- tarn l.vo I11 00   ...00 -m uran0    oal-
uootottd000    cho  .  thofto.prontood bo..ohoic., Opriog,                             nI.l00000  pOtety Lorn  lowit' 0.     L-hr    fo0aotorp
I'd 001100.110, r     a. poo1toorS-  of Oboto roopectmno P.PoItlto..                    P00000t  =oomof rho  -catry.  Urban to.-I 1  dori=o  fro. Ib. onoo
I00   fhnao r    a poIb It (000.00 00 *tmwpot 10004  000 M   ocr. then                lotel .0th adjoomot for htgh-r c-t 0f livig  to orbon000
200  tra- ftr-       oosto h   e.   ooidotod I. Mobo  Lthitb    --_o0blO              10.14ooltmht.  ohoot r0r.10 tte  1h0 In                               potl-o,o    00
hto  ftho   0000   .00000   00.000.,0000    ol   l                               tj-Pt  ,   fpotttt.(ro   ,   oo oo00"boooPo"
tha-  nb. h..-uf. 00r00,0   oc he household do rMt o.-  to Op..d                                                                      bosoa    oio    a.OooO
di.prop.rltl.at  P000 of tho day L0 f-thiog the fLity'. 0.t.   -ed                                                              tt.m--iOnlO -Ao   tlOt. OraOO,
00y 0979



- 24 -
ANNI.X T
Pagc- 4 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1978                                        AhNUAL RATE OF GRO,flH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.       %                        1961 -66           1972 _75       1976Z=
GNP at Market Prices          2332.0       100.0                         7.7               9.0            7.1
Gross Domestic Investment      775.0         33.2                        5.9               9.1           11.5
Gross National Saving          610.0        26.2                         1.3              -0.7           -8.1
Current Account Balance       -163.0
Exports of Goods, NFS          816.0         35.0                       14.6               18.0           9.5
Imports of Goods, NFS         1858.0         79.7                        6.5              12.6            9.3
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1975
Value Added                   Labor Force-                   V. A. Per Worker
ts min                           NlI-n.      %                   2US$a
4griculture                    81.4       9.6                  115.0    30.0                    707.0       32.1
Industry,                     212.9      25.2                   38.2    10.0                   5573.0      252.9
Services                      549.4      65.2                  221.6    58.0                   2479.0      112.5
Unallocated                      -         -                     8.0      2.0                      -          -
Total/Average
843.7      10.                   3T82.8  -JM0.0                 2204.0      100.0
GOVERMNNT FINANCE
General Government
rJD  Min.)       ,% of GDP
15978        :[978       15975-7 7
Current Receipts                  242.1           42.8         51.7
Current Expenditure               211.0           37.3         42.0
Current Surplus                    31.1           5.5           9.7
Capital Expenditures              148.5           26.2         23.0
External Assistance (net)          59.2           10.4          6.0
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                  1973          1974        1975         1976        1977         1978
TM-illion     outstanding end periodT
Money and Quasi Money                     176.1         219.7       288.4        376.3        464.3       597.4
Bank credit to Public Sector               38.8          41.7        37.2         60.5        72.8        103.1
Bank Credit to Private Sector              59.3          81:3       120.8        196.4       229.8        313.8
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP          80.5          82.1        94.9         91.3        94.3        105.5
General Price Index (1975 - 100)           74.8          89.3       100.0        111.5       127.7        136.6
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                        11.1          19.4        12.0         11.5        14.5          6.9
Bank credit to Public Sector               64.1           7.8       -10.8         62.6        20.3         41.6
Bank credit to Private Sector              23.8         37.1         48.6         62.6        17.0         36.5
NOTE:s  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the avernge exchange rate peevailing during the period
covered.
1/ Total inbor force; unomnployed are allocated to sector of their nornal occupation.  "Unallocated" consists
m.ninly of unemnployed mArkers seeking their first job.
.not available
not applicablo



- 25 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
TRADE PAYM2NTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENfS                                                     MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERACE 1975-77)
19 76    1977      1978                                                  US $ Mln    %
(Millions US $)
Exports of Goods, NFS           551        692       816              Phosphates                            57.2    28.2
Imports of Goods, NFS         -1271      -1650    -1l58               Fruits and Vegetables                 42.0    20.7
Resource Gap (deficit   -)   -720          958    -                   Manufactured goods                    25.8    12.7
Chemicals                             10.9      5.2
Interest Payments (net)          25         22        23
Workers' Remittances            396        424       458
Other Factor Payments (net)    -            -         _
Net Transfers                   381        504       398               All other commodities                6
Balance on Current Account       82                 -163                     Total                         203.1   100.0
Direct Foreign Investment                                            EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31, 197
Net MLT Borrowing
Loans Received               125        301       317                                                         US $ M1-i
Amortization                -160       -148      -121
Subtotal                     -35        153       196               Public Debt, incl. guaranteed               825.0
Capital Grants                   -          -         -                Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                    -
Other Capital (net)             -10         11        39               Total outstanding & Disbursed               825.7
Other items n.e.i               -76       __39        49                                          1/
Increase in Reserves (+)        -39        195       121             DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 197E-
Gross Reserves (end year)       504        677       923
Net Reserves   (end year)       470        654       894               Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                 6.6
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                   -
Fuel and Related Materials                                              Total outstanding & Disbursed
Imports
of which: PetroleuLm        112        131
RATE OF EXCHANGE
JD 1.00 - US$                     3.01       3.04      3.27
1/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
not available
not applicable
November 15, 1979
EMENA CP Il-C



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN;.JORDAN
(as of October 31, 1979)
A.   STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS
---   $ Million ----
Credit                                                            Amount
(less cancellations)
Number   Year       Borrower          Purpose             Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
Nine credits fully disbursed                                     35.1
Hashemite
Kingdom
of Jordan
386      1973         "          Power                           10.2       1.2
498      1974                    Irrigation                       7.5       1.7
534      1975                    Education II                     6.0       4.1
570      1975                   Power II                          5.0       0.9
639      1975                    Tourism                          6.0       5.2
780      1978         "          Water Supply III                14.0       7.9
1617     1978      The Arab
Potash Co.   Potash Extraction    35.0                 32.6
1688     1979      Hashemite
Kingdom
of Jordan    Power III              15.0               15.0
TOTAL                                         50.0    83.8       68.6
of which has been repaid                             0.6
Total now held by IDA /a                              83.2
Total undisbursed                             47.6    21.0
/a   Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of October 31, 1979)
$ Million ----
Year         Obligor                 Type of Business         Loan  Equity  Total
1974  Jordan Ceramic Ind. Co. Ltd. Ceramic Tiles               1.6    0.2    1.8
1975/
1978  Jordan Fertilizer Ind. Co.   Phosphatic Fertilizer  70.0/1  6.7   76.7
1979  Jordan Lime and Silicate       Building Materials        2.5    0.7    3.2
1979  Jordan Securities Corp.        Money & Capital Market           0.7    0.7
Total Commitments                                      74.1    8.3   82.4
Less Commitments Repaid, Sold or Cancelled             50.5      -    50.5
Total Commitments now held by IFC                      23.6    8.3   31.9
Total Undisbursed                                     66.5    3.7   70.2
/1   Includes a $50.0 million loan managed by IFC on behalf of other partic-
ipants.



- 28 -
ANCNEX II
Page 3 of 5
B.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION _/
Cr. No. 386: Power Project; US$10.2 Million Credit of May 24, 1973; Date of
Effectiveness: August 21, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project is to help the conversion from diesel to steam powered
generation by adding two 33 MW steam generating units and one 13 MW combustion
turbine, all to be installed at a new power station at Zerka, near Amman and
by providing management consultancy services to assist the Jordan Electricity
Authority in organizing and expanding its power generation and transmission
operations. The Project has been satisfactorily completed despite initial
delays; the combustion turbine unit was commissioned in May 1975 and the two
steam units in August 1977. A claim by the electro-mechanical contractor is
still under arbitration.
Cr. No. 498: Northeast Ghor Irrigation and Rural Development Project; US$7.5
Million Credit of July 25, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: August
1, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
The project is part of an overall development scheme for the East
Bank of the Jordan Valley, other parts of which will be financed by the KfW,
USAID, and the Kuwait Fund. The project consists of the agricultural devel-
opment of 7,700 ha net, of which 6,660 ha are already under irrigation, and
the provision of rural facilities for domestic water supply, health, educa-
tion, roads, and community development for a population of about 25,000. Even
though overall project implementation is one year behind schedule, construc-
tion of the irrigation system by a Korean contractor is proceeding satisfac-
torily. All structures have been completed, most equipment and materials are
on site and pipe laying is slightly ahead of schedule. All schools are
completed, furnished and are now being operated by the Education Department
and all health center buildings are completed. Several grants from USAID for
training, applied research and assistance in management of the farmer's
association should improve the Jordan Valley Authority's efforts to accomplish
the agricultural development objectives of the project which have so far been
neglected. Cost overruns of about 72 percent in total project costs are
expected and would be met by the Government.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
Cr. No. 534:  Second Education Project; US$6.0 Million Credit of March 12,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: June 2, 1975; Closing Dat:e:
December 31, 1981.
The project is designed to expand vocational and technical educa-
tion, to promote quality improvements in secondary education by replacing
uneconomically small, rented school buildings and providing schools with
adequate workshops, and to support integrated rural development projects in
the Jordan Valley through a pilot scheme of non-formal basic education. The
project includes construction, furniture and equipment for the following
institutions: a Polytechnic at Irbid; a training complex at Aqaba; a Hotel
Training School at Amman; three comprehensive secondary schools; extension
of preparatory and secondary schools (seven pre-vocational workshops; five
science laboratories, four women's craft centers); and a rural development
center. Overall project implementation is about 2 years behind schedule due
to initial delays in selecting project consultants. However implementation of
major project components is now proceeding satisfactorily. It is expected
that the time already lost in construction will be regained and that schools
will be ready for occupancy during the 1980/81 school year. Technical assis-
tance being provided by UNDP and ODM is satisfactory.
Cr. No. 570: Second Power Project; US$5.0 Million Credit of July 7, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: November 18, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
The project adds 33 megawatts of steam power plant to total generat-
ing capacity. It also includes reconditioning of the diesel-electric power
station at Marqa and a Power Development Study for Southern Jordan. A cost
overrun in total project cost of about 14 percent is expected. Implementa-
tion of all project components is proceeding satisfactorily. Civil works for
the unit are nearly complete and the unit is scheduled to come on stream by
mid-1979.
Cr. No. 639:   Tourism Project; US$6.0 Million Credit of August 12, 1976; Date
of Effectiveness: July 15, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The project includes the construction of tourist accommodation and
related facilities near the Petra Entrance, and the construction of visitor
facilities and archaeological preservation works in the Petra Basin as well
as the resettlement of about 96 Bedouin families currently living in the
Basin. The Project also provides for visitor facilities, infrastructure,
archaeological preservation works at Jerash, and technical assistance.
Schematic plans and cost estimates for the Petra Entance Facilities, includ-
ing staff housing are under preparation. Procurement of the first lot of
equipment is proceeding on schedule and bids for the Bedouin resettlement
housing have been reviewed by the Association.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
Cr. No. 780:   Third Amman Water Supply and Sewerage Project: US$14.0 Million
Credit of May 19, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: October 17,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project is part of the on-going 1978-81 program of the Amman
Water and Sewerage Authority, to expand water supply and sewerage services in
Amman, including those areas where the urban poor reside. The project con-
sists of the construction of approximately 207 km of water and 225 km of
sewerage mains, laterals and house connections, a 4,000 m3 reservoir, 15,000
meters and related equipment, and training. The improved sewerage services
resulting from the project would help protect groundwater resources in the
Amman area from pollution. Overall project implementation is proceeding
satisfactorily.
Loan 1617:      The Arab Potash Project; US$35 Million Loan of October 21,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: May 30, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
The project is the largest industrial project ($428 million total
cost) ever undertaken in Jordan and is aimed at producing 1.2 million tons of
potash from Dead Sea brine via solar evaporation. The project consist of a
solar evaporation and brine transfer system, a harvesting system, a refinery,
infrastructure facilities and an associated township. The contract for the
solar evaporation and brine transfer system and the contract for the township
have been awarded. The bidding documents for the other project components
have been prepared and are currently being reviewed. Overall project imple-
mentation is proceeding on schedule.
Loan 1688: Third Power Project; US$15 Million Loan of May 4. 1979; Date of
Effectiveness: October 11, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The primary objective of the project is to supply the power needs
of the potash complex at Ghor Safi, the phosphate rock mining at El Hassa,
the cement plant at Rashadiya, and rural distribution in central Jordan from
the national power grid.



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page L of 2
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Supplemental Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by government to
prepare project:                   Seven months (July 1978-January 1979)
(b)  Agency that prepared the
project:                           Ministry of Education (MOE)
(c)  Initial discussions with the
Bank:                              June 1978
(d)  Bank project preparation
assistance mission:                October 1978
(e)  Appraisal mission:                 February/March 1979
(f)  Date of completion of
negotiations:                      November 12, 1979
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:   February 15, 1980
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a)  To enhance the availability of trained trade instructors required for
project institutions: (i) further incentives as needed would be pro-
,             vided to attract trainees into the instructors training programs of
the Marka Polytechnic Institute, and (ii) the passage of the new by-
law granting qualified teacher status and proper incremental fiLnan-
cial reward for those instructors successfully completing such
training at the Institute, would be confirmed by September 30, 1980
(para. 40);
(b)  To analyze job placement and performance of the graduates from the
training complex and the comprehensive schools of the project, the
government will extend the use of the tracer system to these institu-
tions and the results will be sent to the Bank for five years fEollow-
ing first output from the institutions (para. 40);



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(c) No later than six months before the opening of the school: (i) adult
education programs to be implemented at the project comprehensive
secondary schools would be prepared and reviewed with the Bank, and
(ii) full-time qualified staff for implementation of the adult education
programs would be designated (para. 43);
(d) No later than six months before the opening of the community college:
(i) an Advisory Committee including prominent Zarqa citizens and a
Department of Continuing Education with a full-time head would be estab-
lished, (ii) detailed continuing education programs would be prepared and
reviewed with the Bank, and (iii) information on a system proposed by the
government to evaluate the effectiveness of the community college would
be forwarded to the Bank for review and comments (para. 47); and
(e) The proposed composition of Management Information System staff would
be submitted to the Bank for review and the required staff would be
appointed not later than December 31, 1980 (para. 49).



IBRD 14381
JULY 1979
360
Y                 ) A'~~~~~~~~~~~SY     
q       .*  o NdaReth       9      j       S,jr    To tm0oscs           S  Y  R I A
,, j   To Hagfa iDeAS,Sao    Ho                            "N                -                    7
\ r.XXM~~~~~~~~~aurq                  a       El Azraqqa                     ol
< W---/   ( .1 :    2  . "--' - 1)                                          \AR ABIA
a tI ~~~~THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
t   t    <   +=                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~* COMPREHENSIVE SECONDARY SCHOOLS
]  <  /yt  ?0  Qa' el Jlnt                         *~~~~~ TRADE TRAINING COMPLEX
/   Rashadiva 05   ,/ E  ,    sa  ,,~~~~~~~~ PEEVOCATIONAL TEACHER TEAIN,NG
*   !   ShaubakO _  _  |/     ,              0 u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ CITIES, TOANS AND VILLAGES
2i1              t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t-,---  RAILWAYS
/ Wadl Musa C |l ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- -~WADIS
H-~~~~~~~                         -   I'aNTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
A-d ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    ~    ~ ~        -A
/   6QuwelrE     XEs Shid ya                             /                        M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OEoS007vAJV.AN   01  l .   OADQ
RTrd~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IRA \ ///aAS
T._330                                                                                                      0  LB *        55
HS*'                                                                                                                                  0'SAD   AA 
-32.                                                                                                                                          32--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3.  EO



