O C       LOAN NUMBER 1781 JO
DOCUMTS
Loan Agreement
(Third Education Project)
between
THE HASHEMITE KINDGOK OF JORDAN
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                               , 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1781 JO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated           J      1          , 1980, between
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN (hereinafter called the Borrower
or Jordan) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOP-
MENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
WHEREAS the Borrower intends to implement the technical
assistance components referred to in Parts A and. C of the Project
with the assistance of the United Nations Development Program
(UNDP);
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of
the foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms
and conditions hereinafter set forth; and
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE 1
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "MOE" means the Ministry of Education of the Borrower;
(b) "Project Unit" means the Project Unit established under
the Development Credit Agreement (Education Project) and main-
tained under the Development Credit Agreement (Second Education


﻿-2-
Project), entered into between the Borrower and the International
Development Association on February 11, 1972 and March 12, 1975,
respectively;
(c) "DEO" means any District Education Office of MOE;
and
(d) "Project Institution" means any of the institutions
included in, or to be established under, the Project.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank. agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
nineteen million dollars ($19,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 hereto and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and works for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1983
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven and ninety-five hundredths per cent (7.95%) per annum
on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.


﻿-3-
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall through MOE carry out the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate financial, technical, educational and adminis-
trative practices, and shall, promptly as needed, provide or
employ, as the case may be, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose and all the necessary
experts required for the carrying out of the Project.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall ensure that MOE, for the
purpose of over-all management and coordination in the carrying
out of the Project, maintain the Project Unit with such staff and
continue to vest it with such powers and responsibilities, as
specified in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. In order to assist the Borrower in the planning
and supervision of the construction of the facilities included in
Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall continue to employ
architectural consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shill otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,


﻿-4-
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facili-
ties and construction sites included in the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any rele-
vant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for the construction and operation of the facilities
included in the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that
such land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes
related to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek,


﻿-5-
in normal circumstances, special security from the member con-
cerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distri-
bution of foreign exchange held under the control or for the
benefit of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created
on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for
any external debt, which will or might result in a priority for
the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the alloca-
tion, realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien
shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no
cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower,
in creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the princip.A of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equtialent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any
such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange
assets held by any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions,
for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.


﻿-6-
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause the Project Institu-
tions (i) to be operated in conformity with appropriate adminis-
trative and educational policies and practices and with due regard
to economy, (ii) to be staffed with teachers, instructors and
administrators in adequate numbers and with appropriate qualifi-
cations and experience and (iii) to be adequately maintained at
all times in accordance with appropriate technical practices.
Section 4.04. Not later than six months before the opening
of the community college referred to in Part A.1 (c) of the
Project, the Borrower shall ensure that MOE: (i) establish an
advisory committee for said college, including prominent Zarqa
residents among its members; (ii) establish a department for con-
tinuing education headed by a suitably qualified and experienced
educator appointed on a full-time basis; (iii) prepare and review
with the Bank the detailed programs for continuing education to be
implemented at said college; and (iv) prepare and submit to the
Bank, for its review and comments, a proposed system for eva-
luating the effectiveness of said college.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall take all action required
to ensure that instructors in the new specializations of indus-
trial electronics, instrument mechanics and watch repair, for
which textbooks in Arabic are not currently available shall be
appointed to the training complex included in Part A.1 (a) of the
Project, not later than six months prior to the scheduled opening
date of such complex, for the purpose of preparing such textbooks.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall ensure that MOE provide
the Bank, for its review and comments, with a detailed staffing
plan for the management information system included in Part C.1 of
the Project and then appoint the staff required for the operation
of such system, taking into account the Bank's comments on such
staffing plan; it being understood that all such actions shall be
completed not later than December 31, 1980 (or such other date as
the Bank may agree).
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall through MOE: (i) prepare
the adult education programs, to be implemented at the compre-
hensive secondary schools referred to in Parts A.1 (b) and A.2
(a) of the Project, and submit such programs to the Bank for
its review and comments not later than six months before the
scheduled opening date of such schools; and (ii) promptly there-
after, designate qualified and experienced staff to each such
school on a full-time basis to implement such programs, it being


﻿-7-
understood that such programs shall be implemented taking into
account the Bank's comments.
Section 4.08. In order to enhance the availability of quali-
fied instructors for the industrial subjects at the Borrower's
comprehensive and industrial secondary schools and trade training
centers and at the prevocational teacher training institute
provided in Part A.2 (c) of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(i) provide such incentives as shall be required to attract an
adequate number of qualified trainees into the instructor training
programs of the Marka Polytechnic Institute of the Borrower; and
(ii) take, through suitable governmental and administrative action
and by September 30, 1980 (or such other date as the Bank may
agree), such measures as shall grant qualified teacher status and
ensure appropriate incremental financial rewards for the graduates
of said instructor training programs.
Section 4.09. The Borrower shall cause MOE: (a) to extend
the operation of its existing tracer system so as to ensure the
continuous monitoring of the employment of graduates of the
training complex referred to in Part A.1 (a) of the Project and of
the comprehensive secondary schools referred to in Parts A.1 (b)
and A.2 (a) of the Project; and (b) to provide the Bank, during
the five years following immediately the first graduation of
students from said schools and training complex, with annual
reports on the results obtained through the operation of said
tracer system.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date                      ,A go        is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The President of the National Planning Council
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿-8-
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
National Planning Council
P.O. Box 555
Amman
The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
Cable address:                      Telex:
NPC                                1319 JO
Amman
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category           Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works            6,600,000          35%
(2) Furniture and          6,400,000          100. of foreign
equipment                                expenditures
for directly
imported goods,
100% of local
expenditures ex-
factory for
lcally manufac-
tured goods and
85% of local
expenditures
for imported
goods procured
locally
(3) Experts'               1,200,000          100% of foreign ex-
Services for                             penditures for ex-
Part C.1 of                              perts domiciled
the Project                              outside Jordan and
80% of local ex-
penditures for other
experts
(4) Unallocated            4,800,000
TOTAL           19,000,000


﻿- 10 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank,
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insuf-
ficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such realloca-
tion cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no


﻿- 11 -
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The main objectives of the Project are to: (i) expand voca-
tional and technical training and improve the quality of agricul-
tural secondary education; (ii) assist in meeting the needs for
technicians and teachers, through the development of a new type of
post-secondary training institution; (iii) improve the relevance
and quality of basic and secondary education, through the training
of pre-vocational subject teachers and the expansion of the
comprehensive secondary school system; (iv) initiate continuing
education, through the use of the facilities of the Project
Institutions; (v) improve school building maintenance capability,
through the provision of mobile building maintenance units; and
(vi) improve the MOE's capability for planning, research, eva-
luation and management.
The Project Institutions and the technical assistance
included in the Project are, respectively, further described in
Exhibits 1 and 2 to this Schedule, as such Exhibits may be revised
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Bank.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Project Institutions
1.   Construction, furnishing and equipping of and provision
of technical assistance for:
(a) One training complex.
(b) Three comprehensive secondary schools.
(c) One community college.
2.   Extension  furnishing and equipping of and provision of
technical assistance for:
(a) Two general secondary schools to convert them
into comprehensive secondary schools.
(b) The agricultural secondary school at Shaubak to
improve its range of specializations and the
quality of training.


﻿- 13 -
(c) The agricultural teacher training institute at
Shaubak to convert it into a pre-vocational teacher
training institute.
Part B:   Building Maintenance
Establishment, at certain selected DEOs, of eight mobile
building maintenance units.
Part C:   Institution Building
1.   Provision of computer hardware and equipment, software
development (employment of experts and local training for
staff), all as required for the establishment and operation
of a computerized management information system within
MOE.
2.   Establishment and starting of the operation of an
evaluation system at MOE, through inter alia, the employment
of an educational evaluation expert and fellowships for MOE's
staff.
3.   Provision of experts' services to upgrade the research
section of MOE.
4.   Provision of fellowships abroad for the staff of the
Project Unit to study education projects' management and
evaluation.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1983.


﻿- 14 -
EXHIBIT 1 TO SCHEDULE 2
Project Institutions
Student Places Accommodations
New/   Student
Replace- Board-    Staff
Institution     Grades  Total   ment     ing    Housing  Location
1 Training       10-11    440    440      -        -     Saahab
complex        10-12    680    680
5 Compre-        10-12  4,100  3,130      -        -     Salt
hensive                                                  (girls)
secondary                                              Aqaba
schools (2                                               (girls)
extensions)                                            Ma'an
(boys)
Kitteh
(boys)
Kufr Yuba
(boys)
1 Community      13-14    980    980      -        8     Zarqa
college
1 Agricultural   10-12    240      0      -        -     Shaubak
secondary
school
(extension)
1 Pre-voca-      13-14    256    196     196      10     Shaubak
tional
teacher
training
institute
(extension)


﻿- 15 -
EXHIBIT 2 TO SCHEDULE 2
Technical Assistance Included in
the Project
Specialists              Fellowships
Total    Begin-           Total   Begin-
Man-     ning             Man-    ning
Months   Dates            Months  Dates
(approx- (approx-        (approx- (approx-
Institution     Number imate)   imate)   Number imate)    imate)
Training
complex:
Adminis-
tration                                   1       3      4/81
Instrument
mechanics,
upholstery       2      24     7/82       4      48      9/80
Other
instructors                              10      90      4/81
Comprehensive
secondary
schools:
Adminis-
tration                                  10      30      1/82
Vocational
instructors                              16     144     10/81
Community
college:
Adminis-
tration          1      12     5/82       4      16      1/82
Technical
instructors                               5      41      9/81
Agricultural
secondary
school:
Technical
instructors                               3      39      1/80


﻿- 16 -
Specialists               Fellowships
Total    Begin-           Total    Begin-
Man-     ning             Man-     ning
Months   Dates            Months   Dates
(approx- (approx-         (approx- (approx-
Institution     Number imate)    imate)   Number imate)    imate)
Pre-vocational
teacher
training
institute:
Adminis-
tration                                    1       4      1/82
Technical
instructors                                6      48      6/81
Institution
building:
Management
Information
System          15     180      8/80
Evaluation        1       6     10/80       2      12     10/80
Educational
research         3      18      7/80
Project
management
support                                    6      24      7/80
TOTAL        22     240                68     499


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 15 and November 15
beginning May 15, 1984
through   May 15, 1996                        730,000
On November 15, 1996                               750,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 18 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on rerayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                              1.40%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                              2.80%
More than six years but
not more than eleven years
before maturity                              5.15%
More than eleven years but
not more than fifteen years
before maturity                              7.00%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                              7.95%


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare
and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of
such notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in
question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as any goods or works
remain to be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in


﻿- 20 -
Jordan may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Jordan if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Jordan equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Jordan.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of
each group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be
compared among themselves, without taking into account customs
duties and other import taxes levied in connection with the
importation, and sales and similar taxes levied in connection with
the sale or delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such
lowest evaluated bids shall then be compared with each other, and
if, as a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B
is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it


﻿- 21 -
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
With respect to contracts for items of equipment and furni-
ture which: (i) cannot be grouped in bulk contracts costing the
equivalent of $100,000 or more (including taxes); or (ii) are of
such highly specialized nature that international competitive
bidding would not be practicable, the Borrower may award such
contracts in accordance with local procurement procedures accept-
able to the Bank. Prior to awarding such contracts, the Borrower
shall, to the extent feasible, obtain price quotations from no
fewer than three manufacturers or suppliers. The aggregate amount
of contracts so awarded shall not exceed $1,000,000 equivalent
(including taxes).
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for the Project estimated to
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of
the bids received, and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.


﻿- 22 -
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the sub-
mission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determtnation.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 30% -f the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 5
The Project Unit
1.   The staff of the Project Unit shall at all times include,
on a full-time basis, in addition to the Director and Deputy
Director, one chief engineer and two engineers (all or two of th--m
will be architect/engineers), two procurement specialists, two
accountants and an adequate number of support staff.
2.   The Project Unit shall have the necessary powers for the
execution of the Project, including, inter alia:
(i) the coordination of the Project with ministries
and government services;
(ii) the selection, briefing, coordination and supervi-
sion of architectural consultants and contractors;
(iii) the approval of the civil works design of the
educational institutions included in the Project;
(iv) the preparation of detailed lists of the furniture,
equipment and books required for the Project;
(v) the procurement of civil works, furniture, equip-
ment and books including the preparation of bidding
documents, the analysis of bids and the making of
recommendations regarding the award of contracts;
(vi) the regular inspection of all construction work;
(vii) the keeping of records, including financial
records, of the execution of the Project, and the
preparation of regular reports to the Bank; and
(viii) the selection, coordination and supervision of
consultants' services and technical assistance
(including fellowships) of the specialists provided
under the Project.
3.   The functions of the Director, the Deputy Director, the chief
engineer and the engineers, the procurement specialists and the
accountants shall be as follows:


﻿- 24 -
(a) The Project Director:
The Director shall be responsible, with the assis-
tance of the Deputy Director, for directing all aspects
of the execution of the Project. He shall report
directly to the Minister of Education.
He shall be responsible, inter alia, for the
following:
(i) the administration of agreements with the archi-
tectural consultants in accordance with their terms
of reference;
(ii) making the necessary arrangements for briefing
architectural consultants and other architects and
engineers of the agencies of the Borrower;
(iii) reviewing and approving or arranging for the review
and approval by the appropriate authorities of all
reports, plans, specifications and other material
related to the Project;
(iv) making all necessary arrangements for calling bids
and awarding all contracts relating to the Project;
(v) the coordination and integration of all Project
activities with the relevant ministries, authori-
ties and agencies, and with the Bank;
(vi) the organization and administration in consultation
with the appropriate authorities of the technical
assistance program included in the Project;
(vii) the selection and organization of the staff of the
Project Unit and the supervision and direction of
their performance of their respective duties;
and
(viii) the preparation of quarterly project progress
reports for the Borrower and the B-nk.
(b) The Chief Engineer:
Under the general direction of the Director, and in
coordination with the architectural consultants, ane


﻿- 25 -
with the assistance of the engineers, the chief engineer
shall, inter alia:
(i) assemble all information relating to site and site
conditions of the Project institutions;
(ii) prepare schedules for the construction, furnishing
and equipping of the Project institutions;
(iii) prepare the architects' briefs, relating educa-
tional specifications to realistic costing and
functional design;
(iv) act as technical and architectural adviser to the
architectural consultants to ensure that the brief
is fully understood and that the Project is carried
out in accordance with the brief;
(v) check the architectural drawings to see that the
space provisions and educational specifications are
interpreted correctly so as to minimize changes
during construction;
(vi) ensure that the architectural consultants and
contractors are meeting performance standards as
reflected in the contract documents;
(vii) take all steps required to ensure that the furni-
ture is designed and constructed in accordance with
the specifications;
(viii) ensure that furniture and building materials are
procured in time and available for use on schedule;
(ix) process and expedite all certificates of payments
from contractors; and
(x) visit the works and inspect progress.
(c) The Accountants:
The accountants shall be responsible to the
Director for setting up the accounting machinery and the
technical and operational aspects of accounting control
relating to Project implementation.


﻿- 26 -
They shall be responsible, inter alia, for:
(1) ensuring that funds are available in the relevant
accounts as required to meet payments to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan;
(ii) conducting the overall supervision, maintenance and
verification of any special bank account which may
be set up for the Project;
(iii) taking promptly all actions required under this
Agreement in order to expedite the disbursement of
the amounts of the Loan, including the preparation
of withdrawal applications;
(iv) ensuring that a detailed account is maintained in
respect of each contract for the procurement of
goods or services for the Project;
(v) preparing such interim evaluation and financial
statements as are required under this, Agreement;
(vi) arranging for the establishment of letters of
credits, if any; and
(vii) signing or countersigning of checks.
(d) The Procurement Specialists:
Under the general direction of the Director, the
procurement specialists shall be responsible, inter
alia, for the following:
(i) the procurement of all furniture, equipment, books
and materials for the Project;
(ii) the itemization and listing of all goods required
for the Project showing the specifications and the
estimated unit and total costs of each item, and
the arrangement for the index coding and numbering
of each item for identification with the relevant
romponents of the Project;
(iii) the grouping of goods to be procured so as to
permit bulk procurement consistent with sound
technical and procurement practices;


﻿- 27 -
(iv) the drafting of standard documents for inviting
bids and the implementation of bidding procedures
in accordance with Section 2.03 of this Agreement;
(v) the evaluation of bids received for all goods;
(vi) the inspection of goods to ensure their conformity
with the specifications; and
(vii) the arrangement of safe custody and delivery of the
goods to designated sites in accordance with target
dates.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this   '/     day of j2 LL19%l.
FOR SECRETARY


