Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
LOAN NUMBER 7314-MOR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Housing Sector Development Policy Loan) 
 
between 
 
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated July 18, 2005 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7314-MOR 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated July 18, 2005, between KINGDOM OF MOROCCO (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received from the Borrower a letter, dated  
May 17, 2005, describing a program of actions, objectives, and policies designed to 
improve the performance of its housing sector (hereinafter called the Program), declaring 
the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance 
from the Bank in support of the Program during the execution thereof; and  
 (B) 
on 
the 
basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, the Bank has decided in support 
of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Loan in two 
tranches as hereinafter provided; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 18, is modified to read: 
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the Loan 
Agreement, in support of which the Loan is made.”; 
(b) 
Section 4.01 is modified to read: 
 
“Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be made in the currency of the 
deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement.”; 
(c) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan 
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of the Loan 
Agreement and of these General Conditions.”; 
Page  3
-2- 
 
(d) 
the last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
(e) 
Section 9.07 (c) is modified to read: 
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution 
of the program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the 
performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective 
obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan.”; and 
(f) 
Section 9.05 is deleted in its entirety and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified 
above), 9.08 and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 
9.07 and 9.08. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“FOGARIM” means Fonds de Garantie des Prêts en Faveur des Ménages
à
Revenus Modestes et/ou Irréguliers
,
a
housing loan guarantee fund managed by the 
Borrower’s Caisse Centrale de Garantie
,
established and operating under the Borrower’s 
Law No. 47-95 promulgated through the Dahir No. 1-96-107,  dated August 7, 1996; 
(b) 
 “VSB” means Villes Sans Bidonvilles
,
a
program launched by the 
Borrower in 2004 to upgrade the city slums; and 
(c) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE
 
II
 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to one hundred 
sixteen million one hundred thousand Euros (116,100,000 Euros), as such amount may be 
converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02. (a) The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the 
first request for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain in its central 
bank, a deposit account in Euros on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. All 
Page  4
-3- 
 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Deposit 
Account. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Loan 
shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an 
amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Bank shall so request, refund 
such amount to the Bank.  Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be 
credited to the Loan Account for cancellation. 
 
(c) 
No withdrawal shall be made from the Loan Account after the aggregate 
of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account shall have reached 
seventy million two hundred forty thousand five hundred  Euros (EUR 70,240,500), 
unless the Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 
of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank: (i) with the progress 
achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the Program; (ii) that the macroeconomic 
framework of the Borrower is satisfactory, and in line with the Program, as measured on 
the basis of indicators agreed between the Borrower and the Bank; and (iii) that the 
actions described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement have been taken. If, after said 
exchange of views, the Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower that the progress 
achieved and actions taken pursuant to (i), (ii), and (iii) above are not satisfactory and, 
within ninety (90) days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have achieved progress 
and taken actions satisfactory to the Bank, then the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, 
cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any part thereof. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2007 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself 
the amount of said fee.  
 Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to:  
(i) eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and  
(ii) seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
Page  5
-4- 
 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or 
vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on said 
Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for such purpose.  
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program and the actions specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Page  6
-5- 
 
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request. 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken 
after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of materially reversing 
the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program including any 
action specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.01(a) of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Bank such information 
relating to the provisions of Article II of this Agreement as the Bank may, from time to 
time, reasonably request. 
Section 3.03. 
Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(b) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
nine (9) months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably requested; and 
(c) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested. 
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Event of Suspension 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall 
make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
Termination
 
Section 5.01.  The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
Page  7
-6- 
 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance and Privatization of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of  
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance and Privatization 
 
Rabat 
 
Kingdom of Morocco 
 
Cable address:   
 
 
Facsimile: 
 
MINFIN    212-37-67-75-30/31 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391  
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  8
-7- 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Rabat, Kingdom of Morocco, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO 
 
By /s/ Fathallah Oualalou 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Theodore O. Ahlers 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Middle East and North Africa 
Page  9
-8- 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02(b) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan shall 
not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1.  
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association 
shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, or grant; 
2.  
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Bank by notice to the Borrower: 
 Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112                           
- 
 
Alcoholic beverages 
 
121                           
- 
 
Tobacco, unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122                           
- 
 
Tobacco, manufactured  
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525                           
- 
 
Radioactive and  
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
        
Pearls, precious and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
 
718                          
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
Page  10
-9- 
 
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
728 728.43 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery 
 
897                          
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971                          
- 
 
Gold, non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
3. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
4. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, 
use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party, and any other goods designated as 
environmentally hazardous by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank); 
5. 
expenditures on account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of 
goods, if such payment or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
6.  
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that 
corrupt,  fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of 
the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or execution of such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to 
the Bank to remedy the situation. 
 
Page  11
-10- 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; and (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 Payment 
Date
(Expressed as a %)
15 
October 
2010     1.93 
 15 
April 
2011 
     2.00 
 15 
October 
2011     2.07 
 15 
April 
2012 
     2.14 
 15 
October 
2012     2.21 
 15 
April 
2013 
     2.29 
 15 
October 
2013     2.37 
 15 
April 
2014 
     2.46 
 15 
October 
2014     2.54 
 15 
April 
2015 
     2.63 
 15 
October 
2015     2.72 
 15 
April 
2016 
     2.82 
 15 
October 
2016     2.92 
 15 
April 
2017 
     3.02 
 15 
October 
2017     3.12 
 15 
April 
2018 
     3.23 
 15 
October 
2018     3.35 
 15 
April 
2019 
     3.46 
 15 
October 
2019     3.58 
 15 
April 
2020 
     3.71 
 15 
October 
2020     3.84 
 15 
April 
2021 
     3.97 
 15 
October 
2021     4.11 
 15 
April 
2022 
     4.28 
 
Page  12
-11- 
 
Installment Share 
 Payment 
Date
(Expressed as a %)
15 
October 
2022     4.41 
 15 
April 
2023 
     4.56 
 15 
October 
2023     4.72 
 15 
April 
2024 
     4.89 
 15 
October 
2024     5.06 
 15 
April 
2025 
     5.61 
 
TOTAL      100% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
Page  13
-12- 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate.  
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
Page  14
-13- 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02(c) (iii) of this Agreement 
1. 
For the purpose of modernizing urban planning standards and regulations, the 
Borrower
’s Conseil de Gouvernement has adopted a new urban planning code, 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
2.   
For the purpose of restructuring its public sector housing enterprises, the 
Borrower has implemented a restructuring plan, satisfactory to the Bank.  
3. 
For the purpose of rationalizing and simplifying real estate taxes and subsidies, 
the Borrower has introduced reforms to the real estate tax system in the draft Budget Law 
of 2007. 
4. 
For the purpose of expanding urban slum upgrading and social housing 
programs, the Borrower has implemented the VSB program, according to an 
implementation plan prepared in May 2005, which shall have been evaluated on the basis 
of reports of the National Monitoring Committee of the VSB program. 
5. 
For the purpose of improving the efficiency of the residential rental market, the 
Borrower’s Conseil de Gouvernement has adopted new draft legislation to regulate the 
residential rental sector. 
6. 
For the purpose of providing increased access to housing finance to the low-
income households, the Borrower:  
(a) 
has introduced modifications in the Convention between the Borrower 
and the Caisse Centrale de Garantie, governing FOGARIM; and  
(b) 
has made decision on the possibility of introducing an insurance 
premium system for FOGARIM. 
 7. 
For the purpose of providing increased access to housing finance to low-income 
households, the Borrower has introduced, in the draft 2006 Budget Law, an adequate 
financial incentive system for housing saving schemes. 
 
