                                              Documentof
                                            The WorldBank


                                   FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                               ReportNo. 32345-MA




  INTERNATIONAL BANKFORRECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT

                                     PROGRAMDOCUMENT

                                         FORA PROPOSED

                 HOUSING SECTORDEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN


                INTHE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$150MILLION

                                                   TO

                                THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO




                                              June 1,2005




Finance,PrivateSector andInfrastructureDepartment
MaghrebCountryManagement Unit
MiddleEast andNorthAfricaRegion




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only inthe performance o f their official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                iV1OROCCO GOVERNMENT
                            -                FISCALYEAR
                        January 1"- December 31"

                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                 (Exchange Rate Effective April 28,2005)
                          Currency Unit = MoroccanDirham (MAD)
                             MAD8.56 = U S $ I
                           MAD11.11 = Euro.1

                           Weights andMeasures
                               Metric System

                 ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS

AFD        Agence Franqaise de Dtveloppement (French Development Agency)
ANCFCC     Agence Nationa1e.de ConservationFonciere, Cadastre et Cartogaphie
           (Land-titling,'Caa'$asterand Cartography National Agency)
ANHI       Agence Nationale de lutte contre 1'Habitat Insalubre (National Agency for
           the fight against Substandard Housing)
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CFAA       Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CJFM       Compagnie Immobiliere et Fonciere du Maroc (Real Estate and Land
           Development Corporation)
C M        Credit Immobilier et Hatelier (Real Estate and Hotel Financing Bank)
DEEP       Direction des Entreprises Publiques et de la Privatisation (public
           Companies and Privatisation Directorate)
DGCL       Direction Generale des Collectivites Locales (Department o f Local
           Government)
ERAC       Etablissement Regional d'AmCnagement et de Construction (Regional
           Agency for Land Development and Construction)
FOGARIM    Fonds de Garantie pour les Menages a Revenus Modesties edor Irreguliers
           (Guarantee Fund for L o w or Irregular Income Households)
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
G O M      Government of Morocco
HA0        Holding d'hinagement AI Omrane (AI Omrane Development Holding)
HSDPL      Housing Sector Development Policy Loan
IBRD       International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IMF        International Monetary Fund
LSDP       Letter of Sector Development Policy
MFP        Ministire des Finances et de la Privatisation (Ministry o f Finance)
MHU        Ministire de 1'Habitat et de I'Urbanisme (Ministry o f Housing and Urban
           Planning)
OPH        Optrateurs Publics de 1'Habitat (Public Housing Operators)
SGG        Secretariat General du Gouvemement (General Secretariat of the
           Govemment)
SNEC        Societe Nationale d'Equipement et de Construction (National Corporation
            for Infrastructure and Construction)
VAT         Value Added Tax
VSB         Villes sans Bidonvilles (Cities without slums)
ZUN         Zones d'urbanisation nouvelle (New urban development zones)


                    Vice President:   Christiaan Portman
                  Country Director:   Theodore 0.Ahlers
          Sector Managermirector:     Hedi LarbmosseinRazavi
                Task Team Leader:     Anthony G. Bigio

                                                                                     FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                         KINGDOMOFMOROCCO
                    HOUSINGSECTORDEVELOPMENTPOLICYLOAN

                                            TABLE OFCONTENTS



      LOANAND PROGRAMSUMMARY
      I INTRODUCTION
       .                    .........................................................................................................................       1
      I1 MACROECONOMIC FRAMEWORK
        .                                                       ......................................................................................      2
      I11 MOROCCO'SHOUSINGSECTORREFORMAGENDA 2003.2007
         .                                                                                                              ................................... 5
           A. Mainhousingsector issues................................................................................................... 5
           B. The government programfor the housingsector .................................................................                                 9
           C. Reformimplementation....................................................................................................                      15
      I V BANK SUPPORT TO THE GOVERNMENT'S HOUSINGREFORMS
        .                                                                                                                    .............................  16
           A. ObjectivesandRationale ...................................................................................................                    16
           B. Linksto the CountryAssistance Strategy ..........................................................................                             17
           C. Relationshipto other Bank operations ...............................................................................                          17
           D. Lessonsleamedandanalyticalunderpinnings...................................................................                                    18
           E. CollaborationwithWIF and otherDonors.........................................................................                                 19
      V THE PROPOSEDLOAN
        .                            ..............................................................................................................         20
           A. Loanstructure and conditions............................................................................................                      20
           B. Disbursementofthe first tranche.......................................................................................                        20
           C. Disbursementofthe secondtranche ..................................................................................                            22
           D. Benefits.............................................................................................................................. 23
      VI OPERATIONIMPLEMENTATION
         .                                                   .......................................................................................        23
           A. Poverty and social impacts ................................................................................................                   23
           B. Supervision.........................................................................................................................
                     . .                                                                                                                                    24
           C. Monitoring and evaluation .................................................................................................                   24
           D. Fiduciaryaspects................................................................................................................              25
           E. Disbursementand auditing.................................................................................................                     25
           F. Environmentalaspects........................................................................................................                  26
           G. Risks andriskmitigation ................................................................................................... 26



This document has a restricted distribution and may be usedby recipients only in
the performance of their official duties Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
                                                            .
[without World Bank authorization.

                                                 V




ANNEX 1:LETTEROF SECTORDEVELOPMENTPOLICY...................................................                                     29
ANNEX 2: POLICYMATRIX........................................................................................................... 39
ANNEX 3: FUNDRELATIONSNOTE............................................................................................          42
ANNEX 4: ESTIMATEDVALUE OFPUBLIC SUBSIDIESTO THE HOUSINGSECTOR...46
ANNEX 5: FLOWSOFPUBLIC SECTORSUPPORT TO THE HOUSINGSECTOR............47
ANNEX 6: THE "VILLES SANS BIDONVILLES" PROGRAM..................................................                                 48
ANNEX 7: MAINPARAMETERSOFTHE MORTGAGEGUARANTEEFUNDFOR
           INFORMALWORKERS (FOGARIM) ........................................................................                    50
ANNEX 8: MOROCCOAT A GLANCE..........................................................................................            51

MAP IBRD#33450




 The Morocco Housing Sector Development Policy Loan was preparedby a World Bank team consisting
 of: Anthony G. Bigio, Task Team Leader; Loic Chiquier, Lead Financial Specialist; David Le Blanc,
 Senior Urban Economist; Fatouma Toure Ibrahima, Financial Specialist; Kishor Uprety, Senior Legal
 Counsel; Claude Taffm, Bernard Worms, Franck Daphnis, Fouzi Mourji, housing finance consultants;
 Fathi Kraiem andDriss Benjelloun, housing sector consultants; JacquesBarbier, urbanplanning consultant;
 Joseph Comby, land titling consultant; and Thouria Nana-Sinkam, Language Program Assistant. Peer
 reviewers have beenMila Freire, Regional Adviser, Urban Housing and Municipal Services, LCSFP, and
 Peter Ellis, Senior Urban Economist, SASEI. The team worked under the general guidance of Hedi Larbi
 (Sector Manager), Ferid Belhaj (Country Manager), Emmanuel Forestier (Sector Director until January
 2005), David Steel (Acting Sector Director untilMay 2005) and Ted Ahlers (Country Director).

                                          vi



               HOUSING SECTORDEVELOPMENTPOLICY LOAN
                               PROGRAMSUMMARY

Borrower              Government o fMorocco
ImplementingAgencies  Ministryo fFinance andPrivatizationandMinistryofHousingand
                      UrbanPlanning
Amount                US$l50 million equivalent (euros)

Terms                 Fixed spread loan, 20 years repayment, including 5 years grace.
Tranching             Two tranches, respectively o fUS$90 million and US$60 million, the
                      first one to be disbursed after effectiveness and the second one
                      between 18 and 24 months after effectiveness, following the Bank's
                      review o f policy actions implemented in accordance with the loan
                      agreement.
Description           The development objectives o f the Government's housing sector
                      program and o f the proposed loan are to: (i)strengthen the
                      institutional, regulatory and fiscal environment for a well-
                      functioning housing market and for the emergence o f market-based
                      solutions to the country's housing sector constraints and needs; and
                      (ii) increase the access o f low-income and severely disadvantaged
                      households to more affordable and higher quality housing. The loan
                      would support the first objective through policy reforms and
                      measures to:     (a)  modernize urban planning standards and
                      regulations; (b) restructure and refocus public sector housing
                      agencies and enterprises; and (c) rationalize and simplify real estate
                      taxes and subsidies. The second objective would be supported by
                      reforms and measures to: (a) expand urban slum upgrading and
                      social housing programs through market-friendly approaches; (b)
                      improve the efficiency o f the residential rental market; and (c)
                      expand the access o f informal sector and low-income households to
                      market-based housing finance.
Benefits              The benefits expected from this operation include: a) improved
                      living conditions for the urban poor which would result from the
                     progressive elimination o f existing slums and from increased supply
                      o f low-cost housing; b) a more efficient use o fresources allocated to
                      the public housing programs; c) an enhanced access to housing
                      finance for the urban poor through guarantee funds and housing
                      saving schemes; d) reduced cost o f land resulting from more cost
                      effective planning regulations; e) better targeted public subsidies to
                     the housing sector; and f) job creation resulting from increased
                     construction activity.
Risks                The main identified risks concern:          coordination among the
                     institutions involved; the pace o f implementation o f the slum
                     upgrading program and o f the OPH (Public Housing Operators)
                     restructuring; potential delays inthe legislative reforms for the urban
                     planning code, residential rental sector and real estate taxation and
                     subsidies; and the absence o f land titling reform. Macroeconomic
                     riskhasbeen foundnot to be critical to the successo fthe reforms.
Operation IDNumber   P83746


                               KINGDOM OFMOROCCO
               HOUSINGSECTORDEVELOPMENTPOLICYLOAN



                                I.INTRODUCTION



1.  Demographic growth has tripled Morocco's population since Independence in 1956,
    and is expected to continue at a 1.4 percent annual rate over the next decade.
    Demographic expansion has been accompanied by accelerated urbanization, whereby 55
    percent o f the population resided in urban centers in 2004 compared to 29 percent in
    1960. The percentage of urban population i s expected to increase to 58 percent by 2010,
    putting additional pressure on the Govemment of Morocco (GOM) to provide
    infrastructure, services, housing andjobs inurbanareas.

2.  Due to its economic and social role, the housing sector is considereda toppriority by
    the Government. GOM places a high priority on improving the access to and
    affordability o f formal housing especially for the urbanpoor, inorder to slow the growth
    o f slums and other informal housing. Demand i s estimated to be around 120,000 housing
    units per year and will expand in the future due to the demographic pressure and
    urbanization, whereas the annual supply o f formal housing units i s estimated to be about
    90,000 units, most of which is currently not affordable by lower income groups. Given its
    share in the economy (8 percent of GDP in 2002) and its high employment generation,
    the development o f an efficient housing market is important for job creation and
    economic growth.

3.  The Government'sprimary objectives in the housing sector are to: (i)        strengthen the
    institutional, regulatory and fiscal environment to create a well-functioning housing
    market and bring about market-based solutions for the country7shousing sector; and (ii)
    increase the access o f low income and disadvantaged households to more affordable and
    higher quality housing. To achieve the first objective, GOMhas embarked on a program
    o f reforms to: (a) modernize urban planning standards and regulations; (b) restructure
    public sector housingagencies and enterprises involved inthe delivery o f public housing
    programs; and (c) simplify real estate taxes and subsidies. To achieve the second
    objective, GOM plans to introduce reforms to: (a) expand urban slum upgrading and
    social housing programs through market-based approaches; (b) improve the efficiency o f
    the residential rental market; and (c) expand the access o f the informal sector and low-
    income households to market-based housing finance. By reducing current market
    distortions and promoting greater private sector provision of housing andrelated services,
    these reforms are expected to lead to an increased supply, more efficient allocation and
    use of government resources in the housing sector, and better housing opportunities for
    low income and severely disadvantaged households.

4.  Theproposed Housing Sector Development Policy Loan (HSDPL) has been requested
    by GOM to support the implementation ofpolicy reforms andprograms in the housing
    sector. The loan will assist the Govemment to design and implement the reforms. It i s
    consistent with the CAS and with the Bank's assessment o f the current macroeconomic
    situation.

                                              2


5.  An overall agreement has been reached with the Government on the scope of the
    reforms supported under the proposed operation. This agreement is supported by the
    Letter o f Sector Development Policy and the policy matrix, attached in Annexes 1and 2,
    respectively. As agreed with the Government, the on going reformprogram i s expected to
    be fully implemented over the next 24 months (2005-2007). The scope o f the reforms has
    been structured intwo stages according to their readiness for implementation.

6.  The proposed loan of US$150 million equivalent will be disbursed in two tranches
    respectively of US$90 million and US$60 million equivalent. The first tranche is
    expected to be disbursed after effectiveness. The second tranche i s expected to be
    disbursed 18 to 24 months after effectiveness, following the Bank's review and
    determination that policy actions undertaken are satisfactory and that they correspond to
    those specified inthe loan agreement.

                      11. MACROECONOMIC FRAMEWORK


7.  Over the past decade, Morocco has improvedprice stability, strengthened its external
    position and initiated an ambitiousprogram of structural reform. Inflationremains low
    and the external position is at a comfortable level, supported by high and steady inflows
    of remittances, tourism receipts and foreign direct investment. Structural changes are
    underway in many areas including trade facilitation, customs reform, financial sector
    liberalization, privatization o f telecommunications,      agriculture and public sector
    modernization. The principal issues of concern over the medium term are low growth
    and employment, and fiscal sustainability. Accelerating growth will require a renewed
    sense of urgency to correct fiscal imbalances and preserve stability and commitment in
    order to complete an agenda o f structural reforms that will increase the competitiveness
    of Moroccan businesses, at home and abroad. These reforms, including those to lower the
    fiscal deficit, are intended to increase investor confidence and increase economic growth
    inorder to addresspoverty andrespondto social pressure.


8.  Morocco has implemented successful stabilization programs since the mid-1990s and
    achieved low inflation rates by prudent fiscal, monetary and debt management. The
    combination o f prudent economic management with financial sector reform and
    successful privatization o f several state enterprises has attracted foreign direct
    investment. This, together with a strong and steady flow o f remittances and tourism
    receipts, has led to substantial banking liquidity and international reserves. The reserve
    position has more than doubled from 4.6 months o f imports in 2000 to 10 months o f
    imports in2004. Workers' remittances have contributed to increased national savings and
    successive current account surpluses since 2001.

9.  Despite achievements, the fiscal position has slipped and is unsustainable in the
    medium term. The large budget deficit averaged 5.2 percent o f GDP in 2001-04. These
    deficits  were financed by substantial proceeds from privatization and domestic
    borrowing. Large budget deficits came about mainly in response to a rising wage bill,
    representing about 13 percent o f GDP in 2004, some security-related spending following
    the Casablanca bombings in M a y 2003, some exceptional infrastructure investment
    financed   by the Fonds Hassan II,and weaker revenue performance on account o f
    selected import tariff reductions. In addition, important transfers were made to the
    pension system and two ailing banks. Fiscal deficits of this magnitude are unsustainable

                                               3


     over the medium term. In 2004, more than half o f the financing of the fiscal deficit
     originated from privatization proceeds that are projected to rapidly phase out in 2006,
     making fiscal adjustment a top priority in2005-06. To preserve stability over the medium
     term, rapid and decisive action to increase revenue i s needed on several fkonts, as well as
     efforts to tackle budget rigidities, reverse expansionary payroll spending and address
     actual and contingent fiscal liabilities inthe mediumterm. This would also create enough
     fiscal space to cover investments indevelopment priorities.

10.  Fiscal and budgetary policies initiated by the Government aim at an improved
     management of publicfinances and in particular at reducing the budgetary deficit to a
     sustainable level. Fiscal policy aims essentially at simplifying and harmonizing the
     taxation system, at reinforcing competitiveness, and at improving the living standards o f
     the low-income population. As for the budgetary policy, it aims at increasing the
     efficiency o f the use o f financial as well as human resources, and in particular at
     containing the wage bill, which i s one o f the reforms undertaken as part of the overall
     reform o fpublic administration with the support o fthe Bank.

11.  Despite fiscal concerns, an active debt management has helped reduce current debt
    payments and increase investor conjidence. An active debt management has reduced
     external debt and increased domestic debt. As a result, total external Government debt
     has steadily decreased from 34 percent o f GDP in 2000 to an estimated 16 percent in
     2004, due to debt restructuring swaps for investment. Incontrast, domestic debt increased
     from 42 to 51percent o f GDP inthe same period.

12.  However, growth has been volatile and below potential. Indeed, the economy has
     achieved less than a 3.5 percent growthrate over the last decade, and a promising but still
     insufficient 4.5 percent in2001-04. Growth remains dependent on agriculture, although
     it represents only 15 percent o f GDP. The non-agricultural sector has continued to
     improve slowly and i s steadily growing at 3.2 percent, with dynamic contributions from
     the manufacturing and service sectors such as tourism and information technology.
     Lending interest rates, while declining, have been high, averaging more than 7 percent in
     real terms over the 1999-04 period and affecting credit and private investment. There is
     little evidence that remittances are being intensively used for investment; most are for
     consumption. The impacts o f the Multi Fiber Agreement on industrial output and bad
     weather conditions are expected to slightlyreduce growth in 2005.

13.  Morocco has an opportunity to accelerate growth, increase employment and reduce
    poverty. To begin with, the Government needs to build on the existing foundations o f
     macroeconomic stability (low inflation and a solid external position), and continue with a
     multi-pronged structural reform agenda to address fiscal imbalances, continue trade
     liberalization, open up the economy, expand the role o f the private sector and enhance its
     efficiency. Morocco needs also to address weaknesses in the financial sector and the
     pension regime, and liberalize the labor market. The exchange rate regime may also need
     to be adapted to the changing context, mainly inview o f further trade liberalization and in
     the prospect o f eventual capital account opening. This would make exchange rate policy
     an instrumentto improve competitiveness and support growth.

14.  The base case scenario foreseen under the current CAS (FY2006-2009) assumes a
    stable macroeconomicframework with modest growth and partial adjustment. This i s
     supported by a partial recovery o f medium-term fiscal sustainability, slightly higher
     savings ratios, and sustained export performance resulting from constant real exchange

                                                     4


       rate and terms o f trade. These are coupled with sizeable remittances and tourism receipts,
       but declining current account surpluses. The extemal financing gap would be filled
       mainly by multilateral financing and foreign direct investment. Under this base case, the
       cumulated financing gap would be about US$15 billion during 2005-08, about the same
       amount considered for the previous CAS period. This decrease in financing needs
       corresponds to the lower amounts needed in the amortization profile, current account
       surpluses, and lower needs for reserve gains by Bank A1 Maghrib. Multilateral financing
       and foreign direct investment will play an increased role in filling the gap, as
       privatizationproceeds and bilateral financing phases out.




                           Table 1: Selected MacroeconomicIndicators
                                                 Actual             Est.          Projected
                                      2000    2001   2002  2003    2004  2005 2006 2007 2008 2009
;rowth rates (in percent)
 Real GDP                              1.0    6.3    3.2    5.2      3.5  3.0 3.8   4.0    4.0  4.0
CAS2001-04 forecast                   0.8     8.0    3.4    3.6      3.8
 Real Consumption                     3.0     7.1    0.5    3.7      3.4  2.8 3.7   4.1    4.4  4.5
  Real Gross Domestic Investment      7.0     8.0    4.4    6.0      5.0  4.6 5.0   5.4    5.4  5.6
 Export Volume, GNFS                  6.4     13.0   8.8    -3.6     2.7  6.3 5.5   5.3    5.2  5.1
CAS2001-04forecast                    -0.8    4.0    6.9    5.7      5.8
 Import Volume, GNFS                  -0.5    5.7    12.2   15.6     3.5  6.4 5.9   6.5    6.9  6.8
CAS2001-04 forecast                   -2.8    5.5    4.9    5.6      5.9
 GDP Deflator                          1.5    1.8    0.6    0.0      2.5  2.5 2.5   2.5    2.5  2.5
Latiosto GDP
 Gross Investment                     23.6    22.9   22.7   23.8    24.2 24.4 24.6  24.8  24.9  25.0
CAS200144forecast                     24.5    24.7   25.2   25.4    25.6
 Gross National Savings               22.2    27.6   26.8   27.4    25.5 26.1 26.2  26.0  25.5  25.0
 Budget Deficit (-)*                  -5.8    -6.3   -4.6   -5.7    -4.7 -5.0 -4.7  -4.4   -4.0 -3.6
CAS 2001-04forecast                   -6.4    -7.7   -5.5   -4.3    -3.5
 Direct Public Debt                   75.6    74.7   71.3   69.3    66.7 68.2 67.9  67.2  66.7  66.0
  Extemal Current Balance             -1.4    4.7    4.1    3.6      1.3  1.7  1.6   1.2   0.7  0.1
CAS 2001-04 forecast                  -1.6    -1.5   -1.1   -1.0    -1.0
Excludingprivatization receipts and including Hassan NFund expenditures.

                                               5


      111.    MOROCCO'S HOUSING SECTORREFORMAGENDA 2003-2007


A. MAINHOUSINGSECTORISSUES


15.   Out of a totalpopulation of 30 million, 18 million live in urban areas, and the urban
     population increasedbetween 3percent and 4percentper year between 1960 and 2000.
      The number o f urban primary dwellings was estimated at around 3 million in 2000.
      Sixty-two percent o f households own their dwellings, 28 percent are renters, and 10
      percent have other tenure status. The formal housing stock represents 80 percent o f the
      total.

16.   I n 2003 about 800,000 Moroccan households, or about 5mpeople and one third of the
      urban population, lived in sub-standard housing. This consisted of: a) housing units
      illegally built but o f appropriate building quality, for 540,000 households; b) slum
      dwellings o f very poor quality sited on un-serviced land, for 270,000 households, of
      which 212,000 in urban areas; and c) units threatening collapse, mostly concentrated in
      historic urban cores, for 90,000 households. During the past 20 years, informal housing
      has developed at a faster pace than formal housing, in spite o f sustained government
      efforts, and slums have increased at a rate o f 4 percent per year.

17.   The development o f slums and substandard housing has resulted fkom a dysfunctional
      housing market and inadequate public interventions. The main sector issues are briefly
      described as follows.

Landtitlingand registration

18.   Land titling is regulated by a legislation passed in 1913 which has not been updated
      since. This legislation is both very cumbersome and costly. It ignores customary
      registers, and establishes ownership rights through a complicated system o f land surveys
      and public hearings. A heavy reliance on court decisions to settle disputes causes serious
      delays. This time-consuming formal land registration process encourages land-owners to
      sell property using customary procedures, which leads to the creation o f more informal
      settlements. It also encourages developers to start building before the land title i s
      obtained, often resultingincostly disputes and infkastructure constraints.

19.   The scarcity and consequent high costs o f urban land are in part due to inadequate
      procedures set by the legislation, resulting in a dual land market involving formal and
      informal transactions. Property rights stemming fkom the customary system are found in
      80 percent o f the urban areas, yet are not recognizedby planning authorities or accepted
      as collateral by the banks. The status o f land owned by communities i s often unclear,
      which results in the freezing o f large tracts that could otherwise go on the urban land
      market. Official titles for real property that allow for legal transactions and
      collateralization are costly to obtain and easily subject to disputes prior to their issuance.

Urbanplanningregulations

20.   Urban planning and zoning practices are governed by several laws, decrees and
      ministerial instructions which lack coherence and impose heavy urban development
      costs. These regulations require the production of city master plans and detailed zoning
      plans, all requiring lengthy official approvals. Master plans are valid for ten years and

                                                6


      cannot be amended during this period. Due to the long delays in their drafting and
      approval, they are often outdated by the time they are approved. Zoning plans are subject
      to complex approval procedures, and by law, subdivisions may only be planned if formal
      title deeds exist. In 1995, it was estimated that land was held by developers for 9 years on
      average before zoning and subdivision plans could be fully approved and development
      projects could start.

21.   Planning and construction regulations impose high land reserves and infrastructure
      standards and consequentlylow land use ratios. The norms defining land allocation for
      public facilities in urban development projects are high and tend not to reflect the
      financial capacities o f the involved ministries. Since public agencies often do not have
      the resources to develop the land, large tracks remain unutilized. Road and infrastructure
      design also follow high standards, decreasing the efficiency o f land-use and increasing
      development costs. Regulations for social housing developments impose costly building
      standards. Building permits issued by Local Authorities in consultation with Urban
      Agencies are expensive, time consuming to obtain, and subordinated to the possession o f
      official title deeds. The economic consequences are a reduced formal market for urban
      land, highland development cost and land prices, and long delays between project design
      and delivery o f housingunits.This process results inhighprices o f formal housing and in
      effect encourages illegal settlements.

Residentialrental sector

22.   Rental housing represents 28 percent of the housing stock. Seventy-three percent o f
      rental units are self-constructed, and consist o f rooms or floors let to tenants by
      homeowners. Ninety percent o f landlords are households who directly manage the
      relationships with tenants, often with direct, non-written arrangements.

23.   The current legalframework applying to the rental sector has constrained the market
      because of the perceived imbalances in favour of tenants. According to current
      legislation, rent increases are virtually impossible in the absence o f upgrading o f the
      dwelling by the landlord, and recovery o f the dwelling by the landlord for personal use is
      strictly limited by the law. Disputes about rent payments are lengthy and costly, which
      renders the sector unattractive to investors. Judiciary procedures are long and
      complicated, and court decisions ruling in favor o f landlords are not easily enforced. A s a
      consequence, rental supply has been decreasing and financial institutions have deserted
      the rental market, with the exception o f two companies, which are no longer investingbut
      still manage 38,000 public units ina state o f disrepair.

Housingfinance and affordability of housingproducts

24.   The development of housing finance accelerated in 1999. Interest rates subsidies for
      mortgages provided by the state-owned housing bank, CIH, were extended to the other
      public and private banks, which rapidly began to compete in the mortgage market. A s a
      result, mortgage services increased and the outstanding mortgage amount grew from 3
      percent o f GDP inthe mid-nineties to about 7 percent o f GDP in2004. Interest rates have
      been decreasing for the last 10 years. Mortgage rates fell from 12.5 percent in 1995 to
      about 8 percent in2004. Loan-to-value ratios increased from 70 percent to 90 percent and
      even to 100 percent for certain groups.

                                               7


25.   However, access to housing credit is limited by the lack of financial services and
      limited outreach of the banking system to low-income groups. Until 2004, mortgages
      were typically available only to households with regular (public or private sector)
      salaries. However, 40 percent of the labor force i s employed inthe informal sector, and
      hence were not eligible under the mortgage system. Wage earners are concentrated inthe
      middle and higher income brackets. Therefore, a majority of households located in the
      lower half are not perceived as solvent clients by banks. Only 40 percent of Moroccan
      households hold a bank account.

26.   I n addition to the problems of access to credit,formal houses built by developers are
     priced out of the reach of low-income households.In2002, a householdwith a median
      monthly income o f MAD 5,000 and initial savings o f MAD 30,000 could afford a house
      worth MAD 200,000, assuming prevailing mortgage conditions. This amount was not
      even sufficient to acquire the cheapest formally produced unit inCasablanca and Rabat-
      Sale. As a result, it i s estimated that more than 50 percent o f new construction i s self-
      construction(formal and informal). Moroccanhouseholds typically construct their homes
      one floor at a time, and generally without recourse to formal housing finance.

Housingsubsidies

27.   Subsidiesto the housing sector are a drain on Morocco's budget, costingabout M A D 8
      billion per year (1.9percent of GDP). Most subsidies to the sector are intax incentives
      to developers and households, estimated to cost around MAD 5 billion per year (1.2
      percent o f GDP). Other important subsidies include: a) public land for social housing
      programs; b) the investmentbudget of the Ministryo f Housing and Urban Planning; and
      c) interest rate subsidies on mortgages. Annex 4 presents the costs o f the housing
      subsidiesestimated for 2002.

28.   I n recentyears, a series of tax incentivesfor social housing construction and the rapid
      growth of the mortgage market increased Government expenditure for the housing
      sector. To decrease the cost of social housing units (under MAD 200,000), developers
      were first exempted from VAT, then in 1999 from all taxes and fees (Article 19). In
      2002, revenue losses by the Government from these reductions amounted to about MAD
      40,000 per unit constructed, or about 20 percent o f unit cost. Households were also
      allowed to deduct mortgage interest (and principal in some cases) from income tax,
      which ledto further growth of tax expenditures as the mortgage market grew rapidly.

29.   Overall, subsidies appear to be insufficiently targeted. Available information suggests
      that most o f the tax relief to households was not well-targeted and that some were clearly
      regressive (e.g. income tax deductions of mortgage interest). The allocation o f subsidized
      public land has not exclusively benefited low-income groups. In 1998, it was estimated
      that only 24 percent of land subsidies benefited households inthe three lowest deciles of
      the income distribution, in the form o f serviced land parcels. Interest rate subsidies on
      mortgages were not well targeted and defacto excluded households from the informal
      sector, usually the lower segment o f the income distribution. In 1995, 80 percent of the
      beneficiaries o f subsidized loans who received a 2 percent rebate on the interest rate
      (called rkgime gdnkral) declared annual incomes above the sixth decile o f the income
      distribution. On the other hand, subsidies for loans to middle and low-cost units (rdgime
      spkcial) appear to have been better targeted, benefiting almost exclusivelyhouseholds in
      to the lower half o f the income distribution. However, these subsidies were generally not

                                                   8


        available to beneficiaries without regular wages (independent workers and workers o f the
        informal sector) because o f their lack o f access to credit.

30.    Subsidies to developers have generated indirect positive effects. Large tax breaks for
        developers, which have generally been shown by international experience to be
        inefficient and poorly targeted, seem in this case to have contributedto the emergence o f
        a strong private construction industry in the last 10 years. They have given rise to fierce
        competition which has resulted in falling housing prices at the low end o f the formal
       market. The basic family unit in Casablanca, which sold for more than MAD 220,000
        five years ago, i s now advertised between MAD 160,000 and 180,000. This price
       reduction due to competition has more than offset the amount o f the supplementary
        subsidies to developers, which suggests that the latter havenot captured those subsidies.

Sector institutionalsetting

31.     The responsibilityfor housingpolicies and low-income housingprograms is shared by
       the Ministry of Housing and Urban Planning (MHU)and the Ministry of Finance and
       Privatization (MFP).The MHU,through the Direction de l'Habitat Social et desAffaires
       FonciGres (DHSAF), i s in charge o f the definition and oversight o f the social housing
       programs. The MFP i s responsible for direct housing subsidies, tax policies relevant to
       the sector, and the management o f housing finance instruments. Under the oversight o f
       the MHU and the MFP, a group o f parastatal companies (Opdrateurs Publics de
        1'Habitat, OPH) i s in charge o f land servicing and implementation o f the social housing
       programs o f the MHU. The OPH have dominated the land servicing market while
       housingconstructionhas been increasinglytaken over byprivate developers.

32.     Thepast performance of the OPH has been mixed. Some o f the OPH programs have
       been inefficient and have incurred recurrent losses. They have twice required injections
        o f public capital in seven years. Public land subsidies have been distributed through
       cross-subsidization within housing programs. Many regonal OPH, or Etablissements
       Regionam d'Amtkagement et de Construction (ERAC), have produced serviced land
       plots and housing unitsthat could not be sold or had to be sold below cost. The causes o f
       their unequal performances, as pointed out by an audit by the Ministry o f Finance in
        1997, included lack o f governance and accountability mechanisms, absence o f a
        commercial policy, high reliance on subsidies, overstaffing and deficient skill mix. In
        addition, the OPH had politically-supported access to credit from the publicly-owned
       C Mwhich continuedproviding financingbeyondreasonablelimits.

33.    I n the past, housing policies and programs have suffered                from    insuffcient
       coordination between and within ministries. Policy instruments were developed
       independently by institutions in charge o f different parts o f the system, and the oversight
       o f public programs was insufficient.

Public housingprograms

34.    Public housing programs combine the following approaches: (a) on-site slum
       upgrading; (b) provision o f services plots for beneficiaries who then build progressively;
       and (c) constructiono f apartment blocks for slum dwellers.

35.    Beneficiaries have expressed mixed appreciation of social housing programs.
       Evaluation studies carried out by the MHU show that low-income groups appreciate

                                                9


        Government support in facilitating access to housing. However, their preferences have
       not always been reflected in the design o f Government programs. Serviced plots are the
        favored option, followed by in-situ restructuring (especially for the slums located in
        central urban areas), with apartment units a distant third. The studies also show that the
       programs often failed to take into account potentialproblems of relocating slum dwellers
        innew neighborhoods. Loss of social networks, distance fromjobs, and lack of services
        and o f public transport in the newly urbanized zones were the most pervasive problems
        encountered by the beneficiaries.



B. THE GOVERNMENTPROGRAMFORTHE HOUSINGSECTOR


36.     The program for the housing sector was defined at the outset of the new Jettou
        Government in November 2002, and has been implemented since. The new strategy is
       largely drivenby the Government's willingness to let the private sector play the leadrole
       inhousing provision. The Government has refocused its efforts in order to improve the
       institutional and regulatory environment o f the housing sector and to expand its support
       to low-income households to promote more market driven interventions. The goal i s to
       produce 100,000 social housingunits annually (including serviced landplots and housing
       units).

37.     The Government'sprimary objectives in the housing sector are: (i) strengthen the
                                                                                 to
        institutional, regulatory and fiscal environment of the housing market to provide
        incentives for market-based solutions for the country's housing sector, and; (ii)to
        increase the access o f low-income and severely disadvantaged households to affordable
        and higher quality housing.

38.     The Government'sprogram includes three strategicreform areas:

        a) Reforming the legal framework o f urbanplanning to reduce the costs o f serviced land
             and to promote orderly urban development, creating a legal and fiscal environment
             for the rental market, andreforming real estate taxation andhousing subsidies;
       b) Designing and implementing a new approach to social housing involving a
             nationwide program o f slum upgrading and the development o f low-cost serviced or
             semi-serviced plots;
        c) Improving access to housing finance for low-income groups, especially households
             with irregular or informalincomes.

Legal, regulatory and fiscal reforms

39.    Urbanplanning;regulations. The thrust of this major reform is to simplifj current urban
       planning regulations in order to increase the efficiency of land utilization and hence
       reduce the cost of legally developed land. To this end, in 2004 the Government has
        initiated major reforms in three areas: a) strengthening control o f land development and
       reducingdelays inthe approval and processing of urban planning documents (draft Law
        04/04 submitted to Parliament); b) reducingland allocation standards for public facilities,
        and c) lowering construction standards for social housing units. The MHU estimates
       efficiency gains of about 25 percent on land-use ratios and construction costs from the
       new framework.

                                              10


40.  The draft legislation would institute tight control of land development and establish
     new procedures to accelerate the approval of urban development plans by the
     Governoratesand buildingpermits by Municipalities. It would also reduce from 10 to 5
     years the time during which land reserves within residential developments should remain
     available for the construction o f public facilities. Finally, it would also introduce fines
     and penalties for the disregard o f urban planning regulations, aimed in particular at
     discouragingthe creation o fnew sub-standard informal settlements and slums.

41.  The regulation on standardsfor land reservesfor publicfacilities has been amended to
     optimize land use. This will be achieved by reducing areas reserved for public facilities,
     and facilitating the grouping o f public facilities within multi-purpose buildings. The
     MHUhas completed a comprehensive study to determine the most appropriate standards
     in the context o f Morocco. After long consultations, new standards have been proposed
     and adopted in2005.

42.  Standards for social housing developments have also been reduced to achieve
     substantial cost reductions. New regulations have been issued by the Government in
     2005 in order to improve the efficiency o f land-use within social housingdevelopments
     and to reduce the construction standards o f the housing units in order to reduce the
     overall cost of the projects and to make the units more affordable to beneficiaries, while
     maintaining minimumcriteria of healthand safety.

43.  Thefnal reform in this area will be the development and adoption of unifed and
     modern urban planning legislation. While the aforementioned changes have been set
     within the current legal framework, the Govemment i s committed to unify and simplify
     the legislation (laws, decrees, instructions) which regulates urban planning, zoning and
     subdivisions and related administrative procedures within a new Law (code
     d'urbanisme).The new code i s under development and is expectedto be adopted in2007.

44.  Rental sector. The aim of the reform is to achieve a better balanced distribution of
     rights between landlords and tenants in order to stimulate private and corporate
     investment in rental housing. Changes in the legal framework are needed in order to
     achieve greater flexibility in rent setting and to facilitate the recovery of dwellings by
     landlords. In parallel, the reform will aim at stimulating the emergence o f professional
     intermediaries in the rental market. To t h s end, the Govemment has launched a study to
     which all stakeholders will contribute to promote consensus building and ensure broad
     consultations. The outcome o f the consultations will result in the adoption o f new rental
     legislation in2007.

45.  Housing subsidies. The reform aims at reducing the cost of the housing subsidies and
     achieving better targeting to the low-income population. Budgetary expenditure on
     interest rates subsidies had reached MAD 450 million in 2003. Due to the rapid
     expansion o f mortgage lending, expenditure is likely to grow even more in the coming
     years. Facing tight fiscal constraints, the Govemment terminated interest subsidies for
     new loans inthe 2004 Budget Law.

46.  The Government had envisioned the replacement of the old interest rate subsidies
     system with a system of upfront subsidies to ownership, for which a project had been
     jointly prepared by the MFP and MKU with technical assistance from the Bank.
     However, whereas interest rates subsidies were eliminated in 2004, upfront subsidies

                                               11


      were not adopted because o f potential abuses and perceiveddifficulties inmanaging such
      a system.

47.   Real estate taxation and fiscal expenditure. These will need to be reformed to reduce
      market distortions, better target low-income households, and reduce thefiscal burden.
      The Government has already begun to reform o f the tax system at the national level,
      supported by the European Union (EU) and the IMF. Specific reforms o f the real estate
      tax system are expected to be developed and adopted in the next two years. Due to the
      complexity o f real estate taxation, an evaluation will be carried out by the MFP to
      prioritize the changes to be made inthe system, and to plan the timingo f implementation
      o f the reforms to avoid adverse effects on the construction sector and on households. The
      study will be completed in 2006. While the eventual impact o f the reforms on tax
      revenues i s not presently known, there is a consensus that substantial fiscal savings could
      be achieved by eliminating or reducing poorly targeted tax cuts.

A new program for socialhousing

48.   I n 2003, the Government introduced a new strategy toprovide low-income groups with
      housing accommodation.The new approach is based on: a) a nationwide program called
      Villes sans Bidonvilles (VSB, or Cities without Slums) to upgrade all existing urban
      slums by 2010; and b) a prevention policy, aimed at increasing the supply o f low-cost
      serviced or semi-serviced plots by the OPH by opening up large new residential areas in
      partnership with private developers, to be entrusted with the construction o f housing
      units.

49.   The nationwide "Villes sans Bidonvilles" program aims at providing accommodation
      to the about 212,000 householdsliving in urban slums across the country by 2010. This
      flagship program was formally submitted to the King in July 2004, and presented in
      October 2004 during a high-profile national conference organized by the MHU.The VSB
      program is a city-based approach to slum upgrading. All slums in a given urban area are
      included in an upgrading program, agreed to between the Ministry o f Housing and Urban
      Planning, the deconcentrated regional authorities o f Governorates, the Local Authorities
      or Municipalities, and the parastatal companies in charge o f its implementation. These
      agreements are definedby "city contracts" among the parties.

50.   Slum and sub-standard housingprevention is based onfacilitating the delivery of low-
      cost serviced or semi-sewiced landplots to low-income groups. Large new areas called
       "zones d 'urbanization nouvelle (ZUN) will be opened up to residential development.
                                        "
      Contrary to past practices, the OPHwill only be incharge o f land development, including
      off-site and on-site infrastructure, which will then be sold to developers on a competitive
      basis to buildhousing units for low-income groups, or directly for individuals.

51.   The VSB program sets ambitious targetsfor the Government, as it is expected to be
      fully implemented by 2010. It encompasses all slum upgrading projects that were on-
      going before 2004, covering about 68,000 households. By March 2005, 24 slum-
      upgrading city contracts had been finalized for another 103,000 households. Similar city
      contracts remain to be concluded in 2005 for another 41,000 households. The city
      contracts are followed by agreements with the OPH for the implementation of the
      projects. The MHUhas estimated that by 2010 it will have upgraded all slums existing in
      2003. and sumlied its inhabitants with satisfactorv accommodation.

                                                      12


52.      The Government's social housingprogram will require substantialfinancial resources
        and effective management capacity.About MAD 17billion (US$2billion) are needed to
        implement the VSB program, which will require also about 5,200 hectares o f land. The
        public sector will provide around 30 percent o f the financial needs of the VSB program,
        while the rest will be contributed by the beneficiaries themselves. The quantitative
        objectives assigned to the OPH as the companies in charge o f implementing the new
        programs are ambitious, inlight o f their previous capacities and yearly outputs.

53.      Therefore, the Government has taken steps to expedite the implementation of the
        program by mobilizing stable and substantial resources by: a) increasing the resources
        o f the Housing Solidarity Fund (FSH); b) mobilizing large tracts o f public land located
        around major cities, a significant part o f which will be transferred to VSB, and; c)
        restructuring o f the parastatal companies to improve their performance while relying on
        the private sector for the construction o f low-cost housingunits.

54.     The FSH is a dedicatedfund directly assigned to the MHU tofinance social housing
        programs, in complement to the Ministry's investment budget. The Fundis replenished
        from a dedicated tax on cement, which was doubled to MAD 100 per ton in 2004. Given
        current cement sales, the tax i s expected to generate over MAD 1billion per year. The
        revenues and uses o f the FSH are projected in Table 2, which also shows the yearly
        allocation o f budgetary resources (Budget G&n&ralde 1'Etat, BGE) to financing o f the
        various social housing programs, o f which VSB is the largest. The GOM commitment to
        the rehabilitation of historic urban fabrics, or medinas and to the promotion of micro-
        credit for housing purposes should be also noted as recent and positive policy
        developments. These complement the projected investments to regularize illegal
        residential developments that primarily require on-site infrastructure, and to create new
        and progressive urbanization zones to cater for new housing demand.



  Table 2: FSHand BGEprojected expenditures for social housing programs 2005 -2010




Source: Ministry ofFinance and Privatization, May 2005

                                              13


55.   The Government has released large publicly owned land reserves to the Ministry of
      Housing. A first tranche of 3,400 hectares was agreed upon in December 2003, and a
      second one, o f 5,000 hectares, was agreed upon in October 2004. This land will be used
      both for "Villes sans bidonvilles", and for the creation of ZUN to provide low-cost land
      development sites.

56.   Recognizing that their management and organizational structure are inadequate to
      support the new program for social housing, the Government has launched the
      restructuring of the OPH. A new structure, Holding A1 Omrane (HAO), was established
      in 2004 to absorb the existing OPH, eliminate redundancies and overlaps among their
      missions, mandates and territorial coverage, consolidate their financial and human
      resources, and eliminate the outstanding deficits. The mandate of Holding A1 Omrane is
      to: a) increase the supply of serviced land for social housing and new residential
      developments; b) promote partnerships with the private sector for the provision o f low-
      cost housing and upgrade of sub-standard housing; and c) implement Government
      programs for slum upgrading in partnership with local governments and the private
      sector.

57.   The restructuring of the housingsectorparastatal companieshas begun in 2004. Three
      o f the ten parastatal companies (ANHI, SNEC and Attacharouk) have been merged to
      create the Holding d'AmCnagement A1 Omrane (HAO), and all o f the regional OPH have
      been recapitalized. Financial and institutional restructuring of the remaining seven
      regional ERAC is being studied in terms o f their regional coverage and of their
      adaptation to the new mandate, limited to the provision of on-site infrastructure and the
      implementation o f the social housing programs. The integration of the ERAC into HA0
      will be the final phase o f the restructuring of the parastatal companies, and GOM has
      recently approved the creation of two additional shareholding entities to expand the
      regional coverage o f HAO. The reform will include the implementation o f an adequate
      govemance and oversight structure, along with the upgrading of accounting systems o f
      the OPH, improvement o f commercial practices and a new staffing strategy.

Housing Finance Reforms

58.   HousinPFinance. The objectiveof the reform is to increaseaccess tofinancingfor low-
      income households. The reform consists of three main components: a) establishment o f
      Mortgage Guarantee Funds; b) extension o f micro-finance services to housing; and c)
      establishment o f contractual savings schemes for housing.

59.   Mortgage Guarantee Funds: The Government has altered itspolicy on housing credit to
      focus it on mortgage insurance targeted towards lower-income groups. Initially, the
      Government contemplated three funds: a) FOGALOGE Public, for employees of the
      public sector; b) FOGALOGE PrivC, for employees of the formal private sector; and c)
      FOGARIM, for households with irregular or informal sources of income. So far, only
      FOGALOGE Public and FOGARIMhave been created. The Government is committedto
      capitalize FOGALOGE Public with up to DH 350 million. FOGARIM's initial
      capitalization amounted to MDH 200 million drawn from the FSH, with a commitment
      from the MHUto release two more tranches o f capital of DH 200 million in 2006 and
      2008.

60.   The creation of FOGARIM was intended to improve access to housingfinance for a
      broad segment of the urbanpopulation sofar excludedfrom it. FOGARIMwas created

                                              14


    in February 2004, and by May 2005, only 660 credits had been guaranteed. These low
    initial figures reflect the need for a trial period by the participating banks, as well as
    concerted promotion of the new instrument to make links between banks, most of which
    do not have familiarity with the low-income population of the slum neighborhoods, and
    the target households, the majority of whom are not accustomed to usingbank services
    and know little about formal credit procedures. The main characteristics o f the Fund are
    described inAnnex 7.

61.  The slow start of the Mortgage Guaranteefunds raises the issue of the adequacy of
    their design and marketing, as well as of demand and supply bottlenecks. An evaluation
    has located the main bottlenecks, and identified how the system can be improved. These
    are primarily related to the maximum monthly payment amount which needs to be
    increased, and to the possibility o f using FOGARIM-guaranteed credits for the
     acquisition ofparcels of land, and not only of complete housingunits. A credit education
    program will also be undertaken by the MHU in collaboration with the participating
    banks, inorder to disseminate knowledge of the expandedaccess to formal housing credit
    and stimulate demand by those low-income beneficiaries o f the VSB program that are
     supposedto acquire newhousingunitsrequiringrelativelyhighinitialpayments.

62. Micro-finance for housing. The 2004 Budget Law opened the possibility for micro-
    finance institutions (MFI) to lend for housing, up to MDH 30,000 per household.
     Lending for housing had previously been excluded from MFI's services, although
     consumption loans were sometimes usedby households for home improvements. During
     2004, the four largest MFIs began to develop pilot projects for this purpose, in order to
     assess costs and to be able to price this new business. In2005, GOM agreed to allocate
     FSH resources to promote the accelerated intervention of MFIs in the social housing
     sector, with the expectation o f reaching a significant number o f households in need o f
     financial support to buildor rehabilitate their units.

63. Housing saving schemes: The Government has decided to introduce housing savings
    schemes linked to housing loans. As determined by the MFP, these schemes will be
     offered by interested banks. In the context of the current mortgage market, the
     attractiveness o f such a system depends crucially on fiscal and/or budgetary incentives.
     Those will be designed to attract middle and low-income groups and to avoid large
     transfers of savings from other types o f instruments.The corresponding tax expenditure
     or budget outlay would be financed by the reduction of other fiscal advantages for
     homeowners, to avoid any net loss o f tax revenues. The introduction o f housing saving
     schemes i s scheduled for 2006. The parameters o f such a system will need to be defined,
     including the nature of the financial incentives.

64.  Overall, the sequencingof housingfinance and housing subsidy reforms has been sub-
     optimal. The termination of interest rate subsidies at the end o f 2003 caused an increase
     in the affordability gap, which could have been partly absorbed if housing saving
     schemes had been inplace more readily. These will be operational as o f 2006. However,
     households' ability to afford housing, which depends on the amount o f savings that are
    put into the system, will not have improved before 2009. Inthe short run, affordability
     has beennegatively affected, while accessto mortgages by informalworkers has not been
     significantly increased, due to the slow start o f FOGARIM.

                                                15




C. REFORMIMPLEMENTATION


   65. Theyears 2003 and 2004 saw importantprogress in the implementation of the housing
       sector reforms by the Government in thefollowing areas: design and launching of the
       social housing program; restructuring o f parastatal companies; urban planning and social
       housing construction regulation; housing subsidies; and housing finance systems. The
       main actions undertaken are summarized inthe following table.



   Table 3: Main housingsector policy reformactionstaken by the Governmentin 2004

   POLICYAREAS AND                          REFORM ACTIONS                            DATE
       OBJECTIVES
Modernizeurbanplanning          Establishing land development control
standardsand regulations        mechanisms and simplification o f approval       4pril2004
                                processes (draft Law 04/04 under consideration
                                byParliament)
Restructuringand refocusing     Creation o f HA0 with the incorporation o f       June 2004
of the OPH                      ANHI, SNEC andAttacharouk

                                Recapitalization o f4 regional OPH indebt        July 2004

                                Reimbursement o f the OPH debt to the CIH         December 2004
Rationalize and simplify        Termination of interest rate subsidies on         January 2004
housingsubsidies                mortgages                                         (Budget Law)

Urbanslum upgradingand          Reinforcement o f FSH (Housing Solidarity         January 2004
social housingprograms          Fund)endowed with substantial long-term           (Budget Law)
                                resources

                                Definition of strategic objectives and financing  September 2004
                                of the national flagship slumupgrading program
                                Villessans Bidonvilles

                                Release of large tracts o f public land for       On-going since
                                residential development and slumupgrading and     mid-2004
                                prevention
Expandaccess ofinformal         Establishment o f the Mortgage Guarantee Fund     January 2004
sector and low-income           for the informal sector (FOGARIM)                 (Budget Law)
householdsto housingfinance
                                Authorization of micro-finance institutions       January 2004
                                (MFI)to lendfor housingpurposes, upto MDH (BudgetLaw)
                                30.000/unit



66.    The main reforms to be brought to thefinal stage of implementation are thefollowing:
       a) finalization o f OPH restructuring; b) development and adoption o f a unified urban
       planning regulation (code d'urbanisme); c) ensuring full and efficient utilization of the
       recently created housing finance instruments; d) establishing housing saving schemes to

                                              16


     increase affordability; e) adoption o f new residential rental market legislation; and f )
     rationalization o freal estate taxation.




         IV.     BANK SUPPORT TO THE GOVERNMENT'S HOUSINGREFORMS


67.  The Bank resumed its involvement in the housing sector with high-level meetings in
     Tangiers in February 2003 which defined the priorities for Bank assistance. Housing
     was selected as a priority area together with education, agriculture and public sector
     management. A Housing Sector Note, prepared by the Bank, was discussed with the
     Government, and technical assistance was provided on priority policy reforms. Several
     recommendations made by the Bank were taken into account by the Government when
     reshaping its national housing policy. At the Dubai Annual Meetings in September 2003,
     GOMrequested financial assistance inthe form o f an adjustment operation to support the
     design and implementationo fthe housing sector reforms.

68.  The choice of the lending instrument is coherent with the role of the Bank in support
     of Government sector reforms. GOM has clearly indicated the preference for Bank
     adjustment support to large and complex sector reforms such as the Public
     Administration Reform. Inthe case o f the housing sector, investment lending to GOM i s
     being provided by other donors (see paragraphs 83-86) and GOM i s satisfied to have the
     Bank in a policy advisory and donor coordination role. As O.P. 8.60 became effective in
     late 2004, this operation, originally prepared as an Adjustment Loan, was processed as a
     Development Policy Loan instead.

69.  During the preparation of the proposed operation, the Bank maintained an intense
     dialogue with the Government and other key stakeholders. In particular, the Bank
     provided support to the MHU for the detailed preparation of the VSB slum upgrading
     program with the help of specialized consultants. This enabled the MHU to develop a
     much improved VSB program document, complete with detailed estimates on the land
     and financial needs, and to obtain greater credibility for this flagship program, resulting
     in international financial baclung.     There was also intensive technical assistance on
     housing finance and urban planning reform. The Bank also consulted widely with
     financial sector institutions on the contents o f the housing finance reforms and with
     micro-credit associations which conveyed the expectations of the urban poor with regard
     to better access to credit and to affordable housingproducts.


A. OBJECTIVESAND RATIONALE


70.  The development objective of the Government's housing sector program and of the
    proposed Loan are to: (i)     strengthen the institutional, regulatory and fiscal environment
     for a well-functioning housing market and for the emergence of market-based solutions to
     the country's housing sector constraints and needs ; and (ii)     increase the access o f low
     income and severely disadvantaged households to more affordable and higher quality
     housing.

                                              17


71.  The loan would support these objectives through policy reforms and measures to: (a)
     modernize urban planning standards and regulations; (b) restructure and refocus public
     sector housing agencies and enterprises; (c) rationalize and simplify real estate taxes and
     subsidies; (d) expand urban slumupgradingand social housingprogramsthrough market-
     friendly approaches; (e) improve the efficiency o f the residential rental market; and (f)
     expand the access o f informal sector and low-income households to market-based
     housing finance.

72.  The rationale for Bank support stemsfrom the importance of the housing crisis, the
     related social exclusion, and the threat they representfor Morocco. Bank support i s
     needed to help the Government guide the reform o f the policy environment for the
     housing sector and significantly expand the access o f the urban poor to decent housing.
     Support would continue and build upon the policy dialogue and advisory role the Bank
     has played in the housing sector over the past two decades, which started with lending
     and advisory activities inthe 1980s, and has now led to a comprehensive approach to the
     housing sector. The Bank would contribute best practice expertise and world-wide
     experience in housing sector policies and housing finance systems to the design and
     implementation o f the reform program. The Loan would also provide a strong
     confidence-buildingsignal to the housing financial markets that shouldhelp assuagerisks
     and enhance the willingness o fthe donor community to support the reformprogram.


B. LINKSTO THE COUNTRY ASSISTANCESTRATEGY


73.  Theproposed operation is consistent with the CASfor FY 2006-2009 and supports its
     second strategic objective of providing improved access to quality services for the
     poorest and most marginalized parts of the population. It directly supports the CAS
     specific goal o f reducing slums and increasing access to affordable housing for the
     poorest segments o f the population. The CAS recognizes the threat to social stability
     represented by marginalized and vulnerable communities, such as slum dwellers, and
     endorses the Government's priorities inthis respect.

74.  Theproposed operation also supports thefirst strategic CAS objective of accelerating
     sustainable growth and job creation. Firstly, the improvement o f the market
     environment brought by the reform program will stimulate housing supply, resulting in
     job creation in the construction sector. Since the construction sector relies heavily on
     unskilled labor, the project will contribute to unemployment reduction inthis category o f
     the population. Secondly, the proposed HSDPL supports reduction and better targeting o f
     fiscal expenditures to the housing sector, which will help achieve higher growth to reduce
     poverty.


C. RELATIONSHIPTO OTHER BANKOPERATIONS


75.  The Land Development Project with a total commitment o f US130 million which was
     approved in 1993 and closed in 2000 with a satisfactory outcome had four main
     objectives: (a) provide serviced residential lots at affordable prices specifically targeted
     to squatter and low-income families; (b) provide medium-term financing to private sector
     developers for construction o f housing for low-income families; (c) foster the
     participation o f private sector banks in the housing finance sector; and (d) improve the

                                             18


     housing finance sub-sector, housing subsidy policies, and the land delivery process. The
     proposed operation builds on the policy issues identified inthat project and on the sector
     studies that it supported.

76.  The on-going Asset Management Reform Project supports improved efficiency inpublic
     expenditures and assists the Govemment in promoting reforms targeted towards: a)
     setting up a national asset management policy, under the purview o f the Ministry o f
     Finance's Direction des Domaines, which i s responsible for the transfer o f public land to
     the MHU; and b) building asset management systems for the Health, Education and
     Higher Education sectors. These Ministries are users o f land reserves in urban residential
     developments, and their improved ability to plan and manage their assets will
     complement MHUefforts to increase the efficiency o f land reserves allocation for public
     facilities.

77.  The on-going Technical Assistance to the Ministvy of Interiors and Local Authorities
     aims at supporting the reform o f local finances, and at strengthening the capacity o f the
    Direction Gdnkrale des Collectivith Locales (DGCL) to support municipalities in
     providing services to the communities. The reform o f local finances intersects with the
     plannedreform o f housing fiscal policies, as some o f the taxations and exemptions for the
     housing and constructionsector are under the control o f Local Authorities.

78.  The on-going Public Administration Reform Loan is addressing the modernization o f
     the State, and in particular aims to offset the current fiscal expenditures related to the
     wage bill, as well as to improve the management o f public sector companies like the
     OPH. The forthcoming Financial Sector Adjustment Loan which was prepared in
     parallel to the proposed operation addresses inter alia questions o f the functioning o f
     publicly-owned banks, including C M which plays an important role in the housing
     sector.


D. LESSONSLEARNEDAND ANALYTICALUNDERPINNINGS


79. Experience from previous operations shows that time and intensive coordination are
     required to reach consensus around the implementation of such programs of reforms.
     Lessons learned suggest that: a) to be effective, land development projects should involve
     municipalities and other local stakeholders and be integrated within broader local
     economic development programs; b) the timely and successful implementation of land
     development for low-income families on a very large scale requires that the institutional
     and regulatory frameworks governing land use and the housing sector be already inplace;
     and c) promoting commercial bank financing o f private developers as part o f a low-
     income housing project requires financial incentives for the banks to offer financing to
     low-income households. These lessons have been taken into account by the new pro-poor
     GOM policies that are addressing the needs o f the low-income groups, such as the VSB
     program, Mortgage Guarantee Funds, and F S H allocations to social housing.

80. Lessons learned also relate to the quality ofpast publicprograms of social housing and
    slum upgrading. These have been characterized by incomplete understanding o f the
     target populations, inadequate monitoring o f the performance o f the OPH by the MFP
     and the MHU, and lack o f local participation both at the project and the municipal levels.
     The insufficient sumlv o f affordable housing and o f control measures has caused a

                                            19


    proliferation of new slums even as GOM was upgrading the existing ones. Such lessons
    have been taken into account by the Govemment by involving local authorities in the
    VSB program, giving greater emphasis to beneficiary participation in the design and
    management o f the projects, and introducing measures to improve the efficiency o f the
     OPH. A deliberate effort at slumprevention i s also taking place with the creation of new
     large-scale residential developments that reserve tracts of urbanized land for the
     constructiono f social housing.

81.  The main analytical underpinnings to the proposed operation consist of: a) two
     comprehensive Bank-financed studies of the housing sector in 1998 carried out under the
    Land Development Project; b) the Housing Sector Note prepared in 2002; c) the outputs
    o f the Bank's technical assistance carried out in 2003; and d) the results o f the advisory
    work carried out in 2004 as part o f the preparation o f the proposed operation. This
    included a comparative evaluation of slum upgrading programs in Morocco and Tunisia
    and a regional study o f housing practices in the MENA region, which provided useful
    guidance in the benchmarking o f the Moroccan program of sector reforms. A review o f
    housing sector reform in comparator countries was also prepared at the request o f the
    Government, drawing significantly from recent experience in Eastern Europe and Latin
    America.

82.  The Bank's Poverty report publishedin September 2004 provided a detailed and spatial
     analysis of poverty in Morocco, and helped to alter the perception o f poverty as a
    primarily rural concern. Its findings demonstrated that with the shift o f the population
    toward the urban areas, significantly poor populations are also found in peri-urban and
    urban areas. The report provided a tool to the Government to improve the targeting o f
    poverty reduction, and incentives to assign more importance to issues of sub-standard
    housing, water supply, education, health insurance, and to a policy o f "proximity" or
     community services. The Financial Sector Assessment Program report o f 2002 stressed
    that demand for urban housing continues to be high, and that banks finance only 20
    percent o f total housingconstruction.



E. COLLABORATIONWITHIMFAND OTHER DONORS


83.  The Bank has maintained close working contacts with the IMF and other donors that
     are assisting the Government in the housing sector in order to coordinate policy
    recommendations duringpreparation, seeking synergies among the respective operations,
     and avoiding overlaps.

84.  The Bank is collaborating with the IMF and the EU on the overall reform of the tax
    system. The Government has received a commitment from the EU to an adjustment
     operation to support this reform, and the IMFwill assist inthe technical definition o f the
    new fiscal measures. The Bank will continue to closely monitor progress inthis area, in
    order to support the in-depthreview of the real estate tax system to be carried out by
    GOM and to ensure that its recommendations on the reform of housing subsidies and
    taxation will be alignedwith the overall reform agenda supported by the IMF andthe EU.

85.  There has been close coordination with other donors involved in the sector. The
    analysis o f past slum upgrading programs and o f the on-going restructuring o f the OPH
    has benefited from the support of Agence Franqaise de De`veloppement (AFD) which, in

                                            20


     November 2004, approved a Euro 50 million loan to HA0 for the implementation o f part
     o f the VSB program. Similar coordination has been maintained with the European
     Investment bank (EIB), which in October 2004 approved a loan o f Euro 71 million to
     HA0 for the construction o f off-site infrastructure for its land development and VSB
     operations. Dialogue is on-going with the European Union (EU) team in charge o f the
     preparation o f a Euro 90 million grant to support the implementation o f the
     Government's social housing program. This grant would also provide for the construction
     o f basic health and education infrashucture in proximity o f the upgraded slum
     neighborhoods, and targeted subsidies for those households that are unable to afford the
     VSB products.

86.  During 2004, Cities Alliance, the Bank-managed multilateral program for slum
     upgrading, approveda grant of US$0.5m in support of the implementation of the VSB
     program. This technical assistance will provide the MHUwith additional resources to: a)
     prepare a monitoring and evaluation framework; b) develop the community participation
     aspects o f the program; c) support the management unit for the V S B program within
     MHU; d) create a permanentmechanismfor the monitoring of sub-standard housing; and
     e) establish a national and international communication strategy for the program. The
     Bank has been instrumentalinthe formulation o fthis proposal and would assist the MHU
     with its implementationinparallel to the supervision o fthe proposedoperation.


                               V. THE PROPOSEDLOAN



A. LOANSTRUCTUREAND CONDITIONS


87.  An overall agreement has been reached with the Government on the design and
     implementation of the reforms supported under theproposed operation. This agreement
     i s supported by the Policy Matrix and by the Letter of Sector Development Policy,
     attached in Annexes 2 and 3. In agreement with the Government, the on-going reform
     program will be fully implemented in the next 24 months (mid-2005 to mid-2007). The
     scope o f the reforms has been structured in two sets according to their readiness for
     implementation.

88.  It isproposed that the loan of US$150million equivalent be disbursed in two tranches,
     respectively of US$90 million and of US$60million equivalent. The first tranche o f the
     loan is expected to be disbursed upon effectiveness, and based on the policy measures
     already taken. The second tranche is expected to be disbursed 18 to 24 months after
     effectiveness, following the Bank's review and determination that policy actions
     undertaken are satisfactory, and correspond to those specified inthe Loan Agreement.


B. DISBURSEMENTOF THE FIRST TRANCHE


89.  The first set o f reforms which have been completed with the support of this operation
     during 2005 includes the following actions, which had been stipulated as conditions for
     Boardpresentation and disbursement o f the first tranche:

                                               21


   (a) Approval of the detailed implementationplan for the slum upgrading program VSB:
       MHU has finalized and adopted an implementation plan dated May 2005 to address
       issues o f program management, program evaluation, environmental screening and
       monitoring o f operations, community participation, forecasting o f land and financial
       resources requirements, and communication strategy. This implementation plan also
       provides qualitative and quantitative indicators to be subsequently used by the MHU in
       the monitoring and evaluation o fthe program's performance.

   (b) Promotion of access to credit within the VSBprogram:MHUhas fully prepared a credit
       education program to facilitate access to mortgage credit inparticular to VSB households
       who will relocate into apartment units, to be initially implemented over two years (from
       mid-2005 to mid-2007). The Committee in charge o f the FOGARIM guarantee fund will
       be responsible for the oversight o f the credit education program, which was finalized in
       M a y 2005.

   (c) Formal creation of the Supervisory Board of the Holding AI Omrane: To improve the
       governance and management performance o f HAO, and because o f its size and
       complexity, the HA0has beenput under the surveillance o f a Supervisory Board, headed
       by the Prime Minister, and including six Ministers, with oversight functions over its
       Board o f Directors. This governance structure has been put inplace inMarch 2005.

   (d) Reimbursement of the debt of the OPH to CIH: To prepare for their final restructuring,
       the regional parastatal construction companies ERAC have negotiated with the public
       bank CIH the final amount o f their outstanding accumulated debt arrears and interests
       and completed the reimbursement thereof (MAD 800m) inDecember 2004.

   (e) Approval of the Circular on social housing planning and construction standards:
       Based on technical studies carried out, a Circular has instructed the Urban Agencies,
       urban design f m s and architects on the minimumrequirements for the social housing
       developments and construction, in order to reduce their costs and to make them more
       affordable to the end users. The circular was issuedby MHUinApril 2005.

   (f) Approval of the Circular on the revised standardsfor public facilities in residential
       developments: MHU has finalized the new standards to be applied to the land
       requirements for public facilities, and has issued a Circular to the Urban Agencies and to
       urban design firms in charge o f the preparation and approval o f new urban development
       plans, in order to increase land-use ratios and decrease the cost o f the residential
       developments. The circular was issued inApril 2005.

   (g) Government decision to create the housing saving schemes: MFP has decided to create
       this new instrument aimed at improvingaccess to housingcredit by the poor and informal
       sector households striving to achieve access to social housing, and has also decided to
       provide the appropriate financial incentive to stimulate demand and encourage savings by
       households. This decision was reached inM a y 2005.

90.    The following milestones were also accomplished prior to Board presentation: a) the
       studies for the reform o f the urbanplanning legslation were launched; b) the study o f the
       residential rental market was launched; c) terms of reference for the study on the impact
       o f tax subsidies on the housing sector were defined and approved; and d) a report was
       produced by the Steering Committee o f FOGARIM in order to evaluate the Fund
       performance and propose necessary adjustments to its parameters to improve its

                                               22


       performance. These activities are considered critical to ensure timely preparation of the
       reforms under the second tranche.


C. DISBURSEMENTOF THE SECONDTRANCHE


91.    The second set o f reforms to be completed with the support o f this operation during2007
       would include the following actions, which are stipulated as conditions for 2"d tranche
       disbursement:

   (a) The achievement of qualitative and quantitative targets in the implementation of the
       VSBprogram: Based on the detailed implementation action plan that has been approved
       prior to Boardpresentation, qualitative and quantitative targets to be reachedby 2007 will
       include the delivery o f 30,000 units to program beneficiaries by the end o f 2006. The
       satisfactory implementation o f the VSB program will be monitored on the basis o f the
       reports o f its National Supervisory Committee.

   (b) Satisfactory implementation of the final restructuring of the parastatal companies:
       Based on technical work that has started in 2004, the Govemment will complete the
       restructuring o f the regional OPH and their integration within the Holding
       d'AmCnagement A1 Omrane, according to criteria of efficiency, professionalism, market
       responsiveness and financial viability. The progress and impact o f the restructuring will
       be measured on the basis o f the half-yearly reports to be produced by the HA0
       independent Audit Committee.

   (c) Approval of the new urbanplanning legislation: After broad consultation with the main
       stakeholders, and through the work of an ad-hoc committee that has been established by
       the MHUinearly 2005, the proposedlaw will be adoptedby the Council o f Govemment

   (d) Approval of new residential rental market legislation. On the basis o f the outcomes o f
       the studies and consultations being carried out as o f 2005, the Council o f Govemment
       will approve the new legislation regulating the residential rental sector, aimed at
       promotingthe development o f a rental market.

   (e) Adjustments to the charter of the FOGARIM Housing Guarantee Fund. Based on the
       results and recommendation o f the evaluation report, the Govemment will introduce
       appropriate changes to the parameters o f FOGARIM to improve its performance and
       accessibility in 2006, and in the first quarter o f 2007 will decide on the opportunity o f
       introducinginsurance premiums.

   (f) Establishment of the housing saving schemes will take place with the introductionof an
       appropriate financial incentive in the draft 2006 Budget Law. This in tum will enable
       banks to define and market their housing saving schemes as o f 2006.

   (8) Implementation of the agreed reforms of the real estate tax system. On the basis o f the
       outcomes o f the study to be completed in 2005, recommendations for the reform o f real
       estate taxation will be included by the MFP inthe draft Budget Law o f 2007.

                                               23




D. BENEFITS


92.  The overall benefits expectedfrom this operation are related to the mitigation of the
     national housing crisis and of the social exclusion manifested in the slums. The
     Government i s committed to address these imbalances as part o f its policies to improve
     service delivery to the urban poor, and the Loan is expected to provide support to a
     coherent implementation o fthe necessary reforms and investments to achieve these goals.

93.  The specific benefits expectedfrom the implementation of the reforms and investments
     supported by this operation are thefollowing: a) the improved living conditions o f the
     urban poor which would result from the progressive elimination o f the existing slums and
     from the increased supply o f low-cost housing; b) a more efficient use o f resources
     allocated to public housing programs; c) an enhanced access to housing finance for the
     urban poor through mechanisms o f guarantee funds and housing saving schemes; d) the
     reduced cost o f land resulting from more cost-effective planning regulations; e) better
     targeted public subsidies to the housing sector; and f) job creation resulting from
     increased construction activity.



                          VI. OPERATIONIMPLEMENTATION


A. POVERTYAND SOCIAL IMPACTS


94. A Poverty and Social Impact Assessment (PSIA) is being carried out in parallel to
    project preparation. The PSIA has selectively focused on some o f the key reforms in
     order to ascertain the likely responsiveness of: a) the VSB program to the needs and
     demands o f the slum dwellers; and b) the improved access to credit and of housing saving
     schemes to the financial needs o f the low-income families from the informal sector. The
     PSIA i s being carried out from January to July 2005. Its methodology comprises: a) a
     stakeholder analysis aimed at assessing the likely degree o f support for the reform
     program by key stakeholders; b) an analysis o f the current shelter strategies o f the urban
     poor living in the slums; and c) field work in selected slums neighborhoods o f Agadir,
     Larache and Casablanca.

95.  The PSIA is being carried out jointly by the Bank and the Ministry of Housing and
     Urban Planning. The research work results from the involvement o f intemational
     consultants and o f a Moroccan firm specialized insocial analysis. A national workshop to
     discuss and validate the results o f the field work took place inM a y 2005 and highlighted
     the needs to ensure that the regional representations o f the MHU are fully equipped to
     assist beneficiary households and the OPH in the implementation o f the VSB program,
     and to reinforce the social support and credit education functions o f the program. These
     concerns are also addressed by the MHUin the VSB detailed implementation plan, and
     will be hrther supported by the Cities Alliance technical assistance. Final results o f the
     PSIA study will be used as a reference for the detailed design o f the reform actions to be
     prepared and implemented in these areas. It is expected that the results o f the PSIA will

                                              24


    be fully incorporated in the Government's actions between the disbursement of the 1st
     and o f the 2nd tranche.

96. Preliminary results of the PSIA point to the needfor special measuresfor those slum-
     dwellers who cannot afford even the subsidized housing, and to reinforce VSB
    participatory measures. Fieldwork and literature point out the presence within the slums
     of a significant percentageof households (between 10 and 20 percent on average) that are
     too poor to take active financial part in the provision of alternative subsidized shelter.
     The MHU i s in the process o f studying appropriate measures to accommodate these
     families inthe VSB program, without compromising the principleof partial cost recovery
     for the majority of the beneficiaries. Specifically, it i s negotiating with the EU for the
     allocation o f grant financing that would allow it to support these households with safety-
     net measuresaimed at providing them with highly subsidized housing units.


B. SUPERVISION


97.  The MFP and the MHU will be the two ministries responsible for the overall
     implementation of the proposed operation and for reporting progress and coordinating
     actions among other concerned agencies. Inparticular, the MHUwill be responsible for
     the implementation of the reform actions pertaining to urban planning, restructuring of
     the OPH, implementation of the VSB program, and reforming the residential rental
     sector. The MFP on the other hand will be responsible for the implementation o f the
    reform actions pertaining to the rationalization of the real estate taxes and subsidies, the
     operation o f the guarantee fund FOGARIM, and the creation of the housing saving
     schemes.

98.  The Bank will supervise implementation and review progress to assist GOM in
     designing and implementing the sector reforms. The Bank will further and deepen the
    policy dialogue with the institutions involved in the implementation of the program o f
     reform, and ensure the availability of staff and specialists to advise the Govemment inall
     o f the policy and technical areas involved. Finally, coordination with other donors will be
     continued, to ensure synergies and avoid conflicting policy advice.


C. MONITORINGAND EVALUATION


99.  The outcomes of the housing sector policy reforms will be monitored according to the
    following indicators: (a) the number o f slum dweller households who gain access to
     housing units or land plots via the VSB program, which should reach 30,000 by the end
     of 2006; (b) the number of loans guaranteed by FOGARIM by the end o f 2005 and of
     2006 ;(c) the number of housing saving accounts opened in 2006; (d) the improvement
     of the key financial ratios for HA0 and its subsidiaries at end of 2006 as compared to
     end of 2004; (e) the yearly number o f low-cost landplots and housingunits produced and
    put on the market by private sectors developers; (f) the average decrease in the unit
     construction costs o f new social housing programs at end o f 2006 as compared to end o f
     2004; and (g) the improvement in the land-use ratio in newly planned social housing
     developments at end o f 2006 as compared to end o f 2004. Some o f the reforms o f the

                                              25


     second tranche, however, are expected to have an impact only in the medium term, and
     therefore cannot be monitoredwithin the timeframe o f the HSDPL.

100. The selection of monitoring indicators has taken into account the tracking systems
     already in place at the MHU and the MFP, which will be each responsiblefor their
     monitoring. The impacts o f the reforms o f the urban planning legislation, o f the
     residential rental sector legislation, and o f the real estate taxes and subsidies will not be
     measured within the timeframe o f the implementation o f the proposed Loan. Prior to the
     disbursement o f the second tranche, and during 2007, a comprehensive effort o f
     measuring the outcomes o f the program o f reforms implemented under the Loan would
     be taking place by MFP and MHU, using baseline figures for the close o f 2004 and o f
     2006. A mid-term evaluation o f the implementation o f the VSB program will be carried
     out by national and intemational consultants, as part o f the activities supported by the
     Cities Alliance technical assistance, which will enable the MHU to enhance its design
     and operational modalities.


D. FIDUCIARYASPECTS


101. A Country Financial Accounting Assessment (CFAA) was conducted in 2003. The
     main conclusion o f the CFAA i s that the Moroccan public financial management system
     i s characterized by a good level o f transparency and accuracy and backed by a strong
     Ministry o f Finance (which has an extensive treasury network inthe country).

102. The Moroccan public _financial management system is characterized by long
     implementation delays. The system o f control i s comprehensive (internal, external, ex
     ante, ex post) but requires further co-ordination and modemization in order to provide
     performance -based audit and added value. The integrated computerization o f the system
     i s on-going and expected to be effective in 2006. A number o f reforms are underway in
     the areas o f public sector integrated accounting information system, performance-based
     budgeting, decentralization and de-concentration, internal control and civil service
     reform. These are expected to modernize and improve substantially the public sector
     management and its performance.


E. DISBURSEMENTAND AUDITING


103. The proposed loan will follow the Bank's disbursementprocedures for Development
     Policy Loans and will be disbursedin two installments. The first will be disbursed upon
     loan effectiveness. The proceeds of the second tranche will be deposited after all the
     conditions of the second tranche release are met. Disbursement arrangements will follow
     the simplified procedures used for adjustment operations approved by the Board on
     February 1, 1996. Thus, disbursements will not be linked to specific purchases and there
     will be noprocurementrequirements.

104. Once the loan is approved by the Board and becomes effective, theproceeds of thefirst
     tranche will be deposited by IBRD in an account designated by the Borrower and
     acceptable to the Bank at the Central Bank of Morocco (Bank AI Maghrib). The
     Borrower should ensure that upon the deposit o f the Loan into said account, an equivalent
     amount is credited inthe Borrower's budget management system, ina manner acceptable

                                               26


     to the Bank. The Borrower will report to the Bank on the amounts deposited in the
     foreign currency account and credited to the budget management system. Ifthe proceeds
     o f the loan are used for ineligible purposes as defined in the Loan Agreement, IBRD will
     require the Borrower to promptly refund an amount equal to the amount o f said payment
     to IBRD. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled. The
     administration o f this loan will be the responsibility o f the Ministryo f Finance. Although
     an audit o f the use o f the hnds may not be required, IBRD reserves the right to require
     audits any time.


F. ENVIRONMENTALASPECTS


105. The Bank has determined that the proposed Loan would not have significant adverse
     environmental impacts. Based on the upstream National Environmental Action Plan
     conducted by the Moroccan Government and on the review by the Bank of the land use
     planning regulations and o f the Environmental Assessment system, its was concluded that
     the national environmental legislation i s essentially in place. Policies and procedures to
     ensure that appropriate environmental management mechanisms are applied to the
     operations under the national slum upgrading program will also be improved under the
     proposedLoan.

106. The VSB program will have a largely beneficial environmental impact via the
     upgrading of slum settlements. These settlements are often built on marginal and fragile
     lands and ecosystems, are prone to floods and land-slides, and lack basic sanitation and
     waste    management facilities.      Their  up-grading or replacement          with planned
     developments and formal housing units will provide environmental relief. The Bank has
     determined that appropriate procedures are in place for the environmental screening of
     the land to be made available to housing developments under the investment program o f
     the MHU, and that the OPH apply appropriate criteria to mitigate the environmental
     impact o f the new developments. These are reflected inthe VSB detailed implementation
     plan.


G. RISKS AND RISKMITIGATION


107. A general risk is that social and political opposition may weaken the Government's
     resolve to pursue the macroeconomic reform program. T o mitigate this risk, the
     macroeconomic framework will be monitored closely and the Government and the Bank
     will consult on further actions ifrequired to maintain the economy on a sustainable path.
     Moreover, the implementation o f the housing sector reforms i s not expected to be
     critically dependant on macroeconomic stability. Most components o f the reform
     program are centered on changes in the legal and regulatory framework and do not
     require   significant    public   investments.   Public      investments   required for    the
     implementation o f the Government's new social housing strategy have been allocated
     sufficient, stable and dedicated tax resources and are thus protected from macroeconomic
     shocks.

108. The Bank recognizes that a sector-wide approach to the reforms of the housing sector
     is relatively ambitious, and that therefore timely completion of reforms may be at risk.
     However, the natural synergies between the various areas for reformjustify the proposed

                                                27


     comprehensive approach. Risks related to the multiplicity o f institutions involved were
     identified early duringproject preparation, and on this basis the Secretary Generals o f the
     MFP and MHU have been appointed by their respective Ministers to coordinate the
     preparation and implementation o f the reform program. Ad hoc task forces involving
     stakeholders from the public and private sectors have been and will be set up as needed to
     develop and consult on sensitive reforms.

109. The implementation of the VSBprogram is at risk ofpossible delays due to slower than
     expected delivery of the housing units and to a slow take off of the housing finance
     reforms. The projected increase in OPH productivity could be reduced by the process o f
     organizational restructuring. The time required to introduce necessary improvements to
     the FOGARIMguarantee fund, to carry out the related credit education program, and for
     the operational set-up o f the housing saving schemes might also slow-down the improved
     access to credit and hence the implementation o f the VSB program. The VSB, however,
     is enjoying great political visibility and support from the highest authorities in the
     country. A National Supervision Committee has been created, chaired by the Prime
     Minister, and comprising the Ministers o f Housing and Urban Planning, o f Finance and
     Privatization, o f Justice, o f Interior and o f Social Development. A new Division for the
     management o f the VSB program has been created by the MHU and has been already
     fully staffed. The technical support from Cities Alliance on a comprehensive set of issues
     related to program implementation will also be beneficial to advance the program as
     planned.

110. The restructuring of the OPH will present challenges and risks. At the central level,
     currently overstaffed HA0 will have to de-concentrate most o f its personnel to the
     regional branches. At the regional level, the challenge will be integrating into one single
     efficient structure the regional branches o f HA0 with the local existing and
     independently managed OPH. This will not be easy, given that each company has had for
     years a different corporate culture, and that four regional OPH out o f seven have run up
     large deficits and have developed lower management, accounting and commercial
     standards. In addition, there are vested interests in maintaining the structure,
     management, staffing and coverage o f the current OPH, even iftheir merge should allow
     for large efficiency gains intechnical, financial and commercial terms. To mitigate those
     risks, the MFP and the MHU will be closely supporting and monitoring the OPH
     restructuring, and the Bank will provide technical support as needed to address
     implementation issues as they may arise.

111. Possible resistance to and delays in the adoption of new legislation are likely. Second
     tranche conditions include three sensitive legislative measures: a) the new urban planning
     code; b) the new residential rental law; and c) the reform o f the real estate taxes and
     subsidies. Resistance from vested interests is likely to arise around each o f these subjects.
     To mitigate this risk, a program o f active consensus building around the benefits o f the
     legislative and regulatory reforms supported by the Government will be implementedby
     the responsible authorities. A working group including all major stakeholders and
     assisted by a senior international consultant has been formed to prepare the new urban
     planning legislation, organize consultation forums and build consensus. For the
     residential rental sector reform, a Steering Committee composed o f representatives o f the
     main institutional stakeholders i s in charge o f supervising the ongoing study. Upon
     completion o f the study the MHU will organize a broadly publicized national event in
     order to disseminate its main recommendations The MFP has created a Steering
     Committee for the preparation of the reform o f the real estate taxes and subsidies that will

                                              28


     operate according to equivalent lines, and align the reform proposals with the general
     fiscal reformenvisaged.

112. The absence of the land titling reform from the reform package may be seen as a risk,
     given the importance of land titlingin the current distortions of the urban land market.
     The decision o f the Government and the Bank not to include this reform under the
     proposed operation i s based on the following considerations. First, land titling legislation
     i s not specific to the housing sector, but applies equally to agricultural, industrial and
     tourism activities, and as such necessitates investigations and the consensus o f various
     Ministries that are not involved with the proposed operation. Secondly, international
     experience shows that land titling reform projects are best handled separately as self-
     standing operations. Lastly, the large-scale release o f land by the State (see paragraph 55)
     should ensure that the VSB program inparticular and social housing programs in general
     will not riskpenury of land inthe medium term. The Agence Nationale de Consewation
     FonciBre, Cadastre et Cartographie (ANCFCC) has in the meanwhile initiated the
     process o f land titlingreform with the drafting o fremedial legislation; this will be subject
     to technical and political consultations, including with the MHU, in view o f its eventual
     approval.

                                             29


ANNEX 1: LETTER OF SECTORDEVELOPMENT POLICY

                 ENGLISH TRANSLATION OF FRENCH ORIGINAL



                       HousingSector DevelopmentPolicyLoan


Mr.President,

The Government of the Kingdom o f Morocco attaches a particular importance to the
housing sector and to the improvement of the housing conditions o f all categories o f the
Moroccanpopulation.

Accordingly, in2003 the Government has launched a new strategy centered on a series o f
ambitious reforms relating to the eradication o f all urban slums by 2010, the
improvement o f the institutional and legal frameworks, and the reform o f the housing
finance system.

Conscious o f the transversal character o f the sector, the Government has cast these
reforms within a global and integrated medium term vision, taking into consideration the
main constraints and stakes o f the housing sector, in order to ensure the success o f the
new strategy o f the Government with respect to housing ingeneral, and social housing in
particular.

I-CharacteristicsoftheHousingSector

Morocco, with 30 million inhabitants, a young population and a strong rate o f
urbanization, faces important and growing housing demand. Inthe absence o f a sufficient
and adapted formal housing production, this growing demand has caused a proliferation
o f substandard housing, including slums which today shelter more than 210.000
households in urban areas. In addition, the rental sector remains insufficiently structured
andhas not developed on a satisfactory scale.

To counter this situation, important measures were taken by the Government for the
housing sector, among which one can quote:

  0   Direct interventions o f slum upgrading through the public housing companies. To
      this end, these operators have benefited from transfers o f public land intended for
      the production o f subsidized serviced plots and housing units for low income
      households;
  0   The launch o f a national program o f construction o f 200.000 social housingunits;
  0   Support to housing demand through budgetary subsidies in the form o f interest rate
      subsidies on mortgages andinterest-free upfront loansto households;
  0   Support to social housing supply, inparticular through important tax incentives.

                                             30


In spite of undeniable successes, among which the development of a strong private
construction industry which allowed for a significant fall in the price of new housing
during the last years, these measures have not obtained all the expected results, and it
appeared necessary to identify new instruments in order to ensure access to decent
housing for all categories o f households, and inparticular to the poorest.

11- Strategy of the Governmentfor HousingandLandPlanning

       The new Strategy implemented from 2003 onwards, in partnership with public
       and private stakeholders, hasthe following mainobjectives:

     Doubling the annual production o f social housing, with the objective of producing
     100,000 social units annually in the medium term, in order to meet the needs o f
     low-income populations previously excluded from access to formal housing
     products;
     Eradication o f slums nationwide by 2010, through the combination o f an ambitious
     program o f slum upgrading in all the cities involved, and o f a policy o f prevention
     allowing for the production o f low-cost serviced or semi-serviced plots representing
     a credible alternative to informal housing;
     Adaptation o f urbanplanning and its instruments to the needs o furban development
     and contribution to the improvement of cities and the promotion o f real estate
     investments;
     Dynamization o f the rental sector through the reform o f the legal framework
     governing it;
     Improvement o f access to housing finance for populations with modest and/or
     irregular incomes.

       To achieve these goals, the Government has adopted a new strategy which is
       articulated around the following main directions requiring additional efforts:

     the improvement o f the institutional framework, inparticular for urbanplanning;
     the restructuring o f the public housingcompanies, in order to allow them to fulfill
     their missions with the necessary efficiency;
     the improvement o f the legal framework governing relations between landlords and
     tenants;
     the adoption o f measures facilitating access to credit o f populations with modest
     and/or irregular incomes;
     the rationalizationo fthe taxation o fthe real estate sector.

To implement this strategy, various measures and actions were engaged in 2003 and
2004, and an important program o freforms is envisaged inthe medium term.

                                              31



            I. Actionsengagedin200312004:

Duringthe last two years, tangible progress was madeinparticular inthe followingareas:

Adoption of a new approachto the fight against substandardhousing:this approach
builds upon past experience accumulated by Morocco in this field. On this basis, the
Villes Sans Bidonvilles program (VSB) (Cities without slums) was devised and launched
in2004. Contractshave already beensigned with manycities, reflecting the involvement
o f local actors in the implementation o f the program. In the same way, intemal and
extemal financial resources have been mobilized to engage the first operations o f the
program.

Increase in the financial resources allocatedto the sector: provisions were taken in
order to secure and increase the resources o f the Housing Solidarity Fund (FSH), which
more than doubled between 2003 and 2004. Multi-year programming of the use o f the
FSHresources has been put in place, in order to meet the financing needs o f the social
housingprograms.

Creation of the Mortgage Guarantee funds: to facilitate access to bank financing for
populations with modest and/or irregular incomes, mortgage guarantee funds for social
housing (FOGALOGE-PUBLIC for employees o f the public sector, and FOGARIM for
households with modest and/or irregular incomes) were set up and capitalized with
substantial budgetary resources, totaling MAD 550 million in 2004. A Steering
Committee for these funds has been established, which includes the main public and
private stakeholders.

Restructuring of the public housing companies (OPH): in order to improve the
performance of the OPH, a new holding called Holding A1 Omrane (HAO) was created
by merging ANHI, SNEC and ATTACHAROUK. Actions were taken to improve the
financial standing of the ERAC for their subsequent subsidiarization within HAO. The
main measures already taken in this direction in 2004 are the reimbursement o f the
ERAC's debt arrears vis-a-vis the CM, for an amount o f MAD 800 million; the
recapitalization of the OPH for a total amount close to MAD 900 million, and the
refocusing o f the activities o f all the OPH on missions o f landservicing and upgradingo f
slums and substandard housing.

Mobilization of public land: the first tranche comprised 3,400 ha o f public domain,
which have been made available to the OPH for servicing, before being sold to the
private sector within the framework of public-private partnerships to carry out social
housing programs.

Overhaul of urban planning: measures were taken to dynamize and redirect the
activities o f the UrbanAgencies, to create one-stop shops and to simplify urban planning
procedures, in particular through the definition o f exceptional procedures for projects
having a substantial socio-economic and urban impact, and for the reduction o f approval

                                               32


 delays for subdivision andbuildingpermits.

 Support to and organization of the real estate professions: in order to reinforce the
 intervention capacities o f the private sector in the satisfaction o f housing demand, an
 innovative partnership was initiated between the public sector and sector professionals
 which was taken place with the institutionalization o f channels o f dialogue with the trade
 associations andthe reinforcement o f actions o ftraining andtechnical and legal support.

             2. Programofreformsinthe mediumterm

Government action inthe housing sector over the period 2005-2007 will be focused on the
one hand on the consolidation o fthe reforms already undertaken, and on the other hand on
the implementation o f necessary complementary reforms and instrumentsinthe following
areas:

 Implementationof the "Villes sans Bidonvilles" (VSB) program: after the adoptionof
 the VSB program, the Government action will focus on the instruments and mechanisms
 to be set up in order to ensure an effective implementation o f the program. Identified
 priority actions include:
   0   The mobilization o f financial and landresources necessary to the program;
   0   Launching a credit education program for the population eligible to housing units
       within the VSB program;
   0   The inclusion inthe projects o f a component o f social support to households;
   0   Setting up a monitoring and evaluation system allowing to learn lessons from past
       projects andto improve public interventions ina sustained way;
   0   The generalization o f the system o f monitoring and evaluation o f environmental
       impacts usedbyHA0 to all VSB projects.

 Reformof urbanplanningpolicies:this reform relates inparticular to:
   0   The draft law 04/04 under review by the Parliament, which enacts various
       provisions concerning housingand urbanplanning;
   0   The norms for public facilities in urban development projects, intended to
       rationalize the use o f land andto reduce the costs o f urbanprojects;
   0   The adoption o f minimal occupancy standards allowing to substantially reduce the
       costs o f construction o f social housing;
   0   A new urban planning code to unify, rationalize and harmonize the legislation
       goveming urbanplanning.

 Restructuring of public housing companies: the restructuring o f the public housing
 companies will continue and relate to:
   0   Refocusing the missions o f the Holding on land servicing and upgrading of
       substandard housing;
   0   Geographicalredistribution and improvement o f the skills of the personnel o fHAO,
       inorderto ensure abetter adequacy o fhumanresourceswith itsmissions;
   0   Improving the financial soundness of the Holding and its subsidiaries, in order to
       avoid any need for recapitalization bypublic funds inthe future;

                                              33



   0   Setting up an information system from the Holding towards the oversight
       authorities, allowing for a more effective supervision o f the actions o f the Holding
       involvingpublic funds.

 Dynamization of the residential rental sector: a study aiming at establishing a
 diagnosis o f the sector and proposing recommendations likely to boost the development
 of the sector has been launched. A draft law on the residential rental sector, aiming in
 particular at rebalancing the relation between landlords and tenants and at softening the
 conditions for revision o f the rents, will be prepared and will be the subject o f a broad
 information and communication campaign towards the sector's stakeholders after his
 adoption by the Government.

 Improvement of the performance of the Mortgage Guarantee funds: inorder to study
 potential measures to improve the performance o f the mortgage guarantee funds
 (Fogaloge-Public and Fogarim), an evaluation report based on the first year o f operation
 o f the two funds will be drawn up by the Steering Committee. The recommendations
 therein will constitute the basis for adjustments to the implementation agreements and to
 production targets assigned to these funds.

Creation of a system of contractual savings for housing: a simple, sound and attractive
product o f contract savings for housing will be set up. This important instrument aimed at
improving household affordability will be supported by public financial incentives, which
will be socially targeted.

Rationalization of the real estate taxation system: the real estate tax system will be
overhauled in a manner consistent with the general reform o f the tax system currently
ongoing, in order to reduce fiscal costs, to rationalize and simplify the system, and to
improve the targeting and efficiency ofthe tax expenditures inthe sector. This reform will
be based on the results o f a study evaluating the socio-economic impact o f real estate
taxation. A Steering Committee will supervise the realizationo fthis study.


 Ithankyouforyourinvaluablesupporttotherealizationofthisambitiousprogram.


 Sincerely yours,

                                           (signed)

                          The Minister o f Finance and Privatization

                                     Fathallah Ouallalou

                                                     34


(French official version)




       8 -   3 8 5 6         P&tde dbveloppementdusecteurdeI'habitat

                                      Lettre depolique stxtiwieile




        LegouvernementduRoyaumeduMimeaccordeuneimportanceparticuli&reausecteurdu
        logementetal'ardlioration des conditionsd'hhabitatpourl'ensemble desMarocains.

        Ainsi, le gouvemementa-t-il lanci! en 2003 une nowelle stratbgieaxee sur una serie de
        reformes ambitieuses qui concement la &sorption des bidonvilles il'horizon 2010,
        l'amdioration ducadreinstitutionneletjuridiqueet lar6Eormedusysttime defimcement
        de.E'habitat

        Conscientdud r et " a l             duseoteur, legouvmementainscritoesr4tbmesdam
        le cadre d'une vision globale et intew B moyea terme, prenant en cmrsidkmtion la
        grandes contnintes etenjeuxdusecteur et afind'assurer le s u d s de lanouvellestrat6gie
        duGouvemernentenmtih&habitat engh&tal,etdkbitat socialenparticulier.

        E Caract&istiquesduSeeteurdeI'fiabitat

        LeMaroc, avec 30 millions&habitants, m epopulationjeuneetMtawc d'urbanistionen
        forte croisssnce,fait faceB unbesoinimportantetcroissantdelogements. A &&ut d'une
        production hrmelle suffisante et *%e,        ce besoin a occasionne une proWration de
        l'habitatinsalubredontnotammentles bidonvillesquiaujourd`huiabritentplusde210.000
        mhagesenmilieuurbain. Parailleum, lesecteur locatifrestepeustxucturk etne%'estpas
        d6veloppkhune&belle satisfaisante.

       pour parer B cette situation, des mesumimportantesont et4 prises par 1'Etatau pro& du
       secteur dulogementdont onp u tcitm:
          0   Lesintententionsdirectesderbsorptiondel'habitatindubreBtraversles opdrateum
              publics de.I'habitat. Ace titre, ces opkateursontbb&ii6 notammentd'untmdert
              der tenainsdu domainepublicdm&& & laproductionde lots et de logements;iprix
              subventiomkspourlamenagesit faibles revenus;
          a  L elancementduprogrammenationaldeconstructionde200.000logements~ o ~ i a u; x
          a  Le soutian a la demande de fogements, via dcs aides budgktaircs matkidis&
              notammmt par des ristoumes d'inttkh et des avances de l'Etat non productives
              d'int&& enfhvewdesmhages;
          0   Lesoutiena I'ofke der logemmtssociaux"mentparle biaisd'incitations 5scaIes
              importaates.

                                           35




Endepibd'indeniablessuccb, pamilesquelsil&utciterledheloppement d'un fofisecteur
de la psomotion immobilidre privt5e qui a permis une baisse significative du prix des
logemenis ne&.% lots des derdres annew, ces mesures n'ont pas pennis d'atteindre
l'ensemble des rhsultats escomptds, et il est apparu ndcessaire &identifier de nouvaux
instrumentspermettantd'assurer l'asocis A un logemnt decent a toUtes les catt5gories de
managesetenpardculierauxplusdhunis.

 II- duGouvBmernentenmatihed'habitatetd'urbanisme
     Stmttlgie

 La nouvelle stratdgie mise en place a paair de 2003, en concertation avec les divers
 intervenantspublics etprivks,saestfix& c o m eprincipauxobjectik
      le doublement du rythme de production de l'habitat social, pour atteindre 100,000
      unit&parmA moyentarme, atindertspondreauxbasoinsdespopulationsi revenus
      modestesexcluesde l'acci?s 1'ofEe formelle;
                                  a
   0  La r&orption des bidonvilles B l'hhelie mitionale il'horkon 2010, a c e h. la
      combhison d`unanbitiewx programme:visant I'ensomble dm villes concernbas,et
      d'une politiquede prhentionpennettantlamisesurlemarch6deprodtits & basprix
      quifaomissentunealtemafiveattractiveA l'habitat insalubre;
      L ' a d ~ o de l'urbanime st desm outilsauxbesoinsdudiweloppementurbainet
                   n
      sa contribution dam la mise B niveau desvilles et fa promotionde l'inve&issement
      immobifier ;
   e  Ladymdsationduswteurl o d f Btmverslarbfix" ducadreIkgdle
   0  L`atn6Eoration deI'accdsaufinancementdulogementpour lespopulationsarevenus
      modes-    doukrkguliers.

 Powatte?indrea s object& legowemement aadopt6unenouvellestrat6giequis'articule
 autourdmprincipixuxaxessuivmtsnkcessitantdeseffostssuppl4meataires:
   0  L'mhliomtion ducadreinsthtionnel, dontnotammentlaplanifiwtionurbaine;
   0  La restructuratiw des op6"rs      publics de l'tzabitrtt pour Ieur pmettn: d'assumr
      leursmissions avec I'&cacit&  &essaire ;
   0  L'amhliarationducadre16gdr6gissaatlesrappo- entrebaillwrs etloc~taires;
   0  L'adoption de" x e s facilitant I'aa8s au&dit despopulationsiifevenus modestes
      dauirr4guliers ;
   0  Larationalisatiundehfiscal% dusffiteur.

 Pour mener a bien cette strat&&, diversasmmuw et actions ont 6thengaghs en 2003 et
 2004, et unprogrcimmeimportantde& o m a est p r hA moyenterme.



 Durantlesdeuxdemibsamhes, desaMlncBestangiblesontdtdcnragistreesetconcement
 notamment:

 Adoption d'une nowelle approche pour la luttie contre I'hbitat insdubre: cette
 approche s'est bade sur Ia CapitalISationdes eqxkiences cumulrseS par le hkoc dans ce
  domaine. SurEettebase, le programmeVillas sans bidonvilles (VSB) a66&labor6et lance
  en 2004. Des antrats ont d&j&etk signes avec de nombreuses villes marqmt ainsi

                                          36




I'implication des acteurs locaux dans la rkdisation de ce programme. De mike, des
ressoufces hanci8res btemes et externes ont &6 mobilisdes pour engager les premibres
opdrationsdup r o p " .

Renforcemmt des rwources finaneibwi aloudes au seeteur :des dispositionsofit ktk
prises a h de peraniser et d'augmenter les ressources du Fonds SoiidaritdHabitat FSH]
quiontplus quedoubl8entre 2003 et2004.Uneprogrammationpluriannudlede i'emploi
des mssources de ce hn& a 6~ etablie aii de &ire face am besoins de fmancement
budgdtairedes programmesd'habitat social.

Crhtion des Fonds de garantie: pour faciliter l'acak. au fmancemsnt bancaim des
populations1revenusmodesteset/ou inegufiers,desfonds degarantiepourI'habitat social
(Fogaloge-Public pour les salarib du secteur public et Fogarirn pour les populations B
revemsmodesteaetfouirreguliers) ont iMmisen pkca et dot& en ressourcesbudg6.taires
impoltantesd'un m c " t global de 550 MDHen2004. Uncomitdde suivi de OBS fonds a
&t4instib4et regoupe10s prinoipux actemimpliqufjs,privk et publics.

Resbucturation des organisme~publics de I'babitat (0: ainhliorer la   pour
p ~ o r m a n mdes OPH, il a 4td pmc8d6 a ia dation du Holding d'a"xgement AI
Omrane(HAO) par la fbsion- absorptionpar I" la SNEC et d'ATTACZ-fAROUf(,
                                                      de
et A l'engagement d'actions d'assainissernent de lasituationfinanoi&redesERAC en w e de
leur filialisation au KQO. Les prinoipales meSures dhj1prises dans oe  SEXIS en2004 sont
I'apwment des mien%des ERAC vis-&-visduCM pour un Iplontsntde 800 millions de
DH, hrecapitalisationdes OPH pour un montant global avokinant b s 9OOIMDN, et le
    &age de I'advitii de I'msemble des OPHsur des                                    met
derhrptiondel'hhabitstinsdubre*

Mobiliarationdu foncier public : la premi4re tranche des terrains mobilisC a p o 6 sur
3,400 ha qui ont ktd mis a la dbpoaition d a Organismes Publics de I'&bht pour les
dnagex avant de les otsder au swtew pivd dans un oadre partenaridpour rkliser des
progmmesd'habitat social.

Mise1niveaude I%rbanisme :des masumont6t4 engag& pourdynamismst rBorienter
les activith des Agences urbaines, crkr des guichets uniquss et simplifier les procrjdures
d'urbdsms, " m n t par la mise en placede proklurespourl'octroi de ddrogations
auprofitdes projatsaymt unimp& sooihnomique eturbanistique important,et pour la
rkductiondes dblais #approbation des autorisationsdtsiotissementet deconstruction.

L'cnfsldrememt et l'orgaaisation dm professions du seeteur de la promotion
IlmmobWre: afin de renforcer les aqwit4s d'intemntion du secteur privk dans la
satisktionde la dmande en logements, unpattenariatnovamr a 6th hiti6 mtre1'Etat et
lesprofisssionn.eclsdu secteur se matthklismt notammentB traversl'institutiormalisation de
a a u xdeoon~rtation    avoclasassociatiomprohsiomelles et Ieredorcement des d o n s
deformationet d'mcsldrment tw;hniqueetjwidique,

                                                37




               2. ProgrammederHomesP moyenterne

L'action du Gouvemement en matihe d'habitat et d'urbanisme pour la pdriode 2005-2007
se f o d k e r a d'une part, sur la consolidationdes rdfonnes de$ entreprises et d'autre part,
sur la poursuite de la mise en place des r&omes et instruments complbentaires
n4cessairessc rapportantauux domaines suivanh:

Mise en owvre du programmec4 ViUm sans bidonvilles>) (VSB) :Apr& I'adoption du
progrimmeVSB, l'action gouvernementalese focaliserasur les instrumentset dispositifs a
mettre en place pour assurer une mise en m m e efficace du programme. Les actions
prioritairs identifiks incluent :
  0    Lamobilisation des msoufcesfinancihres etfonci&es nhcitfrssaires lar&lisrrtiondu
       programme ;
  0    Lelancement d'unprogramne de sensibilisation a f'acds au crdditbank@pour la
       populationBligibleawt logementsduprogrammeVSB ;
  0    L'inclusion dans lesprojets d'sune composmted'accompagnement s o d ;
  s la     mise en place d*un systi" de suivi et d'hduation pennetkit de tkm les
       enseignernents des opbtions passrjes et d'ambliorer en continu ies intewentions
       publiqum;
  0    La gdnkalisation A tous les projets VSB du syst4me d'hvaluation et de suivi de
       l'inrpactenvirommentdmisenceumparleHAO.

Larafontedela politigued'u&n&tne            :cetterefonteportenotmum"SUT:
  0    L eprojet de loi04/04 en c o w d'examenauPadementbdictant diverses dispositions
       enm a t i hd'habitat et d'urbanisme ;
  0    La grille d'&uipements publics destin6e B rationaliser l'utilisation du fbncier
       urbanisable etit xeduire les ~otltsdes projets urbains;
  0    L'adoption de nonnes "ales d`habitabiliti: permettant de &duke de manih
       importanteles ooiitsde constructiondesIogementssociawr ;
  0    Unnouveau code d'urbanismepour unifier, rationher et harmonisor la legislation
       rdgissantI'urbanisme.

~estntcatrationdes opiirabm publics de I'hsbitat: la rkirganisation des ophteurs
publicsde l'habitat auseinduHA0sepoursuiVraetporterasur :
       L ereceEltragedes missions duHoldingsur l`m6nagement fbncior et lardsorption de
       l'hbitat insalubre;
  0    L e reddploismsnt et larequalificationdu parsme1duHoldingpour m emeiileure
       adQuation des msources humaifiesavw ses missions;
  0    L'assakissement financier du Holdinget de SBS filiales, pour &iter tout besoin de
       recapitalisation pardes fonds publics I l'avenir ;
  0    L a mise en place d'un systtime de rmontiie d ' b f m t i o n du Holding vers les
       auto&% de tutelte p m m t uno supemision plus &cacc des actions de service
       publicduHotding.

Dynantisation du secteur kcortif &identie9 :une Btudevisakt B hblirundiagnosticdu
secteuretaproposerdesrecomandatians denaturehdynamismleswteuraet4 lanc6e.Un
projet de loi sur le locaEifr&identiel, visant notamrnenta rddquilibrer Ies rapports entre
baifieurs et hataimseta assauplir fes conditions de&vision des Ioyers seraprbpan3etfera

                                              38




l'objet d'une large campape d'infonnation et de communicationauprh des intervenants
dans lesecteur apdssonadoptionpax legouvemement

 L'am6lioration du fonctionnement des fonds de garantie:pour etudier les mesures
 d'amblioration des performances des fonds de garantie(Fogaloge-Public et Fogarim), un
 nipport d'evaluotion de la premib annee de fonctionnementdes dcux fonds sera 6tabli
 par le Comite de suivi doni les rec0r"dations      constituerontla base des ajusbinents
 n6cessaires aux conventions etaux objectifs deproductionassign& a ces fonds.

 L a mise en place d'un systme d'6pargne logement: unproduit simple, sQret attractif
 d'bargne logement sera mk en place. Cet instrument important de solvabilisatim des
 mknagesserasoutenuparuneincitationfuancierepubliquesocialementcibl6e.

 Rationalisation de la fmcaIil6 I"ob%&re       :lafiscalit4immobili&re feral'objetd'une
 refonte qui s'inscrit daw le cadre de la rkfonneg4nMe de lafiswlit.6,aflnde r6duire les
 charges nems fiscales, rationaliser et simplifier le systdme et am61iorer le ciblage et
 l'effiwith des dkpensasfisdes dam le secteur. Cetterefontesera bashe sur lesrbsuItatF,
 d'une htude d'hvaluation de Pimpact sociohnomique de la &dit4 immobilii"           Un
 comit4de pilotages u p "       laMisationde cettehdr?.`

 En vow remerciant de votre prr4Cieux appui pour la mise en aeuvre de cet ambitieux
 pmgmmne, je vous prie &mer, Monsieur le Prksident, I'expression de ma hum
 considBmtion.

       4-
       0
       9
       0

       P
       5
       9
       5




             +ti
       ep
     e L     a,
             0




             c)




   I   ep
      c::




t--

              ..
    2%       d




0
d




          9 w
           3

I




I

                                                      42


ANNEX 3: FUNDRELATIONSNOTE




                         Morocco-Assessment            Letter to the World Bank
                                 Economic Developments and Policies
                                               May 27,2005


The information provided below draws on the 2005 Article IV consultation discussions
that were recently held in Rabat. It represents the Fund staffs assessment o f
macroeconomic conditions in 2004 and prospects in 2005* and focuses on policy issues
facing the authorities as they pursue the objective o f high sustainable rates o f growth to
reduce poverty and unemployment.

     I.RECENTECONOMICDEVELOPMENTSANDSHORT-TERMOUTLOOK

In 2004        macroeconomic and financial conditions remained stable and
nonagriculturalGDP growth pickedup. While the overall GDP growth slowed down
to 3.5 percent on account o f a decline in growth in the primary sector, nonagricultural
GDP growth picked up to 4 percent because o f the dynamism in the tourism sector and
recovery in mining and energy sectors. On the extemal side, the trade deficit widened
with the decline in agricultural exports, the stagnation in exports o f textiles, and the
increase in the petroleum import bill. Nevertheless, the current account remained in
surplus at about 2.2 percent o f GDP reflecting the strong performance o f the tourism
sector and the high level o f workers remittances. With increased direct investment and
capital flows linked to privatization, gross official reserves amounted to $16.2 billion,
equivalent to about 10 months o f imports of goods and services and more than 100
percent o f extemal public debt at end-2004. The excess liquidity in the banking system,
resulting from the balance o f payments surplus, contributed to a decline in interbank
rates, which the central bank accommodated given the very low inflationrate.

The fiscal deficit declined in 2004, but certain policiesdid not go in the direction of
fiscal consolidationover the mediumterm. The budget deficit (including expenditures
o f Hassan I1 and excluding privatization receipts) declined by 0.5 percentage point to
4.9percent o f GDP and was much lower than envisaged in the 2004 budget. This
development reflected mainly the good revenue performance. Expenditures were higher
than envisaged because of increases in: (i)             investment following an acceleration in the
execution o f projects; (ii) wage bill following new salary increases; and (iii)
                                the                                                               subsidies
because the food subsidy reform was postponed and the petroleum price adjustment

'The assessment is based on data available at the time o f consultation discussions. The authorities are
currently inthe process o f revising their growth estimates for 2004 and projections for 2005, which are not
expected to significantly affect the overall assessment.
 Consistent with the Fund's surveillance procedures, Board consideration o f the 2005 Article IV
Consultation is expected to take place within3 months after the completion o f the discussions with the
Authorities. Accordingly, t h s document does not entail endorsement by the Fund's Executive Board of the
assessment presented init.

                                                    43


mechanism was not implemented. With privatization receipts, public debt declined to
67 percent o f GDP.

The authorities continued their structural reform efforts in 2004. Among the most
significant reforms were the liberalization o f air transport and audiovisual sectors,
privatization, public enterprise restructuring, and trade liberalization. Multilateral tariffs
have been reduced to 10 percent for goods subject to a zero tariff rate from Europe. Free
trade agreements were signed with the United States and regional partners (Egypt,
Jordan, Tunisia, and Turkey) to complement the Association Agreement with the
European Union. The authorities continued to implement the recommendations o f the
Financial Sector Assessment Program. Progress has been made in restructuring public
banks, a new central bank law giving more autonomy to Bank Al-Maghreb has been
passed, and a draft banking law was finalized and should be ratified in 2005. The
authorities also initiated reform o fthe public administration.

The decline in agriculturaloutput, the increase in petroleumprices, and the lifting
of textile quotas are affecting adversely the economic developments in 2005. The
primary sector will contract sharply and agro industries will be adversely affected
because o f adverse weather earlier this year. The growth in the manufacturing sector is
likely to slow down, reflecting the difficulties in the textile sector in the face o f strong
competition from abroad. The strong performance in tourism and construction sectors is
expected to continue. Consequently, overall GDP growth is projected to decline to about
1.2 percent andnonagricultural GDP growth is expected to slow down to 3.4 percent. The
external current account i s projected to register a small deficit because o f higher
petroleum prices and the weak performance o f textile exports, but taking into account the
privatization receipts already realized, the overall balance o f payments position should
continue to register a surplus. With delayed implementation o f domestic petroleum prices
adjustments, the impact o f higher international petroleum prices on growth and inflation
will be limited andthe budget will bear the subsidy cost.

The 2005 budget and current policies are expectedto lead to a deterioration in the
deficit to about 5.7 percent of GDP, despite a continued favorable revenue
performance. Expenditures are projected to increase significantly taking into account
the repercussions o f wage payments resulting from the 2004 wage negotiations, the
voluntary retirement program, the new universal health insurance program, the delay o f
the food (wheat and sugar) subsidy reform, and the partial adjustment in mid-May of
domestic petroleum price^.^ The authorities intendto eliminate outstanding arrears, which
have been used as a means to partly finance the petroleum subsidy. Large privatization
receipts from the sale o f government shares inMaroc Telecom will again help finance the
deficit. This will contain the debt-to-GDP ratio to 71 percent o f GDP, despite the
recognition of old pension hnd arrears (2.4 percent o f GDP). The fiscal stance and the
debt level do not pose a risk to macroeconomic stability in the short term, but current
policies are not sustainable.



  Excluding the cost o f the early retirement program and other one-off wage relatedpayments, the 2005
fiscal deficit is projected at 4.7 percent o f GDP.

                                             44


                   11.     KEY CHALLENGESAND POLICY ISSUES

Morocco has maintained macroeconomic stability during the past decade, but
growth remains volatile and insufficient to reduce poverty and unemployment.The
variability o f growth results mainly from the volatility incereal production. The resulting
income and consumption volatility does not foster investment, particularly in the rural
areas. Inrecent years, the growth of nonagricultural output has become more resilient to
agricultural output shocks, a sign of a closer link with a more stable external demand and
of an intemal demand more independent o fincome inrural areas.

Inthe contextofongoingtrade liberalization,the nonagriculturalsector is subjected
to increasing competition. This situation necessitates an acceleration o f efforts to
improve Morocco's competitiveness in terms of costs and productivity. International
competition also necessitates reforms that would permit domestic demand to play its role
as an engine o f growth. Indeed, in the past few years domestic demand was the primary
source o fMorocco's growth, while exports of goods have lost their dynamism.

In the above described context, and with the objective of achieving sustained high
rates of growth (above 5percent) to reduce poverty and unemployment: (i)
macroeconomic stability should be maintained and the fiscal deficit should be put on a
sustainable path; (ii)  structural reforms should be accelerated to render the business
environment intemationally competitive; and (iii)a gradual transition to a flexible
exchange rate regime would be advisable.

Over the medium term, the authorities' objective of reducingthe deficit to about
3 percent of GDP remains.The achievement o f this objective andits compatibility with
a highgrowth scenario will require: (i)reform of the tax system that will widen the tax
                                         a
base and allow a reduction in tax rates; (ii)    a containment o f salary increases, which
affect private sector wages and the competitiveness o f Moroccan producers, and a
reduction inthe wage bill to GDP ratio, which will enhance the flexibility o f the budget,
including to dampen income and consumption volatilities; (iii) overhaul o f the food
                                                                    an
subsidy system and its replacement by targeted support to vulnerable groups, which
should lead to a diversification o f agricultural production and a more stable income and
consumption levels in rural areas; and (iv) the implementation o f the petroleum price
adjustment mechanism, which will release resources to be channeled to more productive
investments. To these ends, the authorities intend to reduce exemptions and widen the tax
base starting in 2006, gradually reduce food subsidies over a three year period,
implement the petroleum price adjustment formula, contain the increase inthe wage bill
to 2-3 percent per year, and make the public administration more efficient and
transparent.

The authoritieshave a broad-basedstructuralreformagendato increase productivity
and promote private sector activity as well as to facilitate Morocco's increasing
integrationwith the rest o f the world. They are also keen on achieving regional economic
integration.

                                              45


The authorities intend to reform the remaining transport sectors and port and airport
services to improve the competitiveness o f Moroccan enterprises. They also intend to
continue their trade liberalization, privatization, and public enterprise restructuring
programs. Financial sector reform will also continue, notably in the areas o f payment
systems, banking supervision, accounting and auditing, and the restructuring o f public
financial institutions. Other priority areas include the removal o f structural constraints to
enhance the availability and reduce the cost o f credit to small- and medium-sized
enterprises, and more broadly the reform o f the judicial system andthe implementation o f
the new labor code to better support private sector activity.

The current exchange rate system has served Morocco well. Nevertheless, the
authorities are reviewing the pros and cons o f alternative exchange rate regimes in the
context o f Morocco's increasing integration into the world economy, taking into account
the characteristics of the Moroccan economy as well as their hture policy intentions.
They are open to the idea o f a possible gradual move to a flexible exchange rate regime.
insupport oftheir growth objectives.

The Moroccan authorities are well aware of the challenges ahead. They are
committed to undertaking structural reforms and reducing the fiscal deficit to promote
private sector activity, make the economy more competitive, and create conditions for
high and sustainable growth. In that context, the IMF looks forward to continuing to
support Morocco's efforts through the provision o f technical assistance and policy
advice.

                                                          46


ANNEX 4: ESTIMATEDVALUE OFPUBLICSUBSIDIESTO THE HOUSINGSECTOR

Category                                                          Provision                               Subsidy
                                                                                                          Amount

Fiscal Expenditures
RegistrationFees                      Reducedrate :2.5 percent instead of 5 percent for dwellings             1,092
                                      with value underMAD 350,000
                                      Reduced rate : 1.25 percent instead o f 5 percent for                     336
                                      dwellingswith value under MAD 180,000
VAT                                   No VAT on self-construction                                               338
                                      No VAT on social housing (area < 100 m2 and value ,                       177
                                      200,000 MAD)
                                      ExemptionofVAT on interests for mortgages                                   67
IncomeTax                             Deductionofmortgageinterests from taxable income                          610
                                      Exemptionfor new units for 3 years                                          48
                                       Provisionof3 percent of fiscal benefit                                      9
                                       Deduction of mortgage interests and cauital from taxable                 438
                                       income, for wage earners buying social dwellings (Value <

Tax on CapitalGains
                                       after 5 years possession
                                       Exemptionof the first sale of social unit (area < 100m2 and              n.a.
                                       value < 200.000 MAD)
Taxe Urbaine                           Tax base cut by 75 percent for homeowners                      ~         228
                                       Exemptionfor new units for the first 5 years                              100
                                       Exemptionfor social housingfor all the durationofthe loan                   12
Taxe d'kdilite                         Tax basecut by 75 percent for homeowners                                1,110
Article 19(differential cost)*         Construction of social housing units exempt form all taxes               300

                               - .     andduties (nationalandlocal)
                               Total                                                                           5,180
Direct Subsidies
MortgageGuaranteeFunds                 Capitalizationfrom the State, yearly value                                  85
Housing     Ministry     Investment Investmentexpendituresfor slumupgradingand infrastructure                    550


Interest    rate    subsidies     on   Still appliesto loans originateduntil 2004                                400
mortgages
Exchangeraterisks                      Treasury covers the exchange rate risk on loans serving to                  20
                                       finance socialhousingprograms
                               Total                                                                           2,055
Landsubsidies                          Provisionofpublic landto public developersat prices below                 800
                                       market
                     GrandTotal                                                                                8,035

* The differential cost is calculatedwith reference to preexistingfiscal provisionsfor socialhousing, which are already
accountedfor in other rows of the table.

Source :World Bank calculationsbasedon MFP and MHUdata for the year 2002 ( May 2005).

                                                    47


ANNEX 5: FLOWS OF PUBLICSECTORSUPPORT TO THE HOUSINGSECTOR
         L-l                         Government                                              ,
    Ministry of                 L Ministryof
     Finance                  --__
                                 ---_                                      Housing
                                    --_--_.
                                        Capita,izes Resourcesfrom FSH
             I  Provision of Public               --..andinvestment        Capitalizes
                                                          Budget

                            Programsof Ministry              Mortgage                Mortgage
    Tax Breaks                    of Housing                Guarantee               Guarantee
                            Ville sans bidonvilles
                                        I                   Fund - Civil     Fund Informal
                                                                                      -
                                         Freeland            Servants       sector households

             I                ----
 Private Developers             (Construction                  1
                                 Parastatals)                        Other Banks
                                                                         CIH            I
                                                      1 Guaranteed
                                                         mort_gages    1   1 m:i:ies          1



       Legend     vk         Self-construction no access to housingfinance
                                               -
                             Access to mortgage

                                                  48



ANNEX 6: THE "VILLESSANS BIDONVILLES"PROGRAM

The VSB programi s centered on a city-based approach to slumupgrading, whereby all slums ina
given urban area are included in an upgrading program, agreed to between the Ministry o f
Housing and Urban Planning, the regional authorities, the Municipalities, and the parastatal
companies in charge o f its physical implementation. Each o f these entities i s supposed to carry
out a specific role and to contribute to the implementation o f the program. Such roles are defined
by "city contracts" among the parties.

Inquantitative terms, the program sets ambitious targets for the Government, as it expects to be
fully implemented between 2004 and 2010. However, the program encompasses all slum
upgrading projects implemented by its parastatal companies that were on-going before 2004,
covering about 68,000 households. During 2004, city contracts and agreements with parastatal
companies were concluded for slum eradication operations for another 62,000 households.
Similar city contracts and operational agreements remain to be concluded as o f 2005 for another
82,000 households.

Upgrading modalities included inthe VSB program include: a) on site upgrading, or restructuring
o f the slum neighborhood with the provision o f roads, drainage and water supply, public lighting
and electricity networks ;b) production o f fully or partially serviced plots on urban land located
where possible in the vicinity o f the slum to be removed; and c) construction o f housing units in
apartment buildings. The following table presents the main characteristics of the VSB program in
terms o f modes o f intervention.



                                        Interventionmodes (number o f households)

                          In-site         Fully      Semi-serviced         Fully         Total
                        upgrading      serviced lots       lots          finished
                                                                         housing
                                                                           units

 Commenced                 16,834        34,930             1,306         15,211        68,290
 before 2004

 Engaged in2004           20,873         26,555             1,584         13,148        62,460

 After 2004               24,792         12,553           28,757          15,768         81,870

                ~    ~

 Total                    62,508         74,038           31,647         44,127         212,320

                           29 %           35 %              15 Yo          21 Yo         100 Yo



The amount o f land needed to implement the program has been estimated to about 5,180 ha by
the MHU, based on the importance o f the different modes o f intervention. Of the 70 cities
covered by the program, 35 are concerned by the transfers o f lands from the public domain, out o f
which 19 show public land availability in excess of the slum eradication needs, and 16 show an

                                                 49


allocation sufficient for half o f the program needs. However, "City contracts" are signed only
when all land needs for the program have been met.

As for the mobilization o f financialresources, the MHUhas estimated the budget envelope o fthe
VSB program at about MDH 17 billion, o f which about one third, or about MDH 5.4 billion,
would be covered by State subsidies. The other two thirds o f the program costs, or about MDH
11.6 billion, will have to be recovered from program beneficiaries. In general the Ministry o f
Housing and Urban Planning will be the only public contributor to the program, while the
municipalities may contribute land, if available, and also have to commit to preventing the
formation o f new slums intheir jurisdiction. The following table presents the main features o f the
VSB program interms o ffinancing andlandneeds.

Costs. financing and subsidies

                                                  50



ANNEX 7: MAIN PARAMETERS OF THE MORTGAGE GUARANTEE FUND FOR
INFORMAL WORKERS (FOGAIUM)

The mainparameters o fthe Fundfor informal households, FOGARIM, are the following:

    1) Only Banks are eligible (not other financial institutionssuch as micro-credit institutions).
    2) The maximum value o f housingunitsi s set to MDH200,000.
    3) Eligible loans are: fixed rate and fixed payment, with maximum payments below MDH
        1,000 (about USSlOO) per month. Maximum Loan-to-value ratio (LTV) can reach 100
       percent. The specific LTV amount i s left to the discretion ofbanks.
    4) The Fundcovers 70 percent o fthe credit risk (principal balance at the date o fdefault).

The Fundi s not conceived as an insurance tool, at least at start-up. Specifically, neither banks nor
households pay any actuarial premium for each loan they guarantee. In light o f the experience
from similar public mortgage guarantee products implemented in other countries, the following
remarks can be made on the parameters o f FOGARIM:

    0   The 100 percent LTV ceiling i s too risky according to any international experience for
        thistargeted group, even ifbanks may individually setuptheir ownlower limits.
    0   The proportion o f credit risk covered (70 percent) is relatively high by international
        standards, which could cause moralhazard problems to be managed.
    0   The absence o f charged actuarial premiums makes the Funddistinct from an sustainable
        insurance device, at the risk o f being perceived as a subsidy product, giving insufficient
        incentives to banks to assess credit riskcorrectly.
    0   The proposed steps for further re-capitalization by the FSH do not appear justified by the
        expected scale o f development.
    0   The proposed limitation to fixed rate loans may create interest rate risks to some lenders,
        at least in the future as the problem i s not perceived as a barrier now. The fixed
        repayment schedules combined with the cap of monthly repayment could be a problem
        for some categories o f households having seasonal or irregular incomes. Non-bank
        housing lenders and micro-credit lending for housing are not covered. The inclusion o f
        micro-credit institutions withinthe umbrella o f FOGARMcould facilitate the connection
        between the banks and the informal populations.

More generally, the official target population o f the Fundhas not even access to a bank account
yet. Banks will start by focusing on "highincome" informal categories (grocers, taxi drivers, etc.)
which they know. Extensions to lower income groups o f the informal population, if it happens,
can only be gradual and slow. Thus, the major part o f the beneficiaries o f the VSB program will
not "naturally" be reached by FOGARIM. To mitigate this risk, a specific credit education
component was put in place within the VSB program. It will target the beneficiary households
which are going to be relocatedinfinished housingunits and will need credit to buy those units.

Another reason for FOGARIM's slow talung o f f during its first year o f operation was the poor
availability to potential lenders o f information related to the projected deliveries o f VSB housing
units and to the creditworthiness o f the population to be financed with the FOGAFUMguarantees.

                                                                  51


                                     Morocco at a glance
                                                                   M. East       Lower-
POVERTYand SOCIAL                                                  8 North      middle-
                                                        Morocco      Africa      income      Developmentdiamond'
2003
Population,mid-year (millions)                              30.1        306        2,411                 Lifeexpectancy
GNI percapita (Atlas method, Us$)                          1,300     2,070         1,390   I
GNI (Atlas method, US$billions)                                                                                 T
                                                            39.0        670        3,352

Average annual growth, 1997-03
                                                                                            ~




PoDulation(%)                                                I.6        1.9          1.o
Laborforce (%)                                               2.9        2.9          1.2     GNI                                Gross
                                                                                             per                               primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1997-03)                                        capita                           nrollment
Povelty (% ofpopulationbelownationalpovertyline)              19
Urban population (% of totalpopulation)                       57         58          49
Life expectancyat birth (years)                               70         69           69
Infantmortaliw(per 1,000 livebirths)                          37         37           30
Childmalnutrition(% ofchildrenunder5)                          1                      11           Access to improvedwater source
Accessto an improvedwater source (% ofpopulation)             80         88          61
Illiteracy(% ofpopulation age 15+)                           48          35           13       -
Grossprimaryenrollment (% ofschool-age population)           112         95          111              Morocco
    Male                                                                 98          111        -    - Lower-middle-incomegroup
    Female                                                               90          110

KEY ECONOMICRATIOSand LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                  1983      1993     2002          2003
                                                                                             Economicratios.
GDP (US$billions)                                  13.9     26.9       36.1         43.7
Gross domestic investmenffGDP                      24.0     22.4       22.7         23.8
Exportsof goods and serviceslGDP                   21.3     26.0       33.8         32.3                      Trade
Grossdomestic savingslGDP                          16.1     17.0       19.4         19.7
GrossnationalsavingdGDP                            20.0     21.6       26.6         27.4                        T

Currentaccount balancdGDP                          -6.5     -1.9        4.1          3.6
InterestpaymenUGDP                                 4.3       4.8        3.0          4.2
TotaldebffGDP                                      93.5     82.2       51.0         43.0
Totaldebtservice/exports                          39.8      36.3       24.0         26.5
Presentvalue of debtlGDP                                               47.2
Presentvalue of debtlexports                                         110.3
                                                                                                           Indebtedness
                                     1983-93 199343         2002     2003       200307
(averageannualgrowth)                                                                            -
GDP                                       3.6      3.2       3.2        5.2          3.5                Morocco
GDP percapita                             1.7       1.5      1.6        3.7          2.4            -- Lower-middle-income orouD
Exports of goodsand seivices              7.7      5.4       6.5       -5.0          5.1


STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY
                                                  1983      1993     2002          2003      Growthof investmentandGDP(%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                        15.2     14.6       16.1         16.8
Industry                                          33.2      32.2       30.3         29.6
   Manufacturing                                   18.4     17.9       16.8         16.6
Services                                          51.6      52.9       53.6         53.6

Privateconsumption                                67.1      65.0       60.5         59.3
Generalgovemmentconsumption                        16.8     18.0       20.1         21.o
Importsof goods and services                      30.3      32.0       36.9         36.4

                                                                                                                                       I
                                               1983-93 1993-03       2002          2003
(avenge annualgrowth)                                                                        Growth of exports and imports (X)

Agriculture                                        3.4       2.4        5.6         18.0     l5
                                                                                              T
industry                                           3.1       3.7        2.7          3.3
   Manufacturing                                   3.9       3.2        3.3          3.8
Services                                           4.3       3.2        2.9          3.9

Privateconsumption                                 3.7       1.8        3.0          3.1
Generalgovernmentconsumption                       4.8       3.6        4.6          6.0
Gross domestic Investment                          3.1       5.4        3.3         10.7
Imports of goodsand services                       6.6       4.7        7.4         10.0

Note:2003 data are preliminaryestimates.
  The diamondsshow four keyindicatorsin the country(in bold)compared with its incomeqroup average. Ifdataare missing,the diamondwill
    be incomplete.

                                                               52




'RICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                              1983     1993    2002     2003
5"5?kpke5                                                                         Inflation ( x ]                                I
!::`&W)                                                                           3
:onsumer prices                                  6.2     5.2      2.8       1.2                                                   I
nplicit GDP deflator                             7.3     3.5      0.6      0.0    2


olwefjassesf /.&ace                                                               1

!:r'rdiiiF hvbde-c M(rr&p&s)                                                      b
hrrQntlQvQnUQ                                   16.6    26.5     24.T     24.4            9 t    99     00      b1    02       b3
hrrent budget balance                           4.7       2.8      0.1    -0.9
lverall deficit(incl.Privatisation and FHII)    .7.0    -2.4     -4.4     -2.8            -GDP      deflator   -CPI
   wlo privatizationreceipts                    -7.0    -2.4     -4.6     -5.6

rRADE
                                              1983     1993    2002     2003
`1 "&%-Lq                                                                          Eiport and import levels [US$ mill.)
'otal exports(fob]                             2,058   4.922    7.839    8,762
 Agriculture                                     524    982     1,648    1.825
 Phosphorus rock                                 468    260      364      362
 ManUfaCtUrQS                                    419   2,710    4.495    5,236
rota1imports [cif)                             3,599   7,576    11,833   14,212
 Food                                            534     978    1,374     1.194
 Fueland energy                                  988     957     1,831   2,212
 Capitalgoods                                    683    1.946   2.379     3,131
lxport priceindex   (M:w?                         67       78       96      109
mport priceindex (M=kX?t                          73       79       77       86                 Exports          Imports
rerms of trade (M:Kr?)                             91      99     125       126

3ALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                               1983    1993    2002     2003                                                      I
"?@                                                                                Current account balance to GDP [%I
Ixports of goods and services                  2.966   6.986    12.199  14,236                                                       a

mportsof goods and services                    4,223   8.594    13,314  15,953                                                       i
                                                                                   5
+source balance                                -1,257  -1.608    -1,115  -1,717    4                                                 1,
Uetincome                                       -620   -1,208    -738     -790     3
Uet current transfers                            977   2,295    3,330    4.098     2

Zurrent account balance                          -901    -521   1,477     1.592    I                                                 j
                                                                                   b                                                 t
%"icing    items (net]                           827     805     -839        52                                                      I
Zhanges innet reserves                             74   -284     -638    .1.643    1
                                                                                  -21                                                i
##mu..                                                                                                                           I I
3QSQrVQSincludinggold fl&$,73#Co%y)               -45   3,900   10,896   14,578
Zonversion rate (XChs&X$t                          7.1    9.3      11.0     9.6

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                               1983    1993     2002     2003
(LW,73#Co%:)
Totaldebt outstandingand disbursed             13,038  22.105   18,404   18.795
   IBRD                                           821   3,559   2,549     2.719
   IDA                                             42      36       24       23                  0: 1.853      A: p.33

Totaldebt SQIViCQ                               1,550   3,325   3.707    4,835
   IBRD                                           112     552      412      431
   IDA                                               1      2        2        2
zomposition of net resourceflows
   Officialgrants                                  55     309      163
   Officialcreditors                              469     232    -738      -789
   Private ClQditOrS                              179      29     -401     -343
   Foreigndirect investment                        46     491     558    2,437
                                                                                                                                 Ii
   Portfolioequity                                  0      24        19       11
                                                                                                          E: 5,333
WorldBankprogram
   Commitments                                    308     809       98       54    A . IBRD                        E. Bilateral
   DiSbUrSemQntS                                  176     377       45      143    B . IDA   0 Other multilateral
                                                                                               -                   F. Private
   Principalrepayments                             51     294      269      307    C-IMF                           G Short-term
                                                                                                                     -
   Net flOWS                                      125      83     -224      -164
   Interestpayments                                61     260       145     126
   Net transfers                                   63     -177    -369     -290

DQvQlOpmQntEconomics

                                                               10W                                                                                       5W                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                      SPAIN
                                                                                                                                                                         Mediterranean                                 Sea

                                                                                                                               Tangier

                                                                                                                                                   TTtouan
                                                                                                                                                       touan                                                                                             35N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     To
                                                                                                                                                                         Al Hoceima                                                Algiers

              35N                                                                                                         Larache                       Chechaouene                      Nador

                                                  MOROCCO
                                                                                                                                                 Ouezzane

                                                                                                                                                             Taounate

                                                                                                                                               Oued                                         OuedMoulouyTaourirt
                                                                                                                                                                                                      a
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Oujda




                                                                                                                                                       S eb our                         t
                                                                                                                    Kenitra            Sidi                                  Taza
                                                                                                                    Sale              Kacem               FFss
                                                                                                                                                                                        M                   Ain Bini
                                                                                                               RABAT
                                                                                                                                                  Mekns
                                                                                                                                                  Mekns
                                                                                                                                Khemisset
                                                                                             Casablanca                                                     Ifrane
                                                                                                                                               Azrou                               Atlas                      Mathar




                                                                                                                  Ben Slimane                                        Boulemane                                                            A L G E R I A
                                                                              El Jadida           Berrechid
                                                                                                                                                                                                 n       s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  To
                                                                                                   Settat
                                                                                                                              Oued Zem           Khenifra             Middle                                                                   El Bayadh

                                                                                                                   Khouribga                                                       t   a    i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Bourfa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Bourfa
                                                                                                           O
                                    ATLANTIC                                                                ue d                                                             n
                                                                                                                 ErRbi a          Beni Mellal                            u                                                      Figuig

                                                                        Safi                                                                                         o
                                      OCEAN                                                          El Kelaa
                                                                                                  des Srarhna                                                  M
                                                                                                                            Azilal              s                         Errachidia
                                                                                  Oued   T ennsift
                                                                                                                        Demnate    a
                                                                                                                           l                                                                                     To
                                                            Essaouira                          Marrakech           t                                                                                           Tindouf                                    0
                                                                                    Chichaoua         Tahannaout
                                                                                                       A
                                                                                                       Jebel Toubkal                                                                                                MOROCCO
                                                                                                       (4,165 m)                                                                 Y
                                                                                                                     Ouarzazate                                              A R

                                                                                             Souss                                     Oued                        BO U ND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS

                                                                 Agadir               Oued                                       Zagora    Draa
                                                                                Taroudannt                Mt                                                                                                          PROVINCE OR PREFECTURE CAPITALS*
                                                                                                                                                                T E                        30N                       NATIONAL CAPITAL
              30N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RIVERS

                                                                       Tiznit      Anti      Atlas
                                                                                                                                               O       I  M A
                                                                                                        Tata                          APP R       X

                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MAIN ROADS

                                                                                                                                                  A L G E R I A                                                       RAILROADS
              This map was produced by                         Ifni
              the Map Design Unit of The                                                                                                                                                                              PROVINCE OR PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES
              World Bank. The boundaries,
              colors, denominations and                                                                                           0        50             100       150      200 Kilometers                           INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
NOVEMBER      any other information shown
              on this map do not imply, on                   Goulimine                                                                                                                                                                                         IBRD
              the part of The World Bank                                                                                                                                                                              INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
              Group, any judgment on the                                                                                          0                50                 100            150 Miles                        (Approximate)
              legal status of any territory,                          Draa
                                                                      Draa                                                                                                                                                                                         33450
        2004  or any endorsement or                                                                                                                                                                             *Province or Prefecture names are the same
              a c c e p t a n c e o f s u c h    Tan-Tan    Ouueed
                                                                                            To
              boundaries.                                                                                                                                          5W
                                                                                         Tindouf                                                                                                                 their capitals.


                        Tarfaya

