Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1360 
Operation Name 
Morocco - Housing Sector Development Policy Loan (HSDPL) 
 
Region 
MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA 
Sector 
Housing  
Project ID 
P083746 
Borrower(s) 
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO 
Implementing Agency 
Ministère des Finances et de la Privatisation 
 
Avenue Mohamed V 
 Quartier 
Administratif 
 
Rabat, Royaume du Maroc 
 
Tel. : (212-37) 76 31 71 ; 76 38 47 
 
Fax : (212-37) 76 15 75 
 
Ministère délégué auprès du Premier Ministre chargé de l’Habitat et de 
l’Urbanisme 
 
Quartier Hay Ryad 
 
Rabat, Royaume du Maroc 
 
Tel. : (212-37) 57 72 50  
 
Fax : (212-37) 57 72 36 
 
Date PID Prepared 
January 31, 2005 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
February 16, 2005 
Date of Board Approval 
June 30, 2005 
Background 
 
Morocco has tripled its population since Independence, which has reached 28m in 2000 against the 12m of 1960. 
This demographic growth has been accompanied by a strong process of urbanization, whereby 55 percent of the 
population resided in urban centers in 2000, against only 29 percent in 1960. These two trends have created 
significant pressure on cities to provide access to infrastructure, basic services, and shelter, in addition to 
economic opportunities and welfare, to rural migrants and to the other urban poor.   
 
In the absence of adequate policies and investments, sub-standard housing has sprawled in the form of squatter 
settlements and informal neighborhoods, mostly concentrated in the agglomeration of the Casablanca-Rabat-
Kenitra urban continuum (where 55 percent of all slum households are living) and in the Tangiers-Tetouan area, 
but are present throughout Morocco’s main cities and towns. Meanwhile, the historic housing stock of the ancient 
medinas, unattended and impoverished, has rapidly decayed. The number of slum households has increased from 
160,000 in 1992 to over 260,000 in 2001, and substandard housing represents 18 percent of the stock, with an 
average yearly growth of 4 percent. The latest housing stock census calculated at 430,000 the number of 
households living in informal neighborhoods, and at 90,000 the number of households living in housing stock 
threatening collapse.  
 
The constraints facing the supply side of the housing market have been identified for a while, and concern both 
institutional features impeding the development of the primary market (cumbersome land titling procedures, 
inadequate urban planning and zoning framework, laws defining the relations between landlords and tenants, 
etc.). These factors fuel the growth of informal housing. 
Page  2
The constraints on demand include the lack of well-targeted instruments to improve the financing capacity of the 
poor, as well as a low penetration of housing finance, especially in the poorest segments of the population. 
Although outstanding housing loans, estimated at 13 percent of total credits, are growing rapidly - with a 30 
percent rise in the number of loans granted in 2001 - banks finance only 20% of the value of total housing 
construction. Eighty percent of all housing activity are the result of self-financing. The rental market remains 
severely underdeveloped.  
Finally, the organization of the State interventions in social housing, mainly via State-owned companies doing 
both infrastructure building and construction in a non-competitive environment, has resulted in the crowding out 
of the private sector in construction, the inefficiency of some of the State companies in producing dwellings that 
meet the demand, and the poor targeting of large implicit subsidies distributed to the beneficiaries of the State 
programs. 
Since its nomination in November 2002, the present Government has given significant attention to the housing 
sector, and to the plight of slum dwellers in particular. In September 2003 the Government has initiated a process 
of reform of the housing sector, characterized by the following primary objectives:  
(i) 
strengthen the institutional, regulatory and fiscal environment for a well-functioning housing market 
and for the emergence of market-
based solutions to the country’s housing sector constraints and 
needs; and  
(ii) 
increase the access of low income and severely disadvantaged households to more affordable and 
higher quality housing.  
To achieve the first objective, GOM has embarked on a program of reforms to: (a) modernize urban planning 
standards and regulations; (b) restructure public sector housing agencies and enterprises in charge of the delivery 
of public housing programs; and (c) rationalize and simplify real estate taxes and subsidies. To achieve the second 
objective, it plans to introduce reforms to: (a) expand urban slum upgrading and social housing programs through 
market-friendly approaches; (b) improve the efficiency of the residential rental market; and (c) expand the access 
of informal sector and low-income households to market-based housing finance. By reducing current market 
distortions and promoting greater private sector provision of housing products and services, these reforms are 
expected to lead to a positive market supply response, more efficient allocation and use of scarce government 
resources in the housing sector, and more and better housing opportunities for low income and severely 
disadvantaged households. 
Project development objective and description 
 
The proposed Housing Sector Development Policy Loan (HSDPL) has been requested by GOM as a support to 
the implementation of its policy reforms and programs in the housing sector. The proposed loan thus seeks to 
assist the Government in the design and implementation of the reforms in order to enhance their potential 
benefits.  
The Loan thus seeks to assist the Government with the improvement of the overall functionality of the housing 
sector, reducing the current market distortions and enabling private sector companies to participate more fully to 
the production and commercialization of housing goods. At the same time, the Loan seeks to assist the 
Government with the definition and implementation of specific policies and programs targeted to the urban poor, 
and especially the slum-dwellers, that would continue to benefit from public subsidies. 
An overall agreement has been reached with the Government on the scope of the reforms supported under the 
proposed operation. 
 
The reforms supported by the Loan are the following ones:  
 
Page  3
a) 
Strengthening the institutional, regulatory and fiscal environment of the housing sector
·
Modernize urban planning standards and regulations  
·
Restructure and refocus public sector housing agencies and enterprises 
·
Rationalize and simplify real estate taxes and subsidies  
 
b) 
Increase access of low income households to more affordable and higher quality housing
·
Expand urban slum upgrading and social housing programs 
·
Improve the efficiency of the residential rental market 
·
Expand access of informal sector and low-income households to housing finance 
 
Rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Rationale
.
At this juncture, Bank support is critically needed to help the Government guide the process of 
reforming the enabling environment for the housing sector and significantly expanding the access of the urban 
poor to decent housing. It would continue and build upon the policy dialogue and advisory role the Bank has 
played in the housing sector over the past two decades. Of particular relevance is the long-term involvement of 
the Bank in the sector, which materialized by lending and advisory activities in the 1980s, and the 
comprehensiveness of the Bank’s approach to the housing sector in Morocco. The Bank would bring best practice 
expertise and world-wide experience in housing sector policies and programs and alternative housing finance 
systems to the design and implementation of the reform program, and also provide a strong confidence-building 
signal to the housing and financial markets that should help to assuage risks and enhance the willingness of 
stakeholders and the donor community to support the reform program. 
Link with the CAS
.
The proposed operation supports the second strategic objective of the Morocco CAS for FY 
2006-2009 of providing improved access to quality services for the poorest and most marginalized parts of the 
population. It directly supports the CAS specific goal, under the second strategic objective, of reducing slums and 
increasing access to affordable housing for the poorest segments of the population. The CAS recognizes the threat 
to social stability represented by marginalized and vulnerable communities, such as slum dwellers, and endorses 
the Government's priorities in this respect. 
Project benefits and potential risks 
 
The overall benefits expected from this operation are related to: a) the improved living conditions of the urban 
poor which would result from the progressive elimination of the existing slums and from the increased supply of 
low-cost housing; b) a more efficient use of public resources allocated to the public housing programs; c) an 
enhanced access to housing finance for the urban poor via the adapted mechanisms of the Guarantee Funds and 
the creation of the housing saving schemes; d) the reduced cost of land resulting from more cost effective 
planning regulations; e) better targeted public subsidies to the housing sector; and f) job creation resulting from 
increased construction activity. 
A
general risk is that social and political opposition may weaken the Government’s resolve to pursue the 
macroeconomic reform program. To mitigate this risk, the macroeconomic program will be monitored closely and 
the Government and the Bank will consult on further actions if required to maintain the economy on a sustainable 
path. Moreover, the implementation of the HSDPL reforms is not expected to be critically dependant on 
macroeconomic stability in the next few years. Most components of the reform program are centered on changes 
in the legal and regulatory framework and do not require heavy public investments. Public investments required 
for the implementation of the Government’s new social housing strategy have been allocated sufficient, stable and 
dedicated tax resources and are thus well protected from macroeconomic shocks. 
Page  4
Other risks relate directly to the reform program, namely: (i) coordination among responsible institutions; (ii) 
possible delays in the implementation of the VSB program ; (iii) a possible resistance to the adoption of the new 
legislation on urban planning, residential housing, and real estate taxes and subsidies; (iv) challenges and risks 
related to the restructuring of the public sector housing agencies; and (v) the absence of the land titling reform 
from the program.  
Mitigation of those risks include : (i) technical assistance to the MHU and the MFP for the implementation of the 
VSB program and of the parastatal restructuring; (ii) a program of active consensus building around the benefits 
of the legislative and regulatory reforms supported by the Government; (iii) the involvement of relevant 
stakeholders at early stages of the definition of new housing finance instruments; and (iv) progress in the 
preparation of the land titling reform by the ad-hoc Government agency.  
Contact information
Task Team Leader 
Anthony G. Bigio 
Senior Urban Specialist 
MNSIF 
Tel: (202) 473-6304 
Fax: (202) 477-1998 
e-mail: 
Abigio@worldbank.org
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
