                             Document of
                          The World Bank



                                               Report No: ICR00001034




   IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT

                          (LOAN No:73140)

                               ON A

        HOUSING SECTOR DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN

      IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$158.5 MILLION

                                 TO

                  THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO




                          December 18, 2008




Sustainable Development Department
Middle East and North Africa Region

                                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                             (Exchange Rate Effective December 2008)

                               Currency Unit = Moroccan Dirham (MAD)
                                           MAD 8.76 = US$ 1
                                          MAD 11.30 = Euro 1

                                            FISCAL YEAR
                                       January 1 ­ December 31

                              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ANHI     Agence Nationale de Lutte contre 1'Habitat Insalubre (National Agency for the
         fight against Substandard Housing)
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CFAA     Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CIH      Crédit Immobilier et Hôtelier (Real Estate and Hotel Financing Bank)
CMU      Country Management Unit
DGI      Direction Générale des Impôts (IRS equivalent)
ERAC     Etablissement Regional d'Aménagement et de Construction (Regional
         Agency for Land Development and Construction)
EU       European Union
FOGARIM  Fonds de Garantie pour les Ménages à Revenus Modestes et Irréguliers
         (Guarantee Fund for Low or Irregular Income Households)
FSH      Housing Solidarity Fund
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GOM      Government of Morocco
HAO      Holding Al Omrane (Al Omrane Development Holding)
HSDPL    Housing Sector Development Policy Loan
IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IMF      International Monetary Fund
INDH     National Initiative for Human Development
ISR      Implementation Status Reports
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MENA     Middle East and North Africa
MFP      Ministère des Finances et de la Privatisation (Ministry of Finance)
MHUAE    Ministère de 1'Habitat, de l'Urbanisme et de l'Aménagement de l'Espace
OPH      Opérateurs Publics de 1'Habitat (Public Housing Operators)
PDO      Program Development Objective
SNEC     Société Nationale d'Equipement et de Construction (National Corporation
         for Infrastructure and Construction)
VAT      Value Added Tax
VSB      Villes sans Bidonvilles (Cities Without Slums)



                                 Vice President:          Daniela Gressani
                               Country Director:          Mats Karlsson
                                Sector Manager:           Anna Bjerde
                             Task Team Leader:            Anthony G. Bigio
                              ICR Team Leader:            Anthony G. Bigio

                                              KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
                            HOUSING SECTOR DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN




                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring

1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design ................................................. ..1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .................................................... 2
3. Assessment of Outcomes ...................................................................................... .6
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ............................................................. 13
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ........................................................ ...19
6. Lessons Learned .................................................................................................22
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ...........................23

Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes .............................24
Annex 2. Summary of Borrower's ICR ..........................................................................26
Annex 3. Borrower's ICR (in French) ...........................................................................27
Annex 4. List of Supporting Documents ........................................................................31




MAP IBRD 3345OR1

A. Basic Information

                                                                     Housing Sector
Country:               Morocco                Program Name:          Development Policy
                                                                     Loan
Program ID:            P083746                L/C/TF Number(s):      IBRD-73140
ICR Date:              01/08/2009             ICR Type:              Core ICR
Lending Instrument:    DPL                    Borrower:              GOVERNMENT
Original Total
                       USD 150.0M             Disbursed Amount:      USD 158.5M
Commitment:
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Finance & Privatization
Ministry of Housing and Urban Planning
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date              Process         Original Date  Revised / Actual
                                                                              Date(s)
Concept Review:        01/24/2002    Effectiveness:         04/08/2003      04/08/2003
Appraisal:             03/25/2002    Restructuring(s):                      12/26/2007
Approval:              05/30/2002    Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:               12/31/2007      06/30/2008


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                             Highly Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings               Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:         Highly Satisfactory Government:                 Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision:   Highly Satisfactory Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:            Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:              Highly Satisfactory Performance:                Satisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                              QAG Assessments
      Performance             Indicators              (if any)             Rating:

Potential Problem        No                   Quality at Entry      None



                                              i

Program at any time                            (QEA):
(Yes/No):
Problem Program at any                         Quality of
                          No                                        None
time (Yes/No):                                 Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                             Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                             20                 20
Housing construction                                          40                 40
Housing finance and real estate markets                        40                40


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Access to urban services and housing                         Primary           Primary
Other financial and private sector development              Secondary         Secondary
Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                            Secondary         Secondary
procurement
Regulation and competition policy                           Secondary         Secondary
Social safety nets                                          Secondary         Secondary


E. Bank Staff
       Positions                        At ICR                        At Approval
Vice President:           Daniela Gressani                 Christiaan Poortman
Country Director:         Francoise Clottes                Theodore O. Ahlers
Sector Manager:           Anna Maria Bjerde                Hedi Larbi
Program Team Leader:      Anthony G. Bigio                 Anthony G. Bigio
ICR Team Leader:          Anthony G. Bigio
ICR Primary Author:       Sati Achath



F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The development objectives of the Project are to: (i) strengthen the institutional,
regulatory and fiscal environment for a well-functioning housing market and for the
emergence of market-based solutioins to the country's housing sector constraints and
needs; and (ii) increase the access of low-income and severely disadvantaged households
to more affordable and higher quality housing.



                                              ii

Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving
authority)
The objectives were not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target     Formally       Actual Value

    Indicator        Baseline Value           Values (from      Revised         Achieved at
                                                approval         Target       Completion or
                                               documents)        Values       Target Years
Indicator 1 :    Modernize urban planning standards and regulations
                                           Percentage drop in              (i) The draft of the
                                           construction costs              new Urban
                 Approval of the           of new social                   Planning Code was
                 Circular on minimal       housing at end of               approved in June
                 social housing planning 2006 vs. end of                   2008.
Value            and construction          2004. Land-use                  (ii) Construction
(quantitative or standards and of the      ratio in newly                  costs of social
Qualitative)     Circular on revised       planned social                  housing have
                 norms on public           housing                         increased by 10%
                 facilities in residential developments                    per year. Land-use
                 developments.             increased by end                ratio in residential
                                           of 2006 vs. end of              developments likely
                                           2004.                           to be 25% higher.
Date achieved    06/30/2005                12/31/2007                      06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :    Restructure and refocus public sector housing agencies and enterprises
                                                                           Holding Al Omrane
                                                                           (HAO) has become
                                                                           a powerful tool for

                 Creation of the           Holding Al                      implementation of

Value            supervisory Board of      Omrane key                      the public policies

(quantitative or HAO. Reimbursement        financial ratios                in the realm of

Qualitative)     of the outstanding debt   improvement by                  social housing, but

                 of the ERAC to CIH        end of 2006 vs.                 is also facilitating
                                           end of 2004                     the investment of
                                                                           private companies
                                                                           into the housing
                                                                           sector.
Date achieved    06/30/2005                12/31/2007                      06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 :    Rationalize and symplify real estate taxes and subsidies
Value            Definition of Terms of Adoption of the                    Adoption of the
(quantitative or Reference for the study reforms of the real               reforms of the real



                                                iii

Qualitative)     on the impact of tax     estate tax system               estate tax system
                 subsidies to the housing agreed to by the                agreed to by the
                 sector by MFP and        MFP in the draft                MFP in the draft
                 MHU.                     Budget Law of                   Budget Law of
                                          2008                            2008.
Date achieved    06/30/2005               12/31/2007                      06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 :    Expand urban slum upgrading and social housing programs
                                          Number of                       62,000 households
                 Approval by MHU of       slumdweller                     have benefited from
                 the detailed             household having                the program by the
                 implementation plan forVSB
                                          benefitted from the             end of 2006, and

Value            the VSB program.              program
                                          (goal 30,000 by                 19,000 units are

(quantitative or Preparation of a credit  end of 2006).                   ready but have not

Qualitative)     education program for                                    been delivered.
                 potential VSB            Yearly number of                The credit
                 beneficiaries to be      low-cost plots and              education program
                 relocated into housing   housing units                   has not been
                 units.                   produced by
                                          public and private              implemented as

                                          sector developers               planned.

Date achieved    06/30/2005               12/31/2007                      06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 :    Improve the efficiency of the residential rental market
                                                                          The draft
                                                                          legislation has been
                                                                          fully prepared in
                                                                          technical terms by
                                          Approval by the                 Ministry of
                                          Council of                      Housing in
Value            Launch of the study on Government of the                 consultation with
(quantitative or the residential rental   new legislation                 Ministry of
Qualitative)     market by MHU            regulating the                  Justice. The draft
                                          residential rental              law was approved
                                          sector                          on June 12, 2008 by
                                                                          the Council of
                                                                          Government.


Date achieved    06/30/2005               12/31/2007                      06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 6 :    Expand access to housing finance by households with low and/or irregular
                 earnings



                                               iv

                                                                           FOGARIM

                 Evaluation report on                                      performance

                 FOGARIM                  Number of loans                  doubled 2006

                 performance and          guaranteed by                    expectations.
                                                                           Promotion of
Value            proposed adjustments     FOGARIM by end                   related mortgages
(quantitative or prepared by its Steering of 2005 and 2006.                by commercial
Qualitative)     Committee. Decision      Number of new
                 by MFP of creating       housing saving                   banks on-going.

                 housing saving schemes contracts opened                   Weak percentage

                 supported by a public    in 2006.                         of VSB

                 incentive.                                                beneficiaries have
                                                                           had access to
                                                                           guaranteed credit.
Date achieved    06/30/2005               12/31/2007                       06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 7 :    Financial incentives for the housing saving schemes included in the Budget
                 Law for 2006
                                                                           Housing saving
                                                                           schemes considered
                                                   of                      at this point non-
Value            Decision taken to create Inclusion
                 financial incentives for financial                        essential to achieve
(quantitative or                          incentives in the                expansion of access
Qualitative)     the housing saving
                 schemes                  draft Budget Law                 to credit, and
                                          for 2008                         waived as a
                                                                           conditionality for
                                                                           the second tranche.
Date achieved    06/30/2005               12/31/2007                       06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)



(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target     Formally        Actual Value

    Indicator        Baseline Value          Values (from                      Achieved at
                                               approval         Revised      Completion or
                                              documents)     Target Values    Target Years
Indicator 1 :    Number of loans guaranteed by FOGARIM at the end of 2005 and of 2006
Value
(quantitative or 1,200                    8,700                            26,000
Qualitative)
Date achieved    09/30/2005               12/31/2006                       06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :    Number of loans guaranteed by FOGARIM at the end of 2005 and of 2006



                                                v

Value
(quantitative or 1,200                 8,700
Qualitative)
Date achieved    09/30/2005            12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)



G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

                                                                            Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived             DO                       IP              Disbursements
                                                                        (USD millions)
  1     07/22/2005         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                   0.00
  2     11/14/2005   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory             85.64
  3     04/17/2006   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory             85.64
  4     11/07/2006   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory             85.64
  5     02/22/2007         Satisfactory      Moderately Satisfactory             85.64
  6     04/23/2007         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                  85.64
  7     12/30/2007         Satisfactory      Moderately Satisfactory             85.64
  8     05/03/2008         Satisfactory      Moderately Satisfactory             85.64



H. Restructuring (if any)

                             ISR Ratings at    Amount

 Restructuring     Board      Restructuring Disbursed at     Reason for Restructuring &
     Date(s)     Approved                    Restructuring
                PDO Change                                       Key Changes Made
                                DO     IP       in USD
                                               millions
   12/26/2007        N           S      S         85.64     Six-month extension.




                                           vi

1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Macroeconomic Background. Since the mid-1990s, Morocco had implemented successful
stabilization programs and achieved low inflation rates by prudent fiscal, monetary and debt
management. The combination of prudent economic management with financial sector reform
and successful privatization of several state enterprises had attracted foreign direct investment.
This, together with a strong and steady flow of remittances and tourism receipts, had led to
substantial banking liquidity and international reserves. The reserve position had more than
doubled from 4.6 months of imports in 2000 to 10 months of imports in 2004. Workers'
remittances had contributed to increased national savings and successive current account
surpluses since 2001.

Despite achievements, the fiscal position had slipped and was unsustainable in the medium term.
The large budget deficit averaged 5.2 percent of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in 2001-04.
These deficits were financed by substantial proceeds from privatization and domestic borrowing.
Large budget deficits came about mainly in response to a rising wage bill, representing about 13
percent of GDP in 2004, some security-related spending following the Casablanca bombings in
May 2003, some exceptional infrastructure investment financed by the Fonds Hassan II, and
weaker revenue performance on account of selected import tariff reductions. In addition,
important transfers were made to the pension system and two ailing banks. Fiscal deficits of this
magnitude were unsustainable over the medium term. In 2004, more than half of the financing of
the fiscal deficit originated from privatization proceeds that were projected to rapidly phase out in
2006, making fiscal adjustment a top priority in 2005-06. To preserve stability over the medium
term, rapid and decisive action to increase revenue was needed on several fronts, as well as
efforts to tackle budget rigidities, reverse expansionary payroll spending and address actual and
contingent fiscal liabilities in the medium term.

Fiscal and budgetary policies initiated by the government aimed at an improved management of
public finances and in particular at reducing the budgetary deficit to a sustainable level. Fiscal
policy aimed essentially at simplifying and harmonizing the taxation system, at reinforcing
competitiveness, and at improving the living standards of the low-income population. As for the
budgetary policy, it aimed at increasing the efficiency of the use of financial as well as human
resources, and in particular at containing the wage bill, which was one of the reforms undertaken
as part of the overall reform of public administration with the support of the Bank.

Despite fiscal concerns, an active debt management had helped reduce debt payments and increase
investor confidence. An active debt management had reduced external debt and increased domestic
debt. As a result, total external government debt had steadily decreased from 34 percent of GDP in
2000 to an estimated 16 percent in 2004, due to debt restructuring swaps for investment. In contrast,
domestic debt increased from 42 to 51 percent of GDP in the same period.

On the other hand, growth had been volatile and below potential. The economy had achieved less
than a 3.5 percent growth rate over the past decade, and a promising but still insufficient 4.5
percent during 2001-04. Growth remained dependent on agriculture, although it represented only
15 percent of GDP. The non-agricultural sector had continued to improve slowly and was steadily
growing at 3.2 percent, with dynamic contributions from the manufacturing and service sectors
such as tourism and information technology. Lending interest rates, while declining, had been



                                                   1

high, averaging more than 7 percent in real terms over the 1999-04 period and affecting credit
and private investment. There was little evidence that remittances were being intensively used for
investment; most were for consumption.

Housing Sector background. In 2003, out of a total population of 30 million in Morocco, 18
million lived in urban areas, and the urban population increased between 3 percent and 4 percent
per year between 1960 and 2000. The number of urban primary dwellings was estimated at
around 3 million in 2000. 62 percent of households own their dwellings, 28 percent were renters,
and 10 percent had other tenure status. The formal housing stock represented 80 percent of the
total. About 800,000 Moroccan households, or about 5 million people and one third of the
urban population, lived in sub-standard housing. This consisted of: a) housing units illegally built
but of appropriate building quality, for 540,000 households; b) slum dwellings of very poor
quality sited on un-serviced land, for 270,000 households, of which 212,000 in urban areas; and
c) units threatening collapse, mostly concentrated in historic urban cores, for 90,000 households.

During the past 25 years, informal housing had developed at a faster pace than formal housing, in
spite of sustained government efforts, and slums had increased at a rate of 4 percent per year.
The development of slums and substandard housing has resulted from a dysfunctional housing
market and inadequate public interventions. The main sector issues are briefly described as
follows.

     Land titling was regulated by a legislation passed in 1913 which had not been updated
since. This legislation was both very cumbersome and costly. It ignored customary registers, and
established ownership rights through a complicated system of land surveys and public hearings. A
heavy reliance on court decisions caused serious delays to settle disputes.

     Urban planning and zoning practices were governed by several laws, decrees and
ministerial instructions which lacked coherence and imposed heavy urban development
costs. These regulations required the production of city master plans and detailed zoning
plans, all requiring lengthy official approvals.

     Planning and construction regulations imposed high land reserves and infrastructure
standards and consequently low land use ratios. The norms defining land allocation for public
facilities in urban development projects were high and tended not to reflect the financial
capacities of the involved ministries. Since public agencies often did not have the resources to
develop the land, large tracks remained unutilized.

     Rental housing represented 28 percent of the housing stock. 73 percent of rental units
were self-constructed, and consisted of rooms or floors let to tenants by homeowners. 90% of
landlords were households who directly managed relationships with tenants, often with informal,
non-written arrangements.

     The prevailing legal framework applying to the rental sector was constraining the
market, because of perceived imbalances in favor of tenants. According to existing legislation,
rent increases were virtually impossible in the absence of upgrading of the dwelling by the
landlord, and recovery of the dwelling by the landlord for personal use was strictly limited by the
law. Disputes about rent payments were lengthy and costly, which rendered the sector
unattractive to investors. Judiciary procedures were long and complicated, and court decisions
ruling in favor of landlords were not easily enforced.




                                                 2

      The development of housing finance accelerated in 1999. Interest rates subsidies for
mortgages provided by the state-owned housing bank, CIH (Real Estate and Hotel Financing
Bank), were extended to the other public and private banks, which rapidly began to compete in
the mortgage market. As a result, mortgage services increased and the outstanding mortgage
amount grew from 3 percent of GDP in the mid-nineties to about 7 percent of GDP in 2004.

      Access to housing credit was limited by the lack of financial services and limited
outreach of the banking system to low-income groups. Until 2004, mortgages were typically
available only to households with regular (public or private sector) salaries. However, 40 percent
of the labor force was employed in the informal sector, and hence were not eligible under the
mortgage system. Wage earners were concentrated in the middle and higher income brackets.
Therefore, a majority of households located in the lower half were not perceived as solvent clients
by banks.

      Subsidies to the housing sector were a drain on Morocco's budget, costing about MAD 8
billion per year (1.9 percent of GDP). Most subsidies to the sector were in tax incentives
to developers and households, estimated to cost around MAD 5 billion per year (1.2
percent of GDP). Other important subsidies included: a) public land for social housing
programs; b) the investment budget of the Ministry of Housing and Urban Planning; and
c) interest rate subsidies on mortgages.

        Series of tax incentives for social housing construction and the rapid growth of the
mortgage market increased government expenditure for the housing sector. To contain the cost of
social housing units (under MAD 200,000), developers were first exempted from Value Added
Tax (VAT), then in 1999 from all taxes and fees. In 2002, revenue losses by the government from
these reductions amounted to about MAD 40,000 per unit constructed, or about 20 percent of unit
cost. Households were also allowed to deduct mortgage interest (and principal in some cases)
from income tax, which led to further growth of tax expenditures as the mortgage market grew
rapidly.

Rationale for Bank assistance stemmed from the importance of the housing crisis, the related
social exclusion, and the threat they posed for Morocco. Bank support was needed to help the
government guide the reform of the policy environment for the housing sector and significantly
expand the access of the urban poor to decent housing. Support would continue and build upon
the policy dialogue and advisory role the Bank had played in the housing sector over the past two
decades, which started with lending and advisory activities in the 1980s, and had led to a
comprehensive approach to the housing sector. The Bank would contribute best practice expertise
and world-wide experience in housing sector policies and housing finance systems to the design
and implementation of the reform program. The Housing Sector Development Policy Loan
(HSDPL) would also provide a strong confidence-building signal to the housing financial markets
that should help assuage risks and enhance the willingness of the donor community to support the
reform program.

1.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The development objectives of the operation were to: (i) strengthen the institutional, regulatory
and fiscal environment for a well-functioning housing market and for the emergence of market-
based solutions to the country's housing sector constraints and needs; and (ii) increase the access
of low income and severely disadvantaged households to more affordable and higher quality
housing.



                                                 3

Key Indicators as approved were: (a) the number of slum dweller households who gain access to
housing units or land plots via the `Cities without slums' (VSB) program, which should reach
30,000 by the end of 2006; (b) the number of loans guaranteed by the Guaranteed Fund for
households with low and/or irregular earnings (FOGARIM) by the end of 2005 and of 2006; (c)
the number of housing saving accounts opened in 2006; (d) the improvement of the key financial
ratios for Al Omrane Development Holding (HAO) and its subsidiaries at end of 2006 as
compared to end of 2004; (e) the yearly number of low-cost land plots and housing units
produced and put on the market by private sectors developers; (f) the average decrease in the unit
construction costs of new social housing programs at end of 2006 as compared to end of 2004;
and (g) the improvement in the land-use ratio in newly planned social housing developments at
end of 2006 as compared to end of 2004.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
Reasons/Justification

The PDOs were not revised.

1.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved)

The HSDPL focused on the following activities:

(i) Modernizing urban planning standards and regulations. Reform actions included:

        Simplification of norms for the site planning and construction of social housing
        Streamlining of the allocation of land reserves for public facilities
        Development of the new urban planning code

(ii) Restructuring and refocusing public sector housing agencies and enterprises. Reform
actions consisted of:

        Restructuring public housing companies (OPH) into a consolidated public group

(iii) Rationalizing and simplifying real estate taxes subsidies. Reform action:

        Changes in the fiscal regulations governing real estate investments and subsidies for the
        construction of social housing units

(iv) Expanding urban slum upgrading and social housing programs. Reform actions
included:

        Implementation of the national flagship slum upgrading VSB program
        Release of large tracts of public land for the VSB program, social housing and residential
        development

(v) Improving efficiency of the residential rental market. Reform action:

        Amending the legislation regulating the residential rental sector




                                                  4

(vi) Expanding the access to housing finance by households with low and/or irregular
earnings.

Reform action:

        Termination of interest rate subsidies on non-targeted housing mortgages.
        Establishment of FOGARIM guarantee fund.

(vii) Financial incentives for the housing saving schemes included in the Budget Law for
2006.

Reform action:

        Establishment of housing saving schemes.

1.5 Revised Policy Areas

The policy areas were not revised.

1.6 Other significant changes

There were no changes in the operation's design, scope and scale, and implementation
arrangements. However, there was a change in the project's schedule and also a waiver of one
conditionality as mentioned below:

Project schedule. The closing date of the operation was extended for six months from December
31, 2007 to June 30, 2008. This was done in order to get the approval of the Council of
Government of the: (a) new Urban Planning Code; and (b) new legislation for the residential
rental sector as these had been delayed by the November 2007 general elections and the creation
of a new Government.

Request of waiver of the Housing Saving Schemes conditionality. The purpose of the housing
savings scheme was to encourage low-income households to open savings accounts in
commercial banks in order to accumulate the amount required for a down payment for a
mortgage, and to internalize the ability to make monthly savings in view of future
mortgage payments. Such saving accounts would have received either a fiscal incentive, or a
cash contribution by the government.

Two main factors made the introduction of this measure not required: a) the lower interest rates,
lower percentages of down-payment required by the banks, and greater maturities applied to
mortgages since mid-2006, making access to credit further accessible; and b) the price escalation
of the housing products, often in double digits, that the Moroccan housing market had been
experiencing. Such price increases were sufficiently high to entirely erode the advantage of
saving as opposed to initiating a mortgage, despite the public incentive. The government and the
Bank therefore agreed that the benefits of the housing schemes as identified during appraisal
would not have been obtained, and the technical work around its design was stopped. A waiver
was approved, so that this measure would not be considered any more a condition for the
disbursement of the second tranche.




                                                  5

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Program Performance

The HSDPL was a two tranche operation of US$150 million equivalent, Euro-denominated,
approved by the Board of Executive Directors on June 30, 2005. The Loan Agreement was signed
on July 18, 2005, and declared effective on August 24, 2005. Due to exchange rate fluctuations
between the Euro and the US$, the total amount disbursed was US$158.50 million.

The first tranche of US$85.64 million was disbursed in September 2005 on the basis of
completion of the following select list of prior actions:

     Approval of the detailed implementation plan for the slum upgrading program VSB
     Promotion of access to credit within the Cities without slums (VSB) program
     Formal creation of the Supervisory Board of the HAO
     Reimbursement of the debt of the OPH to CIH
     Approval of the Circular on social housing planning and construction standards
     Approval of the Circular on the revised standards for public facilities in residential
         Developments
     Government decision to create the housing saving schemes

The second tranche of US$72.86 million was disbursed in June 2008 on the basis of completion
of the following actions:

     Achievement of qualitative and quantitative targets in the implementation of the
         VSB program
     Satisfactory implementation of the final restructuring of the parastatal companies
     Approval of the new urban planning legislation
     Approval of new residential rental market legislation
     Adjustments to the charter of the FOGARIM
     Implementation of the agreed reforms of the real estate tax system

For the reasons mentioned in Section 1.6, the condition on the establishment of the housing
saving schemes was waived for the release of the second tranche.

2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation:

The implementation of the HSDPL was positively affected by various factors such as: adequate
government commitment, sound background analysis, incorporation of lessons learned from
previous operations in Morocco, appropriate design of the operation, and appropriate mitigation
measures for the risks identified. These factors are discussed further below:

(i) Adequacy of government's commitment, stakeholder involvement, and participatory processes.
The government commitment was adequate and satisfactory. The HSDPL was requested by the
Government of Morocco (GOM) to support the implementation of policy reforms and programs
in the housing sector. The program for the housing sector was defined at the outset of the Jettou
Government in November 2002. The strategy was largely driven by the government's willingness
to let the private sector play the lead role in housing provision. The government refocused its
efforts in order to improve the institutional and regulatory environment of the housing sector and



                                                   6

to expand its support to low-income households to promote more market driven interventions.
The goal was to produce 100,000 social housing units annually (including serviced land plots and
housing units).

For urban planning regulations, in 2004 the government initiated major reforms in three areas: a)
strengthening control of land development and reducing delays in the approval and processing of
urban planning documents; b) reducing land allocation standards for public facilities, and c)
lowering construction standards for social housing units. The government was also committed to
unify and simplify the legislation (laws, decrees, instructions) which regulates urban planning,
zoning and subdivisions and related administrative procedures within a new Law (code
d'urbanisme). For real estate taxation and fiscal expenditure, the government began to reform the
tax system at the national level, supported by the European Union (EU) and the International
Monetary Fund (IMF). For the VSB, the government took steps to expedite the implementation of
the program by mobilizing stable and substantial resources by: a) increasing the resources
of the Housing Solidarity Fund (FSH); b) mobilizing large tracts of public land located around
major cities, a significant part of which would be transferred to VSB, and; c) restructuring of the
parastatal companies to improve their performance while relying on the private sector for the
construction of low-cost housing units.

There was adequate stakeholder involvement: For example, the Bank consulted widely with
financial sector institutions on the contents of the housing finance reforms and with micro-credit
associations which conveyed the expectations of the urban poor with regard to better access to
credit and to affordable housing products. The Bank maintained close working contacts with the
IMF and other donors that were assisting the government in the housing sector in order to
coordinate policy recommendations during preparation, seeking synergies among the respective
operations, and avoiding overlaps. The Bank collaborated with the IMF and the EU on the overall
reform of the tax system. There was also close coordination with other donors involved in the
sector. During 2004, Cities Alliance, the Bank-managed multilateral program for slum upgrading,
approved a grant of US$0.5m in support of the implementation of the VSB program.
Consultations were held by the Government with professional groups, at the regional level, and
with other key Ministries, so as to ensure a shared commitment to the goals of the new Urban
Planning Code.

(ii) Soundness of the background analysis underpinning the operation. The main analytical
underpinnings to the operation consisted of: a) two comprehensive Bank-financed studies of the
housing sector in 1998 carried out under the Land Development Project; b) the Housing Sector
Note prepared in 2002; c) the outputs of the Bank's technical assistance carried out in 2003; and
d) the results of the advisory work carried out in 2004 as part of the preparation of the proposed
operation. This included a comparative evaluation of slum upgrading programs in Morocco and
Tunisia and a regional study of housing practices in the Middle East and North Africa (MENA)
region, which provided useful guidance in the benchmarking of the Moroccan program of sector
reforms. A review of housing sector reform in comparator countries was also prepared at the
request of the government, drawing significantly from experience in Eastern Europe and Latin
America.

The Bank's Poverty report published in September 2004 provided a detailed and spatial analysis
of poverty in Morocco, and helped to alter the perception of poverty as a primarily rural concern.
The report provided a tool to the government to improve the targeting of poverty reduction, and
incentives to assign more importance to issues of sub-standard housing, water supply, education,
health insurance, and to a policy of "proximity" or community services. The Financial Sector




                                                   7

Assessment Program report of 2002 stressed that demand for urban housing continued to be high,
and that banks financed only 20 percent of total housing construction.

(iii) Lessons learned from previous operations.

      Time and intensive coordination are required to reach consensus around implementation
         of such programs of reforms.
      To be effective, land development projects should involve municipalities and other local
         stakeholders and be integrated within broader local economic development programs
      The timely and successful implementation of land development for low-income families
         on a very large scale requires that the institutional and regulatory frameworks governing
         land use and the housing sector be already in place.
      Promoting commercial bank financing of private developers as part of a low income
         housing project requires financial incentives for the banks to offer financing to low-
         income households.

These lessons were taken into account by the GOM policies that were addressing the needs of the
low-income groups, such as the VSB program, FOGARIM, and FSH allocations to social
housing.

(iv) Assessment of the operation's design: The HSDPL's design was adequate, even though it was
an ambitious operation involving a broad set of issues. The operation supported the development
objective of the government's housing sector program through policy reforms and measures to:
(a) modernize urban planning standards and regulations; (b) restructure and refocus public sector
housing agencies and enterprises; (c) rationalize and simplify real estate taxes and subsidies; (d)
expand urban slum upgrading and social housing programs through market friendly approaches;
(e) improve the efficiency of the residential rental market; and (f) expand the access of informal
sector and low-income households to market-based housing finance.

The operation was consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for FY 2006-2009 and
supported its second strategic objective of providing improved access to quality services for the
poorest and most marginalized parts of the population. It directly supported the CAS specific goal
of reducing slums and increasing access to affordable housing for the poorest segments of the
population. The operation also supported the first strategic CAS objective of accelerating
sustainable growth and job creation. Firstly, the improvement of the market environment brought
by the reform program would stimulate housing supply, resulting in job creation in the
construction sector. Secondly, the operation supported reduction and better targeting of fiscal
expenditures to the housing sector, which would help achieve higher growth to reduce poverty.
The operation would support these objectives through policy reforms and measures.

(v) Relevance of the risks identified at appraisal and effectiveness of mitigation measures.

The operation faced the following risks:

      Social and political opposition may weaken the government's resolve to pursue the
         macroeconomic reform program.

Mitigating measure: To mitigate this risk, the macroeconomic framework was monitored closely
and the government and the Bank consulted on further actions to maintain the economy on a
sustainable path. Moreover, the implementation of the housing sector reforms was not expected to



                                                   8

be critically dependant on macroeconomic stability. Most components of the reform program
were centered on changes in the legal and regulatory framework and did not require significant
public investments. Public investments required for the implementation of the government's
social housing strategy were allocated sufficient, stable and dedicated tax resources and were thus
protected from macroeconomic shocks.

     A sector-wide approach to the reforms of the housing sector was relatively ambitious,
         and therefore timely completion of reforms might be at risk.

Mitigating measure: Risks related to the multiplicity of institutions involved were identified
early during project preparation, and on this basis, the Secretary Generals of the Ministry of
Finance (MFP) and Ministry of Housing and Urban Planning (MHUAE) were appointed by their
respective Ministers to coordinate the preparation and implementation of the reform program. Ad
hoc task forces involving stakeholders from the public and private sectors were set up as needed
to develop and consult on sensitive reforms.

     The implementation of the VSB program was at risk of possible delays due to slower than
         expected delivery of the housing units and to a slow take off of the housing finance
         reforms.

Mitigating measure: A National Supervision Committee was created, chaired by the Prime
Minister, and comprising the Ministers of Housing and Urban Planning, of Finance and
Privatization, of Justice, of Interior and of Social Development. A new Division for the
management of the VSB program was created by the MHUAE and was fully staffed.

     The restructuring of the OPH would present challenges and risks.

Mitigating measure: At the central level, overstaffed HAO de-concentrated most of its personnel
to the regional branches. At the regional level, the challenge was integrating into one single
efficient structure the regional branches of HAO with the local existing and independently
managed OPH. This was not easy, given that each company had for years a different corporate
culture, and that four regional OPH out of seven had run up large deficits and had developed
lower management, accounting and commercial standards. In addition, there were vested interests
in maintaining the structure, management, staffing and coverage of the current OPH. To mitigate
those risks, the MFP and the MHUAE closely supported and monitored OPH restructuring, and
the Bank provided technical support as needed to address implementation issues.

     Possible resistance to and delays in the adoption of new legislation were likely.

Mitigating measure: Second tranche conditions included three sensitive legislative measures: a)
the new urban planning code; b) the new residential rental law; and c) the reform of the real estate
taxes and subsidies. Resistance from vested interests was likely to arise around each of these
subjects. To mitigate this risk, a program of active consensus building around the benefits of the
legislative and regulatory reforms supported by the government were implemented by
the responsible authorities. A working group including all major stakeholders and assisted by a
senior international consultant was formed to prepare the new urban planning legislation,
organize consultation forums and build consensus. For the residential rental sector reform, a
Steering Committee composed of representatives of the main institutional stakeholders was in
charge of supervising the ongoing study. The MFP had created a Steering Committee for the




                                                   9

preparation of the reform of the real estate taxes and subsidies that operated according to
equivalent lines, and aligned the reform proposals with the general fiscal reform envisaged.

(viii) Negative factors. The following factors affected the smooth implementation of the
operation:

      The reform of the fiscal measures pertaining to the housing sector was moving very
         slowly. DGI (Direction Générale des Impôts, IRS equivalent ), the responsible
         department, was focused in 2006 on the reform of fiscal measures managed by local
         authorities, and in 2007 focused on the reduction by 50% of Value Added Tax (VAT)
         exemptions as agreed to with the EU as part of an adjustment operation.

      Preparation of the new Urban Planning Code, while progressing substantially well, had
         taken much longer than expected, because of the: (i) very complex nature of the issues
         that were at the core of the reform; (ii) fact that the Government had introduced partial
         urban legislation reform to Parliament in early 2004 (draft Law 04/04); and (iii)
         numerous compromises to be reached between key Ministries.

      The financial incentive for the creation of housing saving schemes by commercial banks
         was not included in the 2006 Budget Law, contrary to the commitment made in the Loan
         Agreement. In the Budget Law for 2007 it was not agreed to between Treasury and the
         Tax department and the delayed measure was again postponed. These constituted two
         instances of non-compliance with the loan agreement, given that the above time-bound
         actions were listed as conditions for the disbursement of the second tranche of the loan.
         The Bank team, however, agreed in substance that the reasons for the creation of the
         housing saving schemes, as identified at appraisal, were superseded.

      The VSB program was delayed with regard to its quantitative objectives, as by the end of
         2005 only 24,500 units had been delivered instead of the projected 43,000. An additional
         11,000 units (worth about $55m) had been produced but not sold due to the difficulties
         encountered in recovering financial contributions from the beneficiary households.
         However, by the end of 2006 which was the agreed-to target date, the quantitative
         objectives reached were more than double the target.

      The coordination between MHUAE and MFP for the management of the reform agenda
         supported by the Loan was at times compromised by conflicting objectives of the two
         departments, with MFP in favor of a greater fiscal rigor, and MHUAE in favor of more
         generous subsidies to the construction industry and to developers.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization:

M&E design. The outcomes of the housing sector policy reforms were envisioned to be
monitored according to the indicators mentioned in Section 1.2. These indicators were identified
in the Policy Matrix, negotiated with the government, and approved by the Board. The selection
of monitoring indicators had taken into account the tracking systems already in place at the
MHUAE and the MFP, which were each responsible for their monitoring. However, in light of
the comments from the Board that some indicators were not quantitative, in agreement with the
government, relevant quantitative indicators were developed right after effectiveness, especially
in relation to the FOGARIM quantitative targets.




                                                   10

Prior to the disbursement of the second tranche, and during 2007, a comprehensive effort of
measuring the outcomes of the program of reforms implemented under the Loan was expected to
be taking place by MFP and MHUAE, using baseline figures for the close of 2004 and of 2006. A
mid-term evaluation of the implementation of the VSB program was scheduled to be carried out
by national and international consultants, as part of the activities supported by the Cities Alliance
technical assistance, which would enable the MHUAE to enhance its design and operational
modalities.

M&E implementation. Monitoring and evaluation activities were carried out by the task team in
partnership with the MFP and MHUAE, on the basis of the agreed-upon indicators, for the
reforms covered by the first tranche, for which results were already measurable. In addition to
normal supervision practices and reporting, the operation was subject to specific monitoring and
evaluation to track the indicators which were selected at appraisal and agreed upon with the
Borrower. Consequently, a Monitoring and Evaluation Report on the impact of the reforms under
the first tranche of the loan, comparing end of 2004 to end of 2006 indicators, was issued by the
Bank in June 2007. In addition, a Policy Note on the housing sector was issued by the Bank at the
same time, and revised and updated in May 2008 under the title "The challenges of social housing
in Morocco". It is now part of the overall report "Conditions for a higher and inclusive growth"
which was issued in May 2008. The Bank also carried out the "Poverty and Social Impact
Assessment of the national slum upgrading program", which was supported under the operation,
and published and disseminated it in June 2006.

M&E utilization. Appropriate data collected by the government on the indicators was evaluated
and used during supervision missions, and also for decision making on policy work.

2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation (if any):

As discussed in Section 3.1, there are still a number of challenges that are of fundamental
importance to the economic and social development of Morocco. In order to deal with these
challenges, and also to sustain the benefits of the HSDPL, a continued Bank involvement in the
housing sector is desirable. The following recommendations are made by the World Bank team
for the government's consideration.


  a) Increase the supply of affordable formal housing for low-income households

     The development of a supply of formal housing affordable by the poorest populations (i.e.
         households falling in the lowest five deciles) is one of the fundamental priorities in
         implementing a long-term strategy for the sector.
     The newly launched program of housing units at MAD 140,000 represent a first response.
         This program, officially launched in January 2008 by the MHUAE is targeting
         households of income between 1.0 and 1.5 minimum wage. The first tranche of this
         program aims at constructing 130,000 housing units over the next five years, of which 60
         percent will be built directly by the HAO.
     In order to optimize the implementation of this program, it is important to underline the
         following points:
         -The risk of duplication, given the substantial resources allocated to the national
    programs such as VSB and housing threatening collapse, and the substantial subsidies
    allocated to this program through the allocation of public land and tax breaks. Consequently
    the program should be more focused on the prevention of informal housing than on upgrading.


                                                  11

        -Opportunities to develop synergies between this program and the newly developed
    financing mechanisms (FOGARIM, microcredit, etc.) so that the poorest among the targeted
    households may have access to this subsidized housing.
        -A strict control of the commercialization process will have to be put in place to
    counteract the risks of diversion.
     The success of the implementation of the MAD 140,000 program lies, among other things,
        on the ability to control the increase in construction costs.
     It will be equally important to balance the economic viability of the MAD 140,000
        housing units for the developers with the financial capacity of the targeted households.


    b) Increase the yearly surface area of land urbanized for residential development

To address the substantial land requirements of urbanization and reduce the cumulative housing
shortage, actions to be undertaken in the coming years could focus on:
     Continuation of the policy of transfers of publicly owned land by the Public Lands
        Directorate.
     Grouped registration of periurban lands by the National Agency for Land Conservation,
        Land Registration, and Cartography
     Acceleration of subdivisions.
     Public financing of off-site infrastructure set in place and supported by the national
        budget


    c) Improve the organization and management of the Cities Without Slums Program

Both the operational and institutional set-up of the VSB will need to be revised in order to meet
the objective of truly eradicating all existing slums, even though the target date of 2010 now
looks difficult to achieve:
     Adopt a more flexible setup for slum upgrading operations.
     Generalize social support in slum upgrading operations already in progress and
        systematically incorporate it into operations that have not yet begun.
     Expand the access of slum populations to mortgage loans and microcredit.
     Strengthen the central management structure of VSB.
     Build the basic facilities and infrastructures as part of the slum upgrading operations.

    d) Improve the targeting of public programs and control the slippage risk

     Issues related to targeting of fiscal subsidies and of public programs should be looked at
        more particularly to bring sector taxation in line with the tax reform now in progress, and
        to streamline and simplify the system of exemptions currently enjoyed by the real estate
        sector.
     Adjustment of certain provisions of fiscal exemptions are recommended in order to
        improve social targeting and to reflect the reality of the local real estate markets.




                                                  12

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

The objectives of the HSDPL are clear, relevant, and still important to the country's economic
and social development. The operation was timely and appropriate to the needs of Morocco, and
quite in line with the government's strategy on the housing sector. On the one hand, the housing
sector in Morocco has made great strides over the past five years, strengthening its position as
one of the essential engines of growth for the economy of the Kingdom. On the other hand, there
are still a number of challenges that are of fundamental importance to the economic and social
development of the Kingdom. For example, the short supply of housing units for low-income
households and the insufficient amount of urbanized land available for formal residential
development encourage the proliferation of substandard, precarious, and informal housing. These
constraints, as well as the difficulties experienced in implementing the VSB Program have put at
risk the stated objective of clearing all slums in the Kingdom by 2010. Further, the rental housing
sector, a possible supplementary instrument for combating substandard housing, is still suffering
from notable dysfunctions. Lastly, the subsidies for the public housing programs, including those
related to the taxation of the real estate sector, risk being captured and dispersed on account of
limited social targeting and lack of controls.

Rating: Highly relevant.

3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between policy actions supported by operations and
outcomes)

Satisfactory. The program of reforms initiated by the government in 2004 and supported by the
Bank with the HSDPL is having a profoundly beneficial impact on the functioning of the housing
sector in Morocco. The housing sector has gone through substantial transformations and is now
considered one of the most dynamic sectors of the national economy. All indicators confirm that
the policy implemented by the government as of early 2003, and which was supported by the
Bank's technical assistance at first, and by the HSDPL, has been successful in addressing some of
the fundamental sector issues and in reaching the development objectives.

Objective 1: Strengthening the institutional, regulatory and fiscal environment for a well-
functioning housing market and for the emergence of market-based solutions to the country's
housing sector constraints and needs.

The reorganization of the parastatal housing companies got under way in 2004 with the creation
of HAO, which consolidated the land and financial capital, as well as the human and technical
resources, previously managed by the National Shelter Upgrading Agency (ANHI), the National
Equipment and Construction Corporation (SNEC), and Attacharouk (which was created to carry
out a housing program in Greater Casablanca). The mission of the HAO was refocused on
providing on-site infrastructure and urbanizing land to facilitate the implementation of residential
projects by private developers and on implementing the social housing programs financed via the
FSH. In late 2004 the total outstanding debts of these establishments vis-a-vis CIH, a property
development public bank, were fully repaid in the amount of MAD 800 million; these
organizations were also re-capitalized for MAD 900 million, thus making them again financially
viable.



                                                    13

The key financial ratios of the group (assets, profitability ratios, upfront payments by buyers, etc.)
at end of 2004 were compared to end of 2006, and were found by the Bank to have all
considerably improved. In addition, during 2007 the seven regional parastatal development and
construction establishments (ERAC) were officially dissolved as state subsidiaries, re-established
as publicly owned companies, and then transferred to HAO by the government. Two more
regional companies were also created with the purpose of completing a balanced coverage of the
regions. HAO has become a powerful tool for the implementation of the public policies in the
realm of social housing, but is also facilitating the investment of private companies into the
housing sector.

Due to the release of large tracts of public land, of the ability of HAO to provide onsite
infrastructure, of the simplification of the urban planning regulations, and on account of the
expanded access to credit, there was a substantial increase in the production of low-cost and
social housing between 2004 and 2006. The production of lots intended for the construction of
social housing almost doubled between 2004 and 2006, increasing from 22,000 units in 2004 to
45,000 units in 2006. This increase was primarily due to production by the parastatal companies,
which nearly tripled over the 2004-2006 period. Similarly, the production of low-costs housing
units increased substantially, by 30 percent, rising from 54,000 units in 2004 to 70,000 units in
2006. This growth is essentially due to the increased interest shown by private developers,
alongside a gradual withdrawal of public operators which are focusing more on the urbanization
of public lands.

A diversified offer of financial products has benefited the real estate sector over the past several
years and is witnessing serious competition among commercial banks, marked by a
significant drop in interest rates and the lengthening of maturities. These favorable market
conditions are the indirect consequence of a reduction in the national debt and of the resulting
increase in the liquidity of the national banking system. The efforts made by the government to
facilitate access to property by the disadvantaged social groups, the production of low-cost
housing, as well as the emergence of major developer and contractor groups all contributed to the
takeoff of the sector. In this context, real estate lending rose in 2007 to MAD 76 billion,
representing 22 percent of credits to the economy, as compared to 15 percent in 1998. In addition
to the loans benefiting from State support (representing one-third of all housing lending in 2005),
participation by banks improved by over 50 percent in volume terms, corresponding to a twofold
increase in the number of lending operations, while the average commitment decreased from
MAD 284,000 to MAD 218,000, thus underscoring the diversification of the portfolio and the
targeting of new categories of customers.

Fiscal sector policies. Pursuant to the Bank-funded study on the impact of real estate taxation
carried out in 2006-2007, the related sector taxes have been revised as follows in the 2008 Budget
Law: a) application of the normal VAT rate (20 percent, instead of the reduced rate of 14 percent)
to all real estate operations, with the exception of social housing, which remains exempt; b)
elimination of the provision of the 3 percent tax break on corporate taxes if applied to the
construction of employee housing; and c) unification of registration fees (2.5% on the amount of
the real estate transaction) with the notary public fee (0.5%). The new registration fees will be
subject to a cumulative rate of 3%, with the exception of social housing that will benefit from the
special cumulative rate of 1.5%; and d) with regards to the fiscal incentives for the production of
low-cost housing (Article 19), real estate companies producing low-cost residential units (value
of MAD 200,000) will have to pay 50 percent of the corporate tax (while they were previously
totally exempt), and the quantitative threshold to benefit from these fiscal incentives has been
lowered to 1,500 units. The construction of low-cost units with a value up to MAD 140,000 will


                                                    14

be entirely tax exempt, with a quantitative threshold of 500 units in urban areas and of 100 units
in rural areas.

Foreign direct investment in Moroccan real estate experienced a sizable boom in 2006, drawing
in nearly MAD 4 billion in a single year, that is, over 15 percent of the total flow of FDI,
causing this sector to rank third after industry and tourism. This increased prominence since
2003 is explained by several factors: (i) the global dynamics of the real estate sector; (ii) the
dynamism of the Moroccan economy, which grew at a record rate of 8.2 percent in 2006; and
(iii) the launching of the massive programs to build new cities, as well as residential,
commercial, and tourist property development. These investments, flowing in both from the Gulf
States (the United Arab Emirates account for nearly 10 percent) and from Europe (primarily
France, Spain, and the United Kingdom), allow for sizable concentrations of capital in the sector,
the consolidation of major national groups, technology transfers from international groups, and
the achievement of economies of scale.

Urban Planning Code. In May 2005 the government started a process of consultation and
technical work to completely overhaul the current legislation regulating urban planning, which
dates back to 1990. MHUAE set out the principles and objectives of the reform in a policy
document published in October 2005 which received the official endorsement of His Majesty.
MHUAE then carried out a national survey of perceived requirements for the replacement
legislation and a first-hand investigation of international best practices. In 2006 and 2007 it
prepared the full text of the new Urban Planning Code which would greatly simplify and
modernize urban planning practices, and hence accelerate the production of formal residential
units.

The draft law was approved on June 12, 2008 by the Council of Government. It has not yet been
approved by the Council of Ministers, and after this approval, it needs to be submitted and
discussed in the two Chambers of Parliament (Chambre des Représentants and Chambre des
Conseillers). After the adoption by the Parliament, the Law must be promulgated by royal decree.
It is estimated that the adoption of the Urban Planning Code as a law might consequently not take
place before end of 2009 or even in 2010.

Nevertheless, the Code contains the solutions to the great majority of problems with which
Moroccan cities are currently confronted: long and cumbersome planning procedures and release
of permits to subdivide land and to build, with important consequences on urban growth and on
the functionality of the real estate market.

Achievement of the first objective is satisfactory.

Objective 2: Increasing the access o f low income and severely disadvantaged households to
more affordable and higher quality housing.

Housing Solidarity Fund. In early 2003 the Housing Solidarity Fund (FSH) was established, in
order to channel revenues for the social housing programs into a dedicated fund which is
replenished via a tax on the sale of cement, currently in the order of 0.10 MAD per kilo. Given
the considerable increase in construction activities, the yearly replenishment of the FSH has
increased steadily, reaching MAD 1.4 billion in 2008 from MAD 400 million in 2004, and
providing a reliable source of financing for the expansion of the social housing programs. During
2003-2007, the government also mobilized approximately 10,000 ha of public land to boost urban
development and primarily residential activities. This has allowed for the implementation of the
social housing programs, for the creation of new towns, and for the formal urbanization of peri-


                                                  15

urban areas of major cities. While the on-site infrastructure is provided by the publicly owned
HAO, the vast majority of the construction of residential units is now performed by private
contractors, some of which have gone through spectacular financial growth.

VSB. The "Cities Without Slums" program, designed and launched in July 2004, targets the
upgrading of all slums in the country by the end of the decade. Its strategy is based on the city as
the programming unit for a comprehensive and integrated intervention, on a contractual
framework between the State, local governments, and operators to ensure joint respect of
commitments and responsibilities, and on better targeting of the operations in order to optimize
the resources at play in terms of the land tenure, financial, institutional, and social issues. From
a quantitative standpoint, the results of program implementation remain encouraging. As of late
March 2008, the number of slum units treated by the program, since its launch, amounted to
82,000, out of total of 293,000 slum households targeted. However, four years after the program
launch, 19 cities with nearly 30 percent of the slum population still have not signed "city
contracts" with MHUAE (Casablanca and Temara having signed only partial contracts), and the
apartment units and serviced plots produced but not yet transferred to the target households
numbered 21,000 at end of March 2008, indicating limited adaptation of the products to the
demand and the financial capacity of the households. Moreover, it is important to highlight the
fact that the number of households targeted by the program has been increasing during the last
years from 212,000 in 2004 to 293,000 in 2008.

The monitoring and evaluation exercise conducted by the Bank in partnership with MHUAE on
the basis of their internal reporting data ascertained that 62,000 households had in fact benefited
from the program by end of 2006. In addition, 19,000 units had been produced but had not been
assigned to the beneficiary households yet. Therefore the results more than doubled the
quantitative targets established at the outset of the HSDPL.

Residential rental sector. In May 2005 the government launched a study of the residential rental
sector, to identify ways for this segment of the housing market to perform better and to contribute
to the satisfaction of the pent-up housing demand, primarily in the largest urban areas. The study
was presented at a stakeholder workshop in April 2006. The recommendations of the study were
to review upwards the current rental ceilings and to overhaul the corresponding legislation in
order to better balance and regulate the rights of the landlords with the ones of the tenants. Their
implementation would mobilize investments and ensure that some of the 800,000 residential units
currently vacant would be put on the rental market. On this basis, new draft legislation was
prepared by MHUAE in 2007 with the collaboration of the Ministry of Justice. The latter was
keen on participating in order to minimize the number of civil suits resulting from rental-related
conflicts, which is currently very high. The draft law was approved on June 12, 2008 by the
Council of Government.

FOGARIM was created under the 2004 Budget Law, and replaced the system of across-the-
board interest rebates on mortgages previously subsidized by the State. FOGARIM constitutes a
complete innovation in Morocco, in that it finally enables access to housing credit by households
of the informal sector, which represent a very large share of the population (nearly 40 percent of
the labor force in urban areas in 2000, according to estimates by the Statistics Directorate).
FOGARIM is directly supported through the FSH: during 2003-2007, MAD 400 million drawn
from the FSH was transferred to the Central Guarantee Fund as the endowment of FOGARIM, to
cover the risks borne by banking establishments in granting such loans. After a slow launch
period, the efforts made by the public authorities to improve the operation of this fund, combined
with a targeted communication and information policy, made it possible to increase activity from
2,600 loans guaranteed in 2005 to 10,500 in 2006, to 15,600 in 2007, for a cumulative total of


                                                   16

28,700 with an overall balance increasing from MAD 255 million in 2005 to MAD 1.5 billion in
2006, to MAD 4.76 billion in 2007.

The FOGARIM Steering Committee met regularly to review the performance of the guarantee
fund and in 2006 made the agreed adjustments needed to facilitate access: a) the maximum
monthly repayment amount was increased; b) the certification of informal revenues by the local
delegate of the Ministry of Interior was replaced by an auto-certification; c) the guarantee was
extended to the acquisition of housing units by multiple family members; d) the age limit of 60
for the final repayment of the mortgage was eliminated; and e) the guarantee was extended to the
self-help construction of housing and acquisition of residential plots. During 2007, in view of the
lengthy procedures required for the issuance of title deeds by public housing operators, it was
agreed to accept a guarantee by the housing operator instead. In 2007 the Steering Committee
agreed to introduce insurance premiums to increase the financial coverage of the guarantee: a) a
premium of 0.65% will be applied to the guaranteed amount (70% of the mortgage), which
corresponds to an additional interest rate of 0.46% for beneficiaries; and b) a deduction on the
premium corresponding to the cash contribution by the beneficiaries will be applied: for a
contribution of 20%, a deduction of 20% is applied to the premium (premium of 0.36% instead of
0.46%).

Achievement of the second objective is satisfactory.

3.3 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs)

Rating: Satisfactory

As discussed in Section 3.2, the objectives of the HSDPL remain highly relevant to Morocco's
current priorities and the Bank's CAS. The operation contributed to strengthening the
government's housing sector management, implementing key actions underpinning Morocco's
long-term growth and competitiveness, and improving efficiency in the housing sector, and thus
the overall outcome is rated as Satisfactory.

3.4 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Poverty impact: The operation supported the Government's poverty reduction strategy by
providing targeted and subsidized programs for the urban poor, living in substandard housing and
slum neighborhoods.

Gender Aspects: The operation facilitated a greater number of women in accessing the guaranteed
credits for buying houses. FOGARIM data shows that more than 50% heads of households who
approached banks for mortgages for low income housing units were women. This seems to
correspond to general progress that women are experiencing in taking social and economic
initiatives following the reform of the Family Code, which was approved by the King in 2004.

Social Development: The government has not yet put in place sufficient safeguards on subsidies
that the government is investing in social programs. While companies have benefited from tax
breaks and low land value, there is no system in place that will forbid buyers from reselling these



                                                 17

units, which is contributing to speculative activities in the housing market. Consequently, many
business people are buying and selling these properties, capturing some of the benefits which
were meant for lower income households. This is one area which should be improved upon by
the government.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

The operation contributed to reorganization of the OPH. This institutional reform initiative got
under way in 2004 with the creation of HAO, which consolidated the land and financial capital,
as well as the human and technical resources, previously managed by the ANHI, the SNEC, and
Attacharouk. The mission of the HAO was refocused on implementing on-site infrastructure
works and urbanizing land to facilitate, downstream from its own involvement, the mission of the
private developers and the programs financed by the FSH to combat substandard housing. In
addition, several measures have been taken to capitalize and rehabilitate the financial standing of
the regional development and construction establishments and to integrate them in the holding
company.

In the realm of housing finance, the government terminated its regressive policy of providing
subsidies to mortgages, which were accessible only by middle-income, formal sector households,
and replaced it with a new policy of providing guarantees and encouraging private banks to lend
to informal sector households. This is a major breakthrough which has enabled the broader
penetration of banking institutions in the housing sector and into segments of the population that
were previously excluded from formal financing, and redefined the role of the government as an
enabler, rather than of a provider of financial assistance.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

     While it is true that the social housing sector (i.e. units of selling value less than 200,000
        MAD) has seen a dramatic development during the period covered by the HSDPL, it is
        important to emphasize the fact that these units are also sold to buyers who are not part of
        the intended target groups. It is likely that middle-class households have benefited from
        these highly subsidized housing units. Furthermore, speculation has driven up the cost of
        these units so that more than 30 percent of the households acquiring these housing units
        declared having paid more than the threshold price of 200,000 MAD: illegal transactions
        and "under the table" settlements are widely spread across the country. In addition, while
        most of the units produced are at the top end range of the 200,000 MAD threshold value,
        the low cost units (less than 120,000 MAD) have drawn almost no interest from the
        private developers.

     Cement tax proceeds soared up significantly during the period covered by the HSDPL
        (almost threefold). Consequently, to date, public housing programs do not suffer any
        funding shortages. However, underlying issues result more on how to allocate these funds,
        how to prioritize the different programs, and how to target the poorest in a sustainable
        manner.

     Increase in wages, energy costs, and material costs have all considerably increased the
        cost of construction. Moreover, voluntary implementation of anti-seismic measures by
        builders since the fatal Al-Hoceima earthquake of 2004 have also contributed to an




                                                  18

         upsurge in construction costs. Thus, the decrease in construction costs that was expected
         to result from the rationalization of norms and standards has not been obtained.

      Some of the households benefiting from low-cost housing and especially plots of slum
         resettlement, can theoretically deal with acquisition costs but are then placed in financial
         difficulties by the recurrent costs related to the improved housing conditions (water,
         electricity, maintenance costs, other recurrent costs such as transportation) that are not
         accompanied by increases in cash income in the short term. It is reported that in a small
         but significant proportion of the poorest households improved housing puts pressure on
         other expenditures by unacceptable means (interruption of schooling for children,
         working children), and illegal activities (prostitution or petty crime) are reported to
         increase consequently in the areas of resettlement or relocation.

      One of the most pernicious effects of the policy of promoting social housing to MAD
         200,000 has been drastically reducing the supply of apartments for the middle class. The
         tax benefits granted to developers, and the practice of bribes, illegal but tolerated (or
         ignored), have virtually eliminated the housing supply at a price between MAD 300,000
         and MAD 600,000. Developers focus on producing tax-exempt housing units in the MAD
         200,000 bracket (often sold at MAD 300,000 or MAD 350,000 to buyers of the middle
         classes or to Moroccans residing abroad) or luxury housing units (over MAD 700,000
         and often MAD 1,000,000). The middle classes are practically forced to rely on social
         housing with extras costs, and cannot find higher quality housing units.


4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

           Rating:    Negligible to low


The achievements of the HSDPL are highly sustainable. On the other hand:

      There is a concern regarding the accelerated increase of the market prices of urban land
         and housing products which Morocco is currently experiencing. In addition, there is an
         increasing importance of leakages and distortions in the targeting, marketing and
         distribution of the formal housing products, which could affect the full effectiveness of
         some of the housing sector policies reforms.

         While the urban planning legislation reform has been completed, which itself is a huge
         progress, it will take a long negotiation in Parliament on the part of the government to
         eventually transform it into law, and for the reform to have a concrete impact.

         5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance


(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)




                                                   19

         Rating: Highly Satisfactory

The Bank's performance in the preparation of the operation was highly satisfactory. The
preparation process focused on critical gaps and opportunities for interventions in the housing
sector. The HSDPL's objectives were consistent with the government's development priorities
and the Bank's CAS. During preparation, the Bank assessed the operation's risks and benefits,
and lessons learned from earlier operations were incorporated into the design. Also, the operation
supported selected reforms in the government's program and the list of prior actions included
reforms that were deemed essential to its successful implementation.

The Bank resumed its involvement in the housing sector with high-level meetings in Tangiers in
February 2003 which defined the priorities for Bank assistance. Housing was selected as a
priority area together with education, agriculture and public sector management. A Housing
Sector Note, prepared by the Bank, was discussed with the government, and technical assistance
was provided on priority policy reforms. Several recommendations made by the Bank were taken
into account by the government when reshaping its national housing policy. At the Dubai Annual
Meetings in September 2003, GOM requested financial assistance in the form of an adjustment
operation to support the design and implementation of the housing sector reforms.

During the preparation of the operation, the Bank maintained an intense dialogue with the
government and other key stakeholders. In particular, the Bank provided support to the MHUAE
for the detailed preparation of the VSB slum upgrading program with the help of specialized
consultants. This enabled the MHUAE to develop a much improved VSB program document,
complete with detailed estimates on the land and financial needs, and to obtain greater credibility
for this flagship program, resulting in international financial backing. There was also intensive
technical assistance on housing finance for the design of the FOGARIM housing guarantee fund
and on urban planning reform. The Bank also consulted widely with financial sector institutions
on the contents of the housing finance reforms and with micro-credit associations which
conveyed the expectations of the urban poor with regard to better access to credit and to
affordable housing products.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including M&E arrangements)

         Rating: Highly Satisfactory

Bank's performance during the implementation of the operation was highly satisfactory. The task
team focused on the operation's development impact. The Bank allocated sufficient budget and
staff resources, and the project was adequately supervised and closely monitored. The task team
regularly prepared Aide-Memoires, alerted GOM on issues found during implementation and
facilitated prompt corrective action. The Implementation Status Reports (ISRs) realistically rated
the performance of the operation. The Bank deepened the policy dialogue with the institutions
involved in the implementation of the program of reform, and ensured the availability of staff and
specialists to advise the government in all of the policy and technical areas involved. The task
team was effective in coordinating activities between the MFP and MHUAE.

Coordination with other donors was done well to ensure synergies and avoid conflicting policy
advice. The HSDPL was successful in mobilizing other significant donor support (both funding
and TA) from the European Union, the European Investment Bank, the Agence Française de
Développement, and Cities Alliance for increased urban development, low-income housing



                                                  20

production, and slum upgrading. In particular, the TTL regularly participated in housing sector
donor coordination events which were held in the field, where the Bank team would share
progress in implementation of the reform program and facilitate the harmonization of policy
efforts conducted by other donor-supported operations.

In addition to normal supervision practices and reporting, the task team conducted specific
monitoring and evaluation to track the indicators which were selected at appraisal and agreed
upon with the Borrower. Consequently, a Monitoring and Evaluation Report on the impact of the
reforms under the first tranche of the loan, comparing end of 2004 to end of 2006 indicators, was
issued by the Bank in June 2007. In addition, a Policy Note on the housing sector was issued by
the Bank at the same time, and revised and updated in May 2008 under the title "The challenges
of Social Housing in Morocco". The Bank also carried out the "Poverty and Social Impact
Assessment of the national slum upgrading program", and disseminated it in June 2006.

The task team closely monitored the progress of the operation and worked effectively with
Country Management Unit (CMU) management in dialogue with the government. CMU
management played a critical role in discussing and agreeing on an extension of the closing date
that would allow the government to meet the second tranche conditions to access the remaining
$70.74 million of the loan. The team sought to address implementation issues with the
government, specifically by: a) providing advisory services for the design of the reform of the
real-estate fiscal measures throughout 2007; b) engaging the authorities in a policy dialogue
around the reform of the residential rental sector and providing international expertise for that
purpose; c) monitor the progress in the implementation of the new housing finance instruments
for the low-income informal sector households and suggest improvements; and d) starting with
the responsible authorities a process of revision of the slum upgrading program goals, financial
and operational modalities.

With persistent and well-focused efforts from the task team, the operation succeeded in motivating the
MHUAE to carry out all of the policy and institutional reforms it had committed to, even though this
Ministry did not directly benefit from the Bank's DPL financing,

In addition, one important aspect of the Bank's performance and contribution was the continuity of the
Task Team, including the TTL and other key sector specialists, from project inception through
completion. This continuity engendered consistency, depth and follow-up in the dialogue on sector
reforms and provided expertise to help the government analyze issues and implement actions as they
emerged during supervision. The Task Team made use of its very good understanding of the sector
issues and of the reform processes to engage the Borrower on the importance of keeping the contents
and calendar of the operation on track. For example, the negotiation for the six month extension
required the agreement of MFP and the commitment of MHUAE to complete the two outstanding
reforms by June 2008, and this was achieved via the insistence of the Bank team for the completion of
the reform program. The operation's periodic performance ratings were also effectively used by the
team to keep the government commitment focused on achieving the project objectives.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Highly Satisfactory

On the basis of the above assessment of Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry and in
supervision, overall Bank performance is rated Highly Satisfactory.




                                                  21

5.2 Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The Borrower's commitment to and ownership of reforms was adequate and satisfactory. The
government's commitment was evident by the fact that the HSDPL was requested by GOM to
support the implementation of policy reforms and programs in the housing sector. Due to its
economic and social role, the housing sector was considered a top priority by the government.
GOM placed a high priority on improving the access to and affordability of formal housing
especially for the urban poor, in order to slow the growth of slums and other informal housing. A
cohesive strategy of reforms identified in late 2002, and which could garner consistent
international support, was implemented by the government and brought about improvement in the
housing sector. The strategy was based on better-targeted public incentives, institutional reforms
focused on the reorganization of social housing promotion, a greater private sector role in housing
construction, and an expanded bank role in real estate financing. It is worth mentioning that only
one conditionality was waived for the second tranche release, which demonstrated the strong
government's commitment to reform.

The MFP and the MHUAE were the two ministries responsible for the overall implementation of
the operation and for reporting progress and coordinating actions among other agencies
concerned. In particular, the MHUAE was responsible for the implementation of the reform
actions pertaining to urban planning, restructuring of the OPH, implementation of the VSB
program, and reforming the residential rental sector. The MFP on the other hand was responsible
for the implementation of the reform actions pertaining to the rationalization of the real estate
taxes and subsidies, the operation of the guarantee fund FOGARIM, and the creation of the
housing saving schemes. The performance of both the MFP and the MHUAE in discharging their
responsibilities was satisfactory.




6. Lessons Learned         (both operation-specific and of wide general application)

    a) The success of the operation confirms that the two-tranche approach, as opposed to a
         programmatic DPL, can create a dynamic of institutional and financial incentives which
         is conducive to the achievement of the intended results. While initially there was some
         hesitation on the government's side on the realism of such a broad program of reforms in
         such a short time-frame, the government then used its commitment to the Bank as a tool
         to concretize the reforms and overcome the administrative inertia and disagreements
         between responsible departments. Moreover, the reforms supported under the second
         tranche were kept on a tight frame in light of the existing commitment between the Bank
         and the government. Further, in spite of the change of administration, the level of
         government commitment continued to be the same. Considering the change of
         administration, the six-month extension was a minor slippage that did not undermine the
         validity of the two-tranche approach.

    b) For a reform program which involves several ministries, it is absolutely essential to have
         the right level of coordination, and in such situations, the Bank can play a crucial role to
         facilitate this process. In this operation, the understanding of the institutional incentives
         was crucial: for the MHUAE, the Bank support provided more international credibility,
         but no direct financial allocations; for the MFP, the Bank support provided it with



                                                    22

       technical oversight over the housing sector programs, and budgetary support. Likewise,
       the Bank had maintained close working contacts with the IMF on fiscal policies and with
       other donors that were assisting the government in the housing sector, in order to
       coordinate policy recommendations during preparation, seeking synergies among the
       respective operations, and avoiding overlaps. This kind of coordination and
       harmonization proved to be highly valuable for the success of the operation.

    c) Reforming land titling was identified at the preparation stage as one of the critical
       bottlenecks constraining the land supply for residential purposes. This is still a major
       issue that remains to be addressed. However, as land titling is not specific to the housing
       sector, but rather cuts across all areas of the national economy, it was not possible to
       include its reform in the HSDPL and a separate operation would be required. This issue
       would have to be addressed for all aspects of land titling, such as in industrial,
       agricultural, tourism, and residential housing sectors. It is widely understood that current
       constraints in land tenure and land titling constitute a hindrance to economic growth
       across all sectors of the Moroccan economy.

    d) The high level of financial resources and institutional support to the social housing
       programs provided by the Government should be accompanied by appropriate safeguard
       measures to ensure that the intended benefits reach the targeted social groups and are not
       captured by others, thus undermining the social impacts of the public housing policies
       and the credibility of the responsible institutions. The public policies in support of the
       housing sector, and in particular the social housing programs, are part of the
       Government's broader approach towards poverty alleviation, which include interventions
       in health, education and social protection. Insufficient targeting and leakages in the social
       housing programs would weaken the pro-poor efforts of the Government and undermine
       its credibility.

    e) For VSB program to be more responsive to the slum population: (i) a more flexible
       approach to the supply of housing solutions to the individual slum households should be
       developed and applied; (ii) the requirements of the most vulnerable segment of the slum
       population which cannot afford any kind of financial participation should be addressed at
       the planning stage of the operations; (iii) social support and participation should be
       rapidly scaled up at central and local levels and become part and parcel of the
       implementation of the upgrading operations; and (iv) the needs for access to municipal
       and community services and to income-generating activities by the slum households
       should be addressed, in partnership with the National Initiative for Human Development
       (INDH).



7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/Implementing agencies

The Borrower's Completion Report confirms a common understanding of the main challenges of
the housing sector at the outset of the operation, as well as a common appreciation of the very
good collaboration achieved between Government institutions and the Bank team in the design
and implementation of the HSDPL.




                                                 23

The process of consultation over the results of this operation also allowed the Bank team to gauge
the assessment by Government (both Ministry of Finance and MHUAE) of the new set of priority
issues for the housing sector as understood by the Bank and summarized in this ICR. This
positive dialogue is now the basis for the discussion of the role that the Bank might have in
further assisting the Government in the new set of challenges facing the housing sector.

(b) Cofinanciers

        N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

        N/A




                                                 24

Annex 1 Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes




(a) Task Team members

            Names                         Title              Unit    Responsibility/
                                                                         Specialty
Lending
Anthony G. Bigio         Senior Urban Specialist            MNSSD Task Team Leader
Loic Chiquier            Lead Financial Specialist          GCMNB Housing Finance
David Le Blanc           Urban Economist                    MNSSD Urban Economics
Fatouma Toure Ibrahima   Financial Specialist                CFO    Housing Finance
Kishor Uprety            Senior Legal Counsel                LEGES Legal
Claude Taffin            Financial Specialist, Consultant   MNSSD Fiscal Policies
Bernard Worms            Consultant                         MNSSD Housing Finance
Franck Daphnis           Consultant                         MNSSD Microcredit
Fouzi Mourji             Consultant                         MNSSD Microcredit
Fathi Kraiem             Consultant                         MNSSD Slum Upgrading
Driss Benjelloun         Consultant                         MNSSD Slum Upgrading
Jacques Barbier          Consultant                         MNSSD Urban Planning
Joseph Comby             Consultant                         MNSSD Land Titling
Thouria Nana-Sinkam      Language Program Assistant          MNSIF ACS

Supervision
Anthony G. Bigio         Senior Urban Specialist            MNSSD Task Team Leader
David Le Blanc           Urban Economist                    MNSSD Urban Economics
Loic Chiquier            Lead Financial Specialist          GCMNB Housing Finance
Claude Taffin            Financial Specialist, Consultant   MNSSD Rental Sector
Pierre Demangel          Consultant                         MNSSD OPH Restructuring
Mokhtar Abdallaoui-Maan  Junior Professional Associate      MNSSD M&E
Driss Benjelloun         Consultant                         MNSSD Slum Upgrading
Jacques Barbier          Consultant                         MNSSD Urban Planning

Farouk Tebbal            Sr. Urban Specialist                Cities
                                                            AllianceSubstandard Housing

Mohamed Taamouti         Economist, Consultant              MNSSD Fiscal Policies




                                           25

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                 Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
              Stage
                                No. of staff weeks   USD Thousands (including
                                                     travel and consultant costs)
Lending
 FY04                                  23                       215
 FY05                                  32                       262


                        Total:         55                       477
Supervision/ICR
 FY06                                  14                       111
 FY07                                  18                       128
 FY08                                  12                        77
 FY09                                    5                       45
                        Total:         49                       361




                                    26

Annex 2. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


Assessment of Results Achieved by Project Component

The program's main development objectives were to strengthen the institutional, regulatory and
budgetary environment in order to facilitate the emergence of market-based solutions to address
the associated constraints and needs of the housing sector, but also to increase low income
household access to affordable and better quality housing. These objectives are perfectly in line
with the Moroccan authorities' approach under this sector.

The Project's concept, monitoring and evaluation activities were carried out under ideal
conditions due to the strong collaboration and permanent dialogue between the Moroccan
Government entities and the Bank's project team. The in-depth involvement of the Bank team
also contributed to the program's overall success.

The Moroccan authorities value significantly the success of this project. Commitments at the
project level were honored through the high level involvement of public entities in housing sector
reforms, including the participation of the different stakeholders of the housing sector in the
reform program process.

The development program carried out with the Bank is part of the ongoing housing sector reform
program in Morocco which Government intends to pursue in the coming years. The Bank's
expertise and technical support will be of great interest for the Moroccan authorities in order to
ensure the implementation of the housing sector reforms envisaged.

Lessons Learned from the Reform Program

The main lessons learned from the implementation of the housing sector reform program in
Morocco can be summarized as follows:

            ·   To achieve success, a development program should be an integral part of the
                strategy's framework, prepared and validated by public entities and supported by
                the majority of operators concerned.
            ·   The number of conditionalities of the development program should be limited,
                and should focus on the objectives and essential axes of the program. Thus, the
                program assessment should essentially be based on achieving these objectives.
                Moreover, once a targeted objective has been achieved, related conditionalities
                should be removed. In this connection, measures agreed upon at start-up but no
                longer meaningful should be revised during the course of the program.
            ·   The role of national entities responsible for supervision, coordination and
                monitoring of project implementation is crucial to ensure success of any reform.
            ·   The Bank team's expertise provided essential value-added and should be
                strengthened.
            ·   The definition and concept of the development program objectives should take
                into account existing reforms and be harmonized with programs supported by
                other cofinanciers.




                                                 27

Annex 3. Borrower's ICR (in French)

I. Introduction

Le Maroc fait face à un déficit en logements sociaux résultant du déséquilibre ayant caractérisé
dans le passé l'offre et la demande ainsi qu'aux contraintes ayant entravé le développement d'une
offre abondante et diversifiée. A ce déficit s'ajoute la nouvelle demande tirée par une croissance
démographique encore soutenue, un taux d'urbanisation en progression continue et des mutations
socio-économiques profondes de la société marocaine.

Eu égard à cette situation, et vu les implications sociales fortes du secteur de l'habitat sur
l'amélioration de la qualité de vie des populations, la lutte contre la marginalisation et l'assurance
d'une plus grande équité sociale, les Pouvoirs Publics sont intervenus pour mettre à niveau l'offre
de logements et soutenir l'accession à la propriété. Cette intervention a été également motivée par
l'impact direct et indirect important du secteur du logement sur le développement économique et
la création d'emplois ainsi que par le rôle du marché hypothécaire dans le développement du
secteur financier national.

Au cours des dernières années, l'intervention des Pouvoirs Publics s'est concrétisée par
l'adoption d'une nouvelle approche pour ce secteur. Les instruments de sa mise en oeuvre portent
à la fois sur la mise à niveau de l'offre de logements, le soutien de la demande et le renforcement
des cadres institutionnel et juridique du secteur.

Ces réformes ont été inscrites dans le cadre d'une vision stratégique et intégrée à moyen terme,
prenant en considération les grandes contraintes et enjeux du secteur. Cette nouvelle stratégie a
été accompagnée par la Banque Mondiale à travers un prêt de développement sectoriel.

II. Evaluation des objectifs et contenu du programme

Le programme de développement du secteur de l'habitat s'inscrit dans le cadre de l'approche
adoptée par le Gouvernement pour ce secteur à partir de 2003. Il vise à accompagner et appuyer
les efforts du Gouvernement dans le cadre de la conception et la mise en oeuvre des axes de
réforme retenus. Le programme vise deux principaux objectifs de développement du programme:

Objectif 1 : Renforcer le cadre institutionnel, réglementaire et budgétaire pour faciliter le
fonctionnement du marché du logement et l'émergence de solutions de marché aux
contraintes et aux besoins du secteur de l'habitat.

1. Moderniser les normes et réglementations régissant l'urbanisme

Le projet de code d'urbanisme élaboré par le Ministère chargé de l'habitat a fait l'objet de
consultations publiques et de larges concertations avec les départements ministériels et les corps
professionnels ainsi qu'avec des experts étrangers et nationaux. Ce projet a été adopté par le
Conseil du Gouvernement en juin 2008. La mise en oeuvre du code, après son adoption par le
parlement, devra moderniser les pratiques urbanistiques et améliorer l'offre de terrains
urbanisables.

2. Restructurer et recentrer le rôle des établissements publics de l'habitat (OPH)

Concernant cette composante, il a été procédé à :

-   la refonte institutionnelle des OPH qui a été couronnée par la création du Groupe Al Omrane
    suite à la transformation des ERAC en société anonyme et leur filialisation au Holding
    d'aménagement Al Omrane issu de la fusion de la SNEC, Attacharouk et l'ANHI.




                                                  28

-   L'amélioration de la gouvernance et des outils de gestion des OPH à travers la conception
    d'un système d'information intégré pour le Groupe, la mise à niveau comptable,
    l'établissement de nouvelles procédures de gestion ainsi que l'adoption de mesures portant
    sur les ressources humaines.

-   L'amélioration des performances physiques et financières des OPH à travers notamment
    l'augmentation du nombre d'unités produites et l'amélioration des indicateurs financiers du
    Groupe.

Le Holding Al Omrane est devenu l'acteur majeur en matière d'accompagnement des politiques
publiques de l'Habitat. Son intervention s'inscrit de plus en plus dans une optique de partenariat
avec le secteur privé à travers l'aménagement des terrains et leur mise à disposition au profit de
promoteurs privés dans le cadre d'appels d'offres et sur la base de cahiers de charge.

3. Rationaliser et simplifier les subventions et impôts relatifs à l'immobilier résidentiel

Une étude d'évaluation de l'impact socio-économique de certaines mesures fiscales immobilières
a été réalisée par la Banque. Sur la base de cette étude, et en tenant compte de la réforme globale
de système fiscal marocain appuyée par l'union européenne, plusieurs mesures de rationalisation
de la fiscalité immobilière ont été introduites.


Objectif 2 : Accroître l'accès des ménages à revenus modestes et/ou irréguliers à des
logements abordables et de meilleure qualité

1. Etendre les programmes de résorption des bidonvilles et d'habitat social

Le programme VSB avance à un rythme satisfaisant. A fin février 2008, 64 conventions ont été
signées dans ce cadre portant sur un volume d'investissement de près de 10,5 Milliards de DH. La
contribution de l'Etat au titre de ces programmes s'est élevée à près de 3,5 Milliards de DH.

Le nombre de baraques démolies à cette même date s'élève à près de 90.000, le nombre d'unités
produites est de 96.000 et le nombre d'unités en cours de production est de 97.000. Le nombre de
villes déclarées sans bidonvilles est de 18.

Rappelons que le programme VSB bénéficie de financements publics conséquents, notamment à
travers la mobilisation du foncier publique et l'intervention du Fonds Solidarité Habitat doté de
ressources fiscales importantes et pérennes.

2. Améliorer l'efficacité du marché locatif résidentiel

Une étude a été menée par un cabinet privé sur la relance du secteur du locatif et plusieurs
concertations ont eu lieu entre les différents intervenants dans ce secteur. Le projet de loi
régissant le secteur locatif résidentiel a été approuvé par le Conseil de Gouvernement en juin
2008. L'adoption de cette nouvelle législation permettra, à travers un meilleur équilibre dans les
relations bailleurs/locataires et une sécurisation de l'acte de location, de renforcer l'offre locative.

3. Etendre l'accès au crédit immobilier aux ménages à revenus modestes et/ou irréguliers

La mise en place du Fogarim a constitué un tournant majeur dans les politiques publiques en
matière de soutien financier à la demande. Ce fonds a permis de bancariser et financer l'accès au
logement d'une population qui n'avait pas auparavant accès aux services financiers.

Pour ce qui est des performances enregistrées par le Fogarim, les objectifs fixés dans le cadre du
programme ont été largement dépassés. En effet, le Fogarim a connu un franc succès grâce
notamment à un suivi régulier et rapproché par son comité de suivi, instance englobant tous les
intervenants dans le secteur, à la dynamique de son paramétrage qui a subi plusieurs ajustements
et améliorations pour répondre aux attentes des intervenants et aux besoins de la population cible.


                                                   29

Ce succès s'explique aussi par l'appropriation de ce produit par les promoteurs immobiliers et les
principales banques. A fin octobre 2008, le Fogarim a bénéficié à plus de 42000 ménages pour
des prêts d'un montant global qui dépasse 6 milliards de DH correspondant à des engagements de
garantie de plus de 4 milliards de DH. Pour couvrir ces engagements, le fonds a été doté jusqu'ici
de 600 millions de DH de dotations publiques.

A cet égard, et pour pérenniser le fonds, il a été procédé en concertation avec tous les intervenants,
à la mise en place d'un système de primes actuarielles ainsi qu'à la fusion du Fogarim et du
Fogaloge dans le cadre d'un seul Fonds d'assurance hypothécaire dénommé Damane Assakane
doté actuellement de près de 1 milliards de DH de fonds propres issus de la fusion. La création de
Damane Assakane a été accompagnée par l'extension du Fogaloge public au personnel du secteur
privé.

Quant à l'incitation financière au profit d'un produit d'épargne logement retenue initialement
dans le programme, les conclusions du groupe de travail constitué à cet effet ont estimé que les
résultats escomptés par la mise en place de ce produit ne seront pas atteints au regard de la
conjoncture actuelle. La Banque ayant adhéré à ces conclusions, cette mesure a été écartée du
programme.


III. Evaluation des résultats obtenus par chaque composante du programme

Les principaux objectifs de développement de ce programme ont été de renforcer
l'environnement institutionnel, réglementaire et budgétaire pour faciliter le fonctionnement du
marché du logement et l'émergence de solutions de marché aux contraintes et aux besoins du
secteur de l'habitat mais également d'accroître l'accès des ménages à revenus modestes à des
logements abordables et de meilleure qualité. Ces objectifs s'alignent parfaitement avec
l'approche retenue par les pouvoirs publics au Maroc pour ce secteur.

La conception, le suivi et l'évaluation du projet se sont déroulés dans de bonnes conditions grâce
notamment à une collaboration étroite et un dialogue permanent entre les institutions marocaines
concernées par les actions de réformes et l'équipe projet de la Banque. L'implication forte de
l'équipe de la Banque a également contribué à la réussite du programme.

La partie marocaine a accordé un intérêt particulier à la réussite de ce projet. Les engagements
pris au niveau du projet ont été respectés. Ceci a été possible grâce à un engagement fort de la
part des pouvoirs publics pour la poursuite de la réforme du secteur de l'habitat. L'adhésion des
différents acteurs du secteur de l'habitat au programme de réformes a contribué également à son
aboutissement.

Le projet de développement mené avec la Banque mondiale s'inscrit dans un processus continu
de réforme du secteur de l'habitat marocain que le Gouvernement entend poursuivre au cours des
prochaines années. L'expertise de la Banque et son appui technique seront certainement d'un
grand intérêt pour les autorités marocaines pour mener à bien les réformes envisagées.


IV. Leçons tirées du programme de réforme

Les principaux enseignements tirés de la mise en oeuvre d'un programme de développement du
secteur de l'habitat au Maroc peuvent être résumés comme suit :

 Pour assurer sa réussite, un programme de développement doit s'insérer dans le cadre d'une
    stratégie préparée et validée par les autorités publiques du pays et à laquelle adhère
    l'ensemble des opérateurs concernés.




                                                  30

 Les conditionnalités d'un programme de développement devraient être limitées en nombre et
 se concentrer sur les objectifs et axes primordiaux du programme appuyé. Dans cette optique,
 l'évaluation d'un programme devrait être essentiellement basée sur l'atteinte de ces objectifs.
 Ainsi, lorsque l'objectif visé par un axe du programme est atteint, les mesures visant le même
 objectif devraient être supprimées des conditionnalités. De même, les mesures arrêtées au
 départ mais dont l'impact n'est plus pertinent devraient être revus en cours du programme.

 Le rôle des institutions nationales chargées de la supervision du projet en terme de conception,
 de coordination et de suivi de la mise en oeuvre du projet est central pour la réussite de toute
 réforme.

 L'apport en expertise de l'équipe projet de la Banque est d'une forte valeur ajoutée et devrait
 être renforcé.

 La définition et la conception des objectifs et du contenu du programme de développement
 devraient tenir compte des réformes en cours et être en harmonie avec les programmes des
 autres bailleurs de fonds.




                                              31

Annex 4. List of Supporting Documents


    Program Document: Morocco Housing Sector Development Policy Loan (HSDPL) dated
       June 1, 2005 (Report No: 32345-MA).

    Aide-Mémoires, Back-to-Office Reports, and Implementation Status Reports.

    Kingdom of Morocco Poverty and Social Impact Analysis of the National Slum
       Upgrading Program, dated June 2006 (Report No: 36545-MOR).

    Sector Note, "The Challenges of Social Housing in Morocco", dated May 2008.

    Memo on the Release of Second Tranche and Request of One Waiver.


*including electronic files




                                           32

33

