                                     Document of

                                   The World Bank



                                                       Report No.: 55427




        CLUSTER PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT



             PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA

        MORTGAGE FINANCE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT

                                (LOAN 7131-AL)



                        THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO

             HOUSING SECTOR DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN

                               (LOAN 7314-MOR)



                 NATIONAL SLUM UPGRADING PROGRAM

                               (PSIA 36545-MOR)



                                  June 29,2010




Sector Evaluation Division
Independent Evaluation Group (World Bank)
                                                      11




Currency Equivalents (annual averages)
                      Algeria                                                 Morocco
        Currency Unit =Algerian Dinar (DZD)                         Currency Unit = Dirham (DH)
           2002       US$l.00      DZD 79.68                        2002      US$l.OO       DH11.02
            2003       US$l.OO       DZD 77.39                      2003       US$l.OO        DH   9.66
            2004       US$l.OO       DZD 72.06                      2004       US$l.OO        DH   8.87
            2005       US$l.OO       DZD 73.28                      2005        US$l.OO       DH   8.87
            2006       US$l.OO       DZD 72.65                      2006        US$l.OO       DH   8.80
            2007       US$l.OO       DZD 69.29                      2007        US$l.OO       DH   8.19
            2008       US$l.OO       DZD 64.58                      2008        US$l.OO       DH   7.75
            2009       US$l.OO       DZD 74.14                      2009        US$l.OO       DH   7.95

Abbreviations and Acronyms
WORLD BANK
CAS   Country Assistance Strategy
CPS   Country Partnership Strategy
DPL   Development Policy Loan
ICR   Implementation Completion Report
IEG   Independent Evaluation Group
IEGWB Independent Evaluation Group (World Bank)
M&E   Monitoring and Evaluation
MNA   Middle East and North Africa Region (of the World Bank)
PD    Program Document
PPAR Project Performance Assessment Report
SIL   Specific Investment Loan
TA       Technical Assistance

ALGERIA
CNEP Caisse Nationale d'Epargne et de Pre`voyance (National Saving and Providence Fund)
GOA   Government of Algeria
MOF   Ministire des Finances (Ministry of Finance)
MOH   Ministire de I'Habitat (Ministry of Housing and Urban Planning)
SGCI  Socie`te` de Garantie du Cre`dit Immobilier (Real Estate Credit Guarantee Company)
SRH   Socie`te` de Refinancement Hypothe`caire (Mortgage Refinancing Company)

MOROCCO
ANHI Agence Nationale de la Lutte contre 1'Habitat Insalubre (National Agency against Substandard housing)
CIH   CrCdit Immobilier et H6telier (Real Estate and Hotel Finance Bank)
ERAC Etablissement Regional d'AmCnagement et de Construction (Regional Agency for Planning & Construction)
FOGARIM Fonds de Garantie pour les Menages a Revenus Modestes et Irrkguliers (Mortgage Guarantee Fund for
      Households with Low and Irregular Incomes)
FOGALOGE Fonds de Garantie pour le Logement (Housing Guarantee Fund)
GOM   Government of Morocco
MFP   Ministtre des Finances et de la Planification (Ministry of Finance and Planning)
MHU   Ministere de l'Habitat, de 1'Urbanisme et de 1'Amknagement de 1'Espace (Ministry of Housing and Planning)
PSIA  Poverty and Social Impact Analysis
SNEC Societe Nationale d'Equipment et de Construction (National Infrastructure and Construction Corporation)
VSB   Villes sans Bidonvilles (Cities without Slums Program)


Fiscal Year
Government:                January 1 - December 3 1
 IEGWB Mission: Enhancing development effectiveness through excellence and independence in evaluation.

About this Report
       The Independent Evaluation Group assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two purposes:
first, to ensure the integrity of the Banks self-evaluation process and to verify that the Bank's work is producing the
expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through the
dissemination of lessons drawn from experience. As part of this work, IEGWB annually assesses about 25 percent of
the Banks lending operations through field work. In selecting operations for assessment, preference is given to those
that are innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevant to upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for
which Executive Directors or Bank management have requested assessments; and those that are likely to generate
important lessons.
       To prepare a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR), IEGWB staff examine project files and other
documents, interview operational staff, visit the borrowing country to discuss the operation with the government,
and other in-country stakeholders, and interview Bank staff and other donor agency staff both at headquarters and
in local offices as appropriate.
       Each PPAR is subject to internal IEGWB peer review, Panel review, and management approval. Once cleared
internally, the PPAR is commented on by the responsible Bank department. IEGWB incorporates the comments as
relevant. The completed PPAR is then sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attached to
the document that is sent to the Bank's Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to
the Board, it is disclosed to the public.

About the IEGWB Rating System
     IEGWB's use of multiple evaluation methods offers both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to
lending instrument, project design, or sectoral approach. IEGWB evaluators all apply the same basic method to
arrive at their project ratings. Following is the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion
(additional information is available on the IEGWB website: http://worldbank,org/ieg).
     Outcome: The extent to which the operation's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to
be achieved, efficiently. The rating has three dimensions: relevance, efficacy, and efficiency. Relevance includes
relevance of objectives and relevance of design. Relevance of objectives is the extent to which the project's
objectives are consistent with the country's current development priorities and with current Bank country and
sectoral assistance strategies and corporate goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country
Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers, Operational Policies). Relevance of design is the extent to which
the project's design is consistent with the stated objectives. Efficacy is the extent to which the project's objectives
were achieved, or are expected to be achieved, taking into account their relative importance. Efficiency is the
extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the opportunity cost of capital
and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. The efficiency dimension generally is not applied to adjustment
operations. Possible ratings for Outcome: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Risk to Development Outcome: The risk, at the time of evaluation, that development outcomes (or
expected outcomes) will not be maintained (or realized). Possible ratings for Risk to Development Outcome: High
Significant, Moderate, Negligible to Low, Not Evaluable.
     Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry of the
operation and supported effective implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate
transition arrangements for regular operation of supported activities after loanlcredit closing, toward the
achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: quality at entry and quality of supervision.
Possible ratings for Bank Performance: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower (including the government and implementing
agency or agencies) ensured quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and
agreements, toward the achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: government
performance and implementing agency(ies) performance. Possible ratings for Borrower Performance: Highly
Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
                                                                       ...
                                                                       Ill




Contents
Contents
Principal Ratings Algeria ....................................................................................................             v
Principal Ratings Morocco ................................................................................................                vi
                                                                                                                                           ..
Preface ...............................................................................................................................   vi1

Summary ............................................................................................................................ ix
1. Supporting Housing Sector Reform in the Maghreb ...................................................... 1
        Background .................................................................................................................       1
        Buoyant Macro Conditions Favoring Housing Sector Reform.,.................................                                         2
        Housing Sector Challenges to Housing Sector Reform ..............................................                                  3
      Bank Assistance to these Countries' Housing Sectors ...............................................                                  5
2 . Algeria: Seeding Housing Sector Reform .......................................................................                         6
        Introduction ................................................................................................................. 6
        Trying to Make Mortgage Lending Grow ..................................................................                        8
      Trustworthy Property Title Registration to Encourage Lending ..............................                                     10
      A Reform Step too Far? ............................................................................................ 11
      Reform Results in Algeria ........................................................................................              11
3 . Morocco: Sustaining Housing Sector Reform .............................................................. 12
      Introduction., .............................................................................................................    12
      Institutional Consolidation to Sustain Housing Reform - A1 Omrane ..................... 13
      Anchoring Housing Reform to Morocco's Flagship Slum Upgrading Program ..... 17
4 . Conclusions and Lessons .............................................................................................. 24
      Algeria ....................................................................................................................... 25
      Morocco .................................................................................................................... 25
Bibliography .....................................................................................................................    27
Annex A . Algeria: Mortgage Finance Technical Assistance Project - Evaluation
Summary ........................................................................................................................... 29
Basic Data Sheet: Algeria ................................................................................................. 36
Annex B . Morocco: Housing Sector Development Policy Loan - Evaluation Summary 39
Basic Data Sheet: Morocco ............................................................................................... 47
Annex C . Morocco Poverty and Social Impact Analysis of the National Slum Upgrading
Program - Evaluation Summary ....................................................................................... 5 5

This report was prepared by Roy Gilbert. who assessed the project in October 2009 . Maria Margarita
Sanchez provided administrative support .
                                                                     iv



Tables
Table 1.1 Strong Macro-Conditions during Implementation.. ...........,.,,.,,......................... 2
Table 2.1 Algeria Mortgage TA Project (P064983) 2000-2007 ......................................... 7
Table 3.1 Morocco Housing Sector Development Policy Loan (P083746) 2005-2008 ... 12
Table 3.2 Morocco National Slum Upgrading Poverty and Social Impact Analysis (PSIA)
........................................................................................................................................... 13
Table 3.3 Original Targets and Results of Morocco's "Villes sans Bidonvilles" Slum
Upgrading Program ...........................................................................................................               20
Table A.1 Algeria Mortgage TA Project (P064983) 2000-2007 ...................................... 29
Table B.l Morocco Housing Sector Development Policy Loan (P083746) 2005-2008 .. 39
Table C. 1 Morocco National Slum Upgrading Poverty and Social Impact Analysis
(PSIA) ...............................................................................................................................      55


Figures
1. New housing in Oran financed by CNEP Mortgages ..................................................... 8
2. One of the few remaining bidonvilles in Meknes .......,,.,.,.,............,,,.................,......... 14
3. New housing being built for ex-bidonvillois in Meknes ................... ............................ 18
4. New housing nearer completion in Meknes ............................... ................................... 19
                                                        V



ALGERIA: MORTGAGE FINANCE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
PROJECT

Principal Ratings Algeria
                                     ICR *                    ICR Review **                    PPAR
Outcome                           Moderately                   Moderately                    Moderately
                                  Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
Risk to Development
                              Negligible to Low                  Moderate                     Moderate
Outcome
Bank Performance                                                                             Moderately
                                  Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
                                                                                             Satisfactory
Borrower                                                                                     Moderately
                                  Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
Performance                                                                                  Satisfactory
* The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department. **The ICR
Review is an intermediate IEGWB product that seeks to independently verify the findings of the ICR.



Key Staff Responsible
                                                             Division Chief/
Project                    Task Managerneader                Sector Director             Country Director
Appraisal                    Douglas Graham                 Emmanuel Forestier           Christian Delvoie
Comdetion                     Didier Debals                  Zoubida Allaoua             Theodore Ahlers
                                                       vi


MOROCCO: HOUSING SECTOR DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN

Principal Ratings Morocco
                                     ICR *                    ICR Review **                     PPAR
Outcome                                                                                      Moderately
                                  Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
                                                                                             Satisfactory
Risk to Development
                              Negligible to Low                  Moderate                     Moderate
Outcome
Bank Performance             Highly Satisfactory                Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
Borrower
                                  Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
Performance
* The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department. **The ICR
Review is an intermediate IEGWB product that seeks to independently verify the findings of the ICR.



Key Staff Responsible
                               Task Manager/                 Division Chief/
Project                           Leader                     Sector Director             Country Director
Appraisal                      Anthony Bigio                   Hedi Larbi                Theodore Ahlers
Completion                     Anthony Bigio                Anna Maria Bjerde             Mats Karlsson
                                             vii


Preface
This is a Cluster Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) of Bank assistance to
the housing sector in Algeria and Morocco that used three different instruments: (i) a
specific investment loan (SIL) to finance the Algeria Mortgage Finance Technical
Assistance Project (Ln7131), for which the World Bank approved a Loan of US$5.5
million on June 27,2002-the Loan was closed on January 3 1, 2007, 13 months later
than planned, when US$377,490 was cancelled; (ii) a development policy loan (DPL) to
finance the Morocco Housing Sector Development Policy Loan operation (Ln73 14), for
which the World Bank approved a Loan of US$164.3 million equivalent on June 30,
2005-the Loan was closed on June 30,2008, six months later than planned, when it was
fully disbursed; and (iii) a poverty and social impact analysis (PSIA) of the Morocco
National Slum Upgrading Program, on which the Bank expended US$63,000 of its
budgetary resources during 2005-2006.

The SIL and DPL were regular Bank lending operations, while the PSIA was a non-
lending activity required under Bank policy when the poverty impact of a DPL is
expected to be significant-the case of the Morocco Housing Sector DPL reviewed here.

The report is based on a review of project documents, including the implementation
completion reports, appraisal reports, program documents, legal documents and project
files, and on discussions held with Bank staff involved in the project. An IEG mission
visited Algeria and Morocco in October 2009 to review project results and met with some
50 interlocutors including government officials responsible for housing and housing
finance, bankers and housing developers. IEG gratefully acknowledges the courtesies and
attention given by all these interlocutors in both Algeria and Morocco. IEG also
appreciates the excellent logistical support provided to the mission by the Bank's resident
offices in Algiers and Rabat.

IEG selected the two lending operations for PPAR field assessments-as recommended
at the ICR Review stage-to verify the performance of this important series of housing
operations. As is the case of the two lending operations, the PSIA was chosen for
evaluation also to help distill sector lessons that can provide inputs into a comparative .
IEG analysis of Bank support for housing.

This cluster PPAR is divided into two parts. The first part addresses three performance
issues that the evaluation pointed to being the most important: (i) seeding housing sector
reform at an early stage; (ii) sustaining reform into the future, and (iii) large-scale slum
upgrading. The second part (reported in the annexes) covers the broad assessment of all
aspects of operational performance typically presented by a PPAR. Thus, the first part
offers the "learning" material of the PPAR, while the second part provides the
"accountability" material.

Following IEG practice, copies of the draft PPAR were sent to government officials and
borrowing agencies for their review and comments, but no comments were received.
                                             ix


Summary
Each from a different point of departure and on a different scale, Algeria and Morocco
are both pursuing housing sector reforms to make their housing and housing finance
markets work better, and to provide more good quality housing, especially to the poor.
These reforms sometimes, but not always, involved greater participation by the private
sector. They were supported by the three operations reviewed here. The Algeria:
Mortgage Finance Technical Assistance Project (Ln7131), the "Mortgage TA
Project" that aimed to strengthen the enabling environment for a well-functioning
mortgage loan market. The Morocco: Housing Sector Development Policy Loan
(Ln7314), the "Housing DPL" that aimed to strengthen the institutional, regulatory and
fiscal environment for a well-functioning housing market and increase the access of low-
income and severely disadvantaged households to more affordable and higher quality
housing. The Morocco: Poverty and Social Impact Analysis of the National Slum
Upgrading Program, the "Slum Upgrading PSIA" contributed to the ongoing policy
debate, and aimed to improve and refine the instruments and operational modalities of the
Villes sans Bidonvilles (VSB), Morocco's cities without slums upgrading program. When
a DPL like this is likely to have a significant effect on poverty, Bank policy requires that
it be accompanied by instrument to analyze the distributional impact, such as a PSIA.

Strong macroeconomic performance by both countries during the 2003-2008 period
covered by these operations helped move housing sector reform forward. Both are
pursuing housing sector reform, with strong public sector participation still, especially in
Algeria.

Overcrowding is a major housing problem in Algeria where dwelling occupancy rates are
among the highest in the world. Some 6.4 percent of the population lives in slums, called
bidonvilles in French. Having a similar number of units in the total housing stock as
households in the population as a whole doesn't resolve these housing problems. Higher
income households may have several housing units, while lower income households may
share single dwellings with other households. Many houses are left empty.

Bidonvilles are widespread in Morocco too, where nearly 300,000 households lived
illegally in poorly built and inadequately served dwellings. Yet empty houses are
common in Morocco as well-some 800,000 units, exceeding the estimated national
housing deficit of 700,000 units. Slum upgrading has been going on in Morocco, with the
help of the Bank, since the 1970s. Bidonvilles have several causes; poverty, high house
prices, lack of rental housing and general housing supply-side constraints. The house-
price-household-income ratio in Algeria and Morocco is nearly twice that of Tunisia,
and even Spain when that country was in the middle of its property price bubble in 2006.

Two of the operations reviewed here posited lack of housing finance as a major constraint
and sought to help overcome it. The Mortgage TA Project supported mortgage. lending
origination and processing mainly through training bank staff who would administer
them. Mortgage lending, still mostly through state-owned banks, was introduced into
Algeria in the late 1990s and is still available only on a relatively small scale, with an
outstanding mortgage debt equivalent to just 1.5 percent of GDP, compared with
                                             X


Morocco's 7 percent. In Morocco the Housing DPL helped mortgage lending indirectly
through supporting loan guarantees to make lending to lower-income households less
risky than the banks perceived it to be. The Slum Upgrading PSIA did not explicitly
address the question of mortgage lending. It focused exclusively upon the VSB Program.

These operations came on top of earlier Bank assistance to the housing and urban
development sectors. Since 1992, the Bank financed one cadastre and two housing
projects in Algeria, two of which had satisfactory outcomes. In Morocco, since 1978 the
Bank also financed three projects, two on urban development and one, in 1983, on
housing finance, all of which were rated satisfactory.

The Mortgage TA Project in Algeria was a small-scale investment project of US$8.2
million to be partly financed by a Bank loan of US$5.5 million. Its objective of making
the mortgage loan market work better was relevant to the 2003 CAS-still the most
recent-and its strong housing sector focus. Looking only at mortgage lending and
ancillary issues was a realistic narrowing of scope for a small operation like this.

The overall results of this project were mixed. Bankers and many staff of Algeria's state-
owned banks were trained, but mortgage lending did not take off. There were simply too
few new houses to finance. But, thanks to the project, title registration expanded to cover
the whole country for the first time, and new legislation helped standardize registration
procedures made more agile through computerization.

Most banks in Algeria, still mostly state-owned, had little experience with mortgage
lending and needed the training offered by the project on a large scale. It involved a
three-week intensive training program for 1,580 bank staff, still a large number but
somewhat short of the 2,000 target. Why a 2,000 target? The project design was not built
upon a detailed needs assessment that could help determine the target. As well as staff,
the training focused upon bank managers too-a strong twin-track feature of the design.
IEG met with several trainees in Algiers and the country's second city of Oran. All
evaluated the training they received positively.

While the training itself was successful, an important evaluation question remains. Did it
contribute to a well-functioning mortgage market, as the project intended? There is little
evidence of a significant expansion of mortgage lending itself in Algeria. Only 22,900
new loans were made in 2007, well short of the target and not enough to make full and
intensive use of the new skills acquired on a large scale by bank staff.

The project's attention to land ownership and titling was on target. Mortgage lenders
need to be sure that the borrower is indeed the owner of the house being financed, and
that a mortgage lien can be executed when needed in cases of default. Through technical
assistance to the Agence de Conservation FonciBre, Government of Algeria's property
titling agency, the Mortgage TA Project helped simplify procedures and, through
computerization, make the system truly nationwide and more accurate.

In two areas, the project supported housing sector reform for which Algeria was not
ready. This was through technical assistance to two GOA agencies, one for mortgage
guarantees and the other for mortgage refinancing. Neither significantly expanded its
                                              xi

business and the secondary mortgage markets did not prosper, not surprisingly so given
the incipient nature of the primary markets themselves up to this point.

But overall, the Algeria Mortgage TA Project did plant these two seeds of housing sector
reform, one in processing mortgage lending and the other in property titling and
registration. These are necessary conditions for well-functioning markets. Whether they
are enough for the seeds to germinate, we still await evidence from supporting data.

                                                                   Z
By focusing, in Morocco, upon the institutional consolidation of A Omrane, GOM?s
main urban and housing developer, the Housing DPL helped strengthen the institutional
framework for a well-functioning housing market, as the operation intended. Housing
sector reform in Morocco indeed took a big step in 2004 with the establishment of the AZ
Omrane holding company (whose Arabic name means ?building enterprise?) to replace
ten separate state agencies with often overlapping responsibilities and duplicating
functions. Together, the ten agencies had anchored Morocco?s institutional framework for
housing and urban development for decades.

A1 Omrane and the Housing DPL were closely tied together. Creating a new Supervisory
Board for A Omrane was a condition for disbursement of the first tranche of the Loan,
           Z
and completing the restructuring of the former agencies a condition for the second. Major
redundancies through this consolidation were unnecessary because of A Omrane ?sstrong
                                                                         Z
and growing work program. But staff were in the wrong place and had to be decentralized
especially from Rabat to regional offices. IEG learned that this was accomplished without
major problems. Guaranteeing that working conditions, especially salaries, were at least
as good as before, ensured a relatively smooth transition for most staff.

Today, A Omrane has become the major GOM player in Morocco?s housing and urban
         Z
development sector. Its output, measured by the number of houses delivered, has
increased. Its finances are sound, having reported a modest profit in recent years. It is
now the one-stop shop for housing and urban development stakeholders and for
                                         Z
international operators too. Factors in A Omrane?ssuccess include GOM willingness to
establish a new legal framework through major legislation, to follow through with major
yet detailed reorganization and consolidation of the agencies involved, and actions and
assurances to staff that most would be winners from the reform.

With sanction by the King himself, GOM launched its flagship VSB Program to clear its
cities of slums. The launch was a prior action directly supported by the Housing DPL.
VSB progress was a trigger to be met for the second tranche of the Loan. The Housing
DPL was therefore closely tied to VSB. The Slum Upgrading PSIA, too, was directly
linked to VSB policy and implementation.

Slums, or bidonvilles as they are called in Morocco, are poorly built and served dwellings
that illegally occupied central or peripheral urban areas of the larger cities especially. The
Ministry of Housing and Planning prepared the detailed VSB plan to improve the lives of
212,000 bidonvillois, or residents of slums, a target later raised to 292,000. VSB offered
improvements through in situ upgrading, the preferred option for most residents, or re-
housing them on serviced lots or in completed apartments, the least popular. Even though
this involved considerable involuntary resettlement, Bank safeguards were not triggered
                                             xii


as they do not apply to DPL. This Housing DPL did not directly finance the VSB
investments that required the resettlement. In hindsight, however, this operation could
still have sought assurances up-front that VSB resettlement policies were consistent with
the Bank's.

Precise data on the actual results of VSB to date is not readily available. But other
sources of information point to a half-completed VSB,program to date. Thus instead of
ridding Moroccan cities of all slums by the end of 2010, the job is more likely to be half-
done. But this is not an insignificant achievement of itself, although far short of the
ambitious target set. Another challenge, however, has been a sharp increase in the
number of completed VSB housing units that remain unsold.

Despite these setbacks, GOM remains committed to increasing the access of low-income
households to better housing. In 2008, GOM introduced a new more affordable "140,000
dirham" model of social housing (equivalent to US$l 8,050). Private developer
complaints that GOM is giving too much attention to low-income housing, while not
approving their own high-income projects, is additional evidence of GOM commitment
to attending lower income households.

But, although comprehensive in many respects, the VSB Program did not address the
important question of new slum formation and how to prevent it. Instead it treated slums
as if they were a static feature of cities that, once removed, would be gone forever. If
slum growth in Morocco resumed its annual 1992-200 1 rate of 5.6 percent, then the
formation of new slums would wipe out the VSB gains made so far in about twelve years
from now.

In this PPAR, IEG pilots an evaluation of the Slum Upgrading PSIA that provided advice
to the Ministry of Housing and Planning (MHU) about the responsiveness of VSB to
bidonvillois, slum residents, and the modalities of housing provision to them. Fulfilling a
Bank requirement when its associated DPL, the Housing DPL in this case, is expected to
have a significant distributional impact, the PSIA aimed to assess the expected poverty
alleviation and social impacts of the reforms supported by that DPL.

The PSIA report was launched during the Housing DPL preparation and its findings and
results were discussed with the Borrower at workshop held at the time of the Housing
DPL start-up. The PSIA included a survey of bidonvillois in six selected slums in three
cities. Among the findings of the survey were: (i) the inability of the poorest bidonvillois
to pay for any housing solution; (ii) the need to adjust the supply of VSB housing
solutions to local demands, and (iii) the resistance of some local leaders to implementing
a VSB Program they saw as dispersing electors who made up their political base. The
PSIA made eight recommendations to MHU for reforming VSB policy and
implementation. Ascertaining whether they were adopted or not is difficult for a VSB
Program that is still incomplete, and on whose results little data is readily available.
Furthermore, the MHU team that collaborated with the PSIA is no longer in place today.

On the technical side, a weakness of the PSIA (as of the DPL and VSB itself) was its lack
of attention to preventing the formation of new slums. Of course, not having a random
sample of slums to survey the bidonvillois limited the general validity of the PSIA
                                              ...
                                            Xlll



findings for Morocco's slums as a whole. But this PSIA was a low-budget exercise that
did not have the resources for such research. The PSIA report, available both in English
and French, was amply discussed in Morocco by those responsible for VSB. But the
change of MHU team and the lack of a follow-on Bank lending operation, have stymied
the ongoing Bank-Borrower policy dialogue begun through the PSIA.

IEG's assessment of the overall relevance, efficacy and efficiency of each operation,
together with a review of the risk to development outcomes and Bank and Borrower
performance, leads to the following ratings.

The Algeria Mortgage TA Project's objective to help strengthen the basis for a well-
functioning mortgage market was substantially relevant to both GOA'S and Bank's
priorities of helping Algeria's housing sector be part of that country's transition to a
market-driven economy. The project design was relevant too, especially for a small
operation, in focusing upon a few key necessary conditions that could seed housing
reform, notably in training bank staff to process mortgage loans and strengthening
property titling and registration, in part to make mortgage lending less risky. Efficacy in
strengthening the basis for a well-functioning mortgage market was substantial, even if
actual mortgage lending fell short of the target, because real supply-side constraints
meant that there were not enough houses to finance. The mortgage loan training,
guarantees and refinancing all appear to have been done on a larger scale than warranted
by the market. The project achieved its relevant objectives with moderate shortcomings,
and overall outcome rating is moderately satisfactory. The risk to development outcome
is rated moderate. GOA remains committed to housing sector reform, but caution by both
lenders and borrowers is likely to leave the primary mortgage market weak in Algeria for
some time, especially while supply-side constraints limit the number of new houses
brought to that market. Bank performance is rated moderately satisfactory, weaker at the
quality-at-entry stage, when a modest design still pursued ambitious objectives of what
was intended to be a larger operation. Borrower performance was also moderately
satisfactory. GOA had strong ownership and gave strong support to the project, but
getting necessary legislation approved was more challenging. The project implementation
unit did a good job overseeing project execution but keeping track of the project
achievements fell short, so that even final costs were not reported by the ICR. Given the
little information and data available about the project results, project M&E is rated
negligible.

The Morocco Housing DPL had two substantially relevant objectives. The first,
strengthening the housing market, was consistent with GOM policy and the 2009 CAS to
deliver more housing solutions through this market. The second, increasing the access to
better quality housing by poorer households supported both GOM's flagship VSB
Program and also the 2009 CAS priority to provide more services to the poor. The design
of the operation was also substantially relevant in identifying key prior actions that could
help achieve the objectives. Efficacy was substantial through the A Omrane
                                                                    Z
consolidation that strengthened the market by making public sector operations more
efficient, but modest in increasing the access of low-income households to better housing
through a VSB program that achieved a lot, but only half what had been promised. Also,
not addressing the issue of preventing new slums forming risks undermining the likely
achievements of VSB. The overall outcome of the Housing DPL is rated moderately
                                           xiv


satisfactory, since the operation achieved its relevant objectives, albeit with moderate
shortcomings. The risk to development outcome is rated moderate, as GOM is likely to
continue pursuing housing sector reforms, but the lack of attention to new slum formation
just mentioned challenges the operation's achievements. Bank performance is on balance
rated satisfactory, since the operation's design carefully focused upon a few realistic
reform actions, although insufficient attention was paid to M&E. Bank supervision
worked well, particularly in helping steer implementation toward meeting triggers for the
second tranche of the Loan. Borrower performance was satisfactory, thanks to GOM's
very strong commitment to the program and the active engagement of the two key
ministries, MFP and MHU, in taking housing reform forward. Monitoring and evaluation
was modest; its design depended too much upon a GOM capacity that proved to be
weaker than expected, while little use of M&E has left the VSB with an incomplete set of
data of what the program has achieved thus far.

The Bank used three different instruments-a SIL, a DPL and a PSIA-to provide its
assistance. Each had obtained positive results. The range of performance among them had
more to do with the local context and commitment to reform than the type of instrument
per se. The following lessons emerge from the evaluation of these interventions.

LESSONS
      FROM ALGERIA

       o Seeding housing reform by focusing upon a selected bottlenecks-such as in
         bank processing of mortgage loans and in the registration of property titles-
         cannot guarantee that the reform will take root. Even if they constitute
         necessary conditions for reform, they must be calibrated with other actions-
         to ease the supply of new housing, for example-to achieve the well-
         functioning markets promised by the housing sector reform.

       o When sector reform is embryonic, support at the early stages needs to
         concentrate on the most basic and urgent changes and improvements. In the
         case of Algeria, this means focusing first upon strengthening the primary
         mortgage market. This has to be well established before reform can move on
         to consider more sophisticated instruments of housing finance, such as
         mortgage insurance and securitization. The latter did not take root in the
         Algerian case.

       o Housing sector reforms need to be calibrated and synchronized in order to
         succeed. In Algeria, improving the origination and processing of mortgage
         loans went ahead even though demand for such loans was weak. In such
         cases, reform measures might need to be scaled back or delayed.

       o The success (or failure) of housing sector reform requires readily available
         data and information to demonstrate the results of reported changes and to
         measure the baselines prior to these changes. The lending and other operations
         that support the reform can themselves support and include actions to
         encourage greater dissemination of data and information upon their sector.
                                       xv

LESSONS
      FROM MOROCCO

    o Policies and programs aimed at achieving cities without slums need to treat
      slums as a dynamic feature of urban development. Without appropriate urban
      planning and land use controls, the formation of new slums can overwhelm
      the achievements of upgrading and redeveloping existing ones.

    o For housing reform to be sustained, it is important to modernize and
      consolidate the institutional framework for taking the reform forward through
      a powerful and financially sound agency such as Al Omrane that enjoys full
      government support.

    o A sector policy loan can perform well and help achieve reforms if it has
      realistic objectives that focus upon pursuing a few well-chosen prior actions
      and triggers, as was the case of the Morocco Housing DPL.

    o Sector reform is more likely to succeed if harnessed to a flagship program that
      is well understood by all stakeholders and beneficiaries, such as the VSB
      Program in Morocco.




                                                               Vinod Thomas
                                                              Director-General
                                                                 Evaluation
                                                       1


1. Supporting Housing Sector Reform in the Maghreb
BACKGROUND
1.1     Algeria and Morocco, neighboring countries in North Africa's Maghreb, are both
pursuing housing sector reform. In this Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR)
housing sector reform is understood to involve measures to significantly change housing
supply in particular, in order to provide good quality housing solutions for all the population
and its poorer households in particular. Usually, but not always, such reform includes greater
participation by the private sector in housing supply and housing finance.

1.2     Algeria is at an early stage of housing reform, while Morocco is further down the
road toward reforming its housing sector, having begun it earlier. A 2005 study supported by
the Bank found that Algeria was the only country in the Middle East and North Africa
(MNA) region that still followed the "public production" of housing following the economic
model of the Former Soviet Union (Baharoglu 2005 p. vii). Algeria is presently engaged in
exploring ways of dismantling that system, taking its first steps toward housing reform by
introducing state-owned housing market players to more commercial practices. The same
source noted already that "In Morocco, an extensive reform program for the [housing] sector
is well under way" (op cit p. ix). Having a more established market economy in housing,
Morocco is currently deepening sector reform, consolidating state-owned institutions and
bringing slum dwellers under its wing.

 1.3     This PPAR focuses upon Algeria and Morocco' through its review of three recently
completed housing operations in those countries: (i) the Algeria: Mortgage Finance
Technical Assistance Project (Ln713 I), called the "Mortgage TA Project" in this report, that
aimed to strengthen the enabling environment for a well-functioning mortgage loan market;
(ii) the Morocco: Housing Sector Development Policy Loan (Ln73 14), called the "Housing
DPL" in this report, which had two objectives, namely to strengthen the environment for a
well-functioning housing market with the emergence of market-based solutions to the
country's housing needs, and to increase the access of low-income and severely
disadvantaged households it more affordable and higher quality housing; and (iii) the
Morocco: Poverty and Social Impact Assessment (PSIA) of the Slum Upgrading Program,
called the "Slum Upgrading PSIA" in this report, that aimed to contribute to the ongoing
policy debate, in order to improve and refine the instruments and operational modalities of
the ViZZes sans Bidonvilles (VSB) slum upgrading program during the implementation of the
Housing DPL.

1.4    The housing reform story told in the main PPAR report is about how these three
operations contributed to housing sector reform. The performance of each operation is
assessed in separate annexes to the PPAR, following IEG's standard evaluation methodo-
logy. Favorable macro conditions during 2003-2008 may have affected the results obtained.


  Tunisia, the Mahgreb country that has made most progress in housing sector reform having eliminated most
slums and housed its population adequately (Baharoglu 2005 p. vii) is not covered by this PPAR, since there is
no recently completed housing project in that country currently under review by IEG.
                                                        2


BUOYANT
      MACRO                  HOUSING
           CONDITIONS FAVORING     SECTOR REFORM

1.5      Helping housing sector reform the 2003-2008 period was the strong economic growth
in both Algeria and Morocco (Table 1.l), significantly exceeding the projections of the
respective country assistance strategies (CAS).2 GDP per capita at the end of the period was
considerably higher than at the beginning-double in the case of Algeria. Inflation remained
low and unemployment declined. The data available show nominal deposit and lending rates
interest were apt for affordable long-term mortgage financing. But real deposit interest rates
(nominal rates minus inflation) became negative in recent years in Algeria, a disincentive to
saving for housing-or for anything else. The biggest difference between the two countries is
seen in the trade balance. A growing surplus in hydrocarbon-exporting Algeria no doubt
stifled the country's demand for external finance. Morocco headed in the opposite direction,
where increasing deficits fuelled a greater interest in it. This difference helps explain
Algeria's lesser involvement in World Bank funding and Morocco's greater involvement.

 TABLE . STRONG MACRO-CONDITIONS
     1 I                      DURING IMPLEMENTATION



 GDP growth (annual %)                                       6.9     5.2     5.1       2.0        3.0       3.0
 GDP per capita (current US$)                           2,133      2,627   3,115     3,492      3,967     5,060
 Official exchange rate (Dinars/US$, annual average)        77.4    72.1    73.3      72.6       69.3      64.6
 Inflation, consumer prices (annual %)                       2.6     3.6      1.6      2.5        3.5       4.4
 Nominal deposit interest rate (annual %)                    5.2     3.6      1.9      1.8        1.8       1.8
 Nominal lending interest rate (annual %)                    8.1     8.0     8.0       8.0        8.0       8.0
 Unemployment, total (% of total labor force)               23.7    17.7    15.3      12.3        Na        Na




 GDP growth (annual %)                                       6.3     4.8
 GDP per capita (current US$)                           1,688      1,909   1,975     2,152      2,434     2,764
 Official exchange rate (Dirhams/US$, annual average)        9.6     8.9
 Inflation, consumer prices (annual %)                       1.2     1.5
 Nominal deposit interest rate (annual %)                    3.8     3.6
 Nominal lending interest rate (annual %)                   12.6    11.5
 Unemployment, total (% of total labor force)               11.9    10.8
 External balance on goods and services ( % o f GDP)        -2.8    -5.0
 Source: World Development lndicotors




1.6    Other country factors (not shown in Table 1.1) need to be considered while reviewing
housing reform. Algeria's economy is twice as large as Morocco's-US$174 billion GDP in
2008, versus US$86 billion in Morocco. Both countries have similar populations, 34 million

 In Algeria, actual GDP growth in 2003,2004 and 2005 of 6.9%, 5.2% and 5.1% was nearly twice the CAS
projections of 3.4%, 3.3% and 3.1% respectively. For Morocco, actual GDP growth in 2005, 2006, 2007 and
2008 was generally higher than the respective CAS projections of 3.0%, 3.8%, 4.0% and 4.0%.
                                                         3


in Algeria, against 3 1 million in Morocco. Algeria has more of its population living in cities;
65 percent of the total against Morocco's 56 percent. Algeria's urban population growth at
2.5 percent per annum is somewhat faster than Morocco's 1.8 percent per annum.

      SECTOR CHALLENGES TO HOUSING
HOUSING                          SECTOR REFORM

1.7     Although presently at different stages, both Algeria and Morocco are both pursuing
housing sector reform to deal with the housing challenges that each one, like most
developing countries, faces. In both countries, the public sector still takes the lead in housing
reforme3 This is particularly true in Algeria where state-owned banks still hold 93 percent of
all deposits and make nearly all mortgage loans, more than 60 percent of which are on the
balance sheet of one state-owned bank, the Caisse National d' Epargne de Pre`voyance -
(CNEP), the national saving and providence fund.

 1.8    Overcrowding is a major housing problem in Algeria, a country with one of the
highest occupancy rates of dwellings in the world, and where, in 2005,20 percent of housing
units were estimated to be in poor condition or lacking some basic urban services (EIU 2008a
p. 42). UN Habitat estimates that 6.4 percent of the Algerian population lives in slums, one of
which in Algiers, Diar Echams, erupted into rioting at the time of the IEG mission there.4
According to the Bank, slums such as this are not simply the result of poverty in relatively
high-income Algeria. They have more to do with the lack of financial instruments to
purchase the few expensive houses available (Mortgage TA Project PAD p. x). The
apparently close match between Algeria's 5.8 million households and its total housing stock
of 5.9 million dwellings hides the country's housing problems. Some higher income
households have more than one dwelling while lower income households may have to share
single dwellings in overcrowded conditions. Also many housing units are left empty. A
recent local press report indicates that, because of disputes over who is entitled to occupy
them, some 400,000 housing units-equivalent to 6.7 percent of the country's total housing
stock-remain unoccupied in the capital Algiers alone.'

1.9     Slums, called bidonvilles in French, have been widespread in Morocco too, and
represent a major challenge to housing sector reform. They consist of often badly constructed
units that illegally occupy poorly serviced land in central and peripheral areas of the
country's cities, the largest ones especially. Nearly 300,000 households in Morocco lived in
slums in 2003, 4.8 percent of the population. In addition, a further 400,000 lived in legal, but
otherwise poorly built or serviced housing, making for a total deficit of 700,000 units-15-20
percent of the housing stock (Benjelloun 2003). A striking counterpoint to this is the
estimated 800,000 housing units that remained unoccupied in 2004 (Bigio 2008 op. 12).
Slum upgrading and redevelopment efforts at the level of individual cities, supported by the
Bank in the past,'have been underway since the 1970s. At the national level a major program
Villes sans Bidonvilles (VSB), cities without slums, was launched in 2004. The fact that

 The International Monetary Fund recently recognized that, as a whole, the private sector in Algeria cannot yet
drive economic growth.
 Riots on a larger scale occurred in 1988 in protest against poor housing conditions in Algiers and other cities.
 ((   El Watan: le quotidien indkpendant )) le neuf novembre 2009.
                                                         4


perpetrators of the 2003 Casablanca bomb attacks came from the Morocco's slums made the
national program appear more urgent. This VSB Program is reviewed in detail in this PPAR.

1-10 Bidonvilles have several causes. On the demand side, one is poverty that currently
affects 17.5 percent of the population in Morocco. The equivalent poverty figure for Algeria
is not available, one example of the lack of readily available data there, a problem noted by
otherse6 Poor households, and even those with moderate incomes, cannot afford housing that
is particularly expensive in Algeria and Morocco. Even so-called "low-cost housing" is not
affordable by the lowest five deciles of the urban population in Morocco (Bigio 2008. p. 8).
Settling in illegally occupied bidonvilles even if it means foregoing some basic urban
services is, the only housing option for many families. The house-price-household-income
ratio, a widely used measure of affordability, was 8.1- 1 in Algeria in 2002 and 9.2- 1 in
Morocco in 1998. This was nearly twice the 5.1-1 ratio of Tunisia, a Maghreb where housing
supply and demand are more in sync (Baharoglu 2005 p. 63; and Bellal2009). This ratio was
also much higher than Spain's 5.5-1 at the height of that country's real estate bubble in 2006
(Kim 2008 p. 16).

1.11 Housing supply-side constraints are another major cause of bidonvilles. Inadequate
urban planning, tight land use zoning and high building standards, usually imposed by
municipal authorities, have prevented the adequate supply and availability of urban land for
                           Laws
housing de~elopment.~ and regulations favoring tenants, such as those that support
rent controls, discourage private investment in rental housing that might accommodate some
households now living in slums. In Algeria a buoyant private sector developer/constructor
industry has yet to develop on a large scale. Until very recently there, the government itself
was the main builder. While output has increased from just 20,000 dwellings per annum in
19978under the government production system to some 175,000 per annum over the past
            , is
d e ~ a d eit ~ insufficient to reduce Algeria's housing deficit in a country with a rapidly
growing population (Bellal2009 p. 100). Private developers and builders have been active
for longer in Morocco. But to further alleviate supply-side constraints, the Government of
Morocco (GOM) found it necessary to drive reform through rationalizing and consolidating
public sector involvement in the supply chain by the creation of the Al Omrane holding
company to implement publicly funded housing (and urban development) programs. AI
Omrane has helped ease the housing supply in Morocco, as later discussed in this PPAR.

1.12 The lack of housing finance was considered by the operations reviewed here as an
impediment to a housing supply in need of reform. These operations therefore supported

 "The availability of detailed statistical data and indicators on housing are an essential prerequisite to an
analysis of the housing and situation and policies. However, such data on the housing stock and the condition of
such stock are generally difficult to obtain in the country" (Bellal2009 p. 97)
7
 IEG's recent special study of municipal management found urban planning in particular to be neglected
among Bank assistance to municipalities (IEG 2009).
* The Government of Algeria (GOA) still produces "social housing" directly under highly subsidized terms to
beneficiaries who have to pay only 10 percent of the below-market price up-front. GOA pays 50 percent, while
the remaining 40 percent is financed through a below-market interest loan from a state bank.
9
 During its field visit to Oran, the IEG mission visited a large housing site being built by a Chinese
construction fm financed by an Algerian state bank.
                                                      5


strengthening housing finance mechanisms and markets. The Mortgage TA Project supported
long term mortgage loans for housing purchase that had begun in Algeria only in the late
 1990s. They had been first introduced in Morocco in the early 1980s (Baharoglu 2005 p. 17).
Mortgage lending, almost exclusively through state-owned banks, is still small scale in
Algeria, where outstanding mortgage debt is equivalent to less than 1.5 percent of GDP'O-
against 7 percent in Morocco and 12 percent in Mexico. l 1 Many borrowers may be keen to
take mortgage loans with subsidized interest as low as 7 percent per annum, but banks can be
reluctant to make such loans. Banks report that they face ambiguous foreclosure regulations.
There is also the Islamic financing precept offorbearance-that requires easing debt
repayments if a borrower gets into                 Factors such as these may help explain the
little overall financial depth in the Algerian economy, where outstanding credit is equivalent
                                                                                  ~~
to only 22 percent of GDP, compared with Morocco's 60 percent. In the 1 9 8 0 mortgage
finance in Morocco was as narrow as Algeria's is today, when it was concentrated in one
GOM-owned bank, the Cre`dit Irnrnobilier et Hdtelier (CIH), the country's real estate and
hotel finance bank (as it is today in Algeria's CNEP). Morocco's broader housing financial
market resulted from greater participation by private banks, made possible by legislation and
regulations enacted in the late 1980s. A lack of housing finance can be a constraint upon
housing demand as appears to have been the case in Algeria. On the other hand, rapidly
expanding housing finance without a corresponding real housing supply response can raise
property prices rapidly, as happened in Morocco. From these experiences, it is clear that
housing sector reform cannot concentrate on one side only. It has to carefully calibrate both
the real and financial sides of the housing market.

BANKASSISTANCE THESE COUNTRIES' HOUSING
             TO                       SECTORS

 1.13 Bank support to Algeria across all sectors over the past decade has been through a
relatively small lending program with total commitments of US$353 million. The Bank has
financed projects in the housing and urban development sectors since 1992, starting with the
approval of the Algeria: Cadastre Project (Ln3488) whose aim was to assist GOA in
establishing a land registration system, the achievement of which was rated moderately
satisfactory by IEG. In 1993, the Bank approved the Algeria: Housing Completion Project
(Ln3561) that aimed to trigger a quick housing response by completing an unfinished stock
of social housing and to assist GOA create an adequate policy and institutional framework
for housing. IEG rated the outcome moderately satisfactory. This was followed in 1998 by
the Algeria: Low-Income Housing Project (Ln4361) whose aim was to improve the living
conditions of slum dwellers by providing them with affordable housing. Its outcome was
rated unsatisfactory by IEG because of shortfalls of targeted deliveries and the higher income
families benefited than intended.



lo   OECD 2007
11
 In spite of this, the Government of Algeria (GOA) continues to recognize the exceptional importance of
mortgage lending. Mortgage loans for house purchase were, for instance the only ones exempted from a general
GOA ban on consumer lending in July 2009 as part of its credit squeeze.
l 2 Presentation given by Dr. Sami AI-Suwailem of the Islamic Development Bank to IEG on "Introduction to
Islamic Finance" November 2009.
                                                       6


1.14 The Bank has been more active in Morocco over the past decade through a total of
US$ 1.5 billion of lending commitments to all sectors. The lending program included an
active portfolio of housing and urban development projects for a longer period than
Algeria's, with operations that are directly relevant to the sector reform issues reviewed by
this PPAR. It started with the 1978 Rabat Urban Development Project (Ln1528), one of the
Bank's first urban development projects worldwide, whose objective was to pioneer
innovative solutions to urban planning and development, including slum upgrading, a top
sector issue today. Its outcome was rated satisfactory by IEG. A similar project in 1981, the
Morocco: Second Urban Development Project (Ln 1944) had similar aims, but for different
cities, namely Kenitra and Meknes. It too was rated satisfactory by IEG. Shifting attention to
housing finance, the1983 Morocco: First Housing Loan to Cre`ditImmobilier et Hbtelier -
CIH (Ln2245) aimed to (i) encourage private and public developers to produce low-cost
housing schemes affordable to income groups in the lower half of the urban income
distribution, and (ii) develop CIH's ability to appraise low-cost housing schemes and advise
private and public developers on all aspects of low-cost housing design. It was also rated
satisfactory by IEG.

1.15 Prior Bank assistance to Algeria and Morocco in these sectors was primarily through
specific investment loans (SILs). The assistance presently under review by this PPAR used
different instrumentation for each operation, ranging from a SIL to a DPL as lending
operations, to a PSIA as a non-lending activity. It is to how these different operations raised
major housing sector reform themes that the PPAR now turns.



2. Algeria: Seeding Housing Sector Reform
INTRODUCTION

2.1     The Mortgage TA Project was a small-scale investment project of US$8.2 million to
be partly financed by a Bank loan of US$5.5 million. It aimed to help the mortgage loan mar-
ket function better by providing technical assistance and training to housing sector agencies,
banks and their staff responsible for processing them (Table 2.1). This aim was relevant to
the 2003 CAS that paid a lot of attention to the housing sector and called for overcomin
Algeria's economic and social bottlenecks caused by the country's inadequate housing. The
Mortgage TA Project was in sync with Algeria's plans to reform its housing sector.

2.2     This small operation's almost exclusive focus upon the supply side of mortgage
financing dimension of housing reform was realistic. It could not address demand
constraints-households too poor to buy a house or households reluctant to take a mortgage
loan not to offend the Islamic precept against riba, or usury, for in~tance.'~ could it
                                                                            Nor

l 3 A keyword search of the 2003 CAS found the term "housing" mentioned 86 times-probably      a record high
number of references for this kind of document.
14
  Another reason for hesitant demand for mortgage loans with interest rates in the 7-12 percent range could be
borrowers hoping for even cheaper loans, such as those reported in the local press during IEG's mission to
Algeria. In one report, CNEP was to receive an additional DZD400 billion (US$5.5 billion, equivalent to 4.1
                                                             7


 tackle real supply side constraints, particularly in housing production and also regulation that
 result in shortages. Thus, this small operation tried to plant some seeds of housing sector
 reform through boosting mortgage lending by training bankers to grant more, and by
 reducing lending risks by trying to make property title registration more trustworthy.

I TABLE2.1 ALGERIAMORTGAGE PROJECT(P064983) 2000-2007
                         TA
                                                                                                                                 I
      Project Development
                                                                     Project Components
       Objectives (PDOs)
 - as formulated in the PAD:        1. Legal and Land Titling Components (appraisal cost US$2.lm.; actual cost
 To help strengthen the             US3.lm.) - (i) legal reform of property rights and mortgages; (ii) efficient
 enabling environment for a         computerized procedures for issuing property titles acceptable to mortgage
 well-functioning mortgage          lenders; (iii) training of legal professional and land administrative staff.
 loan market. (PAD p.3)
 - as formulated in the Loan        2. Strategic Assistance (appraisal cost US$2.0m.; actual cost US$2.0 million) -
 Agreement:                         (i) training of bank managers; (ii) specific advisory assistance; (iii) credit
 To support the efforts being       information system.
 made by the Borrower to            3, Mortgage Loan Operational Training (appraisal cost USS4.0m.; actual cost
 promote, in the housing            US$3.5 million) - providing professional training in all areas of mortgage
 sector, the enabling               financing for bank staff.
 environment for the
 development of the mortgage        4. Project Management (appraisal cost: US$O. lm.; actual cost US$0.3m.) - the
 loan market.                       recurrent costs of project oversight and supervision.
Sources: Project Appraisal Document (PAD), Loan Agreement. Dec 21, 2006 Aide Memoire.
Note: Actual project and component costs were not reported by the ICR. The actual cost data assembled here by the PPAR is
taken from total commitments for each component reported by the last project supervision aide memoire (Dec 21, 2006).Since
at that time, fully 90 percent of these commitments had already been paid, the commitments themselves provide a close
approximation of the actual resources spent on this project. Total project (base) costs estimated at appraisal were USS8.2
million. Total actual costs were USS9.4 million. A Bank Loan of USS5.5 million was approved at appraisal. At completion USS5.1
million had been disbursed after which the outstanding USS0.4 million was cancelled.



2.3      The overall results of this project, assessed within a more detailed results framework
in Annex A, were positive, but with some shortcomings. Bankers and many staff of Algeria's
state-owned banks were trained, but the hoped-for additional mortgage lending did not take
off. In the words of one banker in Algiers, there were simply too few new housing projects to
finance. But thanks to the project, title registration expanded to cover the whole country for
the first time, and new legislation helped standardize registration procedures made more agile
through computerization. Details of the actual results are scarce, part of the widespread lack
of readily available data on the housing sector in Algeria.

2.4     Seeding the start-up of reform and laying the foundation for an enabling environment
was the most that a small project like this could be expected to do in a housing sector that,
until recently, was built around a completely different model; the direct production of highly
subsidized housing to selected beneficiaries by the Government. Bank involvement in
Algeria itself has been constrained until recently because of the nation's civil strife in the

percent of GDP) GOA line of credit for housing finance. It would include mortgages at one percent interest per
annum to finance the purchase of social housing units. (( Le Maghreb : Le Quotidien de I'Econornie )) le 19
octobre 2009 ; and (( Le Quotidien d'Oram le 20 octobre 2009. Such a below-market interest rate is not
consistent with building a well-functioning mortgage market that the Mortgage TA Project sought to enable.
                                               8


1990s. Despite these constraints, the Mortgage TA Project experience helped plant two seeds
of housing sector reform, one in mortgage lending and the other in property title registration,
two performance themes that are reviewed in detail below (Annex A. covers other aspects of
project performance).

TRYING MAKE
     TO           LENDING
           MORTGAGE     GROW

2.5     The decision to support training of bankers and staff in mortgage loan origination and
processing was a good one. Algeria's banks, most still state-owned, had little prior
experience in this area. For mortgage lending to take off in the country, banking staff would
have to be able and proficient to originate and process the loans. But qualified and
experienced staff and managers are a necessary, but not sufficient condition for mortgage
lending to take off. There also have to be houses to buy whose purchase needs financing.
These remain in short supply, as already noted. Not explicitly addressing that question, the
Mortgage TA Project chose as its largest component an intensive three-week program to train
many bank staff in mortgage origination and processing. The training was designed and
conducted by a Canadian consultant firm, who trained 1,580 bank staff altogether, somewhat
short of the 2,000 target set. The lack of readily available baseline data means that we don't
know how many trained staff the banks already had and, therefore, the increase achieved.
Why a 2,000 target is not clear, in the absence of a detailed needs assessment.

2.6   Training on this large scale was made feasible through the collaboration of a
renowned Algerian training institute, the Ecole Supe`rieure de Banque, with the excellent




 1. New housing in Orunfinanced by CNEPMortguges                         Photo courtesy o Roy Giibert
                                                                                         f
                                                9


infrastructure of its training center. Thanks to the Mortgage TA Project, the Ecole even
expanded its reach abroad through establishing a global distance-learning center. The training
was open to all banks (mostly state-owned). The main beneficiary was CNEP, the state-
owned bank established in 1964 that is still responsible for more than 60 percent of all
mortgage loans made in Algeria (Beltas 2008).

2.7     A twin-track approach to the training, focused upon bank managers as well as bank
staff, was a strong feature of its design. In addition to training the originators and processors
of mortgage loans, the Mortgage TA Project also trained senior managers of commercial
banks. The managers' training covered questions such as the strategic importance of
mortgage lending in their banks' overall operations. The managers' training was completed
over a period of 30 days, half spent in Canada and the other half in Algeria. The idea was to
ensure that these senior managers would give the importance due to the potential new line of
business and support their newly trained staff in it. The managers who participated in the
training whom IEG met reported that the quality of the training was excellent, both for
themselves and for their teams. According to their feedback to IEG, the training also gave
them a better understanding of what their teams had to do and to enable them to better
mentor and coach their staff.

2.8     In Algeria's second largest city Oran, the IEG mission met, as a group, with most of
the CNEP staff trained there through the project. They expressed strong appreciation of the
training received, the professionalism of its delivery and the way it strengthened their
professional skills and, maybe, enhanced their career prospects. Most trainees were
impressed by the intensity and thoroughness of the training program itself and its relevance
to the new tasks they faced. The training went beyond the standard treatment of the legal
framework and administrative and technical mechanisms of mortgage loan processing. It
covered, for instance, how a bank should treat potential mortgage loan clients, especially the
majority who would likely be unfamiliar with the instrument. More broadly, it also explained
how the market for mortgage lending should be assessed. Aspects central to mortgage
lending, such as confirming that a property title had been verified and that a property value
had been appraised, as well as assessing the risks to borrower and lender, were fully covered.

2.9     While the training itself was successful, an important evaluation question remains.
Did it contribute to a well-functioning mortgage market, as the project intended? Probably
not. Subject to the data availability problems already mentioned, there is little evidence to
show a significant expansion in mortgage lending itself in Algeria, to which the skills
acquired through the training could apply. In 2007, the latest year for which data was
available to IEG, only 22,900 new mortgage loans were issued, short of the 35,000 targeted.
Even though well above the baseline of 14,000 in 2002, these are still at very low levels vis a
vis the potential (and needs) of the housing market in Algeria. The limited supply and the
high cost of housing units are probably the main reasons behind the lack of take up of
mortgage lending in Algeria. Perhaps the project trained more bank staff than needed, given
the likely low level of demand for their newly acquired skills in the local market. If newly
trained staff alone were responsible for processing all these new loans, it would be at the rate
of slightly more than one loan per trainee per month, not an intense utilization of these skills.
                                               10


                      REGISTRATION TO ENCOURAGE
         PROPERTY TITLE
TRUSTWORTHY                                   LENDING
2.10 The project?s attention to land ownership and title was on target. Having a reliable
property titling and registration is a necessary condition for a mortgage loan market to
function in any country. Lenders need to be sure that a seller truly owns the property for sale,
and that a prospective borrower will indeed be the owner of the house being financed. They
also need to be confident that the mortgage lien can be executed in case of borrower default
on loan repayments. The Bank had provided moderately successful assistance to Algeria
before in the related area of property mapping through the moderately satisfactory 1992
Algeria: Cadastre Project (Ln3488). According to the evaluation at the time, it would have
been more successful if it had enabled the GOA agencies involved, the National Cadastre
Agency, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Agriculture, to work better together.
Learning from that experience, the Mortgage TA Project reviewed here tried to correct that
by working directly with the Agence de Conservation Fonciire, GOA?Sproperty titling
agency now housed within the Ministry of Finance. The Mortgage TA Project thus offered
GOA and the Bank a second bite at the issue of property mapping and title registration.

2.1 1 Through technical assistance to the Agence, the project helped simplify what had
been unduly complex and uncertain procedures of property registration in Algeria. Prior to
the Mortgage TA Project, property registration could only proceed only in geographical areas
that had already been fully covered by the updated cadastre. Since the cadastre itself was not
complete, this rule prevented final property registration in many rural areas especially. The
rule was waived under the Mortgage TA Project, allowing registration to proceed even in
those areas. Project technical assistance also helped draft the 2007 Law 07/02 that introduced
a simpler procedure for registering private property rights in urban areas. It also made
property titling obligatory after any real estate transaction. Prior to this law property could
change hands legally through legally-binding sales contracts, but without the need for formal
registration of the transaction, leaving no public record of it. The possible existence of such
unregistered deals made banks wary of who was truly the owner of any particular property,
and therefore, reluctant to lend.

2.12 . The computerization of property registration procedures introduced by the Mortgage
TA Project helped speed property title registration and make it more accurate. Lack of
familiarity in Algeria with Bank procurement procedures delayed the contracting of these
services somewhat, but Bank experience in this area enabled it to help the project eventually
find and hire the right consultant. His main contribution, according to officials in Algiers,
was to help the Agence de Conservation Fonciire make better use of the Internet for property
registration purposes. This more than anything gave Algeria a nationwide property
registration system for the first time. The new systems allowed data input from any urban
center, and in turn making it available nationwide to interested parties. These would range
from housing program administrators wanting to know if potential beneficiaries had other
properties, to mortgage lenders who wanted to be sure that ownership rights for a property to
be financed would not be contested.
                                              11


            TOO FAR?
A REFORM STEP

2.13 Beyond the basic strengthening of Algeria?s primary mortgage market, the Mortgage
TA Project tried, with little success, to go further. It tried to extend the use of mortgage
guarantees, mortgage refinancing and even underwriting mortgages for securitization. Such
moves imply establishing a secondary mortgage market in Algeria, a premature move while
the primary market itself was so little developed.

2.14 Nevertheless, the project provided some technical assistance on loan guarantee
                           de
procedures to the Socie?te? Garantie du Cre?ditImmobilier (SGCI), GOA?s real estate credit
guarantee company, an agency formally established in 1997, but only active in recent years.
To guarantee individual mortgage loans, its main job, SGCI signs an umbrella agreement
with a lending bank. To date, only two such agreements have been signed, notably not with
CNEP, Algeria?s biggest mortgage lender. This has meant relatively small SGCI operations,
guaranteeing just 6,929 new loans in 2008-one quarter of all loans made that year-in an
amount of DZD 11.1 billion (US$17 1 million). From its inception until end-September 2009,
SGCI has guaranteed 16,308 loans in an amount of DZD27.4 billion (US$391 million). It
would have probably done more had its performance not been for its own financial crisis in
2004, when two large banks defaulted on their debt held by SGCI. It was not clear if the
default was related to mortgage guarantees or not. SGCI is now back in business, but its
guarantees still play only a small role in what is a small market, where most lending still
takes place without SGCI guarantees.

                     de
2.15 The Socie?te? Refnancement Hypothe?caire(SRH), GOA?s mortgage refinancing
company, was also slated for support by the Mortgage TA Project. SRH was set up in 1997
and is well-funded to refinance mortgage loans, to underwrite and securitize them. The
procedures are in place and well thought out, but the demand for refinancing appears to have
has been only on a very small scale. Securitization has not taken off. Some bank staff told
IEG that they felt that mortgage refinancing and securitization were not yet needed in
Algeria, given the embryonic state of the primary mortgage market. The market was less
ready for the reform than the Mortgage TA Project was.

REFORM RESULTS IN ALGERIA

2.16 Some necessary seeds for housing sector reform were planted in Algeria by the
Mortgage TA Project, in particular making banks more able to originate and process
mortgage loans and providing a broader and more trustworthy system of property titling and
registration. But these are only necessary and not sufficient conditions for starting housing
sector reform. Housing supply constraints remain very tight; hence the banker?s comment to
IEG that there are no houses to finance. With Algeria?s primary mortgage market still so
shallow, the prospects of developing a secondary market through refinancing and
securitization, as the Mortgage TA Project?s intended, remain far away. Nevertheless,
planting the seeds was a worthwhile effort. We still await evidence, hopefully with more
supporting data, that they have germinated.
                                                            12


3. Morocco: Sustaining Housing Sector Reform
INTRODUCTION
3.1     Operational performance themes of housing sector reforms that arose from two Bank-
supported instruments are reviewed here. The first instrument is the Morocco: Housing
Sector Development Policy Loan (Ln73 14-MA). Called the "Housing DPL" in this report, it
was financed by a US$l50 million equivalent Bank loan over the 2005-2008 period. It aimed
to strengthen the framework of Morocco's housing market and provide better access to it for
low-income households (Table 3.1). The Housing DPL was driven, in part, by the 2005 CAS
strategic pillar of increasing the access by the poor to basic services including housing
(details in Annex B).



Project Development Objectives                       Summary of Key Prior Actions (details in Policy Matrix in
(PDOs)\a                                                                  Annex B)\b

(i) to strengthen the institutional, regulatory    - simplify norms for'social housing site planning.
and fiscal environment for a well-                 - streamline public urban land provision
fimctioning housing market and for the             - simplify land development approvals
emergence of market-based solutions to the         - new urban planning code
country's housing sector constraints and           - restructure and consolidate AI Omrane
needs                                              - termination of interest rate subsidies on mortgage loans
(ii) to increase the access of low-income          - implement the Villes sans Bidonvilles program
and severely disadvantaged households to           - release of large tracts of public land for urban development
more affordable and higher quality housing         - amendments to rental housing legislation
                                                   - establishment of guarantee find for informal sector
                                                   - establishment of housing savings schemes
Sources: \a Housing DPL Program Document (p. 16); \b_Annex 8 of this report, itself taken from Program Document.
Note: A 116.1million Euro Loan (US%150million equivalent) was approved in June 2005. It was disbursed in two tranches as
planned: 69.7 million Euros in Auaust 2005 and 45.9 million Euros in June 2008.



3.2     Since this DPL was expected to have a significant poverty impact, Bank policy
required that it be accompanied by an analysis of the likely distributional effects of such an
impact. This analysis took the form of the second instrument reviewed here, the Morocco:
National Slum Upgrading Poverty and Social Impact Analysis (PSIA), called the "Slum
Upgrading PSIA" in this report (Table 3.2). It was a piece of Bank Analytical and Advisory
Activities (AAA) work that, including a field survey of six slums in Morocco, cost
US$63,000 to prepare. It was issued in June 2006 one year after the Housing DPL was made
effective. It provided the government of Morocco (GOM) with additional advice on
implementing the Housing DPL itself and the Villes sans Bidonvilles (VSB), cities without
slums program that it supported.

3.3     Using IEG's results framework, the performance assessment of the Housing DPL
(details in Annex B) point to reasonably good outcomes. By focusing upon the institutional
                                                          13




        Aims of this Slum Upgrading PSIA                             Content of the Slum Upgrading PSIA
To assess the expected poverty alleviation and social        I. Morocco's Housing Sector Reform; including: (i)
impacts of some of the reforms supported by the              Housing Sector Reforms and World Bank Support; (ii)
Housing DPL.                                                 The National Slum Upgrading Program; (iii) Improving
To bring insights to the social dynamics of                  Access to Housing Finance.
neighborhoods targeted for slum upgrading.                   11. The Poverty and Social Impact Analysis; including:
To contribute to the ongoing policy debate.                  (i) Objectives and methodology of the Study; (ii)
                                                             Stakeholder Analysis of "Villes sans Bidonvilles "; (iii)
To improve and refine the instruments and
                                                             Profiles, problems and expectations of the slum
operational modalities of the slum upgrading
                                                             population; (iv) Benefits and adverse impacts analysis.
program (VSB)
                                                             111. Policy Lessons; including: Limitations and risks of
            Purpose of a PSIA generally                  I   the current program design; (ii) Relevant international
                                                             policy lessons; (iii) policy recommendations.
To analyze the distributional impacts of policy
reforms (supported by a DPL) on the well-being or            Annex 1. Profiles of the six slum settlements surveyed.
welfare of different stakeholder groups, with                                     rm
                                                             Annex 2. Excerpt f o interviews with slum dwellers.
particular focus on the poor and vulnerable
Source: Morocco National Slum Upgrading Poverty and Social Impact Analysis (PSIA) Report 2006




consolidation of A1 Omrane, as GOM's main urban and housing developer (details later in
this section), the Housing DPL helped strengthen the institutional framework for a well-
functioning housing market, as the operation intended. Through its support to Morocco's
flagship slum upgrading program Villes sans Bidonvilles, or cities without slums, the
Housing DPL helped many low-income households gain access to better housing, even if in
smaller numbers than expected. The detailed assessment of the Slum Upgrading PSIA
(Annex C) concludes that the PSIA contributed significantly toward helping keep VSB on
the housing sector reform track. These assessments underline the important contribution
these operations made to consolidating institutions and boosting slum upgrading. The
remainder of this chapter turns to assessing these two themes, and the operations'
contribution, via them, to housing sector reform in Morocco.

INSTITUTIONAL CONSOLIDATION TO SUSTAIN HOUSING
                                             REFORM -AL OMRANE

3.4     The erstwhile complex and poorly articulated institutional framework of housing and
urban development in Morocco had been in need of change. It included the ten separate
agencies of the state often acting as if they were in competition with each other. The A1
Omrane Holding Company newly created in 2004, consolidated and replaced them all. Seven
were Etablissements Re`gionaux d 'Ame`nagementde Construction (ERACs), state
construction corporations set up in the 1970s for all the main regions of the country. They
often found themselves scrambling for the same GOM central funds and programs. A1
Omrane also absorbed the Agence Nationale de Lutte contre 1 'Habitat Insalubre (ANHI), the
National Agency for the Struggle against Inadequate Housing that had been GOM's principal
slum upgrading agency since 1984. This meant that A1 Omrane took on what would have
been ANHI's role in GOM's huge VSB slum upgrading program. In addition, A1 Omrane
                                                         14


incorporated the Socie`te`Nationale d `Equipement et de Construction (SNEC), the national
infrastructure and construction corporation. Finally, A1 Omrane incorporated a special GOM
agency for housing and construction in Casablanca, called Attacharouk. Designed and driven
by GOM itself, the creation of A1 Omrane was radical public sector consolidation on a large
scale. It gained Bank support when the Housing DPL identified key aspects of the A1 Omrane
consolidation as key prior actions that it supported.

3.5    Together, the ten agencies had anchored Morocco's institutional framework for
housing and urban development for decades. Their multiplicity had often led Bank
supervision reports to remark upon how many agencies had to be involved in relatively minor
decisions affecting housing and urban development project implementation in any one city.




     2. One of the few remaining bidonvilles in Meknes                                Photo courteJy o Roy Gilbert
                                                                                                     f


The A1 Omrane Holding consolidation completely transformed the sector's institutional
landscape. It avoided duplication and zero-sum competition among regional and sectoral
agencies. It provided economies of scale for implementing large-scale programs like VSB. It
also offered national and international sector interlocutors a one-stop shop for exchanges of
sectoral experiences and knowledge. On top of that, it was a significant achievement in that it
overcame vested interests that had become entrenched in some of the older agencies.

3.6      Thus housing sector reform in Morocco was given a big boost in 2004 when the
GOM consolidated the ten existing sector agencies into a single holding group called A1
Omrane, whose name means building enterprise in Arabic." Currently reporting US$1.7
billion in assets, A1 Omrane has resulted from one of the most significant public sector

15
     The full official title of the company in French is: Holding d'Am6nagement AI Omrane.
                                                           15


    consolidations in recent Moroccan history.16 During its field visits to Sale and Meknes, the
    IEG mission found A Omrane up and running in those cities, and well on its way toward
                         Z
    overcoming many of problems of the erstwhile multi-agency arrangement.

    3.7    A Omrane and the Housing DPL were closely tied together. The Housing DPL
            Z
    recognized that A Omrane could "eliminate overlaps and redundancies among their
                     Z
    missions, mandates and territorial coverage, consolidate their financial and human resources,
    and eliminate outstanding deficits" (PD p. 13). Furthermore, the Housing DPL made the
                                             Z
    creation of a new Supervisory Board for A Omrane a condition for disbursement of the first
    tranche of the Loan. The idea was to ensure that A Omrane, as a newly created and
                                                      Z
    potentially very powerful GOM agency, should be subject to rigorous oversight by a strong
    and independent controlling authority. GOM duly established an inter-ministerial advisory
    committee empowered by having the country's Prime Minister as Chair-more than meeting
    the DPL condition.

    3.8                                                                  Z
            The Housing DPL also had a second tranche condition for A Omrane, requiring that
    A Omrane complete the restructuring of the former housing agencies, "according to criteria
     Z
    of efficiency, professionalism, market responsiveness and financial viability" (PD p. 22).
    Exactly how to meet these conditions and fulfill the criteria for success were not clearly
    spelled out, nor was IEG able to find out exactly what they were. What became evident from
    IEG mission visits to A Omrane offices in Sale and Meknes, though-both housed in former
                           Z
    ERAC offices-was that former ANHI and ERAC employees had fully transitioned to
    become A Omrane staff. They told IEG that adapting to a new A Omrane corporate culture
              Z                                                        Z
    had been easy. Minimizing redundancies and ensuring that new working conditions,
    especially salary, were at least as good as the old ones, were important factors in this
    successful assimilation. Getting A Omrane up and running could not have been an easy task.
                                       Z
    In the corporate world it could be likened to a major merger and acquisition, consolidation
    and ongoing restructuring all taking place in parallel over a five-year period.

    3.9     Although major redundancies were not necessary because of A Omrane 's growing
                                                                            Z
    workload, staff were not all in the right geographical locations after the consolidation. AZ
    Omrane was especially overstaffed at the center in Rabat, and there were too few cadres in
    the regional offices across the country. But A Omrane officials informed IEG that staffing
                                                  Z
    was decentralized without major problems, although detailed data on scale and timing of the
    staff movements was not made available to IEG. Some Al Omrane staff in the city of Meknes
    who had been transferred from elsewhere told the IEG mission that they had few complaints
    about their move or about their current situation. Morale seemed high, driven by the greater
                                                            Z
    responsibilities for each staff member that came with A Omrane s expanding activities.

                           Z
    3.10 At this writing, A Omrane has become the major GOM player in Morocco's housing
.
    and urban development sector. It is the principal implementing agency of the flagship VSB


    l6 The holding company model has been used in Morocco in other sectors, public and private. Some 16 holding
    companies are currently listed on Morocco's Stock Exchange. The holding arrangement is where one (umbrella)
    company holds the stock of another (or others), exercising shareholder and executive control over it. This model
    is widely used in the United States, an example being the UAL Corporation that wholly owns United Airlines.
    Being state-owned, A1 Omrane is not among the 16 listed.
                                                         16


Program, involved in planning, seeking finance, contracting and even building housing
developments to resettle displaced bidonvillois. In 2008, it delivered 133,943 housing units,
up from 125,265 in 2007. In its first year of operations in 2004, the delivery was only of
29,954. The IEG mission visited some of A1 Omrane s large housing operations in the city of
Meknes, where it is responsible for more than half of all social housing units delivered (the
"140,000 Dirham" houses in Morocco, named after their low selling price).

3.1 1 Financially, A1 Omrane now reports a modest profit and sticks to prudent financial
management of its debts and other liabilities, not letting its debt:equity ratio exceed a
conservative 4: 1. The GOM had enabled A1 Omrane to start with a clean financial sheet by
clearing the outstanding debts of all the incorporated agencies; ANHI, SNEC, and the seven
ERACs.17A1 Omrane was itself recapitalized by the government. Thus GOM ensured that A1
Omrane got off to a good start earning a profit of DH 41 million in 2004, its first full year of
operation. As it grew and became more profitable, the A1 Omrane 's financial performance
continued to strengthen. In 2008, it reported total assets of DH 13.5 billion (US$1.7 billion)
in 2008, up from DH 12.4 billion (US$1.5 billion) in 2007. Its after-tax profit in 2008 was
DH 207 million (nearly double the 2007 figure). This gave it a net profit of 8 percent of
equity in 2008 (up from 5 percent in 2007).

3.12 Today, the five-year-old A1 Omrane Holding Company is GOM's principal housing
and urban development agency. The consolidation is complete and stands ready to fulfill
sector programs throughout the country. After this consolidation, sector players now have a
one-stop-GOM-shop for sector planning and program implementation. Within GOM itself, it
is now clearer who is responsible for these plans and programs. Municipalities can now make
one single contrat ville, a broad agreement covering all their dealings with GOM in housing
and urban development, rather than the multiplicity of agreements they had to reach with
many agencies before. The World Bank and other multilateral and bilateral donors, now
know where to go for dialogue on implementing housing and urban development operations.

3.13 The consolidation of A1 Omrane has had important political consequences in
refurbishing the machinery of state for housing reform in Morocco. Indeed, it is a true sector
reform in its own right. The opening of a new A1 Omrane office was taken as an opportunity
to inform the public and other players about current and new directions for the sector. Such
openings provided platforms for launching further public and professional discussion about
reforms under way. The MHU Minister took this opportunity at the opening ceremony of A1
Omrane 's new office in Marrakesh in 2007, for instance. There he announced a "new stage
in decentralization," with A1 Omrane 's role in it amply disseminated by the press. Officials at
A1 Omrane told the IEG mission that Bank assistance in establishing the institutional
articulation of A1 Omrane with municipalities-given less attention under the former
arrangements-was another positive contribution of the Housing DPL. Even below the
municipal level, A1 Omrane s presence is well established among the general population. The
IEG mission noted that local residents in Sale and Meknes, for instance, were generally
familiar with A1 Omrane and the location of its offices. Some even knew members of A1
Omrane staff. On the Internet too, from which the sites of the former agencies have all been
pulled, A1 Omrane is now the major point of reference, providing housing and urban

" The   main beneficiary of this debt clearance was the creditor real estate bank CIH.
                                                       17


development stakeholders with a virtual one-stop shop. Factors in A1 Omrane s success
include GOM willingness to establish a new legal framework through major legislation, to
follow through with major yet detailed reorganization and consolidation of the agencies
involved, and actions and assurances to staff that most would be winners from the reform.

        HOUSING REFORM TO MOROCCO'S
ANCHORING                               SLUM
                                 FLAGSHIP   UPGRADING
PROGRAM

3.14 In October 2004, King Mohamed VI gave the royal sanction to Morocco's ambitious
Villes sans Bidonvilles (VSB), or Cities without Slums Program. VSB planned to rid the
country's cities of squatter settlements, home to 212,000 households in 2004, by the end of
20 10. Its mantra became: "The future of a progressive and modern Morocco can only be a
Morocco without squatter settlements"18In a speech in 2006, the King elaborated this ideal
further:

           "What we definitively envision is not just cities without slums, nor to substitute slums
           with soulless concrete blocks, impervious to sociable lifestyles. We understand,
           rather, that it is to transform our towns into spaces apt for social interaction, warmth
           and dignity and, while turning cities into investment and growth poles, we ensure that
           they remain attached to their own specific and original style^."'^

VSB was new in scale and commitment, but it reflected an old GOM aspiration. The
complete elimination of bidonvilles was one of the goals-not achieved t h e n - o f the 1987-
1992 National Development Plan. During the 1980s, some 9,000 new housing units a year
were provided to re-house slum dwellers, a provision that fell by nearly half during the 1990s
to 4,500-5,000 units per annum. Even at half the speed intended, the current VSB program
delivery of some 12,500 units per annum (ranging from serviced lots to completed
apartments) was one-and-a-half to three times greater than the earlier peaks of the 1980s.

3.15 The launch of the VSB Program was a key prior action for the Housing DPL.
Assisting at least 30,000 households through VSB by 2006 was a trigger for the second
tranche of the loan.2oVSB was an important instrument for helping to achieve the Housing
DPL's second objective of increasing the access of low-income households to higher quality
housing. The Slum Upgrading PSIA, launched after the start-up of the Housing DPL,
provided direct inputs to GOM for the ongoing implementation of the VSB program. In
particular, it drew GOM's attention to the VSB housing solutions preferred by the
bidonvillois and the constraints on their ability to pay for them (details Annex C). Reducing
slums was incorporated as a target of the 2005 CAS that sought to see the number of
households living in slums reduced by 60 percent (2005 CAS p. 15), implying that VSB
would benefit 127,200 bidonvillois households by mid-2009, well behind the original target.


     hitp butt   nlomranc ma iiidcx.php"p 171 2.
l9   Speech by King Mohamed VI at the National Meeting of Local Governments in Agadir, December 12,2006.
20
   This 30,000 target (PD p. 24) may have been below the baseline. The ICR reports that 62,000 households
actually benefited, more than double the target, but far short of the 92,700 VSB housing units and land plots
already under way in 2004 (PD p. 48)
                                                        18




     3. New housing being built for ex-bidonvillois in Meknes                        Photo courtesy o Roy Gilbert
                                                                                                     f


3.16 Bidonvilles occupy, usually illegally, both central and peripheral urban areas of
Morocco's larger cities especially.2'The housing unit---often no more than a flimsy shack-
is generally of poor quality and overcrowded, usually lacking some basic urban service, most
often sewage or solid waste collection. Other labels applied to bidonvilles in Morocco betray
some of the problems associated with them: (i) insalubres-being unhealthy and unfit for
habitation; and (ii) non-regulamentaires-by not meeting normal property, urban planning
and/or building regulations. Improving public health and strengthening public order are
indeed underlying aims of the VSB program, So too are aims of preserving the aesthetic
beauty of Morocco's famous historical cities. As the majority of bidonvillois is poor, the
VSB Program inevitably has an important poverty reduction dimension, too.

3.17 The Ministry of Housing and Planning (MHU) prepared the detailed plan for VSB
(Table 3.3) to improve the lives of 212,000 households living in 1,000 slums in 83 cities
across the country.22Where the existing bidonville unit was in good enough condition, as it
21
  Most slums are found in Morocco's seven largest cities (with their respective populations in parentheses):
Casablanca (3.1 million); Rabat-Sale (1.7 million); Fez (1 .O million); Marrakesh (0.8 million); Agadir (0.7
million); Tangiers (0.7 million); and Meknes (0.5 million).
22
   Although earlier actions to deal with bidonvilles were often called "piecemeal", IEG found that earlier Bank
financed operations, notably the Rabat Urban Development Project (Lnl528) and the Second Urban
Development Project (Ln1944) benefited significant shares of the populations of the project cities, namely
Rabat 5.6 percent; Meknes 10.1 percent; and Kenitra 12.3 percent.
                                              19


was reckoned to be in 30 percent of the cases, upgrading would be in situ, bringing services
and improved access to the existing settlement. Where bidonvilles had to be demolished
because of their poor condition or risks of the site, as happened 70 percent of the time, VSB
would offer to re-house families in new lots or even complete apartments in a different
location. Very low-income bidonvillois, about 10 percent of the total, would be given a new
housing unit outright, while those with higher incomes would receive a subsidy to pay part of
the house, taking out a mortgage loan to cover the remainder of the unit cost. The Slum
Upgrading PSIA played an important role in updating the authorities about bidonvillois '
constraints in this regard. Its surveys of residents showed clearly that the poorest of the
bidonvillois were unable to pay for any kind of housing, and that the most popular option was
in situ upgrading. Given the Bank's worldwide experience in supporting slum upgrading and
new housing provision, Bank staff and consultants were able to provide technical inputs into
VSB the Slum Upgrading PSIA that local authorities in Morocco found useful.

3.18 VSB planning made clear that the Program would involve the involuntary
resettlement of nearly 150,000 families over a five-year period. But the Bank's safeguard
policy, OP 4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement was not invoked, as it does not apply to DPLs.




 4. New housing nearer completion in Meknes                           Photo courtesy of Roy Gilbert


The Morocco Housing DPL, as is typical of these operations, did not directly finance VSB
works that were behind the resettlement, Hence the resettlement issues were not discussed in
the Housing DPL's PD, and received only passing mention in the ICR and PSIA. In fairness
to the principle of a just resettlement process embodied in the Bank's policy, this Housing
-I
      2
0    9 3
E    g.g
      C
     OD
     an
                 I
                 I
                    I
a     3
           "E
P)    m
           01
            I
                    I
                    I
                    I
                    I
           31
P)
      3
      m    $1
           4
             I
              I
              I
              I
              I
           -lI
a
P)
      3
      m    g I
           W        I
           = I
              I
              I
              I
              I

f     f
           $- .1I
           Y I
                    I
                    I
                    I
                    I
           21
           9
a     a    "!       I
nl    P)

           I6
                    I
                    I
                    I
                    I
                    I
                    I
                    I
           " l
            J       I
f     z
      m
           q
           -.I

                    I
                    I
                    I
                    I
                    I
                    I
                    I
                    I
                    I
a
P)
      3
      P)
           21
           4 1
                    I
                    I
                    I
                    I
           -.I
           -.I
a          "4       I
P)
      3
      m    a;
                    I
                    I
                    I
           -.I
           "l
            -       I
a          -.I
PI    nl

                    !
                                                           21


DPL could have done more to reassure the Bank that the VSB approach was consistent with
those important Bank policy principals and safeguards, even if formal compliance with them
is not required. This could have been done through identifying prior actions and tranche
conditions to demonstrate that VSB's resettlement policy is indeed consistent with those
policies.

3.19 Detailed planning parameters of VSB were well worked, but data on actual
achievements-number of households by types of solution, land required, costs, subsidies
and beneficiary contributions, for instance-are still wanting (Table 3.3). The data were not
reported in the (ICR), nor were they provided to the IEG mission. The lack of them makes
the evaluation of the program results difficult. In hindsight, the Slum Upgrading PSIA could
have provided more advice on the monitoring and evaluation (M&E) of the Program
implementation and the collection, analysis and presentation of data on its results.

3.20 VSB planning targets, on the other hand, were clear. The respective shares of each of
the four specific housing solutions to be offered to bidonvillois were: 29.5 percent upgrading
in situ; 34.9 percent relocated on to new partially serviced sites; 14.9 percent relocated to
fully serviced sites, and 20.8 percent re-housed in new apartments. A total budget of DH 17
billion (US$2 billion) was approved, 70 percent of which was expected to come from the
private sector, principally through the sale of the new housing developments. The public
sector share of 30 percent would focus principally upon the in situ upgrading of existing
bidonvilles through the introduction of basic infrastructure to them. Optimistically, VSB
estimated that only 5,180 hectares of land would be needed to execute the program. It
quickly became evident that more would be necessary. With VSB a top priority, GOM
quickly made another 3,220 hectares available.

3.2 1 Apart from directly offering access by the poor to better quality housing solutions, the
VSB Program also helped make housing finance more accessible too. This was through
guarantees for mortgage lending after the merger of Fonds de Garantie pour les Me'nages a
Revenus Modestes et Irriguliers (FOGARIM) the guarantee fund for moderate and irregular-
income households) and Fonds de Garantie pour le Logement (FOGALOGE) a housing
guarantee fund. FOGARIM, established in December 2003, set out to bridge the informal
sector-financial sector gap, but its start up was slow, having backed only 2,900 loans by
2006. FOGALOGE was set up in 2005 to help public sector beneficiaries, again with less
growth in its business than expected. By merging these two guarantee funds in 2009, GOM
wanted to provide more support for credit to bidonvillois relocated from slums (as well as
others) as first time homebuyers. By January 2010, the joint operation had guaranteed 53,924
loans in an amount of more than DH 7.9 billion (US$1 .O billion) mortgage loans, according
to MHU.23Delinquency on these loans, defined as loans more than three months' in arrears,
now amounts to less than one percent of the total outstanding.

3.22 Although comprehensive in many respects, the VSB Program overlooked one very
important issue, that if not addressed, could be its undoing; namely the dynamic of new slum
formation. Instead, VSB treated slums as if they were a static feature of cities, that once
removed would be gone forever. But in the past, new slums have always been forming.

23                                                                     34.1 , ~ ~ D6A s ! ~ ~ ~ n
     t l t _ g e : " w l v t . i l . , n i t l u . ~ ~ ~ ~ ! ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ -13-BC ~ ~ ~C7 A DII.111i ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ l , ~ ~ A ~ 9 S ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ j -
                                                       22


Between 1997 and 200 1, for instance, urban bidonvilles in Morocco expanded at an annual
rate of 5.6 percent (World Bank 2006 p. 10). More recent data of slum growth is not readily
available, but experience in Morocco and elsewhere has shown that urban slums do not
constitute an immutable stock. They seem to be growing and re-forming all the time.

3.23 On the question of new slum formation, VSB could have given more attention to the
role of local authorities whose urban planning and building regulations would be at the
forefront of preventing the development of new slums. But municipal governments were not
at the heart of either the VSB Program or the Housing DPL. Both were very much driven at
the national level. VSB program design would have been stronger had it provided for an
explicit role for municipal governments, especially in improving urban planning and land use
regulation that can help prevent the formation of new slums. Instead, the Housing DPL
reckoned that increased housing supply by itself was enough to discourage new slum
formation (PD p. 30). But even with a more robust formal supply of housing supply, many
bidonvillois might still prefer to relocate to low cost and often better located informal
solutions back in other slums, especially if local authorities are unable to prevent them being
set up.

3.24 Without the most urgent attention to preventing new slum formation, VSB, and hence
Housing DPL, gains may be undermined, if not reversed altogether. If slum growth resumed
its annual 1992-2001 rate of 5.6 percent (Benjelloun 2003), then the formation of new slums
would wipe out the VSB gains made so far in some twelve years from

3.25 Even though specific and detailed data on the results of VSB thus far is not readily
available, it is possible to infer what some of those results might be from interpreting data
from other sources. A government publication providing a 2009 VSB "balance sheet", for
instance, reports 46 percent program implementation by 2009, with 138,000 bidonville
shacks demolished, and 50,000 new housing units under construction. This allowed 33 towns
to formally declare themselves to be without slums, with another 27 expected to do so shortly
(GOM 2009).

3.26 Other sources similarly point to a half-completed VSB program to date. The 2009
Morocco CAS Completion Report (CAS-CR), for instance, states that the reduction of
households living in slums by mid-2009 was 28 percent, somewhat less than half the later
2005 CAS'S 60 percent target. Even with this shortfall, for reasons which the CAS-CR does
not explain, the share of all Moroccans living in slums fell significantly from 4.0 percent at
the beginning of VSB in 2005 to 2.5 percent in 2008, albeit still short of the ambitious CAS
target of 1.5 percent. Another important reference to VSB results is the 2009 Morocco
Country Partnership Strategy (CPS). Its target of reducing the number of households living in
slums by 60 percent over the 2005 baseline by 20 13 means that the original VSB target of
100 percent achievement by 2010 cannot have been met, even if there has been no explicit
adoption of different, lower target. The 2013 CPS target is more evidence of VSB slippage. It

24 This hypothetical scenario is based upon the following assumptions: 146,500 existing slums still remain in
20 10 (half the revised total of 293,000) and that the 1997-2001 annual growth rate of new slums of 5.6 percent
would resume. The scenario is not based upon new empirical fmdings. Its aim is simply to illustrate possible
downside risks if new slum formation is not prevented rigorously and continuously.
                                                             23


                                                                                    .~~
is the same as the 2005 CAS'S, only pushed back four more years (2009 CPS ~ . 9 4 )Also,
French bilateral assistance now publicly recognizes that VSB work will only be completed
long after 2 0 1 2 . ~ ~

3.27 Apart from the physical shortfall of supply, another VSB problem has been an
increased inventory of completed yet unsold VSB housing solutions. The total reached
21,000 by March 2008, nearly double the 11,000 unsold at the end of 2005, VSB's first full
year of operation (Bigio 2008 p.

3.28 VSB shortcomings noted here or reported elsewhere reflect the difficulties of meeting
the ambitious program targets set in 2004. In hindsight, meeting these targets by 2010 does
not appear to have been a realistic proposition. But, even so, there were important VSB
achievements. The scale of VSB intervention and reconstruction has transformed and
improved several Moroccan cities as never before, as the IEG mission witnessed on visits to
Meknes, Fez and Sale. Both the Housing DPL and the Slum Upgrading PSIA contributed to
those achievements.

3.29 The deceleration of VSB implementation and accelerating unit price increases of new
housing drove GOM to launch a new model apartment unit of affordable housing in 2008. It
was the DH 140,000 unit, named after its selling price (equivalent to US$l 8,050), one that
households earning 1.5 - 2.0 minimum salaries would be able to buys2*     Costs and prices of
such housing are kept low through the economies of scale that a large program such as VSB
can bring. At this writing, some 26,000 units of this type are being built annually, more than
half of them by A1 Omrane. During its field visit to the city of Meknes, IEG could see
significant private sector participation in the production of the "140,000 dirham" units there,
as well as ~1 Omrane Js,29

25
   Confirming that there is a need for more housing work in Morocco, but without mentioning any specific Bank
assistance, the 2009 CPS notes that 780,000 households still live in substandard housing (CPS p. 9). As part of
its exercise of self-evaluation, it notes that the Housing DPL was able to "concretize reforms and overcome
administrative inertia and disagreements between responsible departments (CPS p. 107).
26   htcp   W N V aiifttir!<i\i..o~e jnliio'ucbda\ bite ard irser~`ndrnitirstrateiirpuhlic'Ne~slettt`t-
                                              11
      I ) Net+s l c t t e r . ~ i ` ~ ) - i u i l l ~ ~ - ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ t - 2 0 0 ` , - e n
                                                                  htnii
27 Several reasons are given for this backlog: (i) the rigid suppb of slum upgrading solutions, in view of a
highly differentiated demand; (ii) household resistance to transfers to sites often distant from workplaces,
facilities, and basic services; (iii) the extremepoverty of a large percentage of households, which precludes
their financial participation in the program; (iv) the negotiatingposture o slum households who are opposed
                                                                             f
to paying their contribution while hoping that grant conditions will be eased by the government; and (v) the
manipulation o slum populations by some local elected officials who prefer to keep populations in their
                 f
current location, fearing the lost of large reservoirs of votes to be mobilized in advance of elections, as well as
political groups of the opposition who promise "better slum upgrading" if elected." (Bigio 2008 p. 11)
                                                                                                        n
28 Providing formal housing at a unit cost as low as DH 140,000 today is quite an achievement. Back i 2005,
the Housing DPL PD noted that DH 200,000 was "not sufficient to acquire the cheapest formally produced unit
in Casablanca and Rabat" (PD para. 26), but later notes, inconsistently, that basic units were available in
Casablanca for DH 160,000 - 180,000. (PD para. 30). Prior to the DH 140,000 unit, dwellings up to DH
200,000 in price were conventional considered to be part of Social Housing in Morocco.
29
  A1 Omrane has already made major contributions to VSB execution. By 2008 for instance, AI Omrane reports
that it demolished 48,137 squatter shacks and registered 40,484 new property titles of resettled families. These
                                              24


3.30 Private developers and constructors on site reported to the IEG mission their
preference for building more profitable higher cost housing for middle and upper income
families. Some complained that such higher income housing currently lacks Government
support in Morocco, as GOM bureaucracy for approving them was heavier than for social
housing programs. This can be interpreted as additional evidence of a genuine GOM focus
upon improving access of the poor to housing, an intended result of the Housing DPL. The
developers saw, for instance, that low-income social housing projects for VSB were given
fast-track planning and building approvals, while processing permits for higher income
housing projects languished. One developer said that it was GOM's way of forcing them to
move into the low-income segment of the housing market. MHU reports that 90,000 social
housing units-that includes the "140,000 dirham"-were being produced in 2009, down
from 129,000 in 2008.30

3.31 Morocco's VSB Program has deservedly attracted significant attention from
international and local media for the scale and scope of its interventions. In September 2009,
for instance, the BBC posted an article entitled "Moroccan efforts to replace slums". It
highlighted how conditions in Morocco's main city Casablanca, formerly home to the largest
slums in the Arab world, had improved thanks to VSB. The BBC also reported how private
developers and banks have been able to profit from housing sector reforms-such as those
supported by the Housing DPL-thanks to government guarantees of mortgage lending to
low-income beneficiaries. The Morocco Post blog picked up this theme in January 20 10 in
highlighting the MHU minister's commitment to continue to invest DH 60 billion low-cost in
housing over the 20 10-2020 decade to reduce the housing deficit.

4. Conclusions and Lessons
4.1     Both Algeria and Morocco are committed to housing sector reforms, although each
country finds itself at a different stage of reform; Algeria seeding it and Morocco sustaining
it. The 2003-2008 period under review was a good time for housing sector reform. Economic
growth of both countries was buoyant. Reform was needed because of the inadequacies of
the existing housing stocks, particularly overcrowded dwellings and poorly constructed units
especially in the bidonvilles. Good quality formal houses are in short supply, making them
very expensive and inaccessible to the poor especially. Key reform themes that arise from
this context include housing finance, slum upgrading and institutional consolidation. All
three of the Bank-supported operations addressed one or more of these themes. Thus the
Algeria Mortgage TA Project planted some seeds of housing finance reform by helping the
banks manage mortgage lending and bringing greater confidence to property titles and their
registration. But these were not enough for the mortgage market to function well and at scale
as intended, simply because supply-side constraints meant that there were few houses to
finance. The connection of Morocco's Housing DPL and the Slum Upgrading PSIA to
GOM's Villes sans Bidonvilles Program was a sure way of harnessing these operations to
ongoing housing sector reform in the country. It was a two-way interaction with reasonably
                                               25


good results. The operations supporting the reforms underway, and the reforms themselves,
particularly the large scale VSB and Al Ornrane consolidation, conferred an importance upon
the operations that they otherwise would not have enjoyed in the country.

4.2     Bank support came in the form of three different instruments, a SIL, a DPL and a
PSIA. Although the performance across them varied, a variance that had more to do with the
housing sector reform context in which they were implemented than the type of instrument
used. The experience of these operations demonstrates that reform can be supported by many
different types of instruments. The chances of success will depend more upon the local
commitment to reform and the diagnosis of it, than the choice of instrument itself.

4.3     The PPAR draws key lessons from the performance of these operations around the
three key issues highlighted in the main text of this report, as well as others deriving from the
broader assessment of performance summarized in the Annexes. As the operational
experience in Algeria and Morocco were so different, the lessons are grouped separately for
each country.

ALGERIA

       o Seeding housing reform by focusing upon a selected bottlenecks-such as in bank
         processing of mortgage loans and in the registration of property titles---cannot
         guarantee that the reform will take root. Even if they constitute necessary
         conditions for reform, they must be calibrated with other actions-to ease the
         supply of new housing, for example-to achieve the well-functioning markets
         promised by the housing sector reform.

       o When sector reform is embryonic, support at the early stages needs to concentrate
         on the most basic and urgent changes and improvements. In the case of the
         Algeria, this means focusing first upon strengthening the primary mortgage
         market. This has to be well established before reform can move on to consider
         more sophisticated instruments of housing finance, such as mortgage insurance
         and securitization. The latter did not take root in the Algerian case.

       o Housing sector reforms need to be calibrated and synchronized in order to
         succeed. In Algeria, improving the origination and processing of mortgage loans
         went ahead even though demand for such loans was weak. In such cases, reform
         measures might need to be scaled back or delayed.

       o The success (or failure) of housing sector reform requires readily available data
         and information to demonstrate the results of reported changes and to measure the
         baselines prior to these changes. The lending and other operations that support the
         reform can themselves support and include actions to encourage greater
         dissemination of data and information upon their sector.

MOROCCO
       o Policies and programs aimed at achieving cities without slums need to treat slums
         as a dynamic feature of urban development. Without appropriate urban planning
                                      26


   and land use controls, the formation of new slums can overwhelm the
   achievements of upgrading and redeveloping existing ones.

o For housing reform to be sustained, it is important to modernize and consolidate
  the institutional framework for taking the reform forward through a powerful and
                                     Z
  financially sound agency such as A Omrane that enjoys hi1 government support.

o A sector policy loan can perform well and help achieve reforms if it has realistic
  objectives that focus upon pursuing a few well-chosen prior actions and triggers,
  as was the case of the Morocco Housing DPL.

o Sector reform is more likely to succeed if harnessed to a flagship program that is
  well understood by all stakeholders and beneficiaries, such as the VSB Program
  in Morocco.
                                            27


Bibliography
A1 Omrane 2008 Rapport Financidre 08 Rabat

Baharoglu, Deniz, Nicolas Peltier and Robert Buckley. 2005. The Macroeconomic and
      Sectoral Performance o Housing Supply Policies in Selected MENA Countries: A
                              f
      Comparative analysis (Algeria, Egypt, Iran, Jordan, Lebanon, Morocco, Tunisia, and
      Yemen) Washington DC World Bank MENA Region Working Paper April

         aa.
Bellal, T h r 2009. Housing Supply in Algeria: Affordability Matters rather than
        Availability in: Theoretical and Empirical Researches in Urban Management Number
        3(12) August 2009.




Benjelloun, Driss 2005 Maroc: Evaluation des programmes de rksorption de 1 'habitat
       insalubre

Bigio, Anthony G. and Mokhtar Abdallaoui-Maan 2008. The Challenge of Social Housing in
       Morocco

Buckley, Robert M. and Jerry Kalarickal2006. Thirty Years of World Bank Shelter Lending:
       What Have We Learned? Washington DC, The World Bank

Chiquier, Loic and Michael Lee (eds.) 2009 Housing Finance Policy in Emerging Markets
       Washington DC, The World Bank.

EIU - Economist Intelligence Unit 2008a Algeria Country Profile 2008 London, EIU.

EIU - Economist Intelligence Unit 2008b Morocco Country Profile 2008 London, EIU.

GOM - Gouvernement du Royaume du Maroc 2009. Le Programme National Villes sans
     Bidonvilles :Bilan 2004-2009 Rabat

IEG - Independent Evaluation Group. 2009. Improving Municipal Management for Cities to
       Succeed: An IEG Special Study Washington DC, The World Bank

IEG - Independent Evaluation Group. 20 1Oa. Analyzing the Effects o Policy Reforms on the
                                                                   f
       Poor An Evaluation of the Effectiveness of World Bank Support to Poverty and Social
       Impact Analyses Washington DC, The World Bank

IEG - Independent Evaluation Group. 201Ob. The United Mexican States: FOVI
       Restructuring Project (Loan 4443-M); Affordable Housing and Urban Poverty
       Sector Adjustment Loan (Loan 7229-M); Second Affordable Housing and Urban
       Poverty Reduction Development Policy Loan (Loan 7340-M); Third Affordable
                                           28


       Housing and Urban Poverty Reduction Development Policy Loan (Loan 7491-M)
       Project Performance Assessment Report April 20,20 10, Report No. 54 193.
       Washington DC, The World Bank

Kim, Kyung-Hwan and Bertrand Renaud 2009 The Global House Price Boom and its
      Unwinding: An Analysis and a Commentary in: "Housing Studies" Vol24, No1 , 7-24
      January 2009

Ministbre de 1'Habitat 2009. Un Million de.Nouveaux Logements in : (( La Revue de
       1'Habitat )) Algiers September 2009

Organization for Economic Development and Cooperation (OECD) 2007. African Economic
       Outlook 2007 Paris, OECD

Societe de Refinancement Hypothecaire 2009. Guide Pratique :Refinancement Credits
       Immobiliers. Algiers

UN Habitat. 2003 Global Report on Human Settlements 2003: The Challenge of Slums
     Nairobi

World Bank 1998. Algeria Low-Income Housing Project Washington DC, Project Appraisal
      Report June 1, 1998

World Bank. 2006 Kingdom of Morocco: Poverty and Social Impact Analysis of the National
      Slum Upgrading Program. Washington DC, World Bank report number 36545-MOR

World Bank. 2008. Morocco - Housing Sector Development Policy Loan (Loan 7314-MA)
      Release of the Second Tranche and Request for One Waiver Washington DC, June
      30, 2008.
                                                           29


Annex A. Algeria: Mortgage Finance Technical
Assistance Project - Evaluation Summary
THE PROJECT

1.      This stand-alone investment operation, called the "TA Project" here, arose out of
an earlier plan to have a much larger operation to re-finance mortgages through the
Societe de Refinancement HypothCcaire (SRH) the Government of Algeria's (GOA)
mortgage refinancing company. But as preparation advanced in 2000, GOA did not want
a large Bank loan for such re-financing that it considered premature at that time given the
embryonic stage of Algeria's mortgage finance market. SRH itself too was
unenthusiastic, finding the initial design of the proposed refinancing project to be "too
theoretical", when set against the practical constraint limited demand for this kind of
financing in Algeria. Thus the idea of a more limited Bank supported project arose, a
technical assistance operation.

2.      The Mortgage TA Project aimed to strengthen mortgage finance mechanisms in
Algeria's mostly state-owned banks and housing finance institutions, through training
and technical assistance. This was to help instill more commercial-style practices within
these agencies, if not privatize them outright. Although downsized, the TA Project still
had the more ambitious objective of its predecessor larger operation, namely to
strengthen the enabling environment for a well-functioning mortgage market. Its
components involved technical assistance for legal and land titling, strategic assistance to
housing finance institutions and training to prepare bank staff for processing mortgage
loans (Table A. 1).

TABLE ALGERIA
    A.l            TA
            MORTGAGE PROJECT
                           (P064983) 2000-2007
     Project Development
                                                                      Project Components
      Objectives (PDOs)
- as formulated in the PAD:         1. Legal and Land Titling Components (appraisal cost US$2. lm.; actual cost
To help strengthen the              US3. lm.) - (i) legal reform of property rights and mortgages; (ii) efficient
enabling environment for a          computerized procedures for issuing property titles acceptable to mortgage
well-functioning mortgage           lenders; (iii) training of legal professional and land administrative staff.
loan market. (PAD p.3)
- as formulated in the Loan         2. Strategic Assistance (appraisal cost US$2.0m.; actual cost U S 2 . 0 million)        -
Agreement:                          (i) training of bank managers; (ii) specific advisory assistance; (iii) credit
To support the efforts being        information system.
made by the Borrower to             3, Mortgage Loan Operational Training (appraisal cost US$4.0m.; actual cost
promote, in the housing             US$3.5 million) - providing professional training in all areas of mortgage
sector, the enabling                financing for bank staff,
environment for the
development of the mortgage         4. Project Management (appraisal cost: US$O. lm.; actual cost US$0.3m.) - the
loan market.                        recurrent costs of project oversight and supervision.
Sources: Project Appraisal Document (PAD), Loan Agreement. Dec 21, 2006 Aide Memoire.
Note: Actual project and component costs were not reported by the ICR. The actual cost data assembled here by the PPAR is
taken from total commitments for each component reported by the last project supervision aide memoire (Dec 21, 2006). Since
at that time, fully 90 percent of these commitments had already been paid, the commitments themselves provide a close
approximation of the actual resources spent on this project. Total project (base) costs estimated at appraisal were USS8.2
million. Total actual costs were ,US$9.4 million. A Bank Loan of US$d 5 million was approved at appraisal. At completion USS5.I
million had been disbursed after which the outstanding USS0.4 million was cancelled.
                                                   30

3.      The Mortgage TA Project aimed to improve mortgage provision down to the 30th
percentile of the income distribution (PAD p. 1 1 and 17; and ICR p. 3), an optimistically
low floor of affordability. Experience in other middle income countries points to
households at the 40th ercentile as being those with the lowest income that can still
afford such financing.       R
RELEVANCE OF OBJECTIVES AND COMPONENTS

4.         Overall rating: Substantial

5.      Objectives: Helping lay the groundwork for a "well-functioning mortgage loan
market", even if not achieving that market itself, was still a relatively ambitious one in a
country with a near-total government control of housing production, supply and finance
until recently. But it nevertheless was consistent with Bank and GOA priorities as
expressed in the current 2003 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) that considered Algeria
to be at "an early stage of transition from a centrally planned economy to market-driven
economy" (CAS 2003 p. i). If the project achieved its objective, it would involve shifting,
a system from government-produced rental housing toward one of private and public
production of houses for sale. Such a change would be the housing sector's contribution
to Algeria's broader market-oriented reforms across all sectors. The Mortgage TA Project
objectives were also substantially relevant to the Bank's priority support for better
housing service delivery articulated explicitly in the 2003 CAS (p. i)-still in force at the
time of project completion, and still the most recent CAS to date.32The 2003 CAS
focused strongly upon housing. A keyword search reveals that "housing" shows up 86
times in the report, probably a record number of citations of housing in a document of
this kind.

6.      According to the 2003 CAS, the housing sector in Algeria faced many challenges.
House prices were very high due to a tightly constrained housing supply. Housing finance
was not available to facilitate home buying. Slums, called bidonvilles in Algeria, posed
environmental and health risks, and their residents were vulnerable to natural disasters
too. The CAS argued that solving housing problems such as these would be critical to
Algeria's future growth and development. It thus called for the Bank to help GOA better
articulate a strategy for delivering housing services in the country.

7.      Design: The Mortgage TA Project design was substantially relevant for including
components that could help achieve the stated objective. Helping strengthen mortgage
loan provision by training bank staff to originate and process the loans would add a
necessary piece of a well-functioning market. The design would have been even stronger
had it based its targets for training upon a detailed assessment of needs at the time of
appraisal. Property titling and registration, helped by project technical assistance, also
helped build necessary conditions for lending-namely unambiguous owners as
borrowers, and trustworthy mortgage liens to use in cases of default. A later Bank study
of housing in MNA confirmed that slow processing and incomplete coverage of land

31   See, for instance: IEG (2010)
            the low level of Bank engagement with Algeria, there have only been two CAS, the first in
32 Reflecting
1996 and the second, referred to here, in 2003.
                                             31


titling and registration needed urgently attention in Algeria (Baharoglu 2005 p. 13). The
project also hoped to increase mortgage refinancing 25-fold during 2002-2005, a
premature expansion of the secondary market while the primary mortgage market itself
barely existed.

EFFICACY

8.      Strengthening the enabling environment f o r a well functioning mortgage loan
market - Substantial: Algeria may not yet have the well-functioning mortgage market on
the scale hoped for and needed, but the project helped put in place necessary elements for
its foundation. Of the 35,000 mortgage loans a year targeted, 22,900 were made in 2007,
far below the mortgage market's potential, given the scale of Algeria's economy and its
level of economic development. But key elements are now in place for that market to
develop, such as the standard mortgage loan documentation introduced by the project and
the training of commercial bank staff now qualified to originate and process the loans.
Thanks to the project, 1,580 bank staff were trained in mortgage loan origination and
processing, somewhat short of the 2,000 planned. But even the smaller number of staff
actually trained may have been more than needed, since that mortgage lending did not
expand to the degree expected.

9.     Nevertheless, the still large-scale training was made feasible through the
collaboration of a renowned Algerian training institute with its excellent infrastructure,
the Ecole Supe`rieure de Banque, a training center of the Banque d 'Alge`rie.Thanks to the
TA Project, the Ecole expanded its reach abroad through establishing a global distance-
learning center. The training was open to all banks, although the main beneficiary was the
Caisse National d'Epargne et de Pre`voyance (CNEP), GOA'S national savings and
provident fund, established in 1964 that is still responsible for more than 60 percent of all
mortgage loans in Algeria 2006 (Beltas 2008).

10.      The twin-track approach to the project training was a strong part of its design. As
well as the large-scale training of the bank staff who would become the originators and
processors of mortgage loans, the TA Project also trained senior managers of commercial
banks. The managers' training focused on the strategic importance of mortgage lending
in the overall lending operations of their banks. It was provided over a period of 30 days,
half in Algeria and half in Canada, where the consultants were based. The idea was to
ensure that these senior managers would be able to assess the importance due to the
potential new line of business and to support their newly trained staff in administering it.
The managers who participated in the training whom IEG met reported that the quality of
the training both for themselves and for their teams was excellent. They told IEG that it
gave them a better understanding of what their teams had to do, thereby enabling them to
better mentor and coach their staff. Some managers suggested that more effort could have
gone in to adapting the training program's Canadian model to the specific needs and
conditions of Algeria. On the other hand, the trainees readily incorporated universal
principles of mortgage lending, through the Canadian model, into their own tool kits.

11.    In Algeria's second largest city Oran, the IEG mission met with most of the staff
of CNEP who had been trained through the project. During a group meeting with them,
they expressed strong appreciation of the training received, the professionalism of its
                                                           32

    delivery and how it may have enhanced their own professional skills and career
    prospects. Most trainees were impressed by the thoroughness of the training program, and
    its relevance to the new tasks they faced. The training went beyond the standard
    treatment of the legal framework and standard mechanisms of mortgage loans to cover a
    bank's approach to its mortgage clients and assessments of the potential market for
    mortgage lending. Trainees were also made familiar with aspects of this market that were
    relatively new to most banks in Algeria, such as the appraisal of real estate property and
    the assessment of long-term risks for both the borrower and the lender.

    12.     In itself the training was successful, but to what extent did it benefit the well-
    functioning mortgage market that the project sought to establish? No doubt, having
    professional cadres in the banks with the necessary expertise removes an important
    bottleneck to the future expansion of housing finance in Algeria. But IEG found no
    available evidence of a significant market expansion underway. In 2007, the latest year
    for which data was available 22,900 new mortgage loans were issued, short of the 35,000
    targeted. Although higher than the baseline of 14,000 in 2002, the number of loans is still
    at a very low level vis a vis the potential of the housing finance market in Algeria, and
    the needs in the sector.

    13.      A step toward enabling well-functioning mortgage loan market was taken by the
    enactment of Law 07/02 of February 27,2007 on property rights and titles that project
    technical assistance helped draft.33While approved two years later than planned, Law
    07/02 standardized property titling procedures and requirements throughout the country
    for the first time. Previously, property could change hands through legally binding sales
    contracts without needing the formal registration of the transaction, leaving no public
    record of its current owner. The possibility of such deals made banks reluctant to accept
    old titles as a guarantee of that the current holder was indeed the owner. The new
    legislation consolidated the legitimacy of titles issued by the Agence de la Conservation
.
    FonciBre, GOA'S title administration agency and of the public records of them. In
    making mortgage loans, banks accepted them as liens on the property being financed.

    14.    Administrative measures to support the new responsibilities included the
    expansion of regional offices of the Agence Nationale du Cadastre and the Conservation
    FonciBre. This helped ensure that local representative offices were operating in all of the
    country's 48 provinces-the first time this happened. Officials of these agencies told
    IEG that the Mortgage TA Project technical assistance helped computerize all registries,
    enabling them to function together at the national level. Just how well the system was
    performing was not clear, however. IEG did not see M&E reports that could have
    demonstrated this. One related yet unexpected result of the Mortgage TA Project,
    however, was the creation of an industry of professionally recognized appraisers in
    Algeria for the first time.


    33
       The f i l l name of the law in French was: Loi 07-02 du 27 fe'vrier 2007 -Institution d'uneproce'dure de
     constatation du droit de proprie'te' immobiliire et de de'livrance de titres de proprie'te'par voie d'enqugte
    fonciire :Intervention et rdle du ge'omdtre expertfoncier. This could be translated as: 'Instituting a
    procedure to affirm property rights and the delivery of titles by means of land surveys: Intervention and
     Orole of land surveyors.'
                                             33


15.     The Mortgage TA Project's effort to improve property titling in Algeria was a
"second bite" at the subject of property mapping and registration. An earlier (1992-2000)
Bank financed Algeria Cadastre project (Ln3488) helped set up the national land registry
and cadastre systems that the country had lacked at that time. As with the Mortgage TA
Project presently under review, the earlier Cadastre project achieved most success
through its training components. It was less successful in bringing together all the GOA
agencies with responsibilities in this area-the National Cadastre Agency, the Ministry of
Justice and the Ministry of Agriculture. Their reluctance to buy into the technical
assistance meant that that component was only partially implemented. Also, collaboration
and communication between the different players was far less than expected, especially at
the crucial municipal level. Furthermore, a national property title information system that
was planned did not make it beyond the pilot phase. The Mortgage TA Project removed
this bottleneck by working more closely with fewer agencies.

16.     Other actions by the Mortgage TA Project had much less impact upon enabling
the mortgage market. Thus, pilot efforts to support SGCI's mortgage work and SRH's
mortgage refinancing produced only small scale business that had little impact upon the
functioning of the mortgage loan market. But SGCI management told IEG that it had
received valuable technical assistance through the project helping SGCI apply and adapt
the principles and procedures of mortgage guarantees used elsewhere to the conditions in
Algeria. But the level of SCGI operations remains very small. Since starting business in
200 1, SGCI has guaranteed 16,307 mortgage loans. In 2008 and 2009 only 3 guarantees
had to be called due to borrower delinquency on individual mortgage loans. This points
to a good quality portfolio, albeit on a very small scale only.

EFFICIENCY

17.     Overall rating: Non-evaluable

18.    Assessments of efficiency through cost-benefit analyses especially, are generally
not made of Bank-financed technical assistance projects, operations whose benefits are
considered difficult to identify and measure.

OUTCOME
19.     Overall rating: Moderately Satisfactory

20.     The project achieved its substantially relevant objectives, but with moderate
 shortcomings. The project was successful in helping lay the foundation for a well-
 functioning mortgage loan market. Its impact on the actual functioning of that market
would have been greater if project activities had been better calibrated with the potential
demand for credit. Thus, training and mortgage refinancing went ahead of the real need
of the improved services offered.

RISK TO DEVELOPMENT OUTCOME
2 1.    Overall rating: Moderate
                                            34

22.      Despite pervasive housing shortages in Algeria, household demand has not
 engendered a scramble for the mortgage instruments introduced and improved by the
 Mortgage TA Project. Caution by both lenders and borrowers in Algeria toward the use
 of debt instruments for house purchase is likely to leave the primary mortgage market
 weak for some time, and the secondary market even more so. Their strengthening is
 likely in the medium to long-term, when a more buoyant housing supply and continuing
 low delinquency rates loans will help increase the demand for housing finance.

BANK PERFORMANCE

23,     Overall rating: Moderately Satisfactory

24.                      -
        Quality at entry Moderately Satisfactory: The final design of the Mortgage TA
Project focusing upon a few key activities was the best solution to help maintain a modest
momentum of housing reform In Algeria. The Bank had initially hoped for more,
particularly through a larger operation to fund mortgage refinancing through SRH. But
when neither GOA nor SRH wanted to take a large loan, the offer of a downsized
Mortgage TA operation was a realistic response by the Bank. More care could have gone
into in setting targets derived from a more thorough assessment of shortcomings and
needs and into designing monitoring and evaluation (M&E) in order to strengthen project
design. For instance, the 2005 targeted total annual production of 80,000 houses was
below the baseline figure of 100,000 for 2002, both cited by the Program Document (PD
p.3). At the same time, the design reports that the target for additional houses would be
25,000 units higher per year. But the target for additional mortgage loans was only
 19,000 per year. How the TA Project would contribute to the extra 6,000 houses
produced was not made clear. The design would have been stronger had targets been set
clearly as responses to overcoming deficits on the demand side, and taking into account
the production potential on the supply side. Without this analysis, how targets for housing
finance and production, and for the numbers of people to train were chosen remains
unclear.

25,      Supervision - Moderately Satisfactory: Bank supervision missions were fielded
regularly and appeared to obtain regular and significant access to key officials of the two
ministries-housing and finance-responsible for the project. All supervision had to be
 fielded from Washington as the Bank's Algiers office lacked the professional staff to help
with this work. Supervision was effectively used as a means for transferring know-how
and technology on the one hand, but it was less than fully effective in monitoring the
inputs made into the project efforts.

BORROWER PERFORMANCE
26.     Overall rating: Moderately Satisfactory

27.                  -
         Government Moderately Satisfactory: Once it was downsized to become the
 small technical assistance operation it wanted, GOA gave the project strong political
 support. Getting the necessary legislation approved, however, was more challenging. The
decision to rewrite all aspects of property law through a new and all encompassing Loi
 Unique,rather than make minor amendments to numerous existing laws, was a bold step
                                             35

in principle, but in practice, it brought more delays. Overall responsibility for the project
remained with MOF and MOH, appropriate choices given their oversight responsibilities
for the financial and supply sides of the housing sector in Algeria.

28.                            -
         Implementing agency Moderately Satisfactory: The project-implementing unit
 (PIU) worked well and was effective in implementing the main project components
 largely as planned, especially the large training program. On the other hand, keeping
track of the project's achievements fell short, leaving a dearth of information about the
project.

MONITORING AND EVALUATION

29.     Overall rating: Negligible

30.     Design: The design of M&E was weak for focusing too much upon measuring
outputs-such as the number of bank staff trained-rather than the achievement of the
intended project outcomes-such as impact of the trainees' new work on mortgages upon
the market. Even when outputs were treated explicitly, the choice of targets was not very
clear.

3 1.    Implementation: For the output indicators, some data was collected and made
 available. Up to date data and information was not readily available on key areas such as
the size and performance of the mortgage loan market, and the performance of the
property titling and registration system.

32.      Utilization: Given the general scarcity of outcome data of Algeria's housing
sector, the M&E was little utilized. In this sense, the project M&E performance reflects a
broader issue about the lack of readily available data in Algeria about the performance of
the country's housing sector and emerging housing market.
                                         36


Basic Data Sheet: Algeria
Algeria: Mortgage Finance Technical Assistance Project (Loan 7131)

Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
                                 Appraisal               Actual or          Actual as % of
                                  estimate            current estimate     appraisal estimate
Total project costs                 8.2                     9.4                      115
Loan amount                         5.5                     5.1                      93
Cofinancing
Cancellation                                                0.4


Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
                                 FY03               FY04           FY05               FY06
Appraisal estimate (US$M)         1.1                 2.7           4.4                   5.5
Actual (US$M)                     2.0                 3.4           4.1                   5.1
Actual as % of appraisal          182                 126           93                    93
Date of final disbursement:   March 15,2007



Project Dates
                                         Original                           Actual
Negotiations                            0 1/29/2000                       0512 112002
Board approval                          03/29/2001                        0612712002
Signing                                                                   0311712003
Effectiveness                           0311712003                        0311712003
Closing date                            1213 112005                       0113 112007
                                           37



Mission Data

                                Names                              Title                  Unit
Lending
SupewisionDCR Zoubida Allaoua                         Sector Manager                 MNSED

                Didier Debals                         Senior Financial               MNSED
                                                      Management - TTL
                Radia Benamghar-Lalouani              Procurement Analyst            MNAPR
                Catherine H. Burtonboy                Consultant                     MNSED
                Olivier Hassler                       Senior Housing Finance         FPDSN
                                                      Specialist
                Fatouma Toure Ibrahima                Special Assistant to Vice      SECVP
                Wane                                  President

Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
                                                                          USD Thousands
                                                                       (including travel and
                                           Staff weeks                   consultant costs)
Lending
                      FY99                                                          2.2
                      FYOO                      17                                 85.3
                      FYO 1                     22                                123.5
                      FY 02                     33                                240.1
                              Total:            72                                451.0
SupewisionDCR
                      FY 03                     27                                  0.8
                      FY04                      11                                152.5
                      FY05                      26                                 70.1
                      FY06                      26                                108.8
                      FY07                      11                                 69.5


                              Total:            101                               401.7
                                                        39


Annex B. Morocco: Housing Sector Development Policy
Loan - Evaluation Summary
THE PROJECT
1.        The choice of a policy rather than an investment loan from the Bank was the
 Government of Morocco's (GOM). While other donors continued to provide investment
 loans to Morocco across different sectors, GOM preferred to have the Bank in a role of
 policy advisor and donor coordinator, rather than investment project supervisor. The
 Morocco Housing Sector Development Policy Loan (Ln73 14), called the "Housing DPL"
 here was designed to have two tranches of disbursement, a provision that enabled the
 Bank to remain active engaged in policy dialogue during Morocco's ongoing housing
 reform. From the Borrower's perspective, Bank financing of US$l50 million was a
 significant absolute amount, but only a fraction of the costs of reform. It was equivalent
 to just 7.5 percent of the original budget for of GOM's flagship Villes sans Bidonvilles
 (VSB - Cities without Slums) program, for instance. But the investment enhanced what
 is often termed the "convening power" of the Bank when an operation such as the
 Housing DPL can bring different stakeholders round the table to further sector reform.

2.      The Housing DPL used this convening power in seeking to achieve its twin-track
objectives of having a well-functioning housing market in Morocco and increasing the
access of poorer households to better housing (Table B. 1). For this it identified key prior
actions to support ranging urban land development procedures to housing subsidies and
from urban planning to institutional consolidation. Such actions involved many different
agencies, notably A1 Omrane, GOM's main implementer of the country's housing and
urban development, newly created shortly before this project (details: Chapter 2). For the
second objective, more poor households to access better housing, the Housing DPL iden-
tified key actions in Morocco's flagship Villes sans Bidonvilles slum upgrading program
(details: Chapter. 2), land development measures and new legislation on rental housing.

      B.l    HOUSING
 TABLE MOROCCO          DEVELOPMENT
                   SECTOR             LOAN
                                 POLICY   (P083746) 2005-2008
                                                                    Summary of Key Prior Actions
    Project Development Objectives\a
                                                                    (full details in Policy Matrix)\h
 (i) to strengthen the institutional,            - simplify norms for social housing site planning.
 regulatory and fiscal environment for a         - streamline public urban land provision
 well functioning housing market and for         - simplify land development approvals
 the emergence of market-based solutions         - new urban planning code
 to the country's housing sector constraints     - restructure and consolidate A1 Omrane
 and needs                                       - termination of interest rate subsidies on mortgage loans

 (ii) to increase the access of low-income       - implement Villes sans Bidonvilles program
 and severely disadvantaged households to        - release of large tracts of public land for urban development
 more affordable and higher quality              - amendments to rental housing legislation
 housing                                         - establishment of guarantee fimd for informal sector- establishment
                                                 of housing savings schemes
 Sources: \a Housing DPL Program Document (PO p. 16); Full details in Annex B of this repott, itself taken from PD.
 Note: A 116.1 million Euro Loan (USS150million equivalent) was approved in June 2005.It was disbursed in two tranches as
 planned: 69.7 million Euros in August 2005 and 45.9 million Euros in June 2008.
                                            40

RELEVANCE

3.     Overall rating: High

4.      Objectives: At appraisal, the objectives of the operation were highly relevant to
the 2006-2009 CAS, notably its priority of improving access to public services by poorer
groups in the population. While these objectives set an ambitious direction for reform,
they fully supported GOM's own strong commitments at the highest level of the state to
improving housing and living conditions in the cities, especially for the poor. Relevance
was evident from the Housing DPL's focus on priority areas that clearly had strong GOM
backing. Two of these stand out; namely the VSB Program and the institutional
consolidation of the sector into the Al Omrane holding company. Moreover, the Housing
DPL objectives were well harnessed to key prior actions that demonstrated GOM's
commitment.

5.      Design: This link demonstrates the high relevance of an operational design that
ensured that pursuing the prior actions could be instrumental in achieving the objectives.
To its credit, design did not try to cover every possible aspect of reforming Morocco's
large and complex housing sector-with its 7.0 million households, and growing. Instead,
the Housing DPL design ensured a focus upon those few actions already identified by
GOM as priority. For an operation so closely linked to resettlement through slum
upgrading, the design could have paid more attention to the Bank's policy issues on
involuntary resettlement, even if Bank safeguard policies do not formally apply to DPL
operations. But the design paid close attention to the logistics of project implementation
generally, through three key stages: (i) an overall agreement with GOM over the reforms
supported by the project, succinctly summarized as seven items in Schedule 3 of the Loan
Agreement; (ii) completing a first set of reforms through six actions spelled out in the
Program Document (PD) which would trigger the first US$90 million disbursement; and
(iii) completing a second set of reforms through seven more actions, also listed in the PD,
that would trigger the second and final disbursement of US$60 million. Conditional
disbursements such as these help keep the design of a multi-tranche DPL focused upon
sector reform.

6.       Implementation responsibilities were appropriately assigned and separated at the
same time, with AI Omrane, GOM's prestigious new urban and housing developer
leading the institutional consolidation of the sector and the implementation of VSB, with
the Ministry of Housing and Urbanism (MHU) taking charge of policy and sector reform
itself. The Ministry of Finance and Planning (MFP) was also closely involved in
implementation through helping reform housing subsidies, real estate taxation and
housing finance, especially loan guarantees and savings.

EFFICACY
7.     Overall rating: Substantially achieved

8,    Strengthening the environmentfor a well-functioning housing market -
Substantial: Particularly through its support of the consolidation of AI Omrane, the
Housing DPL helped build a stronger housing market in Morocco, especially on its
                                                    41


supply side (details: Chapter 3). A1 Omrane itself is now the major public sector housing
developer in Morocco.34It consolidated the work and responsibilities of what had been
ten separate state agencies that had anchored Morocco's institutional framework for
housing and urban development for decades.35Their consolidation into A1 Omrane
avoided duplication and overlapping roles that Bank supervision reports of earlier
projects often remarked on. Very quickly, it made A Omrane one of the principal
                                                     Z
executors of the VSB Program.36Thus A1 Omrane could "eliminate overlaps and
redundancies among their missions, mandates and territorial coverage, consolidate their
financial and human resources, and eliminate outstanding deficits" (PD p. 13).

9.     A Omrane and the Housing DPL were closely tied together. The creation of a
        Z
new Supervisory Board for A1 Omrane was a condition for disbursement of the first
tranche of the loan. Completing the restructuring of the ten agencies that A1 Omrane
replaced--especially clearing outstanding debts and credits-was a trigger for
disbursement of the second tranche of the loan. These conditions were fully met. In
addition, A1 Omrane officials informed IEG that Bank assistance had been useful in
easing A1 Omrane S articulation with its municipal clients, a result beyond the design of
the operation.

10.     Getting A Omrane up and running was no easy task. It did not involve major
                 Z
redundancies since the workload was growing fast. Staff of the former agencies were
successfully incorporated into A1 Omrane. Having the same or better conditions of
employment was key to the smooth transition and high morale of the workforce. But
many had to be reassigned to regional offices, as the central offices, particularly in the
capital Rabat, were over-staffed. IEG met several re-assigned staff in Meknes who had
few complaints about their moves.

11.               Z
        To date, A Omrane 's results have been good. By 2008, it had delivered 133,943
housing units as developer and/or builder (compared with 125,265 units in 2007), far
higher than the 29,954 housing units delivered in 2004, its first full year of operations. AZ
Omrane is now responsible for more than half of Morocco's 140,000 Dirham (per unit)
social housing program. A1 Omrane now reports a modest profit and prudent financial
management keep its debt:equity ratio down to a conservative 4: 1. Its after-tax profit in
2008 was DH 207 million (nearly double the 2007 figure), giving it net profits of 8
percent of equity in 2008 (up from 5 percent in 2007). Also, in 2008 it reported total



34 Private developers and construction companies too have also played a more important role in increasing
the supply of housing in Morocco in recent years, thanks principally to increased spending in this area.
35 They included: (i) seven Etablissements Re`gionaux d 'Ame`nagementde la Construction (ERACs), state-
owned developers set up in the 1970s for each of the main regions of the country; (ii) the Agence Nationale
de Lutte contre I 'Habitat Insalubre (AHNI), the national agency for the struggle against inadequate housing
since 1984; (iii) the Socie`te`Natronale d'Equipement et de Construction (SNEC), the national infiastructure
and construction corporation; and (iv) Attacharouk, the special GOM housing agency for Casablanca.
36
   AI Omrane has already made major contributions to VSB execution. By 2008 for instance, AI Omrane
reports that it demolished 48,137 squatter shacks and registered 40,484 new property titles of resettled
families. These were considerably higher than the 2007 figures of 27,140 and 25,750 respectively
~ ~ ~ , - - ~ ~ ~ \ i ~ a l o ip_a~ilfc~,pI1~9p I 3
                                nr-all_e      17
                                                     42

assets of DH 13.5 billion (US$1.7 billion) in 2008, up from DH 12.4 billion (US$1.5
billion) in 2007.

12.      The A1 Omrane consolidation provides a one-stop-GOM-shop for sector planning
and program implementation in Morocco. This helps GOM itself, Morocco's
municipalities and international financiers, including the World Bank. They all know
where to go to discuss plans and program investments in housing and urban development.
The consolidation provides an opportunity to refurbish the machinery of state in the
housing sector. Very public openings of new A1 Omrane regional offices, for instance,
provided opportunities for inclusion of the local community in this process. During field
visits to both Sale and Meknes the IEG mission could see how A1 Omrane had already
become part of the urban communities in those cities.

13.     The Housing DPL also supported other institutional strengthening measures
beyond A1 Omrane. It encouraged more mortgage guarantees for lower-income borrowers
through GOM's mortgage guarantee fund (FOGARIM). By January 2010, it had
guaranteed 53,924 mortgage loans in an amount of more than DH 7.9 billion (US$1 .O
billion) since 2006, according to MHU. This is an important start, albeit still modest in
scale thus far.

14.      Another important step for market strengthening supported by the Housing DPL
was the 2004 Budget Law. It allowed micro-credit institutions to finance housing for the
first time in Morocco. This included GOM actions to clear up past housing liabilities
resulting from earlier programs. In particular, outstanding debts to the main state-owned
mortgage bank and partner in earlier Bank-financed projects since 1983, the Credit
Immobilier et Hotelier (CIH), were all fully paid off in 2004.

15.      Increasing low-income households' access to housing - Modest: The Villes
sans Bidonvilles (VSB) program represented a major scaling-up of slum clearance and
upgrading in Morocco's cities. VSB increased the access of poorer households to better
housing, although far short of the scale intended, thus far. The original (2004) target of
ridding the country's cities of 212,000 slum dwellings by 2010 was raised, upon further
diagnostics of the problem, to 293,000. Detailed data on the actual VSB results thus far is
scarce. But in its "balance sheet" of the VSB Program, GOM reports 138,000 bidonville
shacks demolished, some 46 percent of the program's final target. But this was at a time
in late 2009 when the VSB program would have been nearing completion, according to
the original 2004 plan (GOM 2009). But IEG was unable to obtain data from GOM
showing a breakdown of the progress made thus far. Other sources, from the Bank itself
and other donors, point to a program running at only half its intended rhythm, which, if
maintained, points to a completion of VSB around 2016 instead of 2010.

16.     One important shortcoming of the VSB Program was, however, that it overlooked
the process of the formation of new slums, that if not prevented, might wipe out the VSB
gains twelve years from         During the early 1 9 9 0 urban bidonvilles in Morocco
                                                         ~~
37
   This hypothetical scenario is based upon the following assumptions: 146,500 existing slums still remain
in 2010 (half the revised total of 293,000) and that the 1997-2001 annual growth rate of new slums of 5.6
percent would resume. The scenario is not based upon new empirical findings. Its aim is simply to illustrate
possible downside risks if new slum formation is not prevented rigorously and continuously.
                                                 43


expanded at an annual rate of 4 percent accelerating to 5.6 percent between 1997 and
2001 (World Bank 2006 p. 10). Thus urban slums in Morocco (as elsewhere) do not
constitute and immutable stock that, once eliminated, would disappear forever. In
hindsight, VSB could have given more attention to local authorities. Their urban planning
and building regulations tools place them at the forefront of preventing new slums from
developing. But municipal governments were simply not the key stakeholders of the VSB
Program or the Housing DPL. Both efforts were driven very much at the national level.
Instead, the Housing DPL design reckoned that an improved housing supply would
discourage new slum formation, by itself (PD p. 30). But with a formal housing supply
still unaffordable to many, poorer households might prefer lower cost and often better-
located bidonville solutions, especially when local authorities are unable to prevent them
being set up. Without priority and urgent attention to the prevention of slum formation,
VSB and hence Housing DPL gains may be undermined, if not reversed altogether.

17.     Although far short of what had been promised in 2004, VSB achieved a lot. In
2009, there were 65,000 fewer low-income households living in slums, bring the share of
all families living in slum to 2.5 percent, down from 4.0 percent at the time of project
appraisal in 2004. The scale of VSB intervention and reconstruction has transformed
several Moroccan cities as never before, as the IEG mission witnessed on visits to
Meknes, Fez and Sale. GOM took a stronger stand against the inadequate housing
conditions for the poor than beforeq3*  Indeed, King Mohamed VI, known as the "King of
the poor", was right behind the VSB Program. During site visits, IEG heard privates
developers' complaints that GOM was only interested in low-income housing, to the
point of stalling permits and infrastructure support for their more profitable high-income
developments.

18.     After the start-up of the Housing DPL, the Morocco Poverty and Social Impact
Analysis (PSIA) of the National Slum Upgrading Program, called the "Slum Upgrading
PSIA" provided additional support to the implementation of VSB. A detailed review of
the performance of that support in provided in Annex C. of this report.

19.    Because of the highest level support it received, VSB was a top priority GOM
program. It was given full support by all sectoral ministries. As the Slum Upgrading
PSIA found, it also had greater credibility among affected communities than GOM
programs often have among a somewhat skeptical public. MHU had prepared the VSB
Program thoroughly, carefully assigning targets and resources to four solutions offered to
bidonvillois, namely in situ upgrading, new partly serviced lots, new fully serviced lots
and new apartments (details Table 3.1 of main text). But, as noted earlier, less care went
into monitoring and evaluating (M&E) the results obtained and reporting the progress
made.

20.      Even the considerable attention VSB has enjoyed internationally has not made up
 for the lack of M&E. Among donors, VSB garnered support from the European
Investment Bank, the French Development Agency and the Cities Alliance, whose
 "Cities without Slums" work program logo inspired the naming of the VSB Program.

38
                                                                                         rm
  Even at "half-speed", VSB's provision of 12,500 low-income housing solutions (ranging f o serviced
lots to completed apartments) was 1.5-3.0 more than in the earlier peaks of the 1980s.
                                             44

There has been media interest too. In September 2009, a BBC article entitled ?Moroccan
efforts to replace slums? reporting how, thanks to VSB, conditions in Casablanca,
Morocco?s commercial center and erstwhile home to the largest slums in the Arab world,
had improved. The Morocco Post blog picked up this theme in January 20 10 and the
MHU minister?s commitment to invest DH 60 billion more over the 2010-2020 period.

2 1.    An important initiative supported by the Housing DPL with positive results was
providing guarantees to poorer and less credit-worthy borrowers through the Fonds de
 Garantie pour les Me?nagesa Revenus Modestes et Irre?guliers(FOGARIM), a guarantee
 fund for modest and irregular income households. Although state-owned, FOGARIM
 originally focused upon private sector clients, but later merged with its public sector
 counterpart, the Fonds de Garantie pour le Logement (FOGALOGE), a housing
 guarantee fund. By January 20 10, the joint operation had guaranteed 53,924 loans in an
 amount of more than DH 7.9 billion (US$l .O billi~n).~? outstanding mortgages the
                                                           With
equivalent of 7 percent of GDP, it would mean that around ten percent of all mortgage
lending in Morocco is guaranteed by FOGARIM, quite an achievement. The guarantees
are rarely called, since delinquent loans, defined as those with more than three months?
arrears, now amount to less than one percent of the total outstanding. But to know the
extent to which this achievement contributed to the Housing DPL objective of increased
low-income household access to housing, it would be important to know the income
levels of the beneficiaries of FOGARIM guarantees, data for which was not reported by
the ICR, nor readily available to IEG.

EFFICIENCY

22.     Overall rating: (not applicable to policy loans)

OUTCOME
23.     Overall rating: Moderately Satisfactory. The Housing DPL achieved its relevant
objectives, albeit with moderate shortcomings. It performed better in contributing to the
 strengthening the institutional, regulatory and fiscal environment for a well-functioning
housing market, particularly through the AI Omrane consolidation. Through its support to
the VSB Program, the Housing DPL also helped make housing more accessible to many
lower-income households, but to only about half the number intended.

RISK TO DEVELOPMENT OUTCOME
24.     Overall rating: Moderate

25.      Morocco?s pursuit of housing reform leading to well-functioning markets with
access by low-income groups is likely to continue. A new consolidated institutional
arrangement through AI Omrane is in place and .operating at a higher level and more
efficiently than the agencies it replaced-a sustainable arrangement for GOM. While the
flagship VSB program may face some shortfalls, it has set in motion a reform dynamic
that is driving for results on the ground, even if their full achievement may be later than
                                            45


originally intended. Most evidence points to GOM still wanting to get the job done. On
the other hand, risks are greater for the lack of attention to preventing the formation of
new slums that, if continued, could undermine what the VSB Program has achieved thus
far.

BANK PERFORMANCE
26.     Overall rating: Satisfactory

27.                      -
         Qualify at entry Satisfactory: thanks to the careful thought given to realistic
project objectives and to support for a limited array of prior reform actions whose
continuation would likely contribute to the operation's success. For the most part the
project design was strong, and harnessed to institutional and program interests of GOM.
It also addressed issues arising from prior experiences and evaluations of earlier Bank
 financed urban development programs in Morocco. A design weakness was the lack of
attention to preventing the formation of new slums in Morocco's cities, which if
unchecked, could wipe out the gains made by slum upgrading and removal. The design
would also have been stronger had it given more attention to M&E, and made a more
accurate assessment of GOM's limited capacity in this area.

28.     Supervision - Satisfactory: worked well and was made meaningful by the need to
monitor GOM's meeting the conditions of the second tranche disbursement of the loan.
 GOM ministry officials whom the IEG mission met were full of praise of the Bank's
work on the Housing DPL: "We could not imagine a more professional team. They were
diplomatic, and well versed in the sector in Morocco." The Bank deployed significant
resources for supervision, appropriately in view of the need to monitor GOM progress
toward meeting the conditions required to trigger the second tranche of the DPL. In view
of the weakness of M&E in Morocco, the Bank team itself undertook monitoring of the
project. While this helped track the achievement of the results of the operation, it did
highlight the weakness of local capacity and the failure to transfer this important know-
how to the Borrower.

BORROWER PERFORMANCE

29.     Overall rating: Satisfactory

30.                  -
        Government Satisfactory: GOM commitment to the sector reform supported by
the Housing DPL was very strong indeed, as demonstrated by the political, institutional,
and program actions taken to move the reform forward. As mentioned earlier in this
report, commitment at the highest level through the King of Morocco himself to the VSB
Program was the strongest possible signal of Borrower ownership and commitment.
GOM deployed two important ministries, MFP and MHU to ensure political support to
the program throughout implementation.

3 1.   Implementing agencies - Satisfactory: These two ministries-MFP and MHU-
were also implementing agencies for the operation. They took all the necessary
administrative steps to ensure that progress was made on the reform agenda. Of particular
note was the MFP work on the reform of mortgage guarantees and subsidies Morocco.
On the MHU side, efforts to reform the urban development code, that still has to be
                                            46

approved by Parliament, are particularly important contributions, even if they still have to
fully bear fmit.



MONITORING AND EVALUATION

32.     Overall rating: Modest

33.     Design: M&E was designed to incorporate appropriate output indicators that
helped measure project performance, such as the number of slum dwellers gaining access
to urban land and the number of mortgage loans guaranteed by FOGARIM. The PD's
claim that the chosen monitoring indicators were, for the most part, already covered by
ministry tracking systems proved unrealistic. In discussions with MHU and MFP, IEG
found that these ministries were not equipped to track progress through measuring these
indicators. In hindsight, M&E design could have been more realistic as far as existing
local implementation capacity was concerned. Thus M&E weakness derives, in part, from
the Bank's unduly optimistic assessment that strong M&E systems already existed in
Morocco, not seeing that they needed re-tooling to meet the needs of the Housing DPL.

34.      Implementation: Difficulties in implementing M&E meant that it could barely be
used to provide feedback to guide the authorities in implementing the DPL itself. The
continuing lack of readily available data on the VSB progress thus far is a clear
illustration of the shortcomings of this area.

35.     Utilization: Similarly, there were shortfalls in utilizing the M&E for measuring
the reform results obtained. Where it worked best was in tracking the achievement of the
triggers that had to be met in order to allow the second tranche of the loan to be
disbursed.
                                               47


Basic Data Sheet: Morocco
Morocco: Housing Sector Development Policy (Loan 7314)

Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
                                            Appraisal        Actual or           Actual as % of
                                             estimate     current estimate      appraisal estimate
Total project costs                           150.0             158.5                   105.7
Loan amount                                   150.0             158.5                   105.7
Cofinancing
Cancellation




Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
                                    FY06                FYO 7            FY08                 FY09
Appraisal estimate (US$M)            90.0                90.0                150.0            150.0
Actual (US$M)                        84.9                84.9                84.9             157.7
Actual as % of appraisal              94                  94                  57                105
Date of final disbursement: June 30, 2008



Project Dates
                                                    Original                         Actual
Negotiations                                    05/12/2005                      05/12/2005
Board approval                                  0613 012005                     06/30/2005
Signing                                         0711812005                      0711SI2005
Effectiveness                                   0 8/24/2 00 5                   0 8/24/2005
Closing date                                     1213 112007                    0613 012008
                                           48


Mission Data
                      Names                         Title                  Unit
Lending
              Anthony G. Bigio          Senior Urban Specialist-TTL     MNSSD
              Loic Chiquier             Lead Financial Specialist       GCMNB
              David Le Blanc            Urban Economist                 MNSSD
              Fatouma Toure Ibrahima    Financial Specialist            CFO
              Kishor Uprety             Senior Legal Counsel            LEGES
              Claude Taffin             Financial Spec, Consultant      MNSSD
              Bernard Worms             Consultant                      MNSSD
              Franck Daphnis            Consultant                      MNSSD
              Fouzi Mourji              Consultant                      MNSSD
              Fathi Kraiem              Consultant                      MNSSD
              Driss Ben                 Consultant                      MNSSD
              Jacques Barbier           Consultant                      MNSSD
              Thouria Nana-Sinkam       Language Program Assistant      MNSIF
Supervision

              Anthony G. Bigio          Senior Urban Specialist-TTL     MNSSD
              David Le Blanc            Urban Economist                 MNSSD
              Loic Chiquier             Lead Financial Specialist       GCMNB
              Claude Taffin             Financial Spec, Consultant      MNSSD
              Pierre Demangel           Consultant                      MNSSD
              Mokhtar Abdallaoui-Maan   Junior Professional Associate   MNSSD
              Driss Benjelloun          Consultant                      MNSSD
              Jacques Barbier           Consultant                      MNSSD
              Farouk Tebbal             Sr. Urban Specialist            Cities Alliance
              Mohammed Taamouti         Economist, Consultant           MNSSD
                                      49


Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
                                                    USD Thousands (including
                                      Staff weeks   travel and consultant costs)
Lending
                    FY04                   23                   215
                    FY05                   32                   262
                             Total:        55                   477
Supervision/ICR
                    FY06                   14                   111
                    FY07                   18                   128
                    FY08                   12                   77
                    FY09                   5                    45
                             Total:        49                   361
0
v,
e
c)



F.




     U
Q)
L
i
0
c,
m
 C
I,
                                                     55


Annex C. Morocco Poverty and Social Impact Analysis of
the National Slum Upgrading Program - Evaluation
Summary

INTRODUCTION

1.       This Annex presents an example of a pilot IEG evaluation of the performance of
piece of Bank Analytical and Advisory Work (AAA), a newer area of review for the Bank
beyond the traditional assessments of projects and programs. The evaluation framework used
here is based upon a draft template for IEG assessment of AAA prepared by IEG in June
2009. The template focuses upon four areas of review, namely: (i) Results (of the AAA
itself); (ii) Strategic relevance and ownership; (iii) Technical quality; and (iv) Dissemination
and sustained dialogue.

THE POVERTY AND SOCIAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (PSIA)
2.       The Morocco Poverty and Social Impact Analysis of the National Slum Upgrading
Program, called the "Slum Upgrading PSIA" here, met a requirement to complement the
Morocco Housing Sector Development Policy Loan (Ln7 13l), called the "Housing DPL"
here. When a DPL is likely to have a significant poverty impact, as the Housing DPL was
expected to, Bank policy requires an analysis of the likely distribution of that impact.41A
PSIA, one possible instrument among several, was chosen as the tool for the analysis needed
in this case.42Although meeting a formal Bank requirement, the Slum Upgrading PSIA was
aimed principally at the Borrower, the Government of Morocco (GOM), to help it fine tune
housing policy affecting the Villes SUMS Bidonvilles (VSB), the cities without slums slum
upgrading program, and to help program implementation. It was not specifically requested by
the Borrower, nor should it have been since it met an internal Bank requirement. The Slum
Upgrading PSIA was timely, bringing its findings to bear upon the early implementation of
the Housing DPL and the VSB Program it supported.


41
  Using a PSIA instrument is one possible response to the Bank Operational Policy 8.60 requirement that the
poverty and social impacts of development policy loans (DPLs) be analyzed: "The Bank determines whether
specific country policies supported by the operation are likely to have significant poverty and social
consequences, especially on poor people and vulnerable groups. For country policies with likely significant
effects, the Bank summarizes in the Program Document relevant analytic knowledge of these effects and of the
borrower's systems for reducing adverse effects and enhancing positive effects associated with the specific
policies being supported." OP 8.60.(9)
42
  The analysis can take several forms, ranging from a formal AAA product discussed at the Board, or it can be
an internal operational note circulated only within the respective Regional Vice-presidency (RVP). As in this
case a PSIA is used to should analyze the distributional impact of policy reforms on the well-being or welfare of
different stakeholder groups, with particular focus on the poor and vulnerable groups. Details are in the PSIA
Users' Guide: htt~://no.worldbank.orplF7JZCJ2RAO
                                                       56


3.      Most of the work on the Slum Upgrading PSIA was conducted during 2005 when the
preparation of the Morocco Housing DPL was already well advanced. The PSIA analysis was
completed as the Board was approving the Housing DPL in June 2005, so that its findings
were directed more to implementing the DPL than to the DPL design itself. The PSIA was a
very low-cost operation of US$63,000, financed from the Bank's administrative budget. A
lot was accomplished with such a small budget. A larger budget would have been necessary,
of course, for a PSIA survey of bidonvilles, as slums are called in Morocco, to draw
generally valid conclusions for bidonvilles as a whole through a sufficiently large and
randomly selected sample of sites across the country. The main PSIA activities included
fieldwork to conduct surveys of six bidonvilles in the cities of

     c.1
 TABLE MOROCCO
             NATIONAL SLUM UPGRADING POVERTY AND SOCIAL IMPACT ANALYSIS(PSIA)

          Aims of the Slum Upgrading PSIA                            Content of the Slum Upgrading PSIA
 To assess the expected poverty alleviation and social      I. Morocco's Housing Sector Reform; including: (i)
 impacts of some of the reforms supported by the            Housing Sector Reforms and World Bank Support; (ii)
 Housing DPL.                                               The National Slum Upgrading Program; (iii) Improving
 To bring insights to the social dynamics of                Access to Housing Finance.
 neighborhoods targeted for slum upgrading.                 11. The Poverty and Social Impact Analysis; including:
 To contribute to the ongoing policy debate.                (i) Objectives and methodology of the Study; (ii)
                                                            Stakeholder Analysis of `` Villes sans Bidonvilles "; (iii)
 To improve and refine the instruments and
                                                            Profiles, problems and expectations of the slum
 operational modalities of slum upgrading program
                                                            population; (iv) Benefits and adverse impacts analysis.
 (VSB)
                                                            111. Policy Lessons; including: Limitations and risks of
             Purpose of a PSIA generally                    the current program design; (ii) Relevant international
                                                            policy lessons; (iii) policy recommendations.
 To analyze the distributional impacts of policy
 reforms (supported by a DPL) on the well-being or          Annex 1. Profiles of the six slum settlements surveyed.
 welfare of different stakeholder groups, with              Annex 2. Excerpt from interviews with slum dwellers.
 particular focus on the poor and vulnerable
 Source: Morocco National Slum Upgrading Poverty and Social Impact Analysis (PSIA) Report 2006



4.     Agadir, Casablanca and Larache in early 2005 and a workshop held in Rabat in mid
2005 to discuss the preliminary survey results. The survey was carried out by a Moroccan
firm specifically hired for this purpose. The analytical work and report drafting was done by
Bank staff and consultants. The first draft of the PSIA report was completed at the end of
2005. The Ministry of Housing and Planning (MHU) provided comments on the report, and
then publicly disseminated in gray cover in June 2006.

5.      The PSIA report consisted of 50 pages of main text, in three parts: (i) Morocco's
Housing Reforms; (ii) The PSIA per se; and (iii) Policy Lessons that included eight policy
recommendation to further improve VSB. The 30 pages of Annexes include profiles of the
six slum areas surveyed for the PSIA, excerpts from interviews with slum-dwellers, and
references to slum upgrading experiences in Brazil and Thailand that the PSIA considered to
be relevant to Morocco.
                                                   57

6.      According to the PSIA report (p. 18): "The purpose of the Poverty and Social Impact
Analysis (PSIA) is to assess the expected poverty alleviation and social impacts of some of
the reforms supported by the Housing DPL"43,a pro forma restatement of the purpose of
PSIAs in general. Specifically under this Slum Upgrading PSIA, the assessment of impacts
focused primarily upon identifying the types of housing offered by the VSB and better
matching them to demand conditions offered by the bidonvillois, or slum dwellers. "Some of
the reforms" in its objective statement meant concentrating the PSIA upon the VSB Program
itself.

7.    The objective of the Slum Upgrading PSIA was articulated more clearly by the
Foreword of the report, signed by the Country Director:

        "We hope that that this study will bring some insights on the social dynamics of the
        neighborhoods targeted by the (VSB) program and on the impacts to be expected
        from the upgrading operations. Our ambition is to contribute to the ongoing policy
        debate, in order to improve and refine the instruments and operational modalities of
        the national upgrading program." (PSIA p. 1)

But the Slum Upgrading PSIA had no formal results framework or monitoring and evaluation
system, through which to evaluate its performance. Of course, having such a framework has
not been a requirement for PSIAs to date.

8.      Considering the results that the PSIA was aiming to achieve, as expressed above, the
IEG present assessment will review the poverty alleviation, social impact and housing reform
results of the Slum Upgrading PSIA in each of the following declared areas of interest,
namely: (i) a better understanding of the dynamics of bidonvilles; (ii) the housing policy
debate; and (iii) improving upgrading instruments. IEG's assessment also reviews the
strategic relevance and ownership of the PSIA, the technical quality of the work, and its
dissemination. This evaluation framework follows a Template for an IEG Assessment of
AAA, attached as Annex D to this report that was prepared by IEG in December 2009.

RESULTS
9.      Subject to the limitations imposed by a lack of a results-framework and M&E, this
section tries to organize a review of the results of the Slum Upgrading PSIA around the three
areas of interest just mentioned. Since there has been no attempt, thus far, to monitor and
evaluate the results of the Slum Upgrading PSIA, the present assessment cannot build upon
an existing set of data or findings.

10.     Understanding bidonvilles better: Especially through the surveys of the six slum
areas selected for its field research, the Slum Upgrading PSIA provided some added value to
understanding about the dynamics of bidonvilles in Morocco, and the aspirations and
43
  The Slum Upgrading PSIA was unusual in having a formalized objective. IEG recently completed review of a
representative sample of 5 8 pieces of PSIA out of the Bank's total of 158 worldwide, found that PSIAs rarely
had formal objectives. In order to understand more clearly the purpose of a PSIA and to evaluate its
performance systematically, the IEG study recommended that each PSIA should clarify its operational
objectives (IEG 2010 p. 39).
                                                   58


expectations of the bidonvillois residents. Strikingly, the survey results demonstrated that the
bidonvillois interviewed had little awareness of the VSB Program, despite its striking
visibility in some cities (such as Meknes, for example), its high profile internationally and the
broad dissemination by GOM. The findings highlighted, too, that the poorest bidonvillois
would be unable to pay anything for any kind of new housing solution. But this seems to
have been well understood at the outset of the VSB program that had contemplated 100
percent subsidies for these cases. What is missing, however, both from the VSB results
themselves and from the PSIA, is a better understanding of the scale of this problem,
particularly the number of poor households affected. Surprisingly, the PSIA survey found
some local resistance to the VSB program, among bidonvillois themselves, private
developers and financial institutions.

11.     There are two important caveats to consider in interpreting these findings. The first is
that the sample of six bidonvilles surveyed is not representative of bidonvilles in Morocco
generally. The Slum Upgrading PSIA report does not claim that it was a representative
sample. Not being so, however, means that we cannot generalize and apply these findings to
all Moroccan bidonvillois, nor can we know how widespread beyond six chosen slums the
problems and opportunities identified by the survey are. The second caveat is the Slum
Upgrading PSIA took a qualitative approach to housing affordability. The report is candid
about this, making it very clear. But qualitative evidence, especially through declarations of
income by interested parties, can provide only weak evidence about what bidonvillois can
and cannot afford for their housing solutions. Findings on the affordability of housing need to
be based upon quantitative assessments of household incomes with cross checks
(triangulation) to verify the reliability of the answers given. One way could be through
surveying household expenditures, deducing incomes from that.

12.     Even with these caveats, the findings can be of use to GOM in taking VSB forward.
How far they were taken on board by GOM is therefore an important question to consider. In
principle, it could provide GOM with insights into the needs and aspirations of selected
bidonvillois that MHU could apply to the VSB implementation. But this channel of
communication is no longer in place because of a turnover of the responsible team in MHU.
The team that partnered the PSIA work is no longer in place in the ministry. The new team
that came with the change of government, was not involved in the work, but demonstrated in
discussions with the IEG mission that they were aware of its contents and recommendations.
But the PSIA report, published four years previously, was not at the top of their desks.
Nevertheless, it is possible to hypothesize that the PSIA findings are behind recent MHU
moves to increase housing subsidies for the poorest ex-bidonvillois, but convincingly
attributing such a result to the PSIA is not easy. There have been many other studies of
bidonvilles and housing affordability phenomena in Morocco (see, for instance, Benjelloun
2005). The bibliography of the PSIA itself refers to many other sources.44


44 Among the sources cited by the Slum Upgrading PSIA, the following are of particular note: (i) ANHI (2002)
Les interventions en bidonville au Maroc - Une dvaluation sociale, Rabat: Imprimat ADS (2004) Monographie
sociale du bidonville Douar El Kora; (ii) AI Omrane (2004) La maitrise d'ouvrage sociale au Maroc : un dtat
des lieux if AREA (2005) Enquste socio-dconomique- Diagnostic et Analyse de 1 dtat des 1 i e u du Douar
Ouled Maaza; (iii) Benyahia, M.N. ( 1999) Journal d'un architecte - Rdflexions sur le ddveloppement urbain de
la ville de Meknes, Rabat : Imp. El Maarif a1 Jadida; (iv) DHSAF (2004) Etude relative a la rdsorption de 1
                                                    59

13.     The housingpolicy debate: It is perhaps too soon to judge the policy consequences of
the PSIA in Morocco, since several of these consequences will only become clearer after the
results of the VSB Program itself become better known. There are, however, several
indications of PSIA attempts to influence sector policy.

14.     For instance, the PSIA recommended adjusting VSB supply to more closely match
demand for the kind of housing solutions most sought after by bidonvillois. The survey found
that the shares of each of the four VSB sub-programs-on-site upgrading, serviced lots only,
serviced lots with starter units, and completed apartments-did not match the aspirations of
the bidonvillois themselves. Up to 30 percent of bidonvillois surveyed said that they could
not afford VSB's most expensive solution, namely an apartment unit. They preferred to be
upgraded in situ, according to survey responses. Whether the PSIA had an impact on the
configuration as a whole of the range VSB solutions offered will only become known after
VSB is completed, probably well beyond 2010. Even detailed data on the partial results
achieved thus far is not readily available. The reported results of the program will be needed
to be able to judge the effect of this PSIA may have had upon MHU policy toward each of
the different VSB solutions on offer.

 15.    Another important PSIA input into the housing policy dialogue in Morocco, already
mentioned in this report, was to note that, despite strong GOM support for the VSB, there
was some local resistance to it among local officials and even within affected communities
themselves. In some cases this opposition was driven by local landowning interests or the
negative electoral implications of dispersing a political base through the resettlement of a
community elsewhere. Nevertheless, IEG found that, in the cities of Sale and Meknes visited
by its mission, VSB program interventions had been widely discussed with the affected
communities and local political leadership prior to implementation. But, for lack of M&E,
broader evidence of stakeholder awareness up-front of the VSB Program is still not there.
Convincing evidence will have to await more detailed reports of VSB program results and
the evaluation of them.


`habitat insalubre - redejnition des methodes d'intervention - Synthise gknerale; (v) Haut Commissariat au Plan,
Direction de la Statistique (2002) EnquQteNationale sur la Consommation et les Ddpenses des MCnages
2000/200 1; (vi) Ministkre de 1' Amenagement du Territoire, de I'Environment de 1'Urbanisme et de 1'Habitat;
                                                                -
(vii) Secretariat d'Etat de 1'Habitat (2000) Convention nationale Pour la lutte contre l'habitat insalubre,
htt$://www.seh.gov. m-Habitat%2OInsalubre/charte%2Onationale/Atelier%2Ofoncier.pdf; (viii) Ministere de
1'Amenagement du Territoire, de 1'Environment de 1'Urbanisme et de 1'Habitat Secretariat d'Etat de 1'Habitat
(1999) Etude relative am aspectsfinanciers etjscaux du jnancement du logement au Maroc; (ix) Ministere de
1'Habitat (1997) Etude sur l'amenagement des terrains rksidentiels pour le developpement de la promotion
immobilikre; (x) Ministere de I'Habitat, de I'Emploi et de la Formation professionnelle (1997) Etude sur
1'amenagement des terrains residentiels pour le developpement de la promotion immobilikre; (xi) Ministere de
1'Habitat et de 1'Urbanisme (2001) Exploitation des donnkes sur le logement dans les recensement generaux de
la population et de l'habitat de 1982 et 1994 - Synthkse des resultats; (xii) Ministere de I'Habitat et de
1'Urbanisme Etude Identification Sociale - Bidonville Dayday, Rapport Final 82; (xiii) Morocco's National
Slum Upgrading Program - Poverty and Social Impact Analysis Report; (xiv) Ministere Charge de 1'Habitat et
de 1 'Urbanisme (1998) Etude sur l'amenagement des terrains residentiels pour la promotion immobilikre: (xv)
Navez-Bouchanine, F. (1997) Habiter la ville marocaine, Paris : L'Harmattan: (xvi) Navez-Bouchanine, F.
(2005) Gestion du developpement urbain et strategies residentielles des habitants Paris : L'Harmattan; (xvii)
United Nations Human Settlements Program (2003)The challenge of slums: global report on human
settlements, London: Earthscans Publications
                                            60


16.     Another PSIA recommendation for housing policy changes as far as VSB is
concerned appears to have achieved limited results. The Slum Upgrading PSIA
recommended, for instance , that the needs for access to municipal and community services
and to income-generating activities by bidonvillois should be addressed by VSB. IEG found
no evidence of this from its field visits to Sale and Meknes. Indeed, as noted in this PPAR's
assessment of the Housing DPL (Chapter 3), the absence of municipal involvement remains a
weakness in the design of the VSB Program.

17.    Improving upgrading instruments The PSIA was not explicit about the instruments
and operational modalities of VSB that it most wanted to improve. The majority of them was
already in place and supported by the Housing DPL. They included the four housing
modalities that VSB offered to the bidonvillois. There is no evidence about the actual use of
each of these solutions, and how it may have changed from the original plan. But the PSIA
did come close to proposing a fifth VSB modality when it called for the parallel provision of
municipal services of social protection and income generating activities. Again, IEG gleaned
no sign of the implementation of this recommendation from its field inspections. Nor is data .
available to show such a result at the level of the program overall.

18.     The PSIA did not propose additional new legal instruments for VSB, because the
legislation necessary for the program was already in place.

19.    On the financing side, the VSB program was fully budgeted. Additional financial
instruments were not needed to make implementation feasible. Thus, the PSIA did not
recommend new ways for GOM to mobilize resources for the VSB program.

20.     PSI4 Recommendations: The Slum Upgrading PSIA made eight recommendations,
directed principally at MHU, covering the responsiveness of the VSB Program to the slum
population and sustainability of the Program itself. The degree to which the
recommendations have been adopted is difficult to ascertain while data on the actual results
of the VSB Program is not readily available and the Program itself is incomplete.
Furthermore, current MHU team is not the same one that collaborated with the preparation of
the PSIA, and was not aware of the impact a specific PSIA recommendation may have had
upon their housing sector policy.

21.     On the responsiveness of VSB itself, the PSIA recommended more flexibility and less
uniformity across the VSB housing solutions provided. MHU officials met by the IEG
mission were unable to affirm that there had been a change of policy in this direction.
Clearly, the profile of the final results of VSB, across housing types offered, will provide
answers, when the program is completed. The PSIA also recommended that the requirements
of the most vulnerable segments of the slum population should be addressed at the planning
stage of VSB. MHU interlocutors told IEG that they were aware of the income constraints of
the poorest families that prevented their financial participation in the solutions offered. But
this recognition seems to have been already factored into the design of VSB at the outset. For
IEG, such a recommendation would have greater meaning had it been based upon
quantitative evidence of VSB Program shortcomings, of the kind that was not gathered by the
PSIA. Two other PSIA recommendations, on scaling up social support to slum dwellers and
ensuring better access by them to local municipal services, appear not to have been adopted.
                                                     61

At least, IEG found no evidence of this, nor did it hear claims for such results from its
interlocutors,

22.      On the sustainability of VSB, the PSIA recommended revising the target that 70
percent of all contributions to VSB cost should come from beneficiaries. Whether this should
be an upward or downward revision was not clear. But there is no clear evidence of a change
in either direction of a target that relates to a mean value of VSB Program as a whole, on
which evidence is still wanting. The PSIA recommendation that access to housing credit be
rapidly scaled up to improve housing affordability for bidonvillois, has been adopted, but
with little consequence for most bidonvillois households in the lower half of the income
distribution who have limited access to housing credit. The PSIA recommended that MHU
should invest more resources in VSB; a difficult one to adopt without the quantitative
markers of baseline and target resources that the PSIA did not provide. Finally, the PSIA
recommendation that the VSB Program's timetable be revised has been overtaken by the
slowdown of VSB execution, leaving a half finished program at a time when it should have
been fully completed.

STRATEGIC RELEVANCE AND OWNERSHIP

23.      In this section, IEG assesses how well the PSIA was anchored to housing sector
reform in Morocco and to Bank assistance for sustaining it. Through its direct link to the
flagship VSB Program, supported at the highest level within Morocco, it was highly relevant
to the GOM's own sector priorities. At the same time, the Slum Upgrading PSIA was highly
relevant to the Bank's own support for improving the access by poorer households to better
housing, through providing an additional opportunity for the Bank to help the ongoing VSB
implementation. Being an element of the Housing DPL, the PSIA was equally relevant to the
priorities of the 2006-2009 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) as the DPL was, in meeting
this objective. It was thus well anchored in the Bank's assistance strategy for Morocco's
housing sector.

24.    Through this support to VSB, the Slum Upgrading PSIA was therefore strategically
important for Morocco's housing sector reform. With support from the highest levels within
Morocco, VSB was clearly a top GOM priority.

 25.      Borrower ownership of the PSIA came principally through MHU's feedback on early
 drafts of the PSIA report and participation in the mid-2005 workshop in Rabat.45The
 Housing DPL program document reported (PD p. 23) that the PSIA was to be carried out
jointly by the Bank and MHU, something apparently confirmed by the PSIA report too (PSIA
 p. 49). In practice, however, most of the work was done by the Bank and Bank-appointed
 consultants. The feedback loop ensured, however, that MHU came on board as the work was
 being finalized. But where does ownership of this PSIA work stand in Morocco today? The


45 IEG takes the view, as noted as the beginning of this annex, that the analytical work and drafting of the PSIA
was done by Bank staff and Bank-hired consultants. MHU's feedback and commentary on an earlier draft report
is evidence of MHU not having authored the report, whose introduction acknowledges that MHU was involved
in all stages of the work (PSIA p. 2). Thus, Borrower ownership was built through involvement with and
feedback to the Bank's work.
                                            62


change of team at MHU, mentioned earlier, is likely to have diminished it, since it has no
more members who were involved in the PSIA preparation.

26.     Ownership of the PSIA exercise and its findings among bidonvillois surveyed appears
to have been significant. Although the PSIA does not report response rates among the
bidonvillois, they appear to have participated enthusiastically in the survey. They were quite
frank and forthcoming in their opinions about the VSB program, especially what they saw as
its shortcomings. In survey responses, they reported that they felt largely uninformed about
the VSB program itself. They had little knowledge about VSB plans for their areas, nor were
they convinced that much would be done, But Royal support marked the VSB out as a
different kind of government program, one that was more than just a promise that had a real
chance of being implemented. This gave the respondents the belief that it would indeed be
implemented, unlike many conventional programs announced by local leaders that rarely led
to action, according to the bidonvillois respondents.

TECHNICAL QUALITY AND CONTENT

27.      The Slum Upgrading PSIA was appropriately focused upon policy priorities and
implementation imperatives of the VSB Program. The PSIA report maintained this focus
throughout, always keeping MHU in mind as the principal client. The PSIA report keeps its
focus upon its immediate policy and operational goals to help VSB. Thus the scope of the
Slum Upgrading PSIA was appropriate except in one important respect. Like the Housing
DPL itself, it overlooked the important question of preventing the formation of new slums
that, if unchecked could wipe out the gains of the VSB in the medium-term. This was the
same shortcoming of the VSB program itself and the Housing DPL that supported it (details:
Chapter 3 of PPAR). For the most part, the technical quality of the work was good. It would
have been stronger had there been sufficient budgetary resources to draw a representative
random sample of bidonvilles whose survey could have led to findings generally applicable
to the national level for the national VSB Program across Morocco as a whole. The PSIA
report did well to introduce international examples of slum upgrading, but their relevance
was uneven.

28.    Lack o attention topreventing new slum formation; A main weakness of the VSB
               f
program itself was that it overlooked the process of formation of new bidonvilles, and how to
prevent this. The PSIA similarly ignored this important sector issue that, if not addressed,
could see the upgraded and demolished bidonvilles being replaced by other new ones. This
most important question was also not addressed by GOM, as noted earlier in the main report.

29.     Thus, like the VSB program it was supporting, the PSIA failed to flag the need for
Morocco's housing sector strategy and policy to incorporate instruments for preventing the
formation of new slums. VSB was only about dealing with upgrading or removing existing
slums. It said nothing about how better urban planning and land use controls by local
administration could help prevent further slums from developing. This oversight was perhaps
the result of the preventative measures-urban planning and land use controls-being largely
in the hands of local municipalities, who were not key VSB players as noted earlier.
                                             63

30.     The PSIA's omission in this regard is more surprising than the VSB's. The PSIA
itself goes to some length on its page 10 to critique the inadequacies of earlier GOM efforts
to contain and prevent the development of slums in Morocco's cities. Despite that, it gave no
clear guidelines for how to address prevention into the future.

3 1.    Survey o bidonvillois: A major part of the PSIA work was its survey of the
                  f
bidonvillois ' attitudes towards VSB in six urban slums selected for the survey in the cities of
Agadir, Casablanca, and Larache. These cities-medium, large and small-sized settlements,
respectively-were chosen jointly by MHU and the Bank. Two slums were selected in each
city, one on the urban periphery, and another nearer the respective city center. These were
not random selections that might have yielded findings representative of national slums as a
whole about the VSB program. The PSIA report acknowledges that the selection was not
random and hence not representative. But the style of reporting the findings might lead a
reader to believe that conclusions from the PSIA survey would indeed be applicable to the
bidonville population as a whole throughout Morocco.

32.     The technical quality of this work would therefore have been enhanced and its
findings made more persuasive if there had been more caveats reminding the reader that the
survey findings cannot be generalized to the population as a whole. In fairness to the level of
effort made possible under this PSIA, though, many more resources than those available
would have been needed to draw and survey a representative sample of Morocco's 885 urban
slums across 70 cities where 2 12,000-292,000 bidonvillois households lived. A sampling
frame of 885 slums with reportedly high variances across socio-economic characteristics,
might require a relatively large sample for the selected slums to be representative, certainly
more than the six surveyed by the PSIA. It would also have required a larger budget. To
obtain findings that are generally valid for a national program such as VSB, it might have
been better to draw a larger more representative sample of bidonvilles with less in depth
analysis of each one.

33.     The PSIA survey reports quantitative results from what it calls its "qualitative
survey". Its survey of the six bidonvilles found that 10-20 percent of bidonvillois were too
poor to finance new housing for themselves. The PSIA reports this as if it were a finding
valid for the country as a whole. Much is made of this finding in the report, to be confident of
this being a precise and generally valid benchmark of affordability, we quantitative data
collected from a randomly selected sample of respondents.

34.     To collect data in the three chosen cities, he enumerators made contacts in the
selected slums through 30 focus group meetings with local residents. Enumerators asked
these residents to gather impromptu into focus groups at the time of the researchers entering
the slums. After the focus groups discussions, men and women were interviewed separately.
This informal approach to the bidonvillois probably elicited less contrived and more
spontaneous responses from the respondents.

35.     The PSIA report criticized the lack of reliable quantitative data on Morocco's housing
sector and its slums. But it did not specify exactly what kind of data was missing, and what
kind of data was most needed. Thus, while the overall critique was valid, it would have had a
                                             64


greater impact if the PSIA had recommended, in some detail, how information flows and data
could better inform housing sector policymakers and also VSB implementers.

36.    International experience of slum upgrading: The report cited the experience of the
national Baan Makong slum upgrading program in Thailand introduced by the Thai
government in 2003, It was relevant to the Moroccan case for being a national program that
involved the active participation of slum dwellers from the planning to the implementation
stages of the program. The report also referred to the Ribeira Azul program of slum
upgrading in the State of Bahia, Brazil. Although this local program had enjoyed some
success, its relevance to Morocco's national VSB was limited by being restricted to just one
small part of one city alone, Salvador.

DISSEMINATION, SUSTAINED DIALOGUE AND FOLLOW-UP

37.     A draft version of the Slum Upgrading PSIA was amply discussed at a stakeholder
workshop in Rabat at the time of the approval of the Housing DPL in mid-2005.Since it was
aimed principally at MHU, the final version of the Slum Upgrading PSIA was not widely
disseminated in Morocco beyond GOM, nor did it need to be. Although originally written in
English, it was translated into French to make it more readily accessible to more users in
Morocco, especially in MHU. Thus, dissemination was adequate for the purpose of bringing
the attention of MHU officials to the sector policy issues it raised. Its purpose was not to
bring these issues to a broader audience, beyond those with the authority to guide policy
changes. The change of guard at MHU brought in new teams unfamiliar with the preparation
of the PSIA, yet still aware of it policy prescriptions, did interrupt a sustained dialogue with
the Bank that could at least be expected to continue until the completion of the VSB
Program, if not beyond.

38.    The PSIA was publicly disclosed in gray cover in June 2006, in good time for
consideration by MHU as VSB implementation forged ahead. Since then, English and French
versions of the document have been made publicly available on the Bank's external website.
Given the Slum Upgrading PSIA's specific purpose to support housing policy development
dialogue in Morocco specifically, wider dissemination may not be necessary. During the
mission to Morocco, IEG inquired about the PSIA during meetings with other housing sector
agencies, but found none of them familiar with its findings and policy prescriptions.

39.     With the MHU today, we cannot conclude that there is an ongoing Bank/Borrower
dialogue about the PSIA findings and recommendations. The PSIA report is treated by MHU
as an important but historic document. Apart from the change of team at MHU, there is
another important reason for the stalled dialogue. Without a follow-on Bank financed
operation to the Housing DPL, there is no longer an operational raison d'etre for continuing
engagement in this area. For a relatively short but crucial period, however, between 2005 and
2007, the Slum Upgrading PSIA did provided a professional forum, in which Bank and GOM
teams could gather to help ensure that both sides' had a similar understanding of sector
reform processes and the Bank's support of them. Two complementary results, no doubt,
ensued. The Bank team became better informed about VSB, and the GOM team better
understood what the Bank wanted to achieve through its assistance.
