.
                                                                                            44613
                        MOROCCO-Housing Sector Development Policy Loan
                                             (Loan 7314-MA)
                      Release of the Second Tranche and Request of One Waiver


                                       Tranche Release Document


    1.      The Board ofDirectors ofthe Bank approved the Housing Sector Development Policy
   Loan o f US$l50 million equivalent on June 30,2005 (report No. 32345-MA o f June 1,2005).
   The LoanAgreement was signed on July 18,2005 and declared effective on August 24,2005,
   when the front endfee of Euro 580,500 was applied. The first tranche ofEuro 69,660,000 was
   disbursedon September2,2005. The Loan's original Closing Date of December 31st, 2007 was
   extendedby six months to June 30,2008.

   2.       The development objectives ofthe Loanare to: (i)    strengthenthe institutional, regulatory
   and fiscal environment for a well-functioning housing market and for the emergence o f market-
   based solutions to the country's housing sector constraints and needs; and (ii)  increase the access
   o f low income and severely disadvantaged households to more affordable and higher quality
   housing.

   3.       Two Ministrieshave beensubstantially involved with the implementation o fthe reforms
   supported by the Loan: the Ministry o f Finance and of the Economy (MF) and the Ministry o f
   Housing, UrbanPlanning, and Territorial Development (MHUAE).The Ministryo f Finance has
   beendirectly responsible for the design and implementationof the reforms inthe realm of
   housing finance and o f fiscal policies, while the Ministry o f Housinghas beenincharge o f those
   reforms that were related to the legislative and regulatory framework o f the sector and for the
   social housingprograms.

   4.       Three years after the approval of the Loan, the housing sector inMorocco has gone
   through profoundtransformations and is now considered one o f the most dynamic sectors o f the
   national economy. All indicators seem to confirm that the policy implementedby the
   Government as o f early 2003, and which has beensupported by the Bank's technical assistance
   at first, and by the present Loan for the past three years, has beensuccessful inaddressing some
   o fthe fundamental sector issues and inreaching the above development objectives.

   5.       Inadditionto normal supervision practices andreporting, the Loanwas subject to
   specific monitoring and evaluation to track the indicators which were selected at appraisal and
   agreed upon with the Borrower (section V1.C o f the Project Appraisal Document). Consequently,
   a Monitoring and Evaluation Report on the impact o f the reforms under the first tranche o f the
   loan, comparing end of 2004 to end o f 2006 indicators, was issued by the Bank inJune 2007. In
   addition, a Policy Note on the housing sector was issued by the Bank at the same time, and
   revisedand updated inMay 2008 under the title "The challenges of social housing inMorocco".
   It is now part ofthe overall report "Conditions for a higher and inclusive growth" which was
   issuedinMay 2008 (Report n40197-MA). The Bank also carried out the "Poverty and Social
   Impact Assessment o f the national slum upgrading program", which was supported under the
   Loan, and publishedand disseminated it inJune 2006 (Report No. 36545-MOR).


                                                      1

 6.     This Tranche Release Document certifies that (i) progress achieved bythe Borrower
                                                            the
 inthe carryingout ofthe program ofreforms supportedbythe Loanis satisfactory; (ii)       the
macroeconomic framework o f the Borrower is satisfactory, and inline with the program, as
measured on the basis o f indicators agreeduponbetweenthe Borrower and the Bank; and (iii)
the actions agreedupon for the disbursement ofthe secondtranche have beentaken, withthe
exception o f one action, for which a waiver is sought, as per below.

Progressachievedby the Borrowerin carryingout of the programof reforms

 7.     Inearly 2003 the Housing Solidarity Fund(HSF) was established, inorder to channel
revenues for the social housing programs into a dedicated fund which i s replenishedvia a tax on
the sale ofcement, currently inthe order of 0.10 MADper kilo. Giventhe considerable increase
inconstruction activities, the yearly replenishmentofthe HSFhas increased steadily, reaching
MAD 1.4billion in2008 from MAD400 million in2004, andproviding areliable source of
financing for the expansion o f the social housing programs. During 2003-2007, the Government
has also mobilized approximately 10,000 ha o f public land to boost urban development and
primarily residential activities. This has allowed for the implementation o f the social housing
programs, for the creation o f newtowns, and for the formal urbanization o f peri-urban areas of
major cities. While the on-site infrastructure i s provided by the publicly owned Holding A1
Omrane, the vast majority o f the construction of residential units i s now performedby private
contractors, some o f which have gone through spectacular financial growth.

8.      The reorganization ofthe parastatal housing companies got under way in2004 withthe
creation o f Holding A1Omrane (HAO), which consolidated the land and financial capital, as well
as the human and technical resources, previously managed by the National Shelter Upgrading
Agency (ANHI), the National Equipmentand Construction Corporation (SNEC), and
Attacharouk, createdto carry out a housingprogram inGreater Casablanca. The mission o f the
HA0was refocusedonprovidingon-site infrastructure and urbanizinglandto facilitate the
implementation o f residential projects by private developers and on implementing the social
housing programs financed via the FSH. Several measureswere also taken to capitalize and
rehabilitate the financial standing o f the regional parastatal development and construction
establishments (ERACs). Inlate 2004 the total outstanding debts o f these establishments vis-a-
vis CIH, a property development public bank, were fully repaid inthe amount o f MAD 800
million; these organizations were also re-capitalized for MAD 900 million, thus makingthem
again financially viable.

9.      The "Cities Without Slums" program, designed and launched inJuly 2004, targets the
upgrading o f all slums inthe country by the end o f the decade. Its strategy is basedon the city as
the programmingunit for a comprehensive and integrated intervention, on a contractual
framework betweenthe State, local governments, and operators to ensurejoint respect o f
commitments and responsibilities, and on better targeting o f the operations inorder to optimize
the resourcesat play interms ofthe landtenure, financial, institutional, and social issues. From
a quantitative standpoint, the results o f program implementationremain encouraging. As o f late
March 2008, the number o f slum units treated by the program, since its launch, amounted to
82,000, out of total o f 293,000 slum households targeted. However, four years after the program
launch, 19 cities with nearly 30 percent o f the slum populationstill have not signed "city
contracts" with MHUAE (Casablanca and TCmara having signed only partial contracts), and the


                                                   2

apartment units and serviced plots produced but not yet transferred to the target households
numbered21,000 at end of March2008, indicatinglimitedadaptation ofthe products to the
demand and the financial capacity o fthe households. Moreover, it i s important to highlight the
fact that the number o f households targeted by the program has beenincreasing during the last
years from 212,000 in2004 to 293,000 in2008.

 10.     Thanks to the release o f large tracts of public land, to the ability o f HA0 to provide on-
site infrastructure, to the simplificationof the urbanplanning regulations and on account o f the
expanded access to credit, there was a substantial increase inthe production o f low-cost and
social housing between2004 and 2006. The productiono f lots intendedfor the construction of
social housing almost doubled between2004 and 2006, increasing from 22,000 units in2004 to
45,000 units in2006. This increase i s primarily due to productionby the parastatal companies,
which nearly tripledover the 2004-2006 period. Similarly, the production o f low-costs housing
unitsincreasedsubstantially, by 30 percent, rising from 54,000 unitsin2004 to 70,000 unitsin
2006. This growth is essentially due to the increased interest shown by private developers,
alongside a gradual withdrawal o f public operators which are focusing more on the urbanization
of public lands.

 11.     FOGARIM (Guarantee Fundfor households with low and/or irregular incomes), was
created under the 2004 Budget Law, and replaced the system o f across-the-board interest rebates
on mortgages previously subsidized by the State. FOGARIMconstitutes a complete innovation
inMorocco, inthat it finally enables access to housing credit by households ofthe informal
sector, which represent a very large share o f the population(nearly 40 percent o f the labor force
inurbanareas in2000, accordingto estimatesbythe Statistics Directorate). FOGARIMis
directly supported through the FSH: during 2003-2007, MAD400 million drawn from the FSH
was transferred to the Central GuaranteeFundas the endowment o f FOGARIM, to cover the
risksborne by bankingestablishments ingranting suchloans. After a slow launch period, the
efforts made by the public authorities to improve the operation o f this fund, combined with a
targeted communicationand informationpolicy, made it possible to increase activity from 2,600
loans guaranteedin2005 to 10,500 in2006, to 15,600 in2007, for a cumulative total o f 28,700
with an overall balance increasing from MAD 255 million in2005 to MAD 1.5 billion in2006,
to MAD4.76 billion in2007.

12.      The real estate sector has benefited over the past several years from a diversified offer of
financial products and is witnessing serious competitionamong commercial banks, marked by a
significant drop inrates and the lengthening o f maturities. These favorable market conditions are
the indirect consequence ofa reductioninthe national debt and ofthe resultingincreaseinthe
liquidity ofthe nationalbanking system. The efforts made bythe Government to facilitate access
to property by the disadvantaged social groups, the production o f low-cost housing, as well as
the emergence ofmajor developer and contractor groups all contributed to the takeoff ofthe
sector. Inthis context, real estate lending rose in2007 to MAD 76 billion, representing 22
percent of credits to the economy, as compared to15 percent in 1998. Inaddition to the loans
benefitingfrom State support (representing one-third o f all housing lending in2005),
participationby banks improved by over 50 percent involume terms, corresponding to a twofold
increase inthe number o f lending operations, while the average commitment decreased from
MAD284,000 to MAD218,000, thus underscoring the diversificationofthe portfolio and the
targeting o f new categories o f customers.


                                                    3

 13.     Foreigndirect investment inMoroccanreal estate experienced a sizable boom in2006,
drawing innearly DH4 billion ina single year, that is, over 15 percent o fthe total flow o f FDI,
causing this sector to rank third after industry and tourism. This increasedprominence since
2003 i s explained by several factors: (i)  the global dynamics ofthe real estate sector; (ii)
                                                                                             the
dynamism o f the Moroccan economy, which grew at a record rate o f 8.2 percent in2006; and
(iii) launchingofthemassiveprogramstobuildnewcities,aswellasresidential,
     the
commercial, and tourist property development. These investments, flowing inboth from the Gulf
States (the UnitedArab Emirates account for nearly 10 percent) and from Europe (primarily
France, Spain, and the UnitedKingdom), allow for sizable concentrations of capital inthe sector,
the consolidationofmajornational groups, technology transfers from international groups, and
the achievement ofeconomies of scale.


Actions taken to fulfill the second tranche conditions

14.      For thepurpose of modernizing urbanplanning standardsand regulations,the
Borrower's Conseil de Gouvernementhas adopteda new urbanplanning code, satisfactory to
theBank.

InMay2005 the Government startedaprocess ofconsultation andtechnical work to completely
overhaul the current legislationregulating urbanplanning, which dates back to 1990. MHUAE
set out the principles and objectives of the reform in a policy document publishedinOctober
2005 which received the official endorsement o f His Majesty. MHUAEthen carried out a
national survey o f perceivedrequirementsfor the replacement legislationand a first-hand
investigationo f international best practices. In2006 and 2007 it prepared the full text of the new
UrbanPlanning Code which, if adopted by Parliament, would greatly simplify and modernize
urban planningpractices, and hence accelerate the production o f formal residential units.
Consultations were heldwith professional groups, at the regional level, and with other key
Ministries, so as to ensure a shared commitment to the goals ofthe new legislation. The draft law
was approved on June 12,2008 by the Council o f Government, This condition has beenmet.

15.      For thepurpose of restructuringitspublic sector housing companies,the Borrower has
implemented a restructuringplan, satisfactory to the Bank.

The Holding A1Omrane has continued its process o f internal organization and strengthening.
The key financial ratios o fthe group (assets, profitability ratios, upfront payments by buyers,
etc.) at end o f 2004 were compared to end o f 2006, and were found by the Bank to have all
considerably improved. Inaddition, during 2007 the seven regional parastatal development and
construction establishments (ERAC) were officially dissolved as state subsidiaries, re-established
as publicly owned companies, and thentransferred to HA0 by the Government. Two more
regional companies were also created with the purpose o f completing a balanced coverage o f the
regions. HA0 has become a powerful tool for the implementationo f the public policies inthe
realm o f social housing, but is also facilitating the investmento f private companies into the
housing sector. This conditionhas beenmet.

16.     For thepurpose of rationalizing and simplifving real estate taxes and subsidies, the
Borrower has introducedreforms to the real estate tax system in the draft Budget Law of 2007.



                                                    4

 Pursuant to the Bank funded study on the impact o f real estate taxation carried out in2006-2007,
 the related sector taxes have beenrevised as follows inthe 2008 Budget Law: a) application of
 the normal VAT rate (20 percent, instead ofthe reducedrate of 14percent) to all realestate
 operations, with the exception o f social housing, whichremains exempt; b) elimination o f the
 provision of the 3 percent tax break on corporate taxes if applied to the construction o f employee
housing; and c) unification of registration fees (2.5% on the amount o f the real estate transaction)
withthe notary public fee (0.5%). The newregistration fees will be subject to a cumulative rate
o f 3%, with the exception o f social housing that will benefit from the special cumulative rate o f
 1.5%; d) with regards to the fiscal incentives for the productionof low-cost housing (Article 19),
real estate companies producing low-cost residential units (value of MAD 200,000) will have to
pay 50 percent o f the corporate tax (while they were previously totally exempt), and the
quantitative threshold to benefit from these fiscal incentives has beenloweredto 1,500 units. The
construction o f low-cost units with a value up to MAD 140,000 will be entirely tax exempt, with
a quantitative threshold o f 500 units inurbanareas and o f 100 units inrural areas. This condition
has beenmet.

 17.     For thepurpose of expanding urban slum upgrading and social housingprograms, the
Borrower has implementedthe Cities without Slums (Villes sans Bidonvilles, VSB)program,
according to an implementationplan prepared in May 2005, which shall have been evaluated
on the basis of reports of the National Monitoring Committee of the VSBprogram.

Based on cautious projections o f the likely rate o f implementation o f the program, the target of
30,000 slum-dwellerhouseholds to obtain resettlement on a serviced plot, inan apartment unit,
or to benefit from on-site restructuring by end of 2006 had beenagreedto. The monitoring and
evaluation exercise conducted inpartnership with MHUAEon the basis o f their internal
reportingdata ascertainedthat 62,000 households had infact benefitedfrom the program by end
o f 2006. Inaddition, 19,000 units had beenproduced but had not beenassigned to the
beneficiary households yet. Therefore the results more than doubled the quantitative targets. As
for its qualitative aspects, while some areas for improvement persist, inparticular with regard to
its responsivenessto the active participation o f the beneficiaries and the affordability o f some of
the products, the program is considered satisfactory. This conditionhas beenmet.

18.     For thepurpose of improving the efficiency of the residential rental market, the
Borrower's Conseil de Gouvernement has adopted new draft legislation to regulate the
residential rental sector.

InMay 2005 the Government launched a study ofthe residential rental sector, to identifyways
for this segment of the housing market to perform better and to contribute to the satisfaction o f
the pent-uphousing demand, primarily inthe largest urbanareas. The study was presentedat a
stakeholder workshop inApril 2006. The recommendations o f the study were to reviewupwards
the current rental ceilings andto overhaul the corresponding legislationinorder to better balance
and regulate the rights o f the landlords with the ones o f the tenants. Their implementationwould
mobilize investments and ensure that some of the 800,000 residential units currently vacant
would be put on the rental market. On this basis new draft legislationwas prepared by MHUAE
in2007 withthe collaboration ofthe MinistryofJustice. The latter was keenonparticipatingin
order to minimize the number o f civil suits resulting from rental-related conflicts, which i s




                                                   5

currently very high. The draft law was approved on June 12,2008 by the Council o f
Government. This condition has been met.

 19.    For thepurpose of providing increased access to housingfinance to the low-income
households, the Borrower: a) has introduced modijications in the Convention between the
Borrower and the Caisse Centrale de Garantie, governing FOGARIM; and b) has made
decision on thepossibility of introducing an insurancepremium systemfor FOGARIM.

The FOGARIM Steering Committee met regularly to reviewthe performance ofthe guarantee
fund and in2006 made the agreed adjustments neededto facilitate access: a) the maximum
monthly repayment amount was increased; b) the certification o f informal revenues by the local
delegate o f the Ministry o f Interior was replaced by an auto-certification; c) the guarantee was
extendedto the acquisition ofhousing units by multiple family members;d) the age limit of60
for the final repayment o f the mortgage was eliminated; and e) the guarantee was extendedto the
self-help construction o f housing and acquisition o f residential plots. During 2007 inview o f the
lengthy procedures requiredfor the issuanceoftitle deeds it was agreedto accept a guaranteeby
the housing operator instead. In2007 the Steering Committee agreedto introduce insurance
premiumsto increasethe financial coverage ofthe guarantee: a) a premiumof 0,65% will be
applied to the guaranteed amount (70% of the mortgage), which corresponds to an additional
interest rate o f 0,46% for beneficiaries; and b) a deduction on the premium corresponding to the
cashcontribution by the beneficiaries will be applied: for a contribution o f 20%, a deduction of
20% is applied to the premium(premium of 0,36% instead of 0,46%). This condition has been
@.

Request of waiver of one condition

20.     For thepurpose of providing increasedaccess to housingfinance to low-income
households,the Borrower has introduced, in the draft 2006 Budget Law, an adequate
financial incentive systemfor housing saving schemes.

The purpose ofthis housing finance measurewas to encourage low-income households to open
savings accounts incommercialbanks inorder to accumulate the amount requiredfor a down-
payment for a mortgage, and to internalize the ability to make monthly savings inview of future
mortgage payments. Such saving accounts would have received either a fiscal incentive, or a
cash contributionby the Government. Two main factors made the introductiono f this measure
not required:a) the lower interest rates, lower percentageso f down-payment requiredby the
banks, and greater maturities applied to mortgages since mid-2006, making access to credit
further accessible; and b) the price escalation ofthe housing products, often indouble digits, that
the Moroccan housing market has beenexperiencing over the past years. Such price increases are
sufficiently highto entirely erode the advantage of saving as opposed to initiating a mortgage,
despite the public incentive. The Government and the management o f the Bank therefore agreed
that the benefits o f the housing schemes as identifiedduring appraisal would not have been
obtained, and the technical work around its design was stopped. A waiver is requested, so that
this measuremay benot considered any more a conditionfor the disbursementofthe second
tranche.

P:\MOROCCO\IF\83746\SPN\Trancherelease document.doc



                                                  6

