Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 19264 UG
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 9.6 MILLION
(US$ 13.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA
FORA
FINANCIAL MARKETS ASSISTANCE PROJECT
May 7, 1999
Private Sector Finance Unit
Country Department AFC04
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 1999)
Currency Unit   Uganda Shillings
1,550   US$ 100
FISCAL YEAR
July I -June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BSD                  Banking Supervision Department
BOU                  Bank of Uganda
CAS                  Country Assistance Strategy
CMA                  Capital Markets Authority
FIMAP                Financial Markets Assistance Project
FSAC                 Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
GAAP                 Generally Accepted Accounting Principles
GOU                  Govemment of Uganda
IAS                  International Accounting Standards
ICB                  International Competitive Bidding
ICR                  Implementation Completion Report
IQC                  Indefinite Quantity Contract
IMF                  International Monetary Fund
LOI                  Letter of Invitation
MoF                  Ministry of Finance
NBFI                 Non-bank Financial Institutions
NCB                  National Competitive Bidding
NPART                Non-performing Assets Recovery Trust
NSSF                 National Social Security Fund
PIU                  Project Implementing Unit
PIP                  Project Implementing Plan
PPF                  Project Preparation Facility
SAC                  Structural Adjustment Credit
SOE                  Statement of Expenses
TA                   Technical Assistance
TOR                  Terms of Reference
UCB                  Uganda Commercial Bank
UCBL                 Uganda Commercial Bank Limited
UDB                  Uganda Development Bank
UIB                  Uganda Institute of Bankers
Vice President:                       Callisto Madavo
Country Director:                     James Adams
Sector Manager (Acting):              Paul Murgatroyd
Task Team Leader:                     Mark Dorfman



REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
FINANCIAL MARKETS ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. PROJECT DEVELOPMENT
OBJECTIVES ..........................................................................1
B.    STRATEGIC  CONTEXT .........................................................................                                                              2
(i)  Sector-Related country Assistance Strategy (CAS) .........................................................   2
(ii) Main Sector Issues and Government Strategy ...............................................................    2
(iii) Sector Issues to be Addressed by the Project and Strategic Choices ....................................                                           4
a. Strengthening the Regulation, Supervision and Operations of Deposit-Taking Institutions .........   4
b. Restructuring  and privatizing Uganda Commercial Bank Limited .......................................    4
c. Improving Monetary Management and Payment Systems ................................................                                                 5
d. Developing Insurance and Contractual Savings Reform   and Regulation ...............................                                                5
C. PROJECT DESCRIPTION                                                                                                                                          7
SUMAARY.
(i) Project Components (See Annexes 11 and III for detailed descriptions and cost breakdowns) ........   7
(ii)  Key policy and Institutional Reforms to be Sought ........................................................                                        10
(iii) Benefits and Target Population .........................................................................                                          10
(iv)  Institutional and Implementation Arrangements ...........................................................                                         10
D.    PROJECT  RATIONALE .........................................................................                                                              12
(i)  Project Alternatives Considered and Reasons for Rejection ...............................................                                          12
(ii) Major related projects financed by IDA and/or other development agencies                                                    .         .            12
(iii) Lessons Learned and Reflected in Proposed Project Design                                                        ..                                12
(iv)  Indications of Borrower Commitment and Ownership                                  .........................      ...........................       13
(v)  Value Added of Bank  Support in this Project ...............................................................    13
E. ISSUES REQUTIRING SPECIAL ATTENTION                                                                                                                           13
(i)  Economic Assessment .........................................................................    13
(ii)  Technical Assessment .........................................................................                                                    14
(iii)  Institutional Assessment .........................................................................                                               14
(iv)  Financial Management Assessment .........................................................................                                         14
(v)  Social Assessment .........................................................................                                                        15
(vi)  Environmental Assessment .........................................................................                                                15
(vii)  Participatory Approach .........................................................................                                                 15
F.      SUSTAINABILITY  AND  RISKS .........................................................................                                                    16
(i)  Sustainability                                        .........................................................................                     16
(ii) Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1)                                                    .          .            16
(iii) Possible Controversial Aspects .........................................................................                                          16
G.    MAIN  LOAN  CONDITIONS .........................................................................                                                          17
Effectiveness Conditions ...............7...............                                                                                    ...          17



2
H.  READINESS FOR                                                                                17
IMPLEMENTATION  .............................................................................................
I.    COMPLLINCE WITH BANK                                                                      17
POLICIES .
ANNEXES
Annex I: Project Design Summary .17
Annex II: Project Description .18
Annex III: Estimated Project Costs .26
Annex IV: Economic Assessment .30
Annex V-A: Financial Summary.                                                             3 1
Annex V-B: Financial Management Assessment.
Appendix I   Terms of Reference - Financial Management Committee .38
Appendix 2  Terms of Reference - Project Accountant .41
Appendix 3   Financial Management Manual (Indicative Sections for Inclusion) .42
Annex VI: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .42
Table VI-A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements .42
Table VI-B: Consultant Selection Arrangements .45
Table VI-C: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review .46
Table VI-D: Allocation of Credit Proposals ....................................,.,.,,.47
Annex VII: Project Processing Timetable & Budget .48
Annex VIII: Documents in Project File .49
Annex IX: IDA Statements of Credits .50
Annex IX: IFC Statements of Credits .51
Ainex X: Country at a Glance .52
Annex X: Country at a Glance (cont'd) .53
Annex XI: Environmental Assessment, Social and Environmental .54
MAP



Republic of Uganda
Financial Markets Assistance Project
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
Africa Region
Private Sector and Finance
Date: May 5, 1999                              Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Mark Dorfinan
Country Director: James Adamns                 Acting Sector Manager: Paul Murgatroyd
Project ID: UG-PA-44213                        Program Objective Category: Financial Sector
Sector: Financial
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Credit  Program of Targeted Intervention: Yes
Project Financing Data                 El Loan    El Credit  LE   Guarantee        L  Other
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount: US$ 13.0 million/SDR 9.6 million on Standard IDA terms
Proposed Terms:          Multicurrency
Grace period:  10 years
Years to maturity: 40 years
Commitment fee: Standard IDA
Service charge: Standard IDA
Financing plan [US$m]
Source:                                                      Local           Foreign      Total
Government:                                             0.21m           1.14m       1.35m
IDA:                                                    2.70m           10.30m      13.00m
Borrower:  Republic of Uganda
Guarantor: Not Applicable
Responsible agencies: Bank of Uganda (BOU), Ministry of Finance (MoF), Commissioner of Insurance, Capital
Markets Authority (CMA)
Estimated Disbursements (Bank FY/US$ millions)    FY99       FY00      FY01       FY02
Annual      2.4       4.6        4.0       2.0
Cumulative     2.4        7.0       11.0       13.0
Project Implementation Period: 5 years
Expected Effectiveness Date: September 30, 199    Expected Closing Date: June 30, 2003
A. Project Development Objectives
1.    The objective of the Project is to improve the safety, soundness and performance of the financial
system. This is in turned aimed at supporting broad-based private sector growth. It will be accomplished
by: (i) strengthening the regulation, supervision and operations of deposit-taking institutions; including the
resolution and work-out of problem banks, (ii) restructuring and privatizing Uganda Commercial Bank
Limited, (iii) improving monetary management and payment systems; and (iv) developing insurance and
contractual savings institutions, as well as their oversight.



Uganda - Financial Markets Assistance Project                                      Page 2
Project Appraisal Document - Main Text                                         May 7, 1999
B: Strategic Context
(i) Sector-Related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
CAS document number:    No. 16540- UG
Date of latest discussion:  May 20, 1997
2.    The Financial Markets Assistance Project (FIMAP) is fully consistent with IDA's CAS for
Uganda whose objectives included developing a properly regulated and diversified financial sector. The
Government's strategy in this context is to complete the current reform agenda under the Structural
Adjustment Credit (SAC III), which includes finalizing the privatization of the Uganda Commercial Bank
(UCB) and progress in recovery of non-performing loans being undertaken by the Non-performing Assets
Recovery Trust (NPART). In addition, the strategy calls for the strengthening of commercial bank and the
Non-bank Financial Institutions (NBFI) supervision and improvement of the management of provident
and pension funds and the insurance industry.
(ii) Main Sector Issues and Government Strategy
3.    Introduction.  The Govermment of Uganda (GOU) has taken measures to improve the
mobilization and allocation of financial resources and foster monetary deepening through liberalized
interest rate policies and improved formulation and execution of monetary policy. Moreover, measures
have been taken to improve the regulatory framework for financial institutions, including the passage of
revised legislation for deposit-taking institutions and insurance companies. Capacity-building measures
have been taken to develop oversight authorities, with previous IDA assistance.
4.    The Government's strategy is to embark upon a second stage of financial sector reform, the first
stage having been supported under the Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (FSAC) and SAC III. To
maintain focus on the development of the financial sector, four issues would be targeted: (i) strengthening
the regulation and supervision of deposit-taking institutions; (ii) restructuring and privatization of Uganda
Commercial Bank Limited, (iii) improving monetary management and payment systems; and (iv)
insurance and contractual savings reform and regulation.
5.    Regulation, Supervision and Operations of Deposit-taking Institutions. The Government's
strategy to strengthen the regulation and supervision of deposit-taking institutions was initiated with the
1992 passage of a Bank of Uganda (BOU) Statute and a Financial Institutions Statute in 1993.
Implementing regulations and guidelines were drafted and put into effect and staff of the BOU Bank
Supervision Department were trained. Off- and on-site supervision was strengthened through technical
assistance support under the FSAC, which closed on June 30, 1997. Finally, NPART expedited the
recovery of loans under the UCB through various recovery mechanisms.
6.    Although measures were taken to improve regulation and oversight, problems remain in the
financial system. In spite of strengthening capacity at the Bank of Uganda (BOU), weaknesses remain in
enforcement of prudential regulations. Further, the financial sector remains weak due to non-performing
assets, inefficiencies in select institutions, non-compliance with lending concentration regulations, and
some under capitalization in deposit-taking institutions. Much remains to be done to strengthen the
supervision of commercial banks and other non-bank deposit-taking institutions. The number of bank
examiners (18) is still too small to adequately effect on-site examinations, of at least once per year,-for
each of the deposit-taking institutions. Existing staff need further training and new staff will need training
as well. Further, the Financial Institutions Statute needs revision and amendments, particularly making a
number of prudential regulations (such as loan concentration and related party lending) more specific, as
well as to specify a greater array of BOU sanctions, short of intervention (such as the power to issue Cease



Uganda - Financial Markets Assistance Project                                   Page 3
Project Appraisal Document - Main Text                                      May 7, 1999
and Desist Orders). The Statute is vague with respect to the classifying and specific prudential regulations
for non-bank deposit-taking institutions. Support is also needed for drafting additional implementing
regulations and guidelines, on such issues as net foreign exchange exposure, loan classification and
provisioning. Finally, significant improvements are needed in enforcement of prudential regulations. In
particular, institutions which have repeated non-compliance violations with reserve requirements or loan
concentration guidelines need to be sanctioned and, if necessary, intervened.
7.    The GOU has issued a policy statement on the treatment of problem banks that addresses the need
to secure the health of the financial system while limiting to the extent possible, the cost of such actions to
the Government budget or to BOU. The GOU and BOU are determined that future problems in
commercial banks will be treated in a way that will: (i) provide for a healthy financial sector; (ii) take
immediate action if and when necessary, when a problem is identified; and (iii) minimize the budgetary
costs of such future interventions. To reach these goals, the following policies either have been or will be
adopted:
. A moratorium on the licensing of new banks (expect when special benefits are expected) has been
extended until 1999;
. The Government has submitted to Parliament an amendment to the Financial Institutions Statute to
authorize the BOU Governor, in consultation with the Minister of Finance, to update the minimum
capital requirements and GOU intends to reach, at a minimum, a doubling of the minimum capital
requirement by end-1 999;
. BOU continues to strengthen its supervision and monitoring capacity. Special efforts will be
undertaken to direct banks' external auditors to follow and to certify the audited banks' portfolio
classification, the adequacy of their provisioning for bad-debt, and the suspension of all interest in
arrears; and
* A public declaration has been made stating that banks which do not meet BOU standards will be
intervened and where a bank will be liquidated, the GOU and BOU commitment to depositors is
limited to Ush. 3 million per depositor.
8.    The Government's strategy has also included measures to instill and maintain credit discipline
through the active recovery of UCB loans through support of NPART. The Government has decided to
extend the lifetime of NPART and extend its mandate to include loans from the Uganda Development
Bank (UDB). The Government places value on NPART's collection success, as it mitigates the budgetary
costs to Government, as well as providing a clear signal concerning the need to repay loans and meet
financial and other obligations.
9.    Monetary Management and Payment Systems. BOU monetary management has improved
with the provision of assistance under the FSAC and from the IMF. First, to improve the BOU's credit
management policy, the terms by which commercial banks could use its discount window were revised in
1995 and 1996. Banks can make use of a narrow automatic discount window, which accounts for only 5%
of the commercial banks' reserve requirements. Banks' access to the window now has to be negotiated
with the BOU and fully collateralized with eligible securities, preferably T-Bills.. Second, the local check-
clearing was extended to eight centers outside Kampala. Inter-town clearing was introduced to six
centers by the end of 1996. Finally, since 1994 the BOU has embarked on a comprehensive effort to
strengthen the management of its growing foreign exchange reserves which stands at about US$ 700
million. This effort, structured as a three-phased program, has resulted in the introduction among other
things, of a formal Reserves Management Policy Framework and the establishment of an external asset
management program.



Uganda - Financial Markets Assistance Project                                     Page 4
Project Appraisal Document -Main Text                                         May 7, 1999
10.   Insurance and Contractual Savings Reform  and Regulation.  Insurance and contractual
savings institutions which have the potential for savings mobilization and investment in the future of the
country has attracted the attention of the Government. A high priority has been given to improving the
environment conducive to the development of insurance and other contractual savings institutions. Non-
life insurance is an important financial sector service, essential for economic growth in general and the
development of the private sector in particular. A new Commissioner of Insurance has been hired and the
new insurance law has been enacted.
(iii) Sector Issues to be Addressed by the Project and Strategic Choices
a. Strengthening the Regulation, Supervision and Operations of Deposit-Taking
Institutions
11.   Commercial Bank Supervision. Since 1993, the Government of Uganda has been implementing
measures to strengthen the regulation and supervision of commercial banks, including the passage of an
updated Financial Institutions Statute and the training of bank examiners. A systematic training program
of the Bank Supervision Department (BSD) bank examiners, consistent with a planned work program for
the period 1999-2002 and growth in the sophistication of off- and on-site examinations, will be developed.
Hands-on training to BSD staff in, inter alia, loan evaluation and provisioning, evaluation of lending
concentration, foreign exchange risk valuation, liquidity risk assessment, and contingent risk management
will be provided.
12.   Non-bank Deposit-taking Institutions. The Government and BOU began, in mid-1997, to
undertake measures to strengthen the regulation and supervision of non-bank deposit-taking institutions.
Legislation will be drafted to better define BOU roles and responsibilities in regulating non-bank deposit-
taking institutions including merchant banks, building societies, leasing companies (which mobilize
deposits) and the Post Office Savings Bank. Subsequent to the passage of such legislation, hands-on
training for examiners placed in the non-bank examination unit will be provided.
13.   Assistance to the Non-Performing Assets Recovery Trust (NPART). Since 1995, the Government
has been engaged in an active recovery process of non-performing loans transferred from UCB for
collection by NPART. NPART has demonstrated strong performance amidst appreciable constraints and
recently had its tenure extended to mid-1999. As of December 31, 1998, NPART had collected about
Ush. 15.3 billion (approximately US$11 million). The ratio of costs to loan collection has been
approximately 13%. NPART will continue recovering UCB loans, as well as recovering loans under
proposed legislation which would transfer all non-performing of loans UDB to NPART. It is expected
that the process of loan recovery will enhance credit discipline, as well as expedite recovery of previously
non-performing loans in these institutions.
14.   Assistance to the Uganda Institute of Bankers (UIB). UIB's role in facilitating training programs
for staff of commercial banks has become increasingly important and reinforces prudential regulation and
supervision by the BOU. The training center, which will be capable of delivering courses on a cost-
recovery basis, will be supported.
b. Restructuring and Privatizing Uganda Commercial Bank Limited
15.   A previous attempt to privatize UCBL collapsed when the new owners engaged in extensive
lending to related parties in relationship with the now-closed Greenland Bank. As a first step in the
workout of the bank, the project will finance a management contract with associated technical assistance
support services to permit the restructuring of the bank's operations in preparation for re-privatization. It
is anticipated that there will be a need to make a significant number of staff reductions as part of this



Uganda - Financial Markets Assistance Project                                   Page 5
Project Appraisal Document -Main Text                                       May 7, 1999
process and so the project has included a facility for financing those retrenchment costs. In addition,
resources will be made available under the project to finance technical services and computers and
associated software specifically related to the new privatization process.
c. Improving Monetary Management and Payment Systems
16.   Strengthening BOU Money Management. Significant measures have already been taken to
improve reserve and monetary management. Further measures, however, are needed to improve the
transmission mechanisms for monetary policy, including measures to support a secondary market for
Treasury Bills. Support would be provided for operations and research advisors and short-term twinning
arrangements will be sought. A reserves management component will enable BOU to enhance its internal
reserves management operations at two key levels: (a) the introduction of effective investment systems to
support the investment activity; and (b) the strengthening of internal portfolio management operations,
skills and oversight policies
17.   Strengthening Payment Systems. Identified improvements in payment systems could strengthen
financial market efficiency and improve the effectiveness of monetary policy. A multi-stage program of
investments and training will be developed to reduce the processing time and the settlement risks for
checks in the Kampala and rural check-clearing systems. Further, measures are being developed to
improve other elements of the payments system including interbank clearance vehicles.
18.   Strengthening Ministry of Finance Macro-economic Programming Capabilities. In an effort to
further harmonize monetary and fiscal policy management, the MoF is strengthening the Macro Policy
Department which conducts financial programming, including fiscal and macro-economic projections.
The Project would finance training and equipment to support the staff of the Macro-economic Policy
Department in the area of policy formulation, biased towards fiscal and monetary policy management. In
particular, it will focus on short-term workshops, such as macro-economic policy, budgeting, financial
programming and balance of payments. In addition, the Project would finance opportunities for officers to
undertake study visits in countries where success in economic policy management has been achieved.
d. Developing Insurance and Contractual Savings Reform and Regulation
19.   Assistance to the Commissioner of Insurance. The Government has taken measures to improve
the operation and regulation of the insurance sector through the recent passage of insurance legislation and
the establishment and staffing of an insurance commission. This Commission has been working to
improve the capital adequacy, solvency and efficiency of existing insurers, agents, brokers and adjusters in
the marketplace but has been limited by its own capacity and inadequate equipment. Continued support to
strengthen the capacity of the Commission, consistent with its institutional development plan, will be
provided.
20.   Developing and Strengthening Pension Regulation. Pensions in Uganda have been dominated by
mandatory contributions to the National Social Security Fund (NSSF), but also includes benefit program
pension funds with the Civil Service and local Governments, and privately-managed pension funds based
on voluntary contributions. To date, oversight of the NSSF has been administered by the Ministry of
Labour. However, no formal oversight mechanism is in place for private, voluntary pension funds and no
uniform minimum standards of performance, accountability and public recourse are applied to either
public and private funds. A series of studies will be undertaken to review the status of the existing system
and the possibility of reforms to it. These include: (i) a financial and managerial review of the NSSF; (ii)
a sector survey to determine the contribution requirements, benefit entitlements, age and income
distribution of all pension fund members and beneficiaries, public and private, mandatory and voluntary;



Uganda - Financial MarketsAssistance Project                                       Page 6
Project Appraisal Document -Main Text                                          May 7, 1999
(iii) a review of NSSF investment policy and procedures, including real estate investment; and (iv) the
drafting of legislation for a pensions oversight authority.
21.   Assistance to Capital Markets Development. Although the Government has established a Capital
Markets Authority (CMA) to oversee the Ugandan Stock Exchange, trading has been limited to a bond
recently issued by the East Africa Development Bank. Select public listing of positions in companies
being privatized is under consideration. This, as well as public offerings of privately held companies,
could expand the volume of issues on the market necessary to reach a critical mass. The CMA will
receive support in developing regulations under the Capital Markets Act, as well as training in developing
oversight procedures for the Authority.



Uganda - Financial Markets Assistance Project                                             Page 7
Project Appraisal Document - Main Text                                                May 7, 1999
C. Project Description Summary
(i) Project Components (See Annexes II and III for detailed descriptions and cost breakdowns)
Component                                     Category    Indicative   % of    Bank-    % Total
Cost     Total  financing    Bank-
(US$)             (US$)    financing
1.0  Strengthening the Regulation, Supervision and             3,200,000   22.3  2,680,000        20.6
Operations of Deposit-taking Institutions:
1.1  Resolution & Restructuring of State Banks   interim mgt.
(a) UCB Resolution - The Project, under the PPF,           230,000     1.6    230,000         1.8
provided  support to  UCB  to  finance  a
management contract of Louis Berger Associates,
which began under FSAC. The handover to the
new ownership was completed in March 1998.
(b) Assistance to NPART. The Project, under a policy/credit  1,450,000    10.1  1,190,000     9.2
PPF, financed an extension of the contract for discipline
consultants operating NPART for the period to
December 1997. The Project would finance an
additional extension from June to October 1999,
when its legal constitution projected to end plus
an additional year projected to be extended. This
will assist NPART to continue its process of
recovering loans of UCB, as well as recovering
loans under proposed legislation which would
transfer select loans to NPART by UDB.
1.2  Assistance to the BOU  Banking Supervision  Institution     940,000    6.6    768,500         5.9
Department  (BSD)  -  Commercial  Bank building
Supervision.    The  Project would  provide
systematic training of BSD bank examiners,
consistent with a planned work program for the
period 1999-2002 and increased sophistication of
off- and on-site examinations. Support would be
provided for: (i) in-house, hands-on training with
the support of external specialists; (ii) technical
advisory services for resolution and work-out of
problem banks, (iii) specialized courses in Africa
and abroad for senior examiners; (iv) special
audits to assist in improving on-site examination
quality (the first two audits were financed under
the PPF); and (v) support for the purchase of
laptop  computers and other equipment and
software to improve the efficiency of on- and off-
site examiners.



Uganda - Financial Markets Assistance Project                                            Page 8
Project Appraisal Document - Main Text                                               May 7, 1999
Component                                      Category   Indicative  % of    Bank-       % of
Cost (US$) Total   financing    Bank-
(US$)   financing
1.3  Assistance  to  the  BOU  Banking  Supervision  Policy       280,000    2.0    264,800       2.0
Department - Regulation of Non-bank Deposit-taking
Institutions. Under the PPF, the Project contracted an
advisor to assist in drafting amendments to the
Financial Institutions Statute to define the roles and
responsibilities of the BOU in regulating non-bank
deposit-taking institutions, including merchant banks,
some large micro-finance institutions and the Post
Office Savings Bank. Subsequent to the passage of
such  legislation, the Project would  support a
specialized advisor to draft implementing regulations
and provide hands-on training to examiners placed in
the non-bank examination unit.
1.4  Assistance to the Uganda Institute of Bankers (UIB) Institution    298,000    2.1    227,000  1.7
The Project would support upgrading a BOU facility building
provided to the UIB to establish a training facility, as
well as limiited funding for training courses to banks,
on a cost-recovery basis.
2.0  Restructuring and privatization of Uganda                  6,100,000   42.5  5,500,000       42.3
Commercial Bank Limited
2.1  Assistance to UCBL for a management contract, due   Institution   3,600,000   25.1  3,000,000  23.1
diligence, a transactions advisor and other    building
restructuring and privatization related services.
2.2  Severance Payments for redundant staff based on an   Institution   2,500,000   17.4  2,500,000  19.2
approved retrenchment policy.                  building
3.0  Improving Mon etary Management and Payment                 1,775,000   12.4  1,576,000       12.1
Systems:
3.1  Strengthening  Macro-economic  Programming  in  Institution    277,900  1.9   222,000         1.7
MoF. The Project would provide financing for building
targeted training including: (i) short courses biased
towards fiscal programmning and mechanisms to
strengthen    employment    generation    and
competitiveness; (ii) some study visits; and (c) some
computer equipment.
3.2  Strengthening BOU Monetary Management (BOU  Policy/        1,344,800    9.4  1,304,000       10.0
Research and Development Dept). The Project would  Institution
support: (i) short-term  twinning arrangements to  building
enable selected BOU Research Department staff to
work with other central banks which have had positive
experiences  in  confronting  monetary  policy
constraints similar to those found in Uganda; (ii)
financing of equipment and extemal consultants to
assist the BOU in developing suitable controls and
oversight  procedures  for  externally-managed
portfolios; (iii) development of an in-house training
program  for monetary  and  foreign  exchange
management and reducing market segmentation; and
(iv) support to complete Integrated Accounting
System.                                                                                          l



Uganda - Financial Markets Assistance Project                                             Page 9
Project Appraisal Document -Main Text                                                 May 7, 1999
3|3  Strengthening  Payment Systems.  A  multi-stage Institution   50,000     0.3     50,000        0.4
prograim to strengthen payment systems has been building
designed with support under the PPF and further
support for such program will be provided under the
Project.
4.0  Developing Insurance and Contractual Savings                1,240,000    8.6  1,214,400        9.3
Reform and Regulations:
4.1  Assistance to the Commissioner of Insurance. The  Policy/    370,000     2.6    344,000        2.6
Project will fmance equipment and training to  Institution
strengthen the capacity of the Commission to effect building
oversight and supervision of the insurance sector. It
would also support the drafting of legislation and
guidelines  so  as  to  effect a  more  precise
implementation of the Insurance Law.
4.2   Developing Pension Systems and Oversight. The  Policy/       710,000    4.9    710,000        5.5
Project would fmance a series of studies for Institution
Government and the population at large to adequately building
review the status of the existing system, review policy
options for changing or replacing existing institutions
and draft legislation for oversight, and develop
capacity to effect such oversight. In particular, the
Project would finance: (i) a financial audit of the
National Social Security Fund (NSSF); (ii) a sector
survey to determine the contribution requirements,
benefit entitlements, age and income distribution of all
pension fund members, public and private, mandatory
and voluntary; (iii) a review of real estate valuations
for NSSF and the principal private pension funds with
a view towards reviewing the impact of revised
investment guidelines; and (iv) the drafting of
legislation for an oversight authority for the pensions
sector.
4.3  Assistance  to  Capital  Markets  Development. Policy/        160,000    1.1    160,000        1.2
Assistance would be provided under the Project to the Institution
CMA in developing: (i) mechanisms for an investor building
compensation fund; (ii) accounting and fmancial
standards; and (iii) mechanisms for oversight of
collective investment schemes. The Project would
also provide assistance for select secondments and
attachments to broker/dealer institutions. Finally, the
Project would provide some finacing for public
education and promotion campaigns.
5.0  Project Implementation:
The Project will finance a Project Manager assigned to Project  680,000    4.7    680,000     5.2
the BOU to provide administrative support in the  manage-
____  implementation and coordination of the Project.  ment
6.0   Unallocated:                                               1,350,000    9.4  1,350,000       10.4
This includes two parts: (i) a reserve fund of
approxinately US$1.1 million to finance additional
due diligence, management contracts, audits and
receiverships as the need arises; and (ii) price
contingencies.
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                         14,350,000   100.0  13,000,000   100.0



Uganda - Financial Markets Assistance Project                                     Page 10
Project Appraisal Document - Main Text                                         May 7, 1999
(ii) Key Policy and Institutional Reforms to be Sought
22.   Although no formal conditionally would be included in the Project, several policy reforms will
be critical for the process of financial sector reform proposed under the Project. These are:
* Drafting and enactment of amendments to the Financial Institutions Statute;
* Drafting and issuance of implementing prudential regulations for financial institutions including
higher minimum capital requirements;
* Drafting and enactment of amendments to the NPART Law enabling the addition of portfolios of
UDB to be recovered by NPART;
. Drafting and enactment of legislation providing for operative guidelines and oversight of the
pension industry, including the NSSF; and
+ Drafting and enactrnent of implementing regulations under the Capital Markets Statute.
(iii) Benefits and Target Population
23.    The Project is expected to strengthen sector regulatory institutions thus reducing the risks to
depositors' funds. Reinforcing the financial infrastructure and increasing competition will help improve
domestic resource mobilization and make financial intermediation more effective. By supporting
NPART, a clear message will be sent to the population that obligations of financial contracts should be
respected by all persons regardless of their economical or political standing. This should translate into
lower financial intermediation costs which would ultimately be passed on to the private investor. By
supporting the efforts of the Uganda Institute of Bankers (on a cost sharing/recovery basis), the standards
of professional bankers are expected to increase. The NSSF affects the population as a whole through: (i)
its potential financial impact on the economy as its funds can be transferred into viable investments; and
(ii) its impact on the labor market because of mandatory contributions.
(iv) Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
Implementation Period:     Four years, September 1999 to September 2003
Executing Agencies:        BOU, MoF, UIB, Commissioner of Insurance and CMA
24.   Project Execution and Coordination. Overall responsibility for the implementation and
coordination of the Project will be entrusted to an already existing (para. 41) Project Implementation Unit
(PIU), under the purview of the BOU. The PIU will have the responsibility for ensuring policy
consistency across beneficiaries of the Project, coordinating implementation and ensuring adequate
financial management (procurement, disbursement, accounting and audit) and general administration
(monitoring the implementation plan and reporting). Each project component would be implemented by a
designated agency and responsible individual accountable for the execution of project activities and timely
delivery of outputs as defined and agreed under the Project Implementation Plan (PIP) which will be
finalized and adopted prior to credit effectiveness.
25.   The PIU would provide procurement support to each of the implementing agencies and liaise
closely with the designated counterpart of each. The Project Manager would: (i) prepare and update the
procurement plan for the Project; (ii) monitor procurement; and (iii) assist the implementing agencies in
the preparation of bidding documents and advertisements for goods and works contracts, requests for
proposals for consulting assignments, bid opening and evaluation. The Project Manager would also
advise the implementing agencies on procedural matters, and provide support as needed for the
procurement of goods and services, disbursement and other financial services.



Uganda - Financial Markets Assistance Project                                  Page 11
Project Appraisal Document -Main Text                                       May 7, 1999
26.   Consultants, contractors and suppliers would be selected in accordance with Bank guidelines, on
the basis of proven experience. In line with the Bank's Africa Regional guidelines local consultants will
be used wherever possible. Where foreign consultants are used for lack of requisite local skills, special
attention will be given to promoting and strengthening local capacity through skills transfer. Each
beneficiary would, therefore, appoint counterparts who would work closely with the advisor and make
adequate preparations before the arrival of the each advisor to ensure the effective utilization of his/her
services.
27.   The GOU would open and maintain a Project account in Ugandan Shillings and a Special Account
in US dollars to be held in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. It would make
an initial deposit into the shilling account in an amount equivalent to US$ 100,000 to finance
Government's contribution to the Project. Furthermore, it would deposit into the shilling account on a
monthly basis, any amounts which will be required to the Project Account to the amount of US$200,000
equivalent or such greater amount as may be required to meet expenditures for the Project until the end of
the Project.
28.   Accounting, Financial Reporting and Auditing Arrangements. Responsibility for accounts
management would be assigned to the Project Manager, under the auspices of the BOU. The Project
Manager would maintain accounting records (project activities, resources, expenditures and net position)
in accordance with international accounting standards and practices. Financial management Guidelines
and a computerized accounting and assets management system has been prepared., maintained and is in
use. A local private accounting firm (or individual accountant), acceptable to IDA, would provide support
to the Project Manager on an "as needed" basis.
29.   The Project Manager, with each implementing agency, would update procurement schedules and
provide reports on related activities to ensure compliance with IDA requirements. Agreement has been
reached with the Borrower on the standard processing procedures for procurement of works (renovations),
goods and consultant services. During negotiations, agreement will be reached on the following points:
* All project accounts, the Special Account, and Statements of Expenditure (SOE) would be audited
at the end of each fiscal year (June) by an independent external auditor acceptable to IDA,
consistent with International Auditing standards (IAS) and Generally Accepted Accounting
Principles (GAAP);
* to provide IDA with an audit report for the fiscal year in question, certified by the auditors, no later
than six months after the end of each fiscal year;
* to provide IDA with any other information regarding the Project's accotnts and audit it may
request from time to time; and
* IDA would be provided with the external audit of BOU and NPART.
30.   Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements. Quarterly progress reports, prepared on the basis of
the project implementation plan (PIP) and the logical framework (Annex 1) would be provided by each
beneficiary agency to IDA, through the PIU. Semi-annual Project reviews would be conducted jointly by
IDA and GOU, with each implementing agency to review the performance of each component, including
the status of procurement and disbursement. A joint IDA-GOU mid-term review would monitor the
achievement of project objectives, overall project execution, key project activities, project implementation
schedule, and supervision plans. It will also identify obstacles to the achievement of project objectives
and recommend remedial measures. Following Project completion, scheduled for December 2002,an
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) would be prepared jointly by IDA and GOU.



Uganda - Financial Markets Assistance Project                                      Page 12
Project Appraisal Document -Main Text                                           May 7, 1999
D: Project Rationale
(i) Project Alternatives Considered and Reasons for Rejection
31.   Capacity building operations are, by and large, technical assistance and training operations. As
such, project alternatives are usually reflected in the scope of the project and the sequencing of
implementation. The proposed Project is no exception. In deciding on the scope and the content of the
Project, the Task Team has been guided by a few main criteria, namely the need to address high priority
capacity building requirements, synergies between Project components, the contribution that IDA can
make in terms of substance and/or filling a financing gap, the role that Bank assistance plays vis-a-vis
other donors and whether Bank assistance completes rather than substitutes for other donor funding.
32.   The initial scope of the proposed Project was focused on a hybrid operation of adjustment lending
with technical assistance support. The Government of Uganda, after careful consideration, felt that it
should further develop reforms initiated under the FSAC and SAC III. In addition, after a detailed review,
it was noted that SAC III did not have corresponding technical assistance which would enable a smooth
and successful implementation. Most important, in order to ensure clear focus, a number of proposed
interventions were eliminated from the scope of the Project.
(ii) Major related projects financed by IDA and/or other development agencies
Sector issue                       Project                  Latest Form 590 Ratings
(completed, ongoing and planned)       IP          DO
Bank-financed
Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (FSAC)    S            S
Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC III)       S            S
Enterprise Development Project               S            S
Economic and Financial Management Project    S            S
Institutional Capacity Building Project      S            S
Private Sector Competitiveness Project       S            S
Other development agencies
USAID                    Credit Information System
GTZ                      Capital Markets Authority, Uganda Stock
Exchange, Payments Systems (BOU) and Micro
finance Regulation
(iii) Lessons Learned and Reflected in Proposed Project Design
33.   Institutional capacity building often takes more time to develop than originally estimated and
therefore more time should be allowed for consensus-building and learning from mistakes. In particular
the Project should have:
* Simplicity of design and quick response. The design of Project components was kept as simple as
possible and will be based on well targeted objectives; well defined actions with timetables for
implementation; and clear evaluation criteria with monitorable indicators. The scope and design of
the program should be realistic and take into account the existing local conditions, including
availability of skills. The design should allow for some flexibility to cater for the changing
condition in the country during implementation.
* Compatibility with both the political realities and institutional absorptive capacity of the



Uganda - Financial Markets Assistance Project                                    Page 13
Project Appraisal Document - Main Text                                        May 7, 1999
Government agencies that are beneficiaries of the Project and a realistic assessment of their
capacity to implement the Project. Institution and capacity building is a time consuming task.
Sufficient time, therefore, has been allowed for consensus-building and leaming from mistakes.
Rather than create new structures, the Project will rely on strengthening existing structures and
agencies that have a justified mission and work program.
Stakeholder involvement in the design and execution of the project; and local expertise.
Experience has shown that local ownership of reform programs leads to more effective programs
and ownership usually increases if there is local participation in program design. Wherever
possible, the procurement of goods and services, including Consultants, will encourage local
participation.
(iv) Indications of Borrower Commitment and Ownership
34.   The Government has requested continued IDA support of its ongoing effort;s in financial sector
development. The Project would build upon those efforts already made by the FSAC which closed in
June 1997 and will support those reforms which will be undertaken under the SAC III of May 1997. The
Government has maintained a stable macro-economic framework and has adopted the Bank of Uganda
Statute (1993), which established the Central Bank as the authority to formulate and implement monetary
policy and the Financial Institutions Statute (1993) which has provided the basis for prudential banking
supervision. Two commercial banks have been restructured and recapitalized and NE'ART has been given
the authority through special legislation to collect on non-performing loans from UJCB. In September
1998, the BOU intervened and closed three banks, and established clear prudential targets and monitoring
for a fourth institution found to have notable prudential deficiencies. Subsequently., two banks were re-
opened and in April 1999 the fourth bank was closed down.
(v) Value Added of Bank Support in this Project
35.   IDA offers both financial sector expertise and has played an important role in Uganda's financial
market reform measures since 1993. IDA has already invested significant resources in support of
Government's efforts. For the reforms to be sustainable, institution building must be a systematic and
continuing process.
E. Issues Requiring Special Attention
36.   Issues warranting special attention are:
* enforcement of prudential regulations of financial institutions and sanctioning of non-compliance;
* restructuring and workout of problem banks,
* careful monitoring of several banks;
* raising minimum capital requirements for commercial banks;
* enforcement of prudential regulations for insurance companies; and
* remedying noted financial management deficiencies in the NSSF and developing a broader strategy
for social security and pension reforms.
(i) Economic Assessment
37.   It is virtually impossible to quantify the expected economic returns to a technical assistance
operation of this nature. However, given the noted critical importance of efficient financial intermediation
to growth and very low level of domestic savings in Uganda, it is expected that the economic benefits of



Uganda - Financial Markets Assistance Project                                     Page 14
Project Appraisal Document - Main Text                                         May 7, 1999
potentially increasing the level of savings and the efficiency of transforming such savings to productive
investment will far outweigh the financial costs.
38.   Project costs are expected to be: (i) direct costs of US$ 13.0 million to be repaid to IDA (plus
interest over the life of the loan); (ii) direct costs by Government of US$ 1.35 million; and (iii) indirect
costs associated with further financial sector restructuring.
39.   Project benefits are expected to be: (i) increased savings mobilized short-term through banks and
non-bank deposit-taking institutions and mobilized medium- and long-term through contractual savings
institutions; (ii) increased efficiency of intermediation in the banking sector as measured by reduced
operational costs and spreads; and (iii) increased solvency and efficiency of contractual savings
institutions including pension funds and insurance companies.
(ii) Technical Assessment
40.   The Project is technically sound and consistent with the CAS agenda of developing a regulated
and diversified financial sector. The Project has been designed in such a way as to balance breadth and
focus. Support to multiple units has been grouped into the three project components. The following
factors were taken into consideration in designing the specific technical interventions: (i) capacity
building should only exist in the context of a well-considered and articulated business plan, such that the
support reinforces the objectives of capacity development of the individual unit. Further, monitoring
indicators for the Project are consistent with the indicators of the units' customized development program;
(ii) proposed training has tried to leverage the use of foreign experts coming to Uganda; (iii) overseas
training has been largely limited to secondments and attachments; and (iv) the technical specifications of
equipment to be procured seeks to provide flexibility for later upgrading so as to increase the period of
equipment use.
(iii) Institutional Assessment
41.   Executing Agencies: The BOU will have overall responsibility for implementing the Project.
The Project will be executed by a PIU located in the BOU, staffed with qualified personnel. Each
counterpart agency will also be expected to have strong ownership for its program and have a designated
individual responsible. Beneficiaries include: MoF, BOU, UCBL, Insurance Commission, CMA and
UIB.
42.   Project Management: The PIU will include staff who implemented the previous FSAC in close
cooperation with IDA and are familiar with IDA procedures. This capacity will be reviewed throughout
the tenure of the Project.
(iv) Financial Management Assessment
43.     Overall responsibility for the financial management lies with the Project Implementation Unit in
the BOU. The framework within which the same responsibilities were discharged under the FSAC is still
in place and a review of its financial covenants indicate that they have been respected. The FIMAP shares
certain implementational aspects with FSAC and therefore the framework is still functional. The
accounting system is computer based and runs on a DOS software called Money Program.
44.   Based on the assessment of the above financial system by the Financial Management Specialist,
the system and accompanying staff are capable of producing timely and accurate information required in
the production of financial reports to satisfy the requirements under BP 10.02. An accountant will be



Uganda - Financial Markets Assistance Project                                        Page 15
Project Appraisal Document-Main Text                                             May 7, 1999
hired on an "as needed" basis and an auditor will be hired prior to Project effectiveness.
45.    Within a year, following effectiveness, further assessment will carried out to detennine whether
the Project could comply with the requirements for LACI type disbursements and reporting.
(v) Social Assessment
46.    Although this Project does not entail interventions targeted at specific social groups, it can have a
disproportionate impact on low income groups as follows: (i) small depositors in the- banking system can
be disproportionately at risk due to institutional insolvency or fraud because they are unable, under
existing conditions, to adequately discern the risk of the banks in which they have deposits. The hope is
that through improved supervision, small depositors can exert better choices in savings decisions and, in
addition, efficiency gains can result in improved service and coverage. Indeed, periodic illiquidity,
particularly in remote branches has often left depositors without access to their fun,ds to date; (ii) NSSF
reforms and oversight of private pension funds will have significant implications for the ability of low
income retirees to maintain an income in retirement in a reasonable proportion to that during their
worklife; and (iii) poor regulation and supervision of insurance companies has, to date, resulted in low
income groups disproportionately vulnerable to risks because they are unable to get adequate coverage,
the company defrauds the customer of benefits entitled to, or inefficiency results in added costs or reduced
coverage or both.
(vi) Environmental Assessment
a. Environmental issues: none
b. Environmental category:  [      A       []     B      [X1    C
c. JustificationlRationale for category rating: This is a technical assistance project for the financial
sector which will not have any direct or indirect environmental impact.
d. Status of any other environmental studies:    not applicable
e. Resettlement:            There are no resettlement issues from this project
(vii) Participatory Approach
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups: BOU, UCBL, Commissioner of Insurance,
CMA, UIB, MoF, financial institutions, insurance companies, brokerage houses, pension funds
and private businesses.
47.    The following are primary beneficiaries receiving direct support from the Project and have
actively participating in the development of work programs, including project objectives, assistance
requirements, budgets, timetables and performance indicators.
. Bank of Uganda will be a primary beneficiary. Support will be received to strengthen the
regulation and supervision of deposit-taking institutions.
* Uganda Commercial Bank Limited will benefit from comprehensive support for restructuring
following the collapse of the previous privatization effort, and for a re-privatization of the bank.
* The Commissioner of Insurance will receive direct support to improve the regulation and
supervision of the insurance sector.
. Capital Markets Authority will receive assistance to develop regulations under the Capita
Markets Act, as well as training in developing oversight procedures for the Authority.
* UIB will be provided a refurbished training center (partially financed by the credit) by BOU
which will enable them to have a focal point for the distribution financial sector information



Uganda - Financial Markets Assistance Project                                           Page 16
Project Appraisal Document -Main Text                                                May 7, 1999
and training programs.
MoF has an overall interest to the development of financial sector as it interacts with fiscal
management (NPART collections, payments systems, etc.).
48.    The following beneficiaries are indirectly affected through the actions of those institutions above
through regulation and supervision: commercial banks, other deposit-taking institutions, insurance
companies, brokerage houses and private businesses. They were consulted to ascertain their ideas on the
requirements of the sector for development.
b. Other key stakeholders: Most bilateral donors were consulted during project preparation,
including the private sector/finance development donors group. USAID was consulted with
respect to its proposed funding of a credit information system. Moreover, GTZ was consulted
with respect to the funding of an expatriate who will work with the Uganda Stock Exchange.
F. Sustainability and Risks
(i) Sustainability
49.    This Project supports a process that is aimed at achieving a sustainable result, namely a prudent
and efficient financial system. Such sustainability will depend ultimately on the ability of regulators to
oversee prudent risk-taking and institutionalize such a process, as well as sustainable macro-economic
policies which can shield Uganda from severe economic turbulence.
(ii) Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1)
Risk                  Risk Rating            Risk Minimization Measure
BOU strengthens supervisory capacity  Moderate   IMF PFP benchmarks and Project monitoring
but undertakes limited enforcement of              indicators link new commitments to enforcement of
prudential regulations.                            regulations.
GOU does not remain committed to                  Maintain constructual dialogue. Bank advice on
UCBL                                               systematic resolution of problem bank continues to
- restructing                           Low       be implemented ak.a. closure of Greenland Bank,
- privatization                       Moderate    April 1, 1999.
High staff turmover in Regulatory     Substantial   BOU management encouraged not to rotate staff and
Agencies.                                         maintain competitive salanies.
Budget is insufficient to purchase       Low       Counterpart fuids will be deposited in advance.
necessary equipment                                Annual disbursements are dependent upon the
submission of budgets and procurement plans.
Legislation for extension of NPART and  Moderate   Legislation will be going to Parliament this year.
transferring UDB loans is not adopted
Overall Risk Rating          Moderate
(iii) Possible Controversial Aspects
50.    Two possible sources of controversy have been identified. The first is that rigorous application of
prudential regulations could adversely impact a number of financial institutions, including some with



Uganda - Financial Markets Assistance Project                                      Page 17
Project Appraisal Document - Main Text                                          May 7, 1999
vested interests. The second is that remedying deficiencies in the NSSF could lead to further public
disappointment in light of exposed weaknesses. To address the first issue, the Project dialog has focused
on the tremendous economic costs and risks to average Ugandans of not adequately safeguarding
depositors' funds. The second issue will be addressed by ensuring that any social security and pension
reform program that will be considered will be selected on the basis of extensive assessment and
widespread public consultation.
G. Main Loan Conditions
Effectiveness Conditions
* Completion of the testing and installation of a Bank of Uganda Integrated Accounting System
(IAS);
* Submission of a list of designated counterpart staff for the PIU, BOU, Insurance Commission,
MoF, NPART, UIB and CMA;
* GOU will deposit the first tranche (September 1999 - March 2000) of the counterpart funds
equivalent to US$ 100,000;
+ Government formally adopts the Project Inplementation Plan;
+ GOU will hire an auditor satisfactory to IDA.
H. Readiness for Implementation
51.    GOU will have prepared the procurement documents for the first year's activities prior to
negotiations. In addition, GOU has prepared and will adopt the Project Implementation Plan as a Board
condition.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
52.    This Project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Task Team Leader: Mark Dorfinan
Acting Sector Manager: Paul Murgatroyd
Country Director: James W. Adams



Uganda - Financial Markets Assistance Project                                                        Page 18
Project Appraisal Document - Annex I: Project Design Summary                                     May 7, 1999
Annex I: Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary         I   Performance Indicators       Monitoring &           Assumptions/
Supervision              Risks
L. CAS Objectives:
Strengthen bank and NBFI        * Privatization of UCB or     Via SAC III and  0 Government remains
supervision and improve           implementation of back-up    FvIMAP           committed to economic and
management (include. some         plan;                       supervision       fnancial reforms; and
privatization) of provident and  + Collect at least Ush. 25 billion  missions.  0 Continued political stability
pension funds and the insurance    of non-performing loans of                    facilitates legal enforcement.
industry                           UCB; and
* Banks are supervised (on and
off-site) on a regular basis.
IL Project Development Objectives:       Impact/Outcomes
Improve the soundness and       + Off-site reporting and on-site   * Bank of   o Sound Government policies
performance of the financial      inspections provide evidence   Uganda Off-    continue;
system                            of improved safety and         site reporting   0 Macroeconomic situation
soundness of financial        summaries;     remains stable;
institutions; and                           0 BOU acts decisively to
. Bank of         enforce prudential regulations
* Sufficient financial institution  Uganda on-  and to intervene
profitability to result in    site            appropriately in problem
positive real rates of return on    examination  institutions;
equity after tax during the   reports.      0 Deposit-taking institutions
implementation period and                    take measures to improve
increases in rates of return                  fmnancial management safety
from 1999 to 2003.                            and soundness;
0 Insurance companies take
measures to improve|
fnancial management safety
and soundness;
0 Successful implementation of
other projects which either
directly or indirectly impact
the financial sector (SAC III
and IMF ESAF Programme).



Uganda - Financial Markets Assistance Project                                                       Page 19
ProjectAppraisal Document -Annex I: Project Design Summary                                      May 7, 1999
Annex I: Project Design Summary (Cont.)
Monitoring &
I   m. Project Outputs        Measurements/Indicators        Supervision          Assumptions/
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   risks
1.0 Strengthening the Regulation,                                                   o (IOU remains
Supervision and Operations of                                                       committed to fmancial
Deposit-taking Institutions:                                                       sector reform
1.2 BOU will have improved the    * Evidence which suggests that all * BOU reports.  o Staff turnover remains
institutional capacity of the    incidents of lack of compliance                   low and budget remains
Department of Banking            with prudential regulations                       sufficient to purchase
Supervision - commercial banks   identified in on-site                             necessary equipment.
examinations are noted,
remedial actions prescribed,
actions are verified within 90
days and, as necessary sanctions
are imposed by BOU.
l  Institutions identified as  * Supervision      o ]3anks adhere to
unsatisfactory according to   mission reports;    recommendations made
BOU off-site criteria will have  and              by Consultant.
follow-up actions taken within   * BOU supervision  o BOU has skills to
30 days.                      reports.            implement effectively.
1.3 BOU will have improved the    + Separate NBFI regulatory and    * BOU Board
institutional capacity of the    supervision unit is created by  Resolution;
Department of Banking             June 1998 (done).           * Organizational
Supervision - NBFI                                              chart;-
* Supervision
mission reports.
+ Amendments to the Financial    * Copy of enacted
Institutions Statute defining the    Legislation
roles and responsibilities of the
BOU in regulating non-bank
deposit-taking institutions
including fnance companies,
merchant banks, the Post Office
Savings Bank and Building
Societies have been drafted,
enacted, assented to and
implemented by Sept. 1999.
* Implementation of regulations to  * Copy of issued
provide for the monitoring of  Regulations
select non-deposit taking
institutions by July 2000.
* 60% of NBFIs will adhere to the  * BOU reports
prudent regulations by Dec.
2000.



Uganda - Financial Markets Assistance Project                                                       Page 20
Project Appraisal Document - Annex I: Project Design Summary                                    May 7, 1999
Annex I: Project Design Summary (Cont.)
Monitoring &
m. Project Outputs          Measurements/Indicators          Supervision          Assumptions/
risks
1.4 NPART will have collected    * NPART will collect Ush 25  - Financial reports
non-performing loans.         billion as per conditions in
SAC III floating tranche.
1.5 Uganda Institute of Bankers   * Institute has successfully  * Training evaluation
will have been operational    graduated 20 certified bankers  * Financial statements
with a regular training       in 1999 and 30 in 2000.
program (done).
* Institute's profitability ratio
(operating revenue/expenses)
has become positive, at the
same time reducing the ratio of
subsidy provided by the
commercial banks. By
March,2000
2. 0 Restructuring and Privatizing                                                  o Clean transaction;
UCBL                                                                                o Buyers meet
prudential
2.1 UCBL will have been        Positive and growing ROA      Financial Statements/    requirements,
restructured and privatized                               BOU supervision           including "Fit and
Signed sales agreement and    reports.                 Proper Test"'.
successful transfer of ownership                     o Receipt of full
by March, 2000.                                        amount of purchase
price; and
o Installation of new
management, as
approved by BOU.
3.0 The Monetary Management
and Payment Systems will be
strengthened
3.1 Research & Development     * Interest rate transmission.  * BOU documentation   o Political
Dept. will have been          50% increase in secondary   * Discussions with       interference
strengthened                  market trading in T-bills by  BOU and MoF            prevents adequate
Sept. 2000.                                          monetary policy
3.2 Payments System will have    * New payments system agreed   * Discussions with
been made more efficient      by December 1999.             fnancial institutions
New reserves management plan
implemented by June 2000.
4.0 Development of Insurance    * All insurance companies will
and Contractual Savings         meet minimal capital
Reform and Regulations          guidelines by December 1999
or be delicensed from writing
new business (done).
4.1 Insurance Regulation has
been strengthened
* Solvency margin guidelines  * Issuance of          o Noncompliance
will have been designed and   guidelines;            will be sanctioned
implemented by December,    * Submission of
2000.                        returns;
* Application of off-site



Uganda - Financial Markets Assistance Project                                                       Page 21
Project Appraisal Document -Annex I: Project Design Summary                                     May 7, 1999
and select on-site
evaluations; and
* Issuance of notices to
institutions found in
violation.
* Financial reporting and     - Issuance of
disclosure guidelines will have    guidelines;
been designed and           * Submission of
implemented.                 retums;
* Application of off-site
and select on-site
evaluations; and
* Issuance of first
statistical bulletin.
4.2 Pension System histitutions    * NSSF reform process: (a) in-   * Final reports
will have been reformed,      depth needs assessment will be
remodeled system designed,    completed by February 1999;
and oversight established.    (b) recommendations will be
discussed by Government by
April 1999; (c) action plan will
be developed by June 1999;
and (d) work will begin by
December 2000.
* NSSF will submit to BOU (or   - Investment Plan
MoF) an acceptable investment
policy and procedures by June
1999.
4.3 Capital Markets Authority  * Oversight procedures will be   * Adopted legislation     Securities are
wil be operational            in place by June 1999.                               available in the
marketplace to trade;
and
I CMA has sufficient
budget to operate



Uganda - Financial Markets Assistance Project                                                        Page 22
Project Appraisal Document-Annex I: Project Design Summary                                        May 7, 1999
Annex I: Project Design Summary (Cont.)
IV. Project Components                  Inputs/      Means of                Risks/Assumptions
Resources   Verification
1.0 Strengthening Regulation, Supervision  3,200,000
and Operations of Deposit-taking
Institutions
1. I Consultant services for UCB (PPF)   230,000 * Services      0 Procurement guidelines are met
Completed.
1.2 Consultant services for NPART      1,450,000 * Consultant    o Don't collect loans and/or sell properties
contracts -
reports,
Supervision
reports
1.3 Consultant services for special audits  500,000              o BOU doesn't go out on audits
0 BOU doesn't take action
1.4 Assistance to BSD                                            0 Turnover rate for trained staff is maintained at
a minimum level
0 BOU enforces the regulations
1.4.1 Training: Extemal                  100,000 * Terms of      o Training is appropriately designed and it can
Reference,      be applied
Course
Materials;
Evaluations
1.4.2 Training: In-house                 330,000  Terms of       o Correct persons are trained
Reference,
Course
Materials;
Evaluations
1.4.2 Equipment                           10,000 * Equipment     O Equipment is fully utilized and properly
specifications,   maintained
price quotations,
receipts,
physical
verification.
1.5 Assistance to NBFI Dept                                      0 Laws are properly drafted and on time



Uganda - Financial Markets Assistance Project                                                     Page 23
Project Appraisal Document -Annex I: ProjectDesign Summary                                     May 7, 1999
Annex I: Project Design Summary (Cont.)
|IV. Project Components                Inputs/     Means of                RiskslAss umptions
Resources   Verification
1.5.1 Consultant services               260,000 * Consultant
contracts -
reports,
Supervision
reports
1.5.2 Equipment                          20,000 * Equipment
specifications,
price quotations,
receipts,
physical
verification.
1.6 Equipment & Resources for UIB       300,000 * Equipment
specifications,
price quotations,
receipts,
physical
verification.
2. 0 Restructuring and Privatization of  6,100,000
UCBL
2.1 Management Contract                1,920,000 Award of contract Government is willing to restructive and
l 2.2 Due Diligence                     480,000 Compliance with privatize expeditiously.
2.2l Due Diligence                      480,000 prudential
2.3 Transactions Advisor               1,200,000 regulations
2.4 Severance Payments                2,500,000 investor                                                l
memorandum.
Adoption and
implementation of
retrenchment
strategy
3.0 Improving Monetary Mgmt & Payment 1,780,000
Systems
3.1 Strengthening BOU monetary
management
3.1.1 consultants                       900,000 * Consultant
contracts -
reports,
Supervision
reports
3.1.2 training: attachments             100,000 * Terms of
Reference,
Course
Materials;
Evaluations
3.1.3 training: in-house                 50,000 * Terms of
Reference,
Course
Materials,
Evaluations
3.1.4 Equipment and software            400,000 * Equipment
specifications,
price quotations,
receipts,



Uganda - Financial Markets Assistance Project                                                        Page 24
Project Appraisal Document - Annex I: Project Design Summary                                      May 7, 1999
physical
verification.
3.2 Strengthening MoF Macro-economic
Policy Dept
3.2.1 Training: study visits abroad      240,000 * Terms of
Reference,
Course
Materials,
Evaluations
3.2.2 Equipment                           40,000 * Equipment
specifications,
price quotations,
receipts,
physical
verification
3.3 Payment Systems
3.3.1 Consultant*                         50,000 * Consultant    *  BOUwillactonrecommendations
contracts -   *   Coordination with other donors
reports,
Supervision
________________________________  ________reports    _____________________



Uganda - Financial Markets Assistance Project                                                                        Page 25
Project Appraisal Document -Annex I: Project Design Summary                                                      May 7, 1999
Annex I: Project Design Summary (Cont.)
|IV. Project ColoebInputs/                                    Means Of                     Risks/Assunmptions
Resources     Verification
3.3 Payment Systems
3.3.1 Consultant*                                 50,000 * Consultant       O BOU will act on recommendations
contracts - reports, 0 Coordination with other donors
Supervision
reports
4.0 Developing Contractual Saving Reform&      1,240,000
Regulation
4.1 Uganda Insurance Commission
4.1.1 Goods                                       50,000 Equipment          0 Enforcement of prudential regulations according to
specifications, price   strategy
quotations, receipts,
physical verification.
4.1.2 Training & Workshops                       120,000 Terms of Reference,
Course Materials,
Evaluations
4.1.3 Consultants                                200,000 Consultant contracts
- reports,
Supervision reports
4.2 CMA
4.2.1 Consultants for Develop of rules, reg. &    70,000 Consultant contracts
olicies                                                - reports,
Supervision reports
4.2.2 Staff training & development                32,000 Terms of Reference,
Course Materials,
Evaluations
4.2.3 Workshops                                   58,000 Tenms of Reference,
Course Materials
.3 NSSF
4.3.1 Consultants for audits and                 710,000 Consultant contracts
studies/legislation, etc.                               - reports,
Supervision reports
5.0 Project Management                           680,000
5.1 Project Manager*                             580,000 Quarterly reports  * Manager is trained
5.2. Asst Coordinator*                            18,000                    * GOU Administrative capacity will be sufficient to
undertake coordination and implementation
5.3 Audits & Administration                       82,000 Audit reports      * Accounting system is n place and correctly
maintained.
6.0 Unaltocated                                1,350,000                                                                    l
TOTAL                                         14,350,000                   I



Uganda - Financial Markets Assistance Project                                     Page 26
Project Appraisal Document - Annex LI: Project Description                     May 7, 1999
Annex II: Project Description
Overview
1.    The Project's development objective is to help Government improve the soundness, performance
and competitiveness of the financial system. More specifically, the Project would seek to support a
second stage of financial sector reform, the first stage having been supported under the FSAC and the
Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC III). Such a stage entails the further elaboration of regulation of
deposit-taking institutions, as well as strengthening oversight of insurance and contractual savings
institutions. This is then aimed at supporting broad-based private sector growth. To maintain focus on
the development of the financial sector, three issues would be targeted: (i) strengthening the regulation,
supervision and operations of deposit-taking institutions; (ii) improving monetary management and
payment systems; and (iii) developing insurance and contractual savings institutions and their oversight.
Component 1 - Strengthening the Regulation, Supervision and Operations of Deposit-taking
Institutions: US$ 3.2 Million
2.    UCB Resolution. The Project has, through a PPF, financed the management contract of Louis
Berger Associates which operated UCB until its handover to the first private owners was completed in
March 1998.
3.    Commercial Bank Supervision. Since 1993, the Government of Uganda has been implementing
measures to strengthen the regulation and supervision of commercial banks, including the passage of an
updated Financial Institutions Statute and the training of bank examiners. A systematic training program
of BSD bank examiners, consistent with a planned work program for the period 1999-2002 and growth in
the sophistication of off- and on-site examinations has been developed and will be implemented under the
Project. In particular, the Project would finance: (i) an advisor, to work with BSD staff on the work-out
and resolution of problem banks in the financial sector; (ii) focused extemal training and twinning
arrangements working with regulatory agencies in other countries; (iii) specialized bank examinations
conducted by extemal accounting finns, to support BOU in its supervision efforts, by conducting a
customized analysis of a few targeted banks; and (iv) the purchase of laptop computers, as well as other
selected equipment, to improve the efficiency of on-site examiners.
4.    Non-bank Deposit-taking Institutions. The Government and BOU began, in mid-1997, to
undertake measures to strengthen the regulation and supervision of non-bank deposit-taking institutions.
Measures, initiated under the PPF have and will continue to support, an advisor to assist in the drafting of
legislation to define the roles and responsibilities of the BOU in regulating non-bank deposit-taking
institutions, including merchant banks, some large micro-finance institutions and the Post Office Savings
Bank. Subsequent to the passage of such legislation, the Project would support a specialized advisor to
draft implementing regulations and provide hands-on training to examiners in the non-bank examination
unit. The Project would also finance a consultant to review regulations for the monitoring of select non-
bank deposit-taking institutions.
5.    Assistance to the Non-Performing Assets Recovery Trust (NPART). Since 1995, Government has
been engaged in an active recovery process of non-performing loans transferred from the Uganda
Commercial Bank (UCB) for collection by NPART. As of December 31, 1998, NPART has collected
15.3 billion Uganda shillings (approximately US$ 11 million). The ratio of costs to loan collection-has
been approximately 13%. The Project would finance a contract for consultants to operate NPART for a
36-month period, January 1999 to December 2001. This will assist NPART to continue its process of
recovering loans of UCB, as well as recovering loans under proposed legislation which would transfer



Uganda - Financial Markets Assistance Project                                      Page 27
Project Appraisal Document - Annex II: Project Description                      May 7, 1999
select loans to NPART by the Uganda Development Bank (UDB). It is expected that the process of loan
recovery would enhance credit discipline in the banking system as well as expedite recovery of previously
non-performing loans in these three institutions.
6.    Assistance to the Uganda Institute of Bankers (UIB). UIB's role in facilitating training programs
for staff of commercial banks has become increasingly important to reinforce prudential regulations and
supervision by the BOU. The Project would support the partial refurbishing of the training center, in
addition to some equipment and training materials.
Component 2- Restructuring and Privatization of UCBL: US$3.6 Million
7.    Restructuring and Privatization of Uganda Commercial Bank Limited (UCBL). A previous
attempt to privatize UCBL collapsed when the new owners engaged in extensive lending to related parties
in relationship with the now-closed Greenland Bank. As first step in the workout olfthe bank, the project
will finance a management contract with associated technical assistance support services to permit the
restructuring of the bank's operations in preparation for re-privatization. It is anticipated that there will be
a need to make a significant number of redundancies as part of this process and so the project has included
a facility for financing those costs. In addition, resources will be made available under the project to
finance technical services in support of the new privatization process.
Component 3 - Improving Monetary Management and Payment Systems: US$ 1.5 Million
8.    Strengthening BOU Monetary Management. Significant measures have already been taken to
improve reserve and monetary management. As a result of training and other capacity building efforts
during the past three years, BOU increased its capacity to manage liquidity and the impact of improved
monetary control is emerging slowly. Deposit and lending rates are market-determined and interest rate
spreads have narrowed slightly, a result of both banking sector reforms as well as the increased
competition in the sector.  Further measures, however, are needed to improve the transmission
mechanisms for monetary policy. The Project provided financial support,under the PPF, for operations
and research advisors to furnish hands-on training in money management and development of techniques
necessary to facilitate trading of treasury bills on the secondary market. The Project would also support a
capital account resident advisor, as well as external advisory support on reserve management and
computer equipment and software. Short-term twinning arrangements will also be sought.
9.    Strengthening BOU Reserve Management. This subcomponent would enable BOU to enhance its
internal reserves management operations at two key levels: (a) the introduction of effective investment
systems to support the investment activity; and (b) the strengthening of intemal portfolio management
operations, skills and oversight policies. In particular, the Project would finance: (i) investment systems
and software purchases; and (ii) advisory services which would be provided in four sequential phases to:
Module 1: Review the current status of intemal operations to determine areas of needed reform
including: systems architecture (information requirements, processing requirements, and needed
operational controls and oversight), investment policy framework (risk control parameters, investment
strategy, asset-liability management framework, investment benchmark structLre), and, professional
skills gap analysis (portfolio management, administrative, investment process).
Module 2: Design an integrative plan of action that addresses all aspects; of intemal reserves
management operations and proposes implementation timetables for: providing systems support
solution recommendation and implementation plan, adjusting the investment policy framework to
take into account asset-liability management and institutional risk profile issues (investment strategy.



Uganda - Financial Markets Assistance Project                                     Page 28
Project Appraisal Document - Annex IH: Project Description                     May 7, 1999
optimal investment benchmark design and implementation); and proposing a detailed training plan
strategy to address skills gaps-identified above
Module 3: Set up a transparent process to identify, purchase and install an appropriate investment
system and software required for BOU's internal foreign exchange reserves management operations
including assistance in: (i) conducting investment systems/software request for proposals (design and
analysis), and recommending final selection, (ii) contract/purchase negotiations; and (iii) set up,
systems testing and integration process of systems.
Module 4: Set up tailored training program in conjunction with external asset management program
including: designing operations manuals to implement revised investment policy framework
(investment guidelines, internal .organization structure, investment process documentation, risk
control guidelines, code of conduct, performance-reporting procedures). Design and assist in
implementation of internal investment benchmark. Execute and monitor 18-month training plan with
external management program.
10.   Strengthening Payment Systems. Identified improvements in payment systems could strengthen
financial market efficiency and improve monetary policy effectiveness. A multi-stage program of
investments and training will be developed to reduce the processing time and the settlement risks for
checks in Kampala and rural check-clearing systems. Further, measures are being developed to improve
other elements of the payments system including interbank clearance vehicles. The Project would support
initial studies incorporating the views of market participants while actual hardware, software and
peripherals would be borne by the BOU and surcharges to the market participants.
11.   Strengthening Macro-economic Programming in MoF. In an effort to further harmonize
monetary and fiscal policy management, the Project would finance training and equipment to support the
staff of the Macro-economic Policy Department in the area of policy formulation, especially fiscal and
monetary policy management. In particular, it will focus on short-term workshops, such as macro-
economic policy, budgeting, financial programming and balance of payments. In addition, the Project
would finance opportunities for officers to undertake some study visits and some computer equipment.
Component 4 - Developing Insurance and Contractual Savings Reform and Regulation:
US$ 1.2 Million
12.   Assistance to the Commissioner of Insurance. The Government has taken measures to improve
the operation and regulation of the insurance sector through the recent passage of insurance legislation and
the establishment and staffing of an insurance commission. The Commissioner of Insurance has been
working to improve the capital adequacy, solvency and efficiency of existing insurers, agents, brokers and
adjusters in the marketplace but has been limited by its own capacity and limited .equipment. The
Commission has imposed and subsequently enforced, with the support of the MoF, new minimal capital
requirements, which has resulted in the delicensing of about eight smaller insurance companies from
writing new business. Continued support to strengthen the capacity of the Commission, consistent with
the Commission's institutional development plan, will be provided. In particular, the Project would
provide financial support for advisory services for: (i) regulatory issues; and (ii) development of
supervision (on and off-site) procedures and manuals. Finally, the Project would provide financing for
equipment and training to strengthen the Commission's capacity to improve compliance with capital
adequacy and solvency requirements and subsequently close insurance companies that do not comply with
the requirements of the law.



Uganda - Financial Markets Assistance Project                                     Page 29
Project Appraisal Document -Annex I: Project Description                       May 7, 1999
13.   Developing and Strengthening Pension Operations and Oversight. Pensions i:n Uganda have been
dominated by mandatory contributions to the National Social Security Fund (NSSF). There are also
benefit program pension funds with the Civil Service and local Govemments, and privately-managed
pension funds based on voluntary contributions. To date, oversight of the NSSF has been administered by
the Ministry of Labor. However, no formal oversight mechanisms are in place for private, voluntary
pension funds and no uniform minimum standards of performance, accountability and public recourse are
applied to either public or private funds. The Project would finance a series of studies to assess the status
of the existing system and the need for reforms. These include: (i) a financial and managerial review of
NSSF; (ii) a sector survey to determine the contribution requirements, benefit entitlements, age and
income distribution of all pension fund members and beneficiaries, public and private, mandatory and
voluntary; (iii) a review of NSSF investment policy and procedures, including real estate investment; and
(iv) the drafting of legislation for a pensions oversight authority.
14.   Assistance to CapitalMarkets Development. Although the Govermment has established a Capital
Markets Authority (CMA) to oversee the Uganda Stock Exchange, public listings to date have been
limited to a bond issued by the East African Development Bank. Select public listing of positions in
companies being privatized is under consideration. This, as well as public offerings of privately-held
companies, could expand the volume of issues on the market necessary to reach a critical mass. The
Project would provide financial support to the CMA to develop rules, regulations and policies including:
(i) fiscal environment and incentives; (ii) investor compensation fund; (iii) central depository system; (iv)
accounting and financial reporting standards; and (v) collective investment schemes. The Project would
also provide financial support for staff training and development, as well as some promotion efforts.
Component 5 - Project Implementation: US$ 0.7 million
15.   The Project will finance a Project Manager and qualified staff assigned to BOUto provide
administrative support in the implementation and coordination of the Project, which includes the annual
audits.
Component 6 - Unallocated: US$ 1.35 Million
16.   Of the total amount for this component, approximately US$ 0.75 million will comprise a reserve
fund to finance additional due diligence, management contracts, audits and receiverships as the need
arises. An additional US$ 0.6 million represents price contingencies for the components above.



Uganda - Financial Markets Assistance Project                                    Page 30
Project Appraisal Document - Annex III: Estimated Project Costs               May 7, 1999
Annex III: Estimated Project Costs
Component                 1     Local    |Foreign   |         Total
a. Strengthening the regulation, supervision and   225,000    2,265,000         2,490,000
operations of deposit-taking institutions
* Assistance to the BOU Banking Supervision                     710,000          710,000
Dept
* Assistance to BOU NBFI Supervision Dept.                      190,000          190,000
* Assistance to NPART                                         1,300,000         1,300,000
* Assistance to UIB                               225,000        65,000          290,000
b. Restructuring and Privatization of UCBL       2,500,000    3,600,000         6,100,000
* Management Contract and Restructuring Support               3,600,000         3,600,000
* Severance Payments                             2,500,000                      2,500,000
c. Improving monetary management and pavment            -      1,470,000        1,470,000
systems
* Strengthen MoF Macro-economic Programming                     280,000          280,000
. Strengthen BOU Monetary Management                            360,000          360,000
. Strengthen BOU Reserve Management                             800,000          800,000
* Strengthen Payment Systems                                     30,000           30,000
d. Developing insurance and contractual savings                1,210,000        1,210,000
reform and regulation
* Assistance to the Commissioner of Insurance                   370,000          370,000
* Develop and Strengthen Pensions Systems and                   710,000          710,000
Oversight
* Assistance to Capital Markets Development                     130,000          130,000
e. Project Management                               50,000      630,000          680,000
f. PPFRefinancing                                              1,050,000        1,050,000
g. Unallocated                                     135,000     1,150,000        1,350,000
Total Project Costs                           2,910,000!   11,440,000       14,350,000l



Uganda - Financial Markets Assistance Project                                             Page 31
Project Appraisal Document - Annex IV Economic Assessment                             May 7, 1999
Annex IV: Economic Assessment
1.     The proposed operation is a technical assistance project which will provide the resources and
capacity to strengthen the operation and oversight of financial markets. Its aim is lthat by strengthening
the regulatory framework, the breadth, depth and efficiency of financial intermediation will increase.
Moreover, it is hoped that the riskness and solvency of many individual financial institutions will also be
improved during the period supported under the project.
Project Benefits
2.     Project benefits are expected to be: (i) increased savings mobilized short-term through banks and
non-bank deposit-taking institutions and mobilized medium- and long-term through contractual savings
institutions; (ii) increased efficiency of intermediation in the banking sector as measured by operational
costs and spreads; and (iii) increased solvency and efficiency of contractual savings institutions including
pension funds and insurance companies.
Project Costs
3.     Project costs are expected to include: (i) direct costs of US$ 13.0 million to be repaid to IDA (plus
interest over the life of the loan); (ii) direct costs by Government of US$ 1.35 million; and (iii) indirect
costs associated with further financial sector restructuring.
Cost/Benefit Review
4.     It is virtually impossible to quantify the expected economic returns to a technical assistance
operation of this nature. However, given the noted critical importance of efficient financial interrnediation
to growth and very low level of domestic savings in Uganda, it is expected that the economic benefits of
potentially increasing the level of savings and the efficiency of transforming such savings to productive
investment will far outweigh the financial costs.



Uganda - Financial Markets Assistance Project                                           Page 32
Project Appraisal Document - Annex V: Financial Summary                             May 7, 1999
Annex V-A: Financial Summary
(IJS$)
Implementation Period
.  1   1998   l  1999   12000   [   2001   l   2002   l   Total
Project Costs                 (PPF)
Investment Costs           1,050,000  2,400,000  4,650,000   4,100,000   2,100,000    14,300,000
Recurrent Costs                  0      12,500     12,500     12,500      12,500        50,000
Total                  1,050,000  2,412,500  4,662,500   4,112,500   2,112,500    14,350,000
Financing sources
IDA                        1,050,000  2,100,000  4,200,000   3,750,000   1,900,000    13,000,000
Govemnment                       0    312,500    462,500     362,500     212,500     1,350,000
Total                  1,050,000  2,412,500  4,662,500   4,112,500   2,112,500    14,350,000



Uganda - Financial Markets Assistance Project                                     Page 33
Project Appraisal Document -Annex V: Financial Summary                         May 7, 1999
Annex V-B: Financial Management Assessment
1.    PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.1    The objective of the Project is to assist the Uganda Government to improve the soundness,
performance and competitiveness of the financial system through:
(i)    strengthening the regulation, supervision and operations of deposit-taking institutions, including
the resolution and work-out of problem banks;
(ii)   restructuring and re-privatizing Uganda Commercial bank limited:
(iii)  improving monetary management and payment systems; and
(iv)   developing insurance and contractual savings institutions, as well as their oversight.
2.    INSTITUTIONAL AND IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
2.1    The project will be implemented by its Project Implementation Unit (PIU) under the overall
supervision of the Governor of BOU. These are the arrangements that existed for thc, Financial Sector
Adjustment Credit (FSAC), and it is intended that they will continue, subject to agreed changes.
2.2    The PIU is responsible for
(a)    coordinating the implementation of the various components of the Project in accordance with
sound financial management practices, including procurement, disbursement, accounting and auditing of
accounts,
(b)    monitoring the implementation of the Project and furnishing reports to MFP:ED and the
Association on progress made in Project implementation
2.3    Each implementation agency will appoint a coordinator who shall be responsible for the execution
of Project activities. A Project Manager, Mr. Sid Wootton heads the PIU. The roles of the Project
Manager are spelt out in his Terms of Reference. These include:
*  Project management (coordinating project implementation, monitoring project beneficiaries, and
interacting with all personnel involved in the project)
*  Procurement of goods and consultants
*  Disbursement of project funds in accordance with the Bank's guidelines
*  Budgetary planning and Financial Control
*  Reporting
*  Audit arrangements



Uganda - Financial Markets Assistance Project                                      Page 34
Project Appraisal Document -Annex V: Financial Summary                          May 7, 1999
3     CURRENT ACCOUNTING, FINANCIAL REPORTING AND AUDITING
ARRANGEMENTS
3.1   The proposed PIU has experience in implementing projects financed by IDA, such as the
Financial Sector Adjustment Credit. The system which used to run the accounting records and books of
accounts for that project is computer based and runs on a DOS software called Money Program. The
system is capable of producing information required in the production of financial reports required under
the LACI disbursement procedures.
3.2    Furthermore, a framework exists for contractors to report the progress on their contracts on a
monthly basis. These contractors' reports are consolidated into one report on a monthly basis.
3.3    However, certain improvements are required to enable the project to provide, with reasonable
assurance, accurate and timely information on the status of the Project (PMR) as required by the
Bank/IDA for PMR-based disbursements. Recommendations included in this report are intended to assist
in achieving the necessary improvements that will render the Project's financial management system
suitable for such disbursements.
4.    IMPROVEMENTS TO THE ORGANISATION STRUCTURE
Financial Management Committee
4.1    A Financial Management Committee should be appointed to oversee the operations of the
project's financial management arrangements. This committee should be comprised of officials from
BOU and the Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development. It should meet regularly to
review progress reports in respect of procurement, and financial and implementation aspects of the
Project.
4.2    The committee should be appointed by 30 June 1999. Indicative terms of reference are attached.
Project Accountant
4.3    A Project Level Accountant with relevant practical experience (including proficiency in computer
applications as well as good communications skills) should be appointed by 30 June 1999 in order to
direct and guide the financial management operations of the IDA Credit from the outset.
4.4    The Project Accountant should report directly to the Project Manager and work closely with the
Financial Management Committee.
4.5   Indicative terms of reference for the position are attached in Appendix 2.



Uganda - Financial Markets Assistance Project                                      Page 35
Project Appraisal Document - Annex V. Financial Summary                         May 7, 1999
5.    ACCOUNTING SYSTEM
5.1    A Chart of Accounts should be developed to enable data to be captured and classified by budget
heads, project components, expenditure categories (summary and detailed), and disbursement categories.
This should match closely with the classification of expenditures and sources of funds indicated in the
project agreements and documents (Project hnplementation Plan and Project Cost Tables). The Chart of
Accounts should be designed in such a way that it would ensure that data is captured in a manner that
would facilitate financial reporting for the project to various stakeholders, including IDA and GOU. The
Chart should be documented in the Financial Management Manual, which is considered further below.
6.    FINANCIAL REPORTING
6.1    As stated in Appendix 1, the Financial Management Committee should determine:
*  That the Chart of Accounts for the FIMAP is consistent with the format for reporting to IDA on
overall IDA funded expenditures.
* Format and content of Quarterly and Annual Financial Statements for the FIMAP., and
*  The selection and adoption of accounting policies and accounting standards.
6.2    Financial Statements and Annexes for the FIMAP should include:
a)   A Statement of Sources and Uses of Funds showing funds from IDA and Counterpart
Funds separately, a summary of expenditures analyzed under the main headings and by main
category of expenditures (consistent with the Chart of Accounts), both for the current fiscal
year and accumulated to date.
b)   A balance Sheet showing accumulated funds for the Project, bank balances as well as other
assets and liabilities of the Project, if any;
c)   Notes in respect of significant accounting policies and accounting standards adopted by
management when preparing the accounts and any supplementary information or
explanations that may be deemed appropriate by management in order to enhance the
presentation of a "true andfair view."
d)   Special Account Statement showing deposits and replenishments received, payments
substantiated by withdrawal applications, interest that may be earned on the account and the
balance at the end of the fiscal year;
e)   A reconciliation between the amounts shown as "Received by the Project from IDA and that
shown as having been "Disbursed" by them;
f)   Implementation Report, which would be a narrative summary of the imiplementation
progress for the project; and
g)   Cashflow forecasts, upon which replenishments to the Special Account will be based.
6.3   Indicative formats of these statement should be developed in accordance with. IDA requirements
by 30 June 1999.



Uganda - Financial Markets Assistance Project                                      Page 36
Project Appraisal Document -Annex V: Financial Summary                          May 7, 1999
7.    INTERNAL CONTROLS
7.1   Intemal controls for FIMAP should be comprised of policies and procedures adopted by project
management to assist it in achieving its objectives of ensuring, as far as possible, the orderly and efficient
conduct of its operations, including:
*  Adherence to management policies, laws and regulations;
*  Safeguarding of assets;
*  Prevention and detection of fraud and error;
*  Promoting orderly, economic, efficient and effective operations;
*  Accuracy/completeness of records; timely preparation of financial information.
7.2    Specifically, systems of internal control for FIMAP should ensure that:
*  Every transaction, that should have been entered, was recorded;
*  No unauthorized transactions were recorded;
* Those transactions that were entered were analyzed and posted correctly;
*  Source programs, which control the operation of the accounting system (original entry and subsequent
analysis and postings), cannot be tampered with;
*  Unauthorized access is denied;
-  Assets of the entity are neither misappropriated nor used in an uneconomical or inefficient fashion;
*  Management policies (in budgets, long-range forecasts etc.) are complied with;
=  Deviations from plans are noted, investigated and timely responses made;
=  Financial information is communicated in the most effective way so that those entitled to it may
maximize their use of it; and
-  The financial statements show a true and fair view.
7.3   Internal control systems should be fully documented, and regularly updated, in FIMAP's
Financial Management Manual.
8.    PLANNING AND BUDGETING
8.1    Counterpart Funding is to be approved in line with the Government's budgetary process. This is a
lengthy consultative process and involves MOFPED and BOU.
8.2    The Financial Management Committee should have the ultimate responsibility for budget
preparation for utilization of FIMAP. Funds in the forthcoming year with, as appropriate, the concurrence
of IDA.
8.3.   The project accountant, in consultation with the Financial Management Committee, should be
responsible for preparing the Project's Total Quarterly/Annual Cash Flow Forecast.
8.4.   As suggested in Appendix 1, members of the Financial Management Committee should review
and approve Quarterly and Annual Project Financial Statements. They should also examine material
variances between budget/actual figures- seeking remedial action, as appropriate, within an agreed
timeframe.
9.    EXTERNAL AUDIT
9.1    The Auditor General is primarily responsible for the auditing of all government projects. Usually,



Uganda - Financial Markets Assistance Project                                     Page 37
Project Appraisal Document - Annex V. Financial Summary                         May 7, 1999
the audit is subcontracted to a firm of private auditors, with the final report being issued by the Auditor
General, based on the tests carried out by the subcontracted firm.
9.2    Arrangements for the external audit of the financial statements of the project should be
determined and communicated to IDA. Any finns of auditors subcontracted to carry out the audit should
meet the IDA's requirements in terms of independence, qualifications and experience. Appropriate terms
of reference for the external auditor must also be developed and agreed by 30 June 1999.
9.3   In addition to the audit reports, a separate Management Letter giving observations and comments,
and providing recommendations for improvements of accounting records, systems, and controls and
compliance with financial covenants in the Agreements between the Government and IDA should be
provided.
10.   FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT MANUAL
10.1   A Financial Management Manual should be prepared for the project. The financial management
manual should comprehensively document the operation of the financial management system and would
serve as a reference document for all project staff in operating the financial management system. The
following aspects should be covered in the Financial Management Manual:
*  Flow of funds
*  Financial and Accounting Policies for the Project
*  Accounting System (including centers for maintenance of accounting records, Chart of Accounts,
formats of books and records, accounting and financial procedures)
*  Budgeting System
*  Financial Forecasting System
*  Procurement and Contract Administration Monitoring System
*  Financial Reporting (including formats of reports, and linkages with Chart of Accounts)
*  Auditing arrangements
*  Human Resource Aspects
10.2  The preparation of this manual should be done by the appointed accounting system consultants.
A draft copy should be submitted by the PIU for review by the IDA by 30 June 1999 and will be finalized
after discussions with the World Bank.



Uganda - Financial Markets Assistance Project                                       Page 38
Project Appraisal Document - Annex V. Financial Summary                          May 7, 1999
Appendix 1: Terms of Reference - Financial Management Committee
Reporting to the Steering Committee, the following are indicative Terms of Reference for the
Financial Management Committee:
*  Fully appraising all financial management aspects of the Project (in particular, Procurement and
Financial Reporting);
*  Ensuring that accounting records, including bank accounts are kept up-to-date;
* Ensuring that suitable systems of internal control are established and maintained (including fixed
assets, civil works, inventories management and distribution);
*  Ensuring that the Financial Management Manual is updated on a regular basis by the Project
Accountant;
  Reviewing and approving Budgets/Cash Flow Projections;
*  Confirming Project compliance with the Government's Accounting reporting requirements;
*  Confirming: the format and content of Quarterly and Annual Project Financial Statements; the
adoption of accounting policies and accounting standards; the need to include any supplementary
notes to the Project's Financial Statements in order to enhance the presentation of a "true andfair
view";
*  Reviewing and approving Quarterly and Annual Project Financial Statements as well as examining
material variances; seeking remedial action, as appropriate, within an agreed timeframe
*  Ensuring compliance with operating procedures of IDA e.g. Procurement, Disbursements, Special
Accounts, LACI, Special Commitments, etc.;
* Assessing reports received from internal/external auditors and following up any audit
queries/management letters;
*  Being briefed by contractors on the financial management aspects of contracts, as well as evaluating
any difficulties being experienced e.g. comparing actual results with agreed performance indicators,
physical existence, etc.;
*  Being briefed by the officers in charge of the procurement on procurement issues, as well as
evaluating any difficulties being experienced;
*  Monitoring progress on Staff Development/Capacity Building;
*  Reviewing information technology issues, including the computerization of accounting records;
*  Monitoring the Project's performance against previously agreed Performance Indicators.



Uganda - Financial Markets Assistance Project                                     Page 39
Project Appraisal Document -Annex V: Financial Summary                         May 7, 1999
Appendix 2: Terms of Reference - Project Accountant
Reporting to the Project Manager, the following are indicative Terms of Refe:rence:
*  Ensuring that all accounting records and bank accounts are up-to-date using Excel spreadsheets;
* Preparing monthly Bank Reconciliations for all Bank Accounts on a timely basis;
* Developing a Financial Management Manual within an agreed timeframe;
* Establishing and enhancing systems of internal control (including procurement - .goods, works and
services, fixed assets, civil works, inventories management and distribution);
* Preparing Cash Flow Forecasts;
* Preparing Returns required for consolidation of BOU and MOFPED records in compliance with
Government accounting reporting requirements;
*  Preparing Quarterly and Annual financial Statements for the IDA Credit, as well as reporting to the
Financial Management committee on material variances in accordance with an agreed timetable;
* Ensuring compliance with operating procedures of Government and the World Bank e.g.
Procurement, disbursements, special Accounts, LACI, special commitments etc;
* Liaising with the internal/external auditors and following up any audit queries/management letters;
*  Monitoring, in conjunction with the Financial Management Committee, the financial management
aspects of the progress on contracts e.g. % of work done versus paid for etc.;
*  Staff Development/Capacity Building and briefing the Financial Management Committee on progress
being achieved;
*  In conjunction with the Financial Management Committee, monitoring performance against agreed
Financial Performance Indicators - these will need to be prepared in consultation with the Financial
Management Committee.



Uganda - Financial Markets Assistance Project                                      Page 40
Project Appraisal Document - Annex V. Financial Summary                         May 7, 1999
Appendix 3: Financial Management Manual (Indicative Sections for Inclusion)
(Please note that this listing does not purport to be exhaustive):
-  Institutional Arrangements - FIMAP Management Structure; Financial Management Committee:
composition, terms of reference and reporting.
*  Chart of Accounts, including Account Codings.
*  Basis of accounting adopted i.e. cash versus accruals.
*  Accounting systems - computerized and Manual Accounting system.
*  Planning and Budgeting, including Cash Flow Management
*  Procurement Procedures for Goods, works and Services.
*  Withdrawals/disbursements - compliance with requirements of IDA
* Banking Activities - operation of bank accounts; invoice approval and payment procedures (including
appropriate supporting documentation and Letters of credit); cheque signatories; monthly bank
reconciliations, etc.
*  Creditors Reconciliations and debtors Management (if appropriate).
*  Staff, Wages and salaries, including records maintained and payment procedures.
  Fixed Assets Register, Inventories management and Distribution (e.g. textbooks).
*  Legal Covenants.
*  Financial Reporting to Stakeholders including: frequency of reporting, standard formats, accounting
standards, accounting policies and variance analysis.
* Auditing - internal and external auditors.
E  Records Management/Filing systems
*  Etc., etc., etc.



Uganda - Financial Markets Assistance Project                                        Page 41
Project Appraisal Document - Annex V: Financial Summary                           May 7, 1999
FINANCIAL MARKETS ASSISTANCE PROJECT ACTION PLAN FOR. FINANCIAL
MANAGEMENT
Action                  Responsible             Due By
1         Appointment of project accountant  PIU                30 June 1999
2         Appointment of Financial         Governor (BOU), PS   30 Juwe 1999
Management Committee            (MOFPED)
3         Submission of financial          Project Manager       30 June 1999
Management Manual documenting
the financial management,
disbursement and project progress
monitoring procedures
4.        Preparation of Financial Reporting  IDA, Sid Wootton   30 June 1999
formats
5.        Appointment of, and Terms of     OAG, PIU              30 June 1999
Reference for External Auditors



Uganda - Financial Markets Assistance Project                                                  Page 42
Project Appraisal Document - Annex VYI Project Processing Timetable and Budget             May 7, 1999
Annex VI: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
1.     All goods and services under the credit would be procured in accordance with IDA guidelines for goods,
works and services (Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD loans and IDA credits, January 1995 and revised in
January and August 1996 and September 1997 (procurement guidelines) and Guidelines: Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and by World Bank as Executing Agency, January 1997 and revised September 1997. The
management of procurement under the Project would be the responsibility of the Project Implementing Unit (PIU),
in association with counterpart agencies.
Table VI-A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$)
Procurement Method
[                               ICB             NCB             Other         N.B.F.         Total
A. Goods & Equipment              400,000                        180,000                      580,000
(360,000)                     (160,000)                     (520,000)
B. Civil Works                                     170,000                                     170,000
(150,000)                                  (150,000)
C. Consultant Services                                         7,840,000                     7,840,000
(6,980,000)                  (6,980,000)
D. Foreign Training                                              420,000                      420,000
(210,000)                    (210,000)
E. Local Training                                                610,000                      610,000
(610,000)                    (610,000)
F. Severance Payments                                          2,500,000                     2,500,000
(2,500,000)                  (2,500,000)
G. Project Management                                            680,000                      680,000
(680,000)                    (680,000)
H. Recurrent Costs                                                               50,000         50,000
(0)           (0)
I. Unallocated                                                 1,500,000                     1,500,000
(1,350,000)                  (1,350,000)
| TOTAiL                         400,000          170,000    13,730,000         50,000    14,350,0001
(360,000)        (150,000)  (12,490,000)           (0)  (13,000,000)
* Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by IDA.
* ICB = International Competitive Bidding
* NCB = National Competitive Bidding
* N.B.F.= Not Bank financed
* IDA financing will only fund goods and consultants' services procured under Bank guidelines.
* "Goods" include purchase of equipment, related supplies and vehicles.
* "Project Managemenf' include incremental operating costs incurred on account of project implementation, management and
supervision, including annual audits, office supplies, communication costs, travel allowance of project staff but excluding salaries of the
borrower's civil servants.
(a) National/International Shopping procedures or IAPSO



Uganda - Financial Markets Assistance Project                                    Page 43
ProjectAppraisal Document - Annex VII: ProjectProcessing Timetable and Budget  May 7, 1999
2.    Procurement Capacity of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU). Each Project component
would be implemented by a counterpart institution which would have primary responsibility for the
execution of its respective components of the Project. The PIU would provide procurement support. The
Project Manager, with the assistance of the MoF counterpart, would: (i) prepare and update the
procurement plan for the Project, (ii) monitor the procurement; and (iii) assist the c-unterpart institutions
with: (a) the preparation of bidding documents and advertisements for goods and works contracts and
requests for proposals for consulting assignments; and (b) bid opening and evaluation. The Project
Manager would also advise the counterpart institutions on procedural matters.
3.    Procurement Plan. A draft General Procurement Notice (GPN) has been prepared for the Project
and will be finalized and published in Development Business after Board approvzl. It would show all
expected procurement contracts using ICB over US$ 200,000. A procurement plan would be prepared by
the Borrower, as a condition for effectiveness, which includes relevant information on all goods, works
and services contracts under the Project as well as the timing of each milestone in the procurement
process. The procurement schedule would be updated every six months and submitted to IDA.
4.    Civil Works. The Project provides US$ 170,000 for civil works which comprises the renovation
of an existing building. The procurement would be undertaken using National Competitive Bidding
(NCB) procedures. The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents -- Procurement of Works would be used for
the contracts.
5.    Training.  Training, totaling approximately US$ 950,000, within the country and abroad
including workshops and twinning arrangements will be carried out on the basis of IDA approved
programs which would identify the nature of training, personnel to be trained, the duration of training,
institutions where training would be conducted, estimated cost of training, etc. Such programs would be
submitted to IDA for review and clearance on a quarterly basis.
6.    Goods and Equipment. Goods and equipment under the IDA credit would be procured in
accordance with IDA guidelines for goods and works (and related services) using the IDA Guidelines:
Procurement under IBRD loans and IDA credits, January 1995 and revised in September, 1997
(procurement guidelines). To the extent possible and practicable, the procurement of goods would be
combined into packages estimated to cost the equivalent of US$ 250,000 or more and would be procured
under ICB procedures using IDA Standard Bidding Documents. Goods which comprise one vehicle,
fumiture, PC's and office equipment, each contract not exceeding US$50,000 with a total aggregate value
of up to US$ 176,000 equivalent shall be procured using National/International Shopping procedure
and/or through the Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office of the UNDP (IASPO) s.
7.    Consultant Services. Selection and appointment of consultants for studies, advisory services,
and support of project execution would be carried out in accordance with the Guidelines: Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997, revised September 1997.
Consultant services, such as advisory services for monetary management and development of insurance
and contractual savings reform (Refer to Table VI-B: Consultant Selection Arrangements), up to an
aggregate of US$ 7,840,000 will be selected through competition among qualified short-listed firms based
on Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) methodology by evaluation of the qluality of the proposals
before comparing the cost of the services to be provided. All consultancy assignments estimated to cost
the equivalent of US$ 200,000 or more would be advertised in an intemational newspaper and in
Development Business (UNDB). In addition, the contracts may be advertised in a national newspaper or a
technical magazine seeking "expressions of interest". All consulting assignments in the range of US$
100,000 to US$ 200,000 would be procured through QCBS using an internationally-based short-list. In



Uganda - Financial Markets Assistance Project                                       Page 44
Project Appraisal Document -Annex VY: Financial Summary                          May 7, 1999
the case of assignments estimated at US$ 100,000 or less the assignment maybe advertised nationally and
the shortlist may be made up entirely of national consultants provided that at least three qualified national
firms are available in the country and foreign consultants who wish to participate are not excluded from
consideration. Consultant services for studies, up to an aggregate amount of US$ 725,000 equivalent
(Refer to Table VI-B: Consultant Selection Arrangements), estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
US$ 50,000 may be contracted by comparing the qualifications of consultants who have expressed an
interest in the job or who have been identified. Consultants for financial audits and services estimated to
cost less than US$20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate of US$ 84,000 equivalent (Refer to
Table VI-B: Consultant Selection Arrangements) will be selected through competition among qualified
short-listed firms based on the Least Cost Selection (LCS) method. The firm with the lowest price will be
selected, provided its technical proposal received the minimum mark required.



Uganda - Financial Markets Assistance Project                                            Page 45
Project Appraisal Document-Annex VII: Project Processing Timetable and Budget        May 7, 1999
Table VI-B: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(US$)
Consultant Services                          |           Selection Method          Total Cost
|  QCBS         LCS       CQ
(a) Strengthening Regulation, Supervision and Operations of Deposit-taking Institutions      2,448,80
Louis Berger (UCB)*                                        230,000                              230,000
Labat Anderson (NPART)*                                  1,450,000                            1,450,000
Special Audits*                                            375,000                              375,000
Inspectors & Preparation of Manuals for NBFI Department    120,000                              120,000
(BOU)
Resident Advisor (legal/regulations & resolution & work-out)*  133,800                          133,800
Resident Advisor - NBFI Supervision                        140,000                              140,000
.(b) Restructuring and Privatization of UCBL                                                  3,000,00
Due Diligence                                              400,000                              400,000
Management Contract                                       1,600,000                           1,600,000
Transactions Advisor                                      1,000,000                           1,000,000
(c) Improving Monetary Management and Payment Systems                                          810,25
Operations Advisor                                         120,000                              120,000
Payments System Consultant                                                       50,250          50,000
Training Services (UIB)                                                          20,000          20,000
Capital Account Resident Advisor                           120,000                              120,000
Extemal Advisory Services                                  400,000                              400,000
IAS Support                                              100,000                              100,000
(d) Developing Insurance and Contractual Savings Reform and Regulations                        980,00
Advisory Services for Uganda Commissioner of Insurance "as                       50,000          50,000
needed"
Uganda Insurance Commission-Resident Advisor                60,000                               60,000
Uganda Insurance Commission-On & Off-site Tmg Manuals                            40,000          40,000
Industry Study                                                                   50,000          50,000
CMA: Fiscal Enviromment Study                                                    10,000          10,000
CMA: Investor Compensation Fund Study                                            10,00           10,000
CMA: Central Depository                                                          10,000          10,000
CMA: Accounting & Financing Rpt                                                  10,000          10,000
Collective hivestment Schemes                                                    30,000          30,000
NSSF: Financial Audit                                       60,000                               60,000
Pension Sector Survey                                      120,000                              120,000
Review of NSSF Investment Pol.                                                   20,000          20,000
Policy Formulation of Pension Sector                                             50,000          50,000
Review of Pension & Soc. Sec. Leg.                          60,000                               60,000
Develop. of Institutional Framework                        200,000                              200,000
Implementation of Reg. Authority, Tmg Staff and Establish  200,000                              200,000
Procedures.
(e) Project Implementation                                                                     684,00
Project Manager*                                           582,000                              582,000
Project Assistant*                                                               18,000          18,000
Project Audits                                                           84,000                  84,000
TOTAL                            7,118,800       84,06                7,923,05
* Financed (at least partially) under PPF
QCBS:   Quality and Cost-based Selection
CQ:      Selectionbased on Consultant's Qualifications



Uganda - Financial Markets Assistance Project                                               Page 46
Project Appraisal Document - Annex VIL Project Processing Timetable and Budget           May 7, 1999
8.     Review by IDA. Individual contracts for goods and works estimated to cost US$ 100,000 or
more will be subject to prior review procedures of IDA of bidding documents including draft contracts
and technical specifications prior to inviting bids and IDA review of bid evaluation prior to contract
award.
9.     The Terms of Reference for all consulting assignments, irrespective of value, would be subject to
IDA prior review. For consultant services in the following categories, IDA's prior review and approval of
terms of reference, short list(s), budgets, selection procedures and criteria, letters of invitation, evaluation
reports and contracts will be required: (a) all contracts with firms estimated to cost US$ 100,000
equivalent per contract or above; (b) all contracts with individuals estimated to costs US$ 50,000
equivalent per contract or above; (c) single source selection of consulting firms or individual consultants
regardless of contract values; (d) assignments of a critical nature as reasonable determined by IDA; (e)
amendments of contracts for the employment of firms or individuals raising the respective total contract
value to US$ 100,000 or US$ 50,000 equivalent or above; (f) training abroad and in-country, workshops
and study tours, the program - containing the names of candidates, cost estimates, content of the courses,
periods of training and institution selection.
10.    Contracts which are not subject to prior review would be selectively reviewed by IDA during
project implementation and would be governed by the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix I to
the Guidelines.
Table VI-C: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
(US$ equivalent)
Contracts Subject to Prior Review/
Expenditure         Contract value      Procurement Method   Estimated Total Value Subject to
Category             (Threshold)                              Prior Review
Goods           100,000 or more        ICB                    All
50,000 - 100,000      NCB                     All
<50,000               IS/NS/IAPSO             Post-review
Civil Works     <200,000               NCB                    All
200,000 or more       QCBS (International     All
Consultants                            Advert)
>100,000 - 200,000    QCBS (International     All
Shortlist)
50,000 - 100,000      QCBS (National Advert)  All
<50,000               CQ                      First two contracts to be prior-
reviewed. All others to be post-review.
CQ - Selection Based on Consultant's Qualifications
ICB- International Competitive Bidding
QCBS - Quality and Cost-based Selection
NCB - National Competitive Bidding
IS - International Shopping
NS- National Shopping
Note: All sole source assignments would be subject to prior review.
All TORs for consulting assignments would be subject to prior review



Uganda - Financial Markets Assistance Project                                        Page 47
Project Appraisal Document -Annex V.: Financial Summary                           May 7, 1999
11.    Use of Statements of Expenses (SOEs). Disbursements for all expenditures would be against
full documentation except for contracts below the equivalent of US$ 100,000 equivalent each for works,
goods and consulting firms and US$ 50,000 for consultant services (individuals), training and incremental
operating costs for which disbursements would be based on Statements of Expenditures (SOEs).
Supporting documentation for SOEs would be retained by the borrower at the PIU for review by IDA
missions and external auditors. All expenditures above the threshold indicated above will be eligible for
direct payment.
12.    Special Accounts. To facilitate disbursements, a Special Account would be established and
operated at a commercial Bank under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. Upon credit effectiveness,
a sum of US$ 400,000 to cover about four months' expenditures would be deposited by IDA into this
account. Further deposits by IDA would be made into this account against withdrawal applications
supported by appropriate documents. The Borrower will be required to replenish the special account on a
monthly basis or more often when the total disbursed amounts to one third of the initial deposit,
whichever is soonest. Disbursement categories and the percentage financed are shown in Table D below.
Table VI-D: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Disbursement Category      1          Amount                 Financing Percentage
(US$)I
1. Civil Works                                150,000             100% of foreign expenditure
90% of local expenditures
2. Equipment, software and vehicles           520,000             100% of foreign expenditure
90% of local expenditures
3. Consultant Services
3a. NPART                                  1,300,000              80% of expenditures
3b. UCBL                                  3,000,000               80% of expenditures
3b. All Other Consultant Services         2,300,000               100% of expenditures
4. Training
2a. Local Training                          500,000               100% of expenditures
2b. Overseas Training.                      190,000               50% of expenditures
2c. Twinning                                140,000               100% of expenditures
5. Severance Payments                        2,500,000              100% of expenditures
6. PPF Refinancing                           1,050,000
7. Unallocated                               1,350,000
TOTAL                          13,000,000



Uganda - Financial Markets Assistance Project                                     Page 48
ProjectAppraisal Document - Annex VII: Project Processing Timetable and Budget  May 7, 1999
Annex VII: Project Processing Timetable & Budget
A. Project Budget       Planned                      Actual
(US$000)
FY96LENP              119.7                      119.7
FY97 LENP             40.9                        40.9
FY98 LENP             88.3                       110.8
FY99 LENA             50.0                        13.4
FY99 LENN             20.0
FY99 SUPV             40.0
B. Project Schedule                       [   Planned          Actual
* Concept Review Meeting                      03/10/98        03/19/98
* Draft PID                                   03/15/98        03/24/98
* Depart Preappraisal                         03/23/98        04/11/98
* PAD Decision Meeting                        09/3/98         09/02/98
* Authorize Appraisal/Negotiation             09/3/98         09/03/98
# Update PID                                 08/24/98         08/24/98
* Depart Appraisal                            09/07/98        09/18/98
* Invitation to Negotiate                     03/17/99        03/17/99
* Start Negotiations                          05/03/99        05/03/99
* Board Presentation                          05/27/99
* Est. Date of Effectiveness                  09/01/99
Preparation assistance: PPF Nos. Q060-0 and Q060-1 totalling US$ 1,050,000.
Bank staff who worked on the Project:
Mark Dorfmnan              Sr. Financial Specialist, AFTP1
Sherri Archondo           Financial Analyst, AFTP1
Don Mclssac                Principal Financial Specialist, FSD
Aberra Zerabruk            Sr. Counsel, LEGAF
PalithaWijesinghe          Sr. Disbursement Officer, LOAAF
Hyacinth Brown             Disbursement Officer, LOAAF
Joseph Kizito             Financial Management Specialist, AFMUG
Francesco Sarno            Sr. Procurement Specialist, AFTS3
Dan Mozes                 Principal Financial Specialist, FSD (Team/Member/QualityAssurance)
Paul Murgatroyd           Lead Specialist (Quality Assurance)
Robert Blake               Senior Economist, AFMUG
Antony Thompson            Financial Sector Specialist, AFTP1
John Byamukama             Economist, AFTP 1
Irene Chacon               Program Assistant, AFTP1
Amy Champion               Program Assistant, AFTP1
Yeshi Dagne                Task Team Assistant



Uganda - Financial Markets Assistance Project                                         Page 49
Project Appraisal Document -Annex V: Financial Summary                             May 7, 1999
Annex VIII: Documents in Project File
1. Project Inplementation Plan (in progress).
2. Procurement Plan (in progress).
3. Project Information Document.
4. Project Environmental Data Sheet.
5. Country Assistance Strategy for Uganda, Report No. 16540, April 30, 1996.
6. Mission Aide Memoire of August, 1997.
7. Mission Aide Memoire of January, 1998.
8. Mission Aide Memoire of May, 1998.
9. Uganda Financial Sector Study, Green Cover, 1995.
10. Draft Terms of Reference for:
, BSD Training Program; and
* NBFI Legal Consultant.
11. Financial Institutions Statute (1993).
12. Insurance Law.



Status of Bank Group Operations in Uganda
Operations Portfolio
As of 03-May-99
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US5 Millions                      and actual                        u
Fiscal                                                                                                                                    disbursements a/
Project ID    Year                 Borrower                     Purpose
IBRD         IDA     Cancellations  Undisbursed          orig    Frm Rev'd
llumber of Closed Projects: 54
Active Projects                                                                                                                                                                                 . 
UG-PE-2941       1999   GOVT. DF UGAIIDA                  ICB-PAI4SU                                 0.00       12.37         0.00              12.35        3.31         0.00
VG-PE-2972       1998   GOV                               EDUC SECTOR ADJ CRED                       0.00       90.00         0.00              80.32        0.00         0.00                     Cl
UG-PE-40551      1998   GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA              NUTRIT.CHILC DEV                           0.00       34.00         0.00              33.52        1.81         0.00                  : 
UG-PE-49543      1998   REPUBLIC OF UGANDA                ROAD SECT/IIIST.SUPP                       0.00       30.00         0.00              28.40        9.74         0.00                    a ::
UG-PE-57007      1998   GOVERNiMEllT OF UGANDA            EL IIINO EMERG RD REP                      0.00       27.60         0.00              26.B1       10.53         0. 00
UG-PE-2987       1997   GOVT. OF UGANDA                   SAC 11                                    0. 00     125.00         0.00              79.08       81.17         0.00                  . (7
UG-PE-46836      1997   GOVT. OF UGANDA                   LAKE VICTORIA EIIV.                        0.00       12.10        0.00                9.12        1.90         0.00
UG-PE-2978       1996   GOVERNMENT                        EN4VIRONMENT MANAGEMT                      0.00       11.80         0.00               6.35        4.77         0.00
UG-PE-35634      1996   GOU                               PRIV. SECTOPR COMPETI                      0.00       12.30         0.00               7.58        3.89         0,00
UG-PE-2971       1995   GOVERNMENT                        DISTRICT HEALTH                            0. 00      45.00        0.00               24.16        5.27         0.00
UG-PE-2976       1995   GOVERNMENT                        INST. CAPACITY BLDG                        0.00       36.40        0.00               15.61       10.53         0. 00
UG-PE-2923       1994   GOVT.                             TRANSP. REHAB.                             0.00       75.00        0.00               38.81       34.35         0.00                 O
UG-PE-2957       1994   GOVERNMENT                        SMALL TOWNS WATER                          0.00       42.30        0.00              23.25        15.64         0.00
UG-PE-2963       1994   GOVERNMENT                        SEXUAL.TRANS.IN                            0.00       50. 00       0.00              21 .79       13. 50        0.00
UG-PE-2977       1994   GOU                               COTTON SECTOR DEVELO                       0.00       14.00        0.00                4;34        3.15         1.22
UG-PE-2938       1993   GOVERNMENT                        AGRIC. RES & TRG.                          0.00       25.04        0.00                2.85        -.47         0.00
UG-PE-2953       1993   GOVERNMENT                        PRIMARY EDUC. & TEAC                       0.00       52.60        0.00               24.16       12.43         0.00                 0
UG-PE-2975       1993   GOVERNMENT                        ECON & FINANCIAL MAN                       0.00       29.00        0.00                 .02       -3.05         0.00
UG-9E-296e       1992   GOVERNUMENT                       EHTERP.PISE DlEVELOPMENT                   0.00       65.60       23.75                3.31       23.98       -2.08                  (
UG-PE-2929       1991   GOVERNMENT                        POWER III                                  0. 00     125.00        0.00              19.06        22.85       22.01
IG-PE-2933       1991   GOVERNMENT                        URBAIN I                                  0.00        28.70        0.00               3.89         3.12        0.00                  0
Tctal                                                                                                0. 00     933.81       23.75             464.78       258.42       21.15
Active Projects       Closed Projects           Total
Tctal Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                  435.97            1,740.09             2,176.06
of vihich has been repaid:                   0.00              297.71              297.71
Tctal no-i held by IBRD and IDA:                 910.06            1,360.29             2,270.35
Amount sold                                        0.00                25.82               25.82
Of which repaid               :                 0.00               25.82                25.82
Tctal Undisbursed                :               464.78                 2.74              467.52
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.                                                                                               0
tNote:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is currently as of 31-Mar-99.                                                                                   _5
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS)



Uganda - Financial Markets Assistance Project                                     Page 51
Draft Project Appraisal Document - Annex X Country at a Glance                 May 7, 1999
Uganda
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 31-Mar-99
In Millions US Dollars
II     Held             --     Disbursed
IFC                --IFC-
FY Approval            Company              Loan Equity  Quasi Partic  Loan Equity  Quasi Pantic
1983                  Uganda Suga            6.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   6.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
1984/92               DFCU                   0.00   .98   0.00   0.00   0.00   .98   0.00   0.00
1992                   AEF Clovergem         .84   0.00   0.00   0.00   .84   0.00   0.00   0.00
1993                  AEF Nile Roses         .16   0.00   0.00   0.00   .16   0.00   0.00   0.00
1993                  AEFRwenzori            .52   .19   0.00   0.00   .52   .19   0.00   0.00
1993                  Jubilee                0.00   .10   0.00   0.00   0.00   .10   0.00   0.00
1994                  AEF Polypack            .40   0.00   0.00   0.00   .40   0.00   0.00   0.00
1994                  AEF Skyblue             .51   0.00   0.00   0.00   .51   0.00   0.00   0.00
1994                  Celtel                 2.15   .64   .80   0.00   2.15   .64   .80   0.00
1995                   AEF Rainbow           .79   0.00   0.00   0.00   .79   0.00   0.00   0.00
1995/96               Uganda Leasing         1.73   .33   0.00   0.00   1.]3   .33   0.00   0.00
1996                   AEF Agro Mgmt          .58   .40   0.00   0.00   .53   .40   0.00   0.00
1996                  EAGW                   6.50   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
1996                  Kasese Cobalt         16.00   3.60   0.00   0.00  13.92   3.20   0.00   0.00
1997                  ABE Conrad Plaza       1.41   0.00   0.00   0.00   1.41   0.00   0.00   0.00
1997                   AEF Kiwa Indust       .25   0.00   0.00   0.00   .'25   0.00   0.00   0.00
1997                   AEF Metro Hotel       .42   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
1998                   AEF Kampala Flwr       .50   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
1998                   AEF Exec. lnvnt       1.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   1.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
1998                  AEF Mosa Court         .80   0.00   0.00   0.00   .30   0.00   0.00   0.00
1998                   AEF Skay Electro      .22   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
1998                   AEF White Nile        .30   0.00   0.00   0.00   .:30  0.00   0.00   0.00
1998                  Tilda Rice             2.40   0.00   0.00   0.00   1.40   0.00   0.00   0.00
Total Portfolio:                     43.48   6.24   .80   0.00  32.11   5.84   .80   0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan Equity Quasi Partic
1999                   AEF GOMBA             1.40   0.00   0.00   0.00
1998                   AEF RAM OIL           1.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
Total Pending Comunitment:            2.40   0.00   0.00   0.00



Uganda - Financial Mfarkets Assistance Project                                                                    Page 52
Draft Project Appraisal Document - Annex X. Country at a Glance                                               May 7, 1999
Uganda at a glance                                                                1113/99
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          Saharan      Low-
Uganda      Africa  Income      Development diamond'
1997
Population, mid-year (rnitlons)                      203        614      2,048                Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Alias method, US$)                    330       500       350
GNP (AtUas methor, USS billions)                      6.7       309       722
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Population (%)                                        3.1        2.7       21
Labor force (X1                                       2.7        2.6       2.3     GNP                             Gross
per                       --iprimary
Most recent estimate itatest year available, 1991-97)                              capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% of population below natfonal poverty tine)  55
Urban population (% of otal population)                13        32        28
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       42        52        59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 Iv births)                 99        90        78
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)             26                  61                Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% ofpopulaton)                   34        44        71
Illiteracy (% or population age 15+)                   38        43        47
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-age population)   73        74        92
Male                                                 79        81       100                   Low-incorme group
Female                                               67        67        82
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976    1986       1996      1997
Economidc ratios*
GOP (US$ billions)                                    3.9        6.1       6.6
Gross domestic investmentVGDP                6.3      8.4       16.0      15.3                     Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP           11.4     12.8       11.8      12.6
Gross domestic savings/GDP                   8.1      6.0        4.7       7.5
Gross national savings/GDP                   7.9      8.2       11.1      12.3
Current account balance/GDP                           0.0       -8.2      -7.9     D
Interest payments/GDP                                 0.6        0.6       0.6     Domestc                     Investment
Total debtUGOP                                       36.0       60.1      56:3     Savings
Total debt service/exports                   6.1     44.1       20.0      21.0
Present value of debV/GDP                                       32.3
Present value of debt/exports                                  264.5
Indebtedness
1976-86  1987-97    1996       1997   1998-02
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  1.9     7.0      9.3        5.4       7.0                   Uganda
GNP per capita                     -0.2      3.7      6.6        3.0       4.1                   Low-incore group
Exports of goods and services         .     11.8     27.2       29.5       9.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986      1996      1997      Growth rates of output and Investment (6)
(% of GOP)
Apriculture                                 73.3    56.6        45.5      43.8    so
Industry                                     7.5     10.2       16.0      17.3     40 -
Manufacturing                               6.1      6.4       7.8       8.2      20.       
Services                                     19.2    33.2       38.5      38.9      o
Private consumption                                  85.0       85.1      82.6    .201    S      3   94   DS   9f   97
General govemment consumption                          9.0      10.2       9.9                     Ga    -GDP
Imports of goods and services                9.6      15.2      23.1      20.3
(average annual growth)                  197646  1987-97       1996      1997      Growth rates of exports and imports (%f)
Agriculture                                    -.      4.1       4.4       1.3    00
Industry                                              11.0      18.1      14.5    40
Manufacturing                                       12.2      19.7      13.5
Services                                               7.9       8.6       5.9    20
Private consumption                                   6_3 8_3 2_3 o                        _ , _,____
General govemment consumption                          6.1       8.4       7.0                       94   96   go   97
Gross domestic investment                              7.0      10.0      -2.6   -20
Imports of goods and services                          6.3      13.0       2.0                  Esports    O* imports
Gross national product                        1.8      7.1       9.8       6.0
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
This table was produced from the Development Economics central database.
- The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond vill
be incomplete.



Uganda - Financial Markets Assistance Project                                                                        Page 53
Draft ProjectAppraisal Document - Annex XI. Env.l Assessment, Social and Env. Analvses                          May 7, 1999
Uganda
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     1986      1996      1997      Inflation (%)
Domestic prJces
(% change)                                                                         0 I
Consumer prices                                ..   148.1        6.9       5.5540
Implicit GDP deflator                          ..   137.3        5.7       6.6    30
20
Govemment finance                                                                  to
(% of GOP, includes current grants) o
Current revenue                                ..      6.7      10.1      10.5            92   93   94  9f   96   97
Current budget balance                         ..    -1.6        1.2       0.9                   GDP deflator    O  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                        ..     4.4       -5.9      -6.0
TRADE
(US$ millions)                              1976    1986       1996      1997      Export and Import levels; (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                            ..    379        590       671      1500
Coffee                                       ..    360         404       366
Cotton                                        ..      ..        13        26
Manufactures                                  ..       ...                          .
Total imports (cif)                                   380      1,218     1,246
Food                                          ..      ..        ..        ..      sW         _
Fuel and energy                              ..      61         90        92
Capital goods                                ..
91  92  93  54  99  96  97
Export price index (1995=100)                  ..      49        75        67
Import price index (1995=100)                  ..      82        107      107                 M Exports     *imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..      60         71       63
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                              1976     1986      1996      1997      Current account balanci, to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                333      389        726      825       o
Imports of goods and services                285      446      1601      1,651
Resource balance                              48      -57       -875     -826
Net income                                    -7      -44        -46      -17
Net current transfers                          2      101       421       322
Current account balance                       43        0       -500     -521      -10
Financing items (net)                        41        39       573       653
Changes in net reserves                        -2     -39        -73     -132
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)         ..      86       480       622
Conversion rate (DEC, localUSS)                       10.9   1,012.8   1,058.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986      1996      1997
(USS millions)                                                                     CompositIon of total disbt. 1997 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         244    1,414      3,674     3,708
IBRD                                         3       43         0         0                       G: 112
IDA                                         42      370      1.849     1964                 F: 76
Total debt service                            20      172        150       182         E: 727
IBRD                                         1        5         0         0
IDA                                          0        4        21        22
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                  B: 1,954
Official grants                              5       82       338         ..        0: 445
Official creditors                          25      121        176      207
Private creditors                            S       35         -7       -1
Foreign direct investment                    ..
Portfolio equity                                                                          C:394
World Bank proqram
Commilments                                  0        0        42       125      A. IBRD                     E- Bilateral
Disbursements                                3       62       124       216      B. iDA    D . Cther milltiateral  F . Private
Principal repayments                         1        2         8         9      c . IMF                     G - Short.term
NetlIowm                                     2       60        116      207   |                                           I
Interest pavments                            1        6         13       13
Net transfers                                2       54        103      194
World Bank                                                                                                          1113/99



Uganda - Financial Markets Assistance Project                                          Page 54
Draft ProjectAppraisal Document - Annex MI                                          May 7, 1999
Annex XI: Environmental Assessment, Social and Environmental Analyses
As a "C" rated project, it is not expected that an environmental assessment would be warranted.



I  ,   I                                             I1                                                           _ IBRD 25052R1
SUDAN
- mba    )                                       0ASad                                                    UGANDA
|Cdf   /+mc                    Ara 1         >GGJ x}    K >     ,(   s2)v5
/  *ARUA>->. =  *6                           Er pAge R_,  )khelibur                  3   X B6i  <                        2  -   RIVERS
ha 8tARUA  t     <            a l     \,   g     -ti^#; St       <>     t^ )KOTIDO/                                        FALLS
DEMOCRATIC                 a                                                                                                                          A   FERRIES
REPUBLIC  p7>erellf --e   X    <  v ux r sts            ts  :   <   A                      <                     ~~~~~~PRIMARY BITUMEN POADS
REPUBLIC                                                                                                                                                 PRMAY  RAELROD
OF CONGO                 )  NEBBI.>                                                                                                                 --    PRIMARYGRAVELROADS
Gd   '                                                           A d.R                                                          UNSURFACED ROADS
mMarawarda,ra  -\    S+t   Mufshien    ja,                                                                      a\s -4-  ~  4   h A   g   2  mm=  I   RAILROADS
-2                                        ., in                                    P         \        .                           NablIahk\ $    ,                                                     2
a     SELECTED TOWNS AND VILLAGES
-Adl Kwbarml  \   OTI sr'     f     Ld            :nI) b h hitpl    DISTRICT CAPITALS
.     NATIONAL CAPITAL
HOfMA,.                j       L                                                                                  -      DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
kasargala  ~ ~ ~ ~    ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     - ~    REGION BOUNDARIES
iNk-aaa                             Ed. aINTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
R    b - .f .'iict araaa coin-ide ,th.Datio2tC,ta witha
K                                                        r                  pahnR dm                                      P eai ar Iartah.  p  aKbara. Dh,,t*ict.
icBa~~~) <    -.                                              Poant   /                  NabaaaMSE  ir ORRKILOMETERS 0                          50          I0 lt
lET  b  Krncag   101              K         i>kLa          Ma.np~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
joke   on?eaaa7
3gEANA                                                                                                               dw hadt j  l                      '; 4'3i
_E_d_w_ s phn         f l    |                                                                                                   .rc{  . .r.|_BUSENY   \  9
LAKA
wac~~~~r   ~~~                                                                                                                                            ZAN]ANZNI
Id S. Gd-f
imply arreparn a!                                                               *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4% -~4'a6
JUNE 1998



