                                            Documentof
                                         The World Bank

                                   FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY



                                                                           ReportNo. 30333-UG



                               PROJECT COMPLETIONNOTE
                                       (Credit No. 3227-UG)

                                                ONA

                                              CREDIT

                          INTHE AMOUNT OF SDR 9.6 MILLION
                              (US$13 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                                 TO

                                 THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA

                                               FOR A

                    FINANCIAL MARKETS ASSISTANCE PROJECT




                                         October 18,2004




FinancialSector Unit
Africa Region




This document has a restricted distribution and may be usedby recipients only in the performance of
their officialduties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

       (Exchange Rate Effective October 12, 2004)
        Currency Unit        Uganda Shillings (UShs)
               US$l.OO = UShs 1,736.62
                  1USh = USSO.00058
                  SDR 1 = US$1.4678


      SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES

                      Metric System


                    FISCAL YEAR

                    July 1-June 30

        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BOU            Bank o f Uganda
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
DCA            Development Credit Agreement
FSAC          Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
FSAP          Financial Sector Assessment Program
IDA           Intemational Development Association
IT            InformationTechnology
NBFI          Non-Bank Financial Institution
NPART         Non-Performing Assets Recovery Trust
NSSF          National Social Security Fund
PHRD          Japan Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
PIP           Project Implementation Plan
PIU           Project Implementation Unit
PPF           Project Preparation Facility
PRSC          Poverty Reduction Support Credit
SAC           Structural Adjustment Credit
TA            Technical Assistance
U C B         Uganda Commercial Bank
UDB           Uganda Development Bank




Vice President:                     Gobind T. Nankani
Country Director:                   Judy M. O'Connor
Sector Manager (Acting):            Antony Thompson
Task Team Leader:                   John P. Byamukama

                                                             FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                             PROJECTCOMPLETION NOTE

                                  REPUBLIC OFUGANDA

                   FINANCIAL MARKETS ASSISTANCE PROJECT

                                        ( Cr. 3227-UG)


 1.     The project was identified in August 1997 and prepared by the Bank o f Uganda
 (BOU) with the assistance o f a Japanese Policy and Human Resources Development
Fund (PHRD) Grant o f US$370,000 and a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) o f
US$1,050,000. It was pre-appraised in April 1998 and appraised in September 1998.
Negotiations were carried out on M a y 3, 1999. The International Development
Association (IDA) Board approved the credit o f US$13 million on M a y 27, 1999. The
Development Credit Agreement (DCA) with the Government o f Uganda was signed on
July 6, 1999. The original planned date o f credit effectivenesswas October 5, 1999.

2.      Because two of the conditions for credit effectiveness (approval by the Parliament
o f Uganda and provision of a legal opinion on the credit by the Attorney General) were
not fulfilled by the initial effectiveness deadline and the subsequent five extensions of the
deadline, the IDA credit was allowed to lapse inApril 2001. There were disbursements o f
US$330,210.74 under the PHRD Grant and US$39,789.26 was cancelled. There were
disbursements o f US$1,049,735.87 under the PPF and US$264.13 was cancelled. There
were no disbursements under the main Credit.


ProjectObjectivesand Description

3.      The overall objective o f the project was to improve the safety, soundness and
performance o f the Uganda financial system. This was inturn aimed at supporting broad-
based private sector growth. The objective was to be accomplished by: (i)      strengthening
the regulation, supervision and operations o f deposit-taking institutions; including the
resolution and work-out o f problem banks; (ii)   restructuring and privatization o f Uganda
Commercial Bank (UCB); (iii)        improving monetary management and payment systems;
and (iv) developing insurance and contractual savings institutions, as well as their
oversight.

4.      The project was a follow-up to the Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (FSAC)
and the third Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC 111) under which the Government had
initiated a financial sector reform agenda. The reforms included measures to improve the



                                              1

mobilization and allocation of financial resources and foster monetary deepening through
liberalized interest rate policies and improved formulation and execution o f monetary
policy. In addition, other measures included passage o f legislation for deposit-taking
institutions and insurance companies, and capacity building for oversight authorities.
The project was to support the Government in completing the reform agenda started
under the FSAC and SAC I11and then embark on a second phase o f financial sector
reforms inorder to maintain focus on the development o f the financial sector.

5.       The choice o f technical assistance (TA) as the lending instrument was justified
because the project's focus was on institutional and capacity building.The initial scope o f
the project had aimed at a hybrid operation o f adjustment lendingtogether with technical
assistance support. However, after careful thought, it was decided that the project should
focus on developing the reforms initiated under FSAC and SAC 111. Moreover, it was
noted that SAC I11did not have corresponding technical assistance which would enable
its smooth and successful implementation. The main consideration thus became
designing a project that would address the high priority capacity building requirements,
synergies between project components, and the contribution that IDA could make in
terms o f substance andor filling a financing gap.

6.       The Financial Markets Assistance Project was consistent with the Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS), discussed by the Board on M a y 20, 1997. One o f the
objectives o f the CAS was the development o f a properly regulated and diversified
financial sector. The country had just undergone a financial sector crisis in the early to
mid 1990s. The project was expected to help in finalizing the privatization o f Uganda
Commercial Bank (UCB), support progress in the recovery o f non-performing loans that
was being undertaken by the Non-Performing Assets Recovery Trust (NPART), and
improvement in the management and supervision o f banks, non-bank financial
institutions (NBFIs), and contractual savings institutions (pensions funds and insurance
industry).

7.       The Uganda financial system was still small, underdeveloped, and not able to
fully support economic growth. The previous 2001 Financial Sector Assessment Program
(FSAP) identified several areas that needed to be strengthened in order to further develop
the financial system. These included: (i)the privatization o f UCB; (ii)    efforts to fully
address risks from small banks; (iii)work to reform the legal framework, payment
system, and improve banking supervision; (iv) the need to enact AMLICFT legislation
and put in place a credit framework for monitoring and enforcing it; (v) reform o f the
pension system, including addressing weaknesses with the National Social Security Fund;
(vi) resolving Uganda Development Bank (UDB); and (vii) phase out direct government
intervention inmicrofinance as well as development financing.

8.      Uganda has made remarkable progress in the last three years following-up on
these recommendations and in establishing the basis for a sound and profitable financial
system which will be able to play an increasing role in economic development and
eventually reducing dependence on donors. K e y developments include: (i)the
privatization o f U C B to a reputable bank, one o f the key stability risks that faced the
system at the time o f designing the project; (ii) clean up o f some small weak banks
                                                  the


                                            2

from the banking system; (iii)   substantial improvements to banking supervision with the
introduction o f risk-based approach and passage of a new Financial Institutions Act; and
(iv) the presence o fbanks that appear to bewell capitalized, profitable, and resilient.

9.      The project included four components:
            Strengthening the regulation, supervision and operations of deposit
            taking institutions. This included provision o f a management contractor as
            part o f the resolution o f UCB, support to WART in its collections o f bad
            loans, and assistance to the Bank o f Uganda's Banking Supervision
            Department and the Institute o f bankers.
            Restructuring and privatization of UCB. This component included
            provision o f a transactions advisor for the privatization, due diligence
            services, severance payments, and other restructuring and privatization related
            services.
            Improving monetary management and payment systems. The project
            would provide      funding for     training   and    equipment to     strengthen
            macroeconomic programming in the Ministry of Finance, to enhance the
            monetary management skills o f the Research Department o f Bank o f Uganda
            (BOU), and to strengthen the payment systems program developed under the
            PPF.
            Developing insurance and contractual savings reform and regulations.
            This included strengthening o f the Insurance Commission through training,
            drafting o f the enabling legislation and regulations, and purchase o f IT
            equipment. In addition, the project would also support capacity building and
            public education campaigns for capital markets development (financed
            through Capital Markets Authority). The project would also support the
            review o f the existing pensions system with a view to introducing a new
           pension policy, drafting supporting legislation, and creation o f an oversight
            authority.

10.     The project was to have been implemented over a four year period, closing on
September 30, 2003. The total project cost was estimated at US$14.4 million equivalent,
including a foreign exchange component o f US$11.4 million or 79 percent o f the total
project cost. The IDA Credit o f US$13.0 millionwas to finance about 90.3 percent o f the
total project cost, with the Government financing 9.7 percent. The project did not have
any other co-financiers.

11.     The overall responsibility for the coordination o f project implementation was with
Bank o f Uganda under a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) set up for the FSAC. Each
project component was to be implemented by a designated agency and individuals in
each agency had been identified to be accountable for the execution o f project activities
and timely delivery of output as identified in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP). The
PIU was supposed to provide procurement support for each implementing agency and
also prepare quarterly progress reports for purposes o f monitoring implementation
progress.


                                              3

Reasons for Cancellation

12.     The project never became effective because two conditions o f effectiveness were
not fulfilled by the Government, namely: (i)the approval o f the credit by the Uganda
Parliament; and (ii)   provision o f a legal opinion from the Attomey General confirming
the validity o f the DCA. Despite strong commitment to implement financial sector
reforms by the Ministry o f Finance and Bank o f Uganda, Parliament was skeptical about
the Government's plans to borrow money for the second round o f privatization o f UCB
as the initial privatization to Westmont Land Asia in 1997 had proved unsuccessful and a
great cost to the country. Consultants had estimated that the re-privatization o f U C B
would cost the Govemment in the range o f US$28 million to cover recapitalization
requirements, further write-offs o f loans guaranteed by Government, servicing o f
recapitalization bonds already issued and other operating costs.

13.     Following the signing o f the D C A in July 1999, the conditions of credit
effectiveness were not fulfilled by the set date October 5, 1999 and effectiveness was
extended to December 31, 1999. This effectiveness deadline was also not met and was
extended again. IDA sent two missions to Uganda inNovember 1999 and February 2000
to follow-up on the completion o f effectiveness conditions and ascertain whether the
Govemment continued to be committed to the project. By March 2000, all conditions o f
credit effectiveness had been met with the exception o f the approval o f the credit by
Parliament and the legal opinion from the Attomey General. Due to the political
controversy surrounding the privatization o f UCB, these two effectiveness conditions
remained unfulfilled even after five extensions o f the effectiveness deadline. IDA
terminated the D C A on April 4, 2001 following the failure o f the Govemment to meet the
fiftheffectiveness deadline o fMarch31,2001.


Lessons Learned

14.     The following lessons can be drawn:

    i. The power o f the vested interests who were against financial sector reforms was
        underestimated. A small technical assistance project o f this nature did not provide
        the major stakeholders with adequate incentives to make the necessary difficult
        decisions. The project was targeting the reform o f UCB, National Social Security
        Fund (NSSF), and WART (to enhance collection o f non-performing loans from
        U C B and UDB), all o f which were politically sensitive institutions. Most o f the
        bad loans in UCB and UDB belonged to well-connected people. It was thus easy
       to drum up political resistance to the privatization o f UCB, especially following
       the first unsuccessful and costly sale o f U C B to Westmont Land Asia. While IDA
       was not directly involved in the first privatization transaction o f U C B (the
        Government had hired the privatization advisors using its own resources), there
       was perception in the country that IDA had been involved inthe transaction. This
       perception emanated from the fact that the privatization o f U C B hadbeen initiated
       underthe FSAC.




                                              4

..
11.The TA for the other activities in the project was necessary as is seen in the
   current discussions on pension and insurance reform and regulation, and the fate
   o f the Development Finance Department in Bank o f Uganda and UDB. Attempts
   were made to include some o f the key points in these areas under the PRSC
   instrument but this arrangement was not able to provide the technical support that
   i s required. The Bank should consider ways o f packaging TA in ways that can
   easily gain broad-based support and overcome the political side-tracking.




                                      5

