Report No. PID6157
Project                          Uganda - Financial Markets Assistance Project (FIMAP)
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Financial Sector
Project ID                       UGPA44213
Borrower                         Government of Uganda (GOU)
Implementing Agency              Bank of Uganda (BOU)
Date this PID prepared           April 2, 1998
Projected Appraisal date         June 1998
Projected Board date             August 1998
1.      Country and Sector Background.   With a per capita GNP of about US$ 240 in
1995, Uganda ranks among the poorest countries in the world. Poverty in
Uganda is largely a consequence of civil war, political instability and
economic mismanagement during the period 1972-85. The country has strong
growth potential, however, blessed with fertile soils and a good climate.
Agriculture is the mainstay of the economy, accounting for more than 50
percent of GDP, about 75 percent of export earnings and around 80 percent of
employment, and it provides inputs for a number of manufacturing and
processing industries. The country is predominantly rural, with only 11
percent of the population living in towns and cities. Industry has grown
rapidly since 1987, but its contribution to GDP is only around 12 percent.
The Government has made substantial progress in reforming the economy. The
rate of inflation has declined from 30-40 percent in early 1990s to single
digits since 1994. Low inflation has been accompanied by a fairly stable
exchange rate, although after the introduction of inter-bank market for
foreign exchange in 1993, the Ugandan shilling has experienced some
appreciation.
2.      Uganda's growth targets require a sound and more efficient financial
system which would facilitate fast and secure payments and transfers, provide
savings facilities for urban and rural population and loans to credible
businesses. In the last five years, the Government has taken significant
steps to rectify weaknesses in the financial sector. Some of these steps
include: (i) enacting updated Central Bank, banking, insurance and capital
markets legislation; (ii) establishing a loan recovery agency (NPART) and
expediting the workout of loans from the Uganda Commercial Bank (UCB); (iii)
undertaking the privatization of UCB; (iv) enforcing minimum capital
requirements for banks; (v) declaring a moratorium on the licensing of new
banks, and (vi) strengthening the capacity of the BOU Banking Supervision
Department. Major improvements have been made in the BOU's management,
organization and operations. The BOU's structure has been streamlined with
the establishment of functional departments and its authority has been
enhanced through legal reforms, restructuring and recapitalization. The BOU's
extensive involvement in credit allocation has been curtailed and the quality,
accuracy and timeliness of commercial bank reports to the BOU has been
upgraded. With the liberalization of interest rates, the BOU has also been
taking a more active role in the formulation and implementation of monetary



policy. Real rates, which were strongly negative in the 1980s, are positive,
particularly money market and bank lending rates.
3.      In spite of considerable policy reforms, further measures are needed to
develop the institutions capable of implementing the legislation enacted.
Although institutional reforms were supported under the previous Financial
Sector Adjustment Credit, further assistance is needed to carry out a second
stage of financial sector reform.
4.      Project Objectives.   The objective is to improve the soundness,
performance and competitiveness of the financial system. This is then aimed
at supporting broad-based private sector growth. This will be accomplished
by: (i) strengthening the regulation, supervision and operations of deposit-
taking institutions; (ii) improving monetary management and payment systems;
and (iii) developing contractual savings institutions, as well as their
oversight.
5.      Project Description.   Project components would likely include:
a.      Strengthening the Regulation and Supervision of Deposit-taking
Institutions:
- Assistance to BOU Commercial Banking and Non-bank Supervision Departments;
- Assistance to the Non-Performing Assets Trust (NPART); and
- Assistance to the Uganda Institute of Bankers.
b.      Improving Monetary Management and Payment Systems;
- Strengthening BOU Monetary Management;
- Strengthening the Payment Systems; and
- Strengthening the Macro Programming Unit in the Ministry of Finance.
c.      Contractual Savings Reform and Regulation
- Assistance to the Insurance Commission;
- Developing and strengthening pension regulation; and
- Assistance to capital markets development.
6.      Project Financing.   The estimated project cost would be US$ 5.0 million
equivalent, of which IDA would finance approximately US$ 4.5 million
equivalent. Co-financing would be sought by other donors. The project is
being developed in close coordination with these other donors, including USAID
which is developing complementary support for a credit information bureau.
7.      Project Implementation. Overall responsibility for the implementation and
coordination of the Project will be entrusted to the Bank of Uganda (BOU), who
will be supported by administration and coordination staff. The BOU will be
responsible for ensuring policy consistency across Government agencies
involved in the project, coordinating implementation and ensuring adequate
financial management (procurement, disbursement, accounting and audit) and
general administration (monitoring the implementation plan and reporting).
Each project component will be implemented by a specifically designated agency
who will be primarily responsible for the execution of project activities and
timely delivery of outputs as defined and agreed under the Project
Implementation Plan (to be finalized at Appraisal). These agencies will be
supported by the BOU for procurement of goods and services, disbursement and
other financial services. It is the responsibility of the BOU to ensure
satisfactory and timely service. Quarterly progress reports, prepared on the
- 2 -



basis of the project implementation plan and the logical framework would be
provided by each beneficiary agency to IDA, through the BOU. The Bank will
carry out regular supervision missions and a mid-term review at mutually
agreed dates. Finally, Government will transmit a completion report to IDA
within six months of the Project closing date.
8.      Project Sustainability.   The project seeks to assist in the development
of strong, sustainable institutions as follows: (i) regulatory institutions
that are able to demonstrate capacity and have the management systems to
maintain that capacity; and (ii) financial institutions that sustain
themselves in terms of solvency and profitability. Recognizing that strong
institutions require years to develop, the project aims to initiate a process
that will maintain itself well beyond the period of the credit. Indicators of
sustainability will be reviewed under the Project Implementation Plan.
9.      Lessons Learned from Previous Bank/IDA Involvement.    The project aims to
draw on the results of financial sector and institutional development projects
in Uganda and elsewhere. Institution and capacity building operations are
widely used and remain relevant to the Bank's commitment to develop expertise
and strengthen local institutions. The key lessons that will guide the
preparation of the proposed operations are simplicity of project design and
quick response. Project design is also based on well-targeted objectives;
well-defined actions with timetables for implementation; and clear evaluation
criteria with monitorable indicators. Compatibility with both the political
and institutional absorptive capacity of Government is also taken into
consideration and will be incorporated into the Project Implementation Plan.
Project benefits and risks will be verified and confirmed during pre-
appraisal.
10.     Issues that need continued focus and strengthening include: development
of the borrower's capacity to implement and manage the technical assistance,
including close supervision efforts by Government; consultants' abilities to
transfer skills to counterparts; encouragement of local consultants and
professionals; counterpart staffing and greater attention to monitoring
indicators to track progress. The proposed project aims to have greater
success than the FSAC where capacity building is concerned by only providing
assistance to agencies that have carefully considered business plans and where
the assistance is an integral part of such plans.
11.     Environmental Aspects.   The project is not expected to present any
environmental risks and thus an environmental rating of "C" is proposed.
Neither an indigenous peoples plan nor resettlement plan will be developed.
12.     Program Objective Categories.   The project would primarily contribute to
the private sector development, financial intermediation and institutional
development categories.
Contact Point:                   The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
-3 -



components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending April 3, 1998.
- 4 -



