RP244
THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
Ministry of Education And Culture
SECONDARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
(SEDP)
RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
(RPF)
May 13, 2004
FILE COPY



TABLE OF CONTENTS
GLOSSARY OF KEY TERMS .II
1. INTRODUCTION                     .3
2. PRINCIPLES AND OBJECTIVES GOVERNING RESETTLEMENT PREPARATION
AND IMPLEMENTATION                   .8
3. DESCRIPTION OF THE PROCESS FOR PREPARING AND APPROVING
RESETTLEMENT PLANS .10
4. LAND ACQUISITION AND LIKELY CATEGORIES OF IMPACT .15
5. ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA FOR DEFINING VARIOUS CATEGORIES OF PROJECT
AFFECTED PERSONS .19
6. A LEGAL FRAMEWORK REVIEWING THE FIT BETWEEN THE LAWS AND
REGULATIONS OF THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA AND BANK POLICY
REQUIREMENTS AND MEASURES PROPOSED TO BRIDGE ANY GAPS BETWEEN
THEM .21
7. METHODS OF VALUING AFFECTED ASSETS .24
8. ORGANIZATIONAL PROCEDURES FOR THE DELIVERY OF ENTITLEMENTS,
INCLUDING, FOR PROJECTS INVOLVING PRIVATE SECTOR INTERMEDIARIES,
THE RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FINANCIAL INTERMEDIARY, THE
GOVERNMENT, AND THE PRIVATE DEVELOPER .33
9. A DESCRIPTION OF THE IMPLEMENTATION PROCESS, LINKING RESETTLEMENT
IMPLEMENTATION TO CIVIL WORKS .35
10. A DESCRIPTION OF GRIEVANCE REDRESS MECHANISMS .37
11. A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARRANGEMENTS FOR FUNDING RESETTLEMENT AND
COMPENSATION, INCLUDING THE PREPARATION AND REVIEW OF COSTS
ESTIMATES, THE FLOW OF FUNDS, AND CONTINGENCY ARRANGEMENTS . 39
-12. A DESCRIPTION OF MECHANISMS FOR CONSULTATIONS WITH, AND
PARTICIPATION OF, DISPLACED (ECONOMICALLY OR PHYSICALLY) PERSONS
IN PLANNING, IMPLEMENTATION, AND MONITORING .40
13. ARRANGEMENTS FOR MONITORING BY THE IMPLEMENTATION AGENCY AND,
IF REQUIRED, BY INDEPENDENT MONITORS .41
ANNEX 1.45
ANNEX 2: TEMPLATE FOR PREPARING RESETTLEMENT AND COMPENSATION
PLANS (RAPS) .46



GLOSSARY OF KEY TERMS
*  Cut - off Date - refers to a day on and beyond which any person who occupies land
required for project use, will not be eligible for compensation. The date is often the day
when the assessment of persons and their property in the project area commences.
*  Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) - report is a safeguards
instrument (document) which establishes a mechanism to determine and assess future
potential environmental and social impacts of SEDP funded activities in the secondary
school construction program, and then to set out mitigation, monitoring and institutional
measures to be taken during design, implementation and operation of the project
activities to eliminate adverse environmental and social impacts, offset them, or reduce
them to acceptable levels. This instrument has been prepared as a separate and stand-
alone document to be used in conjunction with the RPF.
*  Market rate - based on commercial terms according to Tanzania law for sale of land.
*  Project Affected Person(s) (PAPs)- are persons affected by land use or acquisition
needs of the School Boards. These person(s) are affected because they may lose shelter,
lose, denied, or restricted access to economic assets, income sources, or means of
livelihood. These persons are affected whether or not they must move to another location.
*  Resettlement and Compensation Plan (RAP), is also known as a Resettlement Action
Plan or Resettlement Plan - is a resettlement instrument (document) to be prepared when
school locations are identified, that require land acquisition that leads to physical
displacement of persons, and/or loss of shelter, and /or loss of livelihoods and/or loss,
denial or restriction of access to economic resources. RAPs are prepared by the party
impacting people and livelihoods (in this case the school boards) in this manner and
contain specific and legal binding requirements to be taken by that party to resettle and
compensate the affected party before project activities causing this adverse impact are
implemented.
*  Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF): The RPF has been prepared as a resettlement
instrument to be used throughout the SEDP implementation. The RPF will be disclosed
to set out the resettlement and compensation principles, organizational arrangements and
design criteria to be applied to meet the needs of the people who may be affected by the
program. The RAP is prepared consistent with the provisions of the RPF.
ii



1. INTRODUCTION
1.1    An exceedingly small proportion of the Tanzanian age group completes secondary
education. At most 5% of the age group completes lower secondary and 1.5% completes upper
secondary. As a result, less than 5% of the labor force has obtained secondary education. The
main cause is restricted initial access and low retention. Only about one in four or five primary
school completers proceeds to lower secondary education in Tanzania, compared with one out of
two in Uganda (2001). Relatively high dropout rates in Forms II and III - 17% and 14%,
respectively, in 1998 - reduce enrollments even further. Thus, the overall gross enrollment ratio
for secondary education was only 7 percent in 2000, compared with a regional average of 28
percent. Only about one in four of those who successfully complete Form IV proceeds to the
upper level. Currently participation rates are particularly low for low-income youth, rural students
and for females (at the upper secondary level).
1.2    1% of the very poor were likely to have completed secondary education in the mid-1990s
compared to over 11 % from the highest income group. In terms of gender, the balance is almost
even at the lower secondary level, but tips strongly in favor of males at upper secondary. At lower
secondary female students comprise almost half of the students, but this drops to only a third of
the students at the upper level. Dropout rates also tend to be significantly higher among students
from the lower income quintile and for girls between lower and higher secondary levels.
1.3    The low coverage of secondary education reflects constraints on supply and demand for
secondary school places. After independence Tanzania expanded secondary school places but the
policy was still to restrict entry to secondary education so as to focus on universal primary
education. Public secondary education was mainly provided in a few high quality boarding
schools to which access was governed by strict selection procedures. This policy seems to have
continued since the Government has financed no new secondary school construction over the past
15 years, although a number of existing schools have been expanded.
1.4    This limited provision of secondary education is unsustainable. The pressure to expand
secondary school places is likely to mount rapidly in the coming years as more and more students
complete their primary schooling -- especially with the introduction of free primary education
that has raised the gross enrollment rate in primary education to 100% in 2002 compared to 77%
in 2000. The government will have to transform secondary education progressively from one
servicing a small, elite clientele into one catering to a larger and more diverse group of children.
Managing the sub-sector's expansion in a fiscally sustainable manner is a rapidly emerging policy
issue.
1.5    The Government of Tanzania realizes this issue and is making a concerted effort to
address it. Education is one of the priority sectors specified in the Government of Tanzania's
Vision 2025 and its PRSP. Within this context, the govemment is deepening a comprehensive
Education Sector Development Program (ESDP). The ESDP has defined the following general
priorities:
*      Priority in spending on basic education;
*      Improvement in equitable access to quality secondary education;
*      Demand-driven and market-oriented post-secondary and higher education; and
3



*      Institutional development to improve sector management and strengthen
implementation capacity.
1.6    As part of this strategy, the Government of Tanzania has asked the World Bank for
support of its Secondary Education Development Program (SEDP). The Project Development
Objective of the Secondary Education Development Program (SEDP) is to promote economic and
social development and reduce poverty through human resource development at the secondary
level, especially for disadvantaged groups.
The specific objectives of the SEDP are:
*      To increase the proportion of the relevant age group completing secondary
education, especially underserved groups.
*      To improve learning outcomes of secondary students, especially at the lower
level.
*      To enable the public, including local authorities and private sectors to manage
secondary education effectively.
1.7    To achieve these objectives, the program is structured into specifically linked sub-
component activities per specific objectives as follows:
Objective 1:  Increase the proportion of the relevant age group completing
secondary education, especially underserved groups.
(indicator: achievement of targeted enrollment completion ratios by age
group for lower and upper secondary).
Objective 2:  Improve learning outcomes of students, especially at lower
secondary level.
(indicator: raised educational attainment of students as shown by
continuous assessments and performance on public examinations).
Objective 3:  Enable the public administration to manage secondary education
effectively.
(indicators: authority devolved and exercised well at LGA and school
levels; better central policy development and standards setting for cost-
effective delivery of quality of secondary education, and improved
oversight).
1.8    Specifically, Component 1 (Objective 1) will finance the construction of new secondary
schools and the expansion/rehabilitation of existing secondary schools, inter alia.
1.9    The identification of sites for secondary school construction will be based on the needs of
local communities as expressed by them through their districts and regions and/or the findings
from a soon to be commissioned school mapping exercise.
4



*      I
1.10   Under Component 1, therefore, land will have to be acquired to build these new schools
on and to support the expansion of some existing schools. It is expected that in a vast majority of
cases due to joint partnership manifested through effective participation and consultation between
the GoT/MoE the Local Government Authorities (LGAs) and their local communities, land can
be acquired using participatory techniques.
1.11   To this effect the GoT has prepared guidelines for the establishment of new secondary
schools, which seeks community mobilization and participation and guidelines for identifying
school sites.
1.12   For instance, a Secondary School Site must be large enough to accommodate the
following;
*      16 classrooms/streams
*      Assembly Hall
*      3 Science Laboratories (for Physics, Chemistry and Biology)
*      3 Special Classrooms (Geography etc.)
*      Library
*      16 Staff Houses
*      Administration Block (with offices for Head, D/Head, Staff rooms, Waiting
areas, Secretariat etc.)
*      Toilet Block
*      Kitchen and Eatery
*      Sporting Facilities
1.13   Because Tanzania is such a large country, approximately 945,000 km2 of land, with a
population of 36 m, the average population density being as low as 38 persons/ sq. km, significant
efforts would be made to select these sites to avoid or minimize impacts on livelihoods, people,
land, property and on access to natural and other economic resources, as far as possible.
1.14  Notwithstanding, land acquisition or land use by some school management boards to
support their planned construction activities under this program, may lead to either the physical or
economic displacement of people or their loss, denial or restriction of access to economic
resources and therefore ultimately to resettlement and compensation of people in some, perhaps
only a few minority of cases for the types of investments proposed in this program.
1.15   When this occurs, the World Bank Operational Policy OP4. 12 on Involuntary
Resettlement and certain laws of Tanzania will be triggered. This is possible because of the
uneven and varying settlement patterns and population densities across Tanzania, since
5



significantly large portions of the country are designated as environmentally sensitive areas', such
as the national parks and the surrounding/adjacent areas of many wetlands, lakes and rivers, etc.
The areas around national parks and game reserves are generally very lightly populated and those
around wetlands, river and lakes are more densely populated due to livelihood opportunities for
many Tanzanians, from use of economic resources in these ecosystems.
1.16   At this stage however, the Government of the Tanzania is not required to prepare a
Resettlement Plan since the school locations have not yet been identified and therefore their land
needs have consequently not been determined also. However, the Government of the Tanzania is
required by the World Bank to prepare a Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) during project
preparation to be publicly disclosed in Tanzania and at the info shop of the Bank.
1.17   The RPF establishes the resettlement and compensation principles, organizational
arrangements and design criteria to be applied to meet the needs of the people who may be
affected by the project. The RPF is prepared to the standards of the Government of the Tanzania's
own laws and policies on resettlement and the policy of the World Bank, OP4.12.
1.18   When the school mapping exercise is complete and the District Secondary Schools
Development Plans (DSSDP) are finalized and approved for funding under the SEDP, specific
planning information on the location of these schools would be available and land/sites will be
identified, resettlement/compensation plans will be closely coordinated with the planning and
implementation of civil works and then subsequently prepared consistent with this policy
framework by the School Boards and will be submitted to the LGA, for approval before any land
acquisition, resettlement, loss, denial of, and restriction to economic resources or any other
impact on livelihood occurs.
1.19   This RPF covers the following sections;
2.     Principles and objectives governing resettlement preparation and implementation.
3.     A description of the process for preparing and approving resettlement plans.
4.     Land acquisition and likely categories of impact.
5.     Eligibility criteria for defining various categories of project affected persons.
6.     A legal Framework reviewing the fit between the laws of Tanzania and
regulations and Bank policy requirements and measures proposed to bridge any
gaps between them.
7.     Methods of valuing affected assets.
8.     Organizational procedures for the delivery of entitlements, including, for projects
involving private sector intermediaries, the responsibilities of the financial
intermediary, the government, and the private developer.
Tanzania has a much bigger land surface area devoted to resource conservation (29%) than most countries. The
hierarchical protected-area system consists of national parks (12), game reserves (28), the Ngorongoro Conservation
Area (1), and game-controlled areas (38), comprising a total of 240,000 km2. In addition to the wildlife-protected areas,
there are 540 forest reserves covering 132,000 kM2, equivalent to 15% of the total woodland and forest area in
Tanzania. There is also the Mafia Island Marine Park.
6



9.     A description of the implementation process, linking resettlement
implementation to civil works.
10.    A description of the grievance redress mechanisms.
11.    A description of the arrangements for funding resettlement, including the
preparation and review of cost estimates, the flow of funds, and contingency
arrangements.
12.    A description of mechanisms for consultations with, and participation of,
displaced persons in planning, implementation, and monitoring.
13.    Arrangements for monitoring by the implementation agency and, if required, by
independent monitors.
1.20   This RPF governs all activities funded under the SEDP, and is to be used in conjunction
with the Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) that has also been prepared
for this project as a separate stand alone document, also disclosed at the Bank info shop and in
Tanzania.
7



2. PRINCIPLES AND OBJECTIVES GOVERNING RESETTLEMENT
PREPARATION AND IMPLEMENTATION.
2.1    The impacts due to involuntary resettlement from development projects, if left
unmitigated, often gives rise to severe economic, social and environmental risks resulting in
production systems being dismantled, people facing impoverishment when their productive skills
may be less applicable and the competition for resources greater; community institutions and
social networks being weakened; kin groups being dispersed; and cultural identity, traditional
authority, and the potential for mutual help are diminished or lost. The resettlement policy, in
most cases, is not triggered because people are being affected by physical displacement. It is
triggered because the project activity causes land acquisition, whereby a physical piece of land is
needed and people may be affected because they are cultivating on that land, they may have
buildings on the land, they may use the land for water and grazing of animals or they may
otherwise access the land economically, spiritually or any other way which may not be possible
during and after the project is implemented. Therefore, people are in most cases compensated for
their loss (of land, property or access) either in kind or in cash of which the former is preferred.
Therefore, the objectives of this policy are the following:
(i) Involuntary resettlement and land acquisition should be avoided where feasible,
or minimized, exploring all viable alternatives.
(ii) Where involuntary resettlement and land acquisition is unavoidable, resettlement
and compensation activities should be conceived and executed as sustainable
development programs, providing sufficient investment resources to give the
persons affected and/or displaced by the project the opportunity to share in
project benefits. Affected and/or displaced and compensated persons should be
meaningfully consulted and should have opportunities to participate in planning
and implementing resettlement programs.
(iii) Affected and/or displaced and compensated persons should be assisted in their
efforts to improve their livelihoods and standards of living or at least to restore
them, in real terms, to pre-displacement levels or levels prevailing prior to the
beginning of project implementation, whichever is higher.
Affected people, according to the Bank policy, refers to people who are directly affected socially
and economically by the bank assisted investment projects, caused by:
(a)    the involuntary taking of land and other assets resulting in:
a. relocation or loss of shelter
b. loss of assets or access to assets
c. loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not the affected
persons must move to another location;
or
(b) the involuntary restriction or access to legally designated parks and protected areas
results in adverse impacts on the livelihood of the affected and/or displaced persons.
8



The Bank Safeguard Policy OP 4.12 applies to all components under the program, whether
or not they are directly funded in whole or in part by the Bank.
2.2    The policy applies to all economically and/or physically displaced persons regardless of
the total number affected, the severity of impact and whether or not they have legal title to the
land. Particular attention should be paid to the needs of vulnerable groups among those
economically and/or physically displaced; especially those below the poverty line; the land less,
the elderly, women and children, indigenous groups, ethnic minorities and other historically
disadvantaged groups or other economically and/or physically displaced persons who may not be
protected through Tanzania's Land compensation legislation.
2.3    In particular for SEDP, the policy also requires that the implementation of individual
resettlement plans are a prerequisite for the implementation of the program activities requiring
land acquisition, that is before any construction activity starts to ensure that displacement or
restriction to access does not occur before necessary measures for resettlement and compensation
are in place. It is further required that these measures include provision of compensation and of
other assistance required for relocation, prior to displacement, and preparation and provision of
resettlement sites with adequate facilities, where required. In particular, the taking of land and
related assets may take place only after compensation has been paid and where applicable,
resettlement sites, new homes, related infrastructure, public services and moving allowances have
been provided to affected and/or displaced persons. Furthermore, where relocation or loss of
shelter occurs, the policy further requires that measures to assist the affected and/or displaced
persons are implemented in accordance with the resettlement plan of action.
2.4    It is particularly important to neutralize to the extent possible any socio-economic
pressures in the communities that are likely to be exacerbated by involuntary resettlement, by
facilitating the participation of those impacted in the construction activities. Therefore, offering
impacted people the opportunity to continue to participate in the planning process that would lead
to the preparation of Resettlement Plans is mandatory and Section L of this RPF deals with this
requirement.
2.5    Also, offering impacted people the opportunity for employment during the construction
of the schools will provide additional income generating opportunities to a significant number of
impacted persons who may potentially have to be resettled. Therefore, the opportunity for
employment of affected people by local building contractors is being taken advantage of in this
RPF, by including it for discussion in the consultative process with the local communities.
2.6    Furthermore, it is worthy to note that rush migration to selected land/sites/areas may
occur by those wishing to take advantage of the rules of eligibility described earlier in this
Section. Were this to happen it would bring to bear additional pressures on the whole planning
process and compensation budgets. This has major considerations therefore when establishing the
cut-off dates.
2.7    A major object of this RPF is to ensure that affected individuals and households, and
affected and/or displaced communities are meaningfully consulted, have participated in the
planning process, are adequately compensated to the extent that at least their pre-displacement
incomes have been restored and that the process has been a fair and transparent one.
9



3. DESCRIPTION OF THE PROCESS FOR PREPARING AND APPROVING
RESETTLEMENT PLANS.
3.1    As stated earlier, the World Bank policy on Involuntary Resettlement OP 4.12 is
triggered because the SEDP will finance the construction of new secondary schools and the
expansion/rehabilitation of others that may require land acquisition, potentially leading in a
minority of cases to loss, denial, or restriction of access to economic resources. Since the location
of these sites were not known at the time of the preparation of the project, the preparation and
disclosure of this RPF is a conditionality for appraisal of this program. However, during
implementation of this program, in a process defined here below, the selection of these sites
would be made. When that happens, land would be acquired or access to economic resources may
be lost, denied or restricted and people may then be affected. At that stage, OP 4.12 calls for the
preparation of individual Resettlement Plans that must be consistent with this RPF.
3.2    To address the impacts under this policy, resettlement plans must include measures to
ensure that the affected and/or displaced persons are;
(a) informed about their options and rights pertaining to resettlement.
(b) consulted on, offered choices among, and provided with technically and
economically feasible resettlement alternatives.
(c) And provided prompt and effective compensation at full replacement cost for losses
of assets and access attributable to the program.
(d) enabled to restore and preferably improve their living standards compared to program
ones.
3.3    Therefore, the first stage in the process of preparing the individual resettlement plans is
the screening process to identify the land acquisition and land use needs that will cause
resettlement. The resettlement and compensation plans will contain the analysis of alternative
sites undertaken during the land screening process.
3.4    The land screening process presented here below is designed to be part of the School
Boards2 planning stage, thereby ensuring that their application for funding under the SEDP,
which they would have to submit to their respective district also complies with the requirements
of OP 4.12 and the laws of Tanzania relating to land acquisition/use and resettlement.
The modus operandi for the identification of areas for construction of new secondary
schools and expansion/rehabilitation of existine secondary schools would be;
Step 1: This process starts when approval3 of the list of schools to be included in the construction
program of District Secondary School Development Plan (DSSDP)4 is approved.
Step 2: For a new school, the school management board is appointed/elected. For existing
schools who are approved for expansion/rehabilitation, it is assumed that they already
have a School Board in place.
2 In line with MoE guidelines, all secondary schools must elect/appoint a School Board, that will inter alia, provide
management oversight for the school.
3The decision on where a secondary school is to be built will be made by the districts.
4Refer to Section 9, Fig 9.2, of the ESMF.
10



Step 3: The School Board will request suitable and appropriate land from the Village
Administration5 of the village in which the school is to be located. Using Participatory
methods, the Village Administration will consult with local communities within the
schools boundary area, to select the required land to allocate to the School Board, using
the following criteria;
*      The site should normally not be within an Environmentally Sensitive Area
(ESA)6.
*      The site should ideally be located within 500meters of a settlement area.
*      There should be a sustainable source of potable water within 1 km of the site.
*      The site should be at least 20,000m2 in size or large enough to accommodate the
building schedule for a new secondary school. The building schedule is contained
in Section A, Paragraph 12. of this RPF.
*      The site owners and/or users if any are consulted and are invited to participate in
the activities of the local community regarding the school.
*      The School Board must be able to secure legal title to the land.
*      The outer boundaries of the site should be clearly marked and the length of the
sides should be measured in meters.
*      There should not be any natural or manmade features on the site that could make
construction difficult or that could pose danger to building structures or humans
such as bedrock, gullies, water pipes, swamps, floodplains and rock falls.
*      There should not be any natural or man made features within 100 meters of the
site that could pose danger to pupils once the school is established, e.g. very
steep cliffs, electricity pylons, etc.
*      The site must conform to and be consistent with the local development plan for
that area/district.
*      The site should not lead to either the physical displacement of people, loss of
their shelter, loss of assets, loss of income sources or means of livelihood, or
their loss, denial or restriction of access to economic resources. If it does impact
any one of these, chose another site. If this is not possible then OP 4.12 is
triggered and those affected must be compensated, consistent with the provisions
of this RPF.
Step 4: If the School Board determines that the site is suitable because it satisfies the criteria
above, then the allocated land/site would be accepted. Go To Step 10.
Step 5: If the site does not meet the criteria above the Village Administration will be advised to
allocate another piece of land/site until a site is found that satisfies the screening criteria.
5 The Village Administration is a Corporate Body under the Decentralization Law in Tanzania.
6 ESA - are defined in Annex I
11



The LGAs will assist the School Board and the Village Administration if they so request
that assistance.
Step 6: For situations where resettlement cannot be avoided, OP 4.12 will apply. For each parcel
of land that has potential PAPs, so determined using the process described above, the cut-
off date7 will be immediately established using participatory methods again, acceptable
according to local traditions.
Step 7: For each parcel of land that has potential PAPs, the School Committee will request its
service providers to carry out (i) a socio-economic study and (ii) a census8 to identify the
potential PAPs on the individual, household and vulnerable groups level and to calculate
their household incomes, as the first step in the preparation of the RAPs.
Step 8: On completion of the socio-economic study and the baseline census the School Board
will prepare a Resettlement and Compensation Plan (RAP) for each site/parcel of land
that is affected by resettlement and compensation. There will be as many RAPs as there
are affected parcels of land.
3.5     Where the impacts on the entire displaced population are minor (i.e. if affected people are
not physically displaced and less than 10% of their productive assets are lost) or fewer than 200
people are displaced, and then the bank may approve the preparation of an Abbreviated
Resettlement Plan (ARAP). The contents of the ARAP are to be:
(a) a census survey of displaced persons and valuation of assets.
(b) Description of compensation and other resettlement assistance to be provided.
(c) Consultations with displaced people about acceptable alternatives.
(d) Institutional responsibility for implementation and procedures for grievance redress
(e) Arrangements for monitoring and implementation, and
(f) A timetable and budget.
7 The significance of establishing a cut of date is discussed in Section E.
8 The purpose of the socio-economic study is to collect base line data within the chosen/targeted sites/areas
thereby enabling the social assessment of potentially affected populations/communities. The socio-
economic study would focus on the identification of stakeholders (demographic data), the participation
process, identification of affected people (including owners and users of land) and impact on their property
and their production systems, the institutional analysis and the system for monitoring and evaluation.
Detailed calculation of individual and household economies and identification of all impacts will be
undertaken as part of the socio-economic study and be the determinant in the potential compensation
process. Standard characteristics of the affected households, including a description of production systems,
labor, and household organization, and baseline information on livelihoods (including production levels
and incomes derived from both formal and informal economic activities) and standards of living and health
status of the PAPs. Under this study a comprehensive base line census would be carried out to identify
potentially affected people on the individual and household levels, vulnerable groups (women, children, the
elderly, female headed households, black farm workers, HIV/AIDS affected persons etc.) and to discourage
inflow of people ineligible for assistance.
12



3.6    For impacts that are not considered minor, the preparation of a Resettlement Action Plan
(RAP) is required for each site. World bank OP 4.12 article 25 and Annex A sets the
requirements of the RAP to include;
(a) Description of the project
(b) Potential Impacts
(c) Objectives
(d) Socioeconomic Studies
(e) Legal Framework
(f) Institutional Framework.
(g) Eligibility
(h) Valuation of and compensation for losses
(i) Resettlement measures
(j) Site selection, site preparation, and relocation
(k) Housing, infrastructure, and social services
(1) Environmental protection and management
(m) Community participation
(n) Integration with host populations
(o) Grievance procedures
(p) Organizational responsibilities
(q) Implementation schedule
(r) Cost and budget
(s) Monitoring and evaluation
3.7    The RAPs cover the elements above, as relevant. When any element is not relevant to the
School Boards circumstances, it should be noted in the RAP.
Step 9: The School Board, then forward forwards the RAP together with the modified designs9
for screening and approval to the respective LGAs in compliance with the local planning
laws and SEDP institutional and administrative requirements. All school construction
activities that trigger OP4.12 and their resettlement plans would be subject to the final
approval of the World Bank to ensure compliance with bank safeguards. Thus ensuring
9 See ESMF, Section 9.1(j)
13



that before land is actually acquired or access to resources is lost, denied or restricted,
that the individual resettlement plans are consistent with this RPF.
Step 10: For School construction activities that do not have any resettlement issues and do not
trigger OP 4.12, then the provisions of this RPF do not apply and the School Board is
referred to the ESMF at this stage.
3.8    Approval of funding for any school construction activities that needs to acquire or use
land under the SEDP, the School Board must first comply with all local laws and seek clearance
of the local authorities to use/acquire the land for that purpose, consistent with the provisions of
this RPF. For investments on land that is already owned or in use by the school board, the LGA
and MoEC will only approve funding once it is satisfied that the provisions of this RPF were met
in cases where OP 4.12 apply.
3.9    Furthermore, the LGAs should as a guideline considers the cumulative factor and not
approve multiple sites that have individual high impact intensity. For example, where land
acquisition is required to such an extent that it would require more than 20% of a community's or
individual's total land under use or when the mitigation measures are so cumbersome that their
efficacy cannot be predetermine or they cost more than 15% of the investment budget.
3.10   Before the decision to approve a site is taken, the respective LGAs would need to
approve or disapprove the resettlement and compensation plans of the School Boards construction
program in totality with the overall environmental and social screening process that has been
applied for each of their proposed investments and to also approve or disapprove of the proposed
mitigation measures, if any. The ESMF contains the environmental and social screening process.
3.11   The Capacity of the LGAs will be built by training'° and by providing technical
assistance to allow the LGAs and School Boards to screen their proposed construction program
for environmental and social concerns. This training will also include the capacity to develop
mitigation measures to meet environmental and social impacts and to prepare implementation of
such measures.
10 Training Program in Section 8.0 of the ESMF.
14



4. LAND ACQUISITION AND LIKELY CATEGORIES OF IMPACT
4.1    Until the exact school location sites are identified/chosen, it will not be possible to
estimate the likely number of people who may be affected since the technical details of the
schools construction program have not yet been developed and are unknown.
4.2    However, the likely displaced (economically or physically) persons can be categorized
into these 3 groups, namely;
(i) Affected Individual - An individual who suffers loss of assets or investments,
land and property and/or access to natural and/or economical resources as a result
of the SEDP activities and to whom compensation is due. For example, an
affected individual is a person who farms a land or works and lives on a farm,
pastoralists whose routes have been altered, or a person who has built a structure
on land that has been demarcated and is now required by the School Boards. This
will include affected individuals who have economic activity on customary land.
(ii) Affected Household - a household is affected if one or more of its members is
affected by SEDP activities, either by loss of property, land, loss of access or
otherwise affected in any way by project activities. This provides for:
a. any members in the households, men, women, children, dependent relatives
and friends, tenants;
b. vulnerable individuals who may be too old or ill to farm along with the
others;
c. members of households who cannot reside together because of cultural rules,
but who depend on one another for their daily existence;
d. members of households who may not eat together but provide housekeeping,
or reproductive services critical to the family's maintenance; and
e. other vulnerable people who cannot participate for physical or cultural
reasons in production, consumption, or co-residence.
4.3   In the local cultures, members of production, consumption, and co-resident groups form
overlapping, often incongruent sets of people who may exchange domestic or farming services on
a regular basis even though living separately.
4.4    Compensation will not be limited to people who live together in a co-resident group,
since this might leave out people whose labor contributions are critical to the functioning of the
"household". For example, among polygamous settings, each wife has her own home.
(iii) Vulnerable Households - vulnerable households may have different land needs
from most households or needs unrelated to the amount of land available to them.
This provides for;
a. unmarried women - may be dependent on sons, brothers, or others for
support. Since an affected individual is able to name the person with whom
15



s/he is linked in dependency as part of the household, resettlement will never
sever this link.
b. Elderly - elderly people farm or work as long as they are able. Their
economic viability may depend on how much land they farm or how much
they produce because, by producing even small amounts of food to
"exchange" with others, they can subsist on cooked food and generous return
gifts of cereal from people such as their kith and kin and neighbors. Losing
land will affect their economic viability. What would damage their economic
viability even more than losing land is resettlement that separates them from
the person or household on whom they depend for their support. The
definition of household by including dependents avoids this.
c. AIDS afflicted persons - Relatively high percentages of the poor and total
population are living with HIV or are terminally ill with AIDS. Many are
beneficiaries of numerous health programs from government (central and
local), international organizations and the NGO community.
d. Orphans - due to the impacts of the AIDS crisis that plagues Tanzania
today, there are a considerable number of orphaned children, whose parents
have died from aids. These children today fall into three categories of care;
(i) those being looked after by an uncle, aunt, grandparents or other close
relative, (ii) those being looked after by the government, local authorities or
ngos and (iii) those living alone and providing for themselves and other
siblings. These children are more vulnerable since they are often "voiceless"
because they have no parents to defend or stand up for them and also because
they are considered too young to be heard. Orphaned children engage in any
form of economic activity to provide for themselves and their siblings, by
engaging in activities such as paraffin selling, artisanal mining, water selling,
exploitative employment etc.
e. Despite the laws of Tanzania and the International Labor Organization (ILO)
prohibiting the exploitation of children, it is a reality that street children are
either in paid employment or are on the streets in some areas in Tanzania.
They tend to live in close proximity to large towns and cities.
f. Children in d. and e. above should they become impacted by this project in a
way that means they have to be physically relocated, their compensation
cannot be in cash. They would have to be put in a Unicef program or
registered with one of the many children's charities that are operating in
Tanzania today. Their compensation would take the form of paying for their
rehabilitation and training to acquire useful vocational skills.
g. Women headed households- may depend on husbands, sons, brothers, or
others for support. However, in other cases too, women are the main
breadwinners in their household even where the men have remained with the
family. Women therefore need relatively easy access to health service
facilities, as mothers and wives. For example, where the land being acquired
is used by a woman with no formal rights to it or a woman who is dependent
on a man other than her husband for her primary income. These women
should not be resettled in a way that separates them from their households as
16



the very survival of their households may depend on them. Their
compensation must take into account all these factors.
h. Small-scale female farmers- are also vulnerable because they may not have
men available within the household to carry out male specific land
preparation tasks such as ringing trees, clearing or ploughing land. Either
male relative in other households help them voluntarily, or they hire men for
cash, beer, (locally brewed) or food. Land compensation specifically includes
the labor costs of preparing a new land, so these women are provided for by
the compensation plan.
i. Non-farming females- these earn income from other sources and/or depend
on relatives for "exchanges" of staple foods. Since they do not farm they will
not be affected by the sub-projects need for agricultural land. If a building of
theirs lies on land needed by a subproject, they will receive replacement cost
compensation. If someone on whom they depend is resettled, they are
protected because the resettler can name them as part of the household.
4.5    These household types are not mutually exclusive, so that a female heading a household
may be small-scale farmer or on orphan may be an aids afflicted person.
4.6    These groups are being identified as particularly vulnerable so that special attention
would be paid to them by identifying their needs from the socio-economic and baseline study so
that (i) they are individually consulted and given the opportunity (i.e. not left out) to participate in
the project activities, ( ii) that their resettlement and compensation is designed to improve their
pre-project livelihood (iii) special attention is paid to monitor them to ensure that their pre-
project livelihood is indeed improved upon (iv) they are given technical and financial assistance if
they wish to make use of the grievance mechanisms of the project and (v) decisions concerning
them are made in the shortest possible time.
17



I



5. ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA FOR DEFINING VARIOUS CATEGORIES OF PROJECT
AFFECTED PERSONS
5.1    The Bank's OP4.12 suggests the following three criterion for eligibility;
(a) Those who have formal rights to land (including customary/village land, traditional
and religious rights, recognized under Tanzanian Law).
(b) Those who do not have formal legal rights to land at the time the census begins but
have a claim to such land or assets provided that such claims are recognized under
the national and local laws of Tanzania or become recognized through a process
identified in the resettlement plan.
(c) Those who have no recognizable legal right or claim to the land they are occupying,
using, or getting their livelihood from.
5.2    Those covered under a) and b) above are to be provided compensation for the land they
lose, and other assistance in accordance with the policy. Persons covered under c) above are to be
provided with resettlement assistance in lieu of compensation for the land they occupy, and other
assistance, as necessary, to achieve the objectives set out in this policy, if they occupy the project
area prior to a cut-off date established by the school boards in close consultation with the
potential PAPs, local community leaders and the respective Village Administration and the
LGAs . Persons who encroach on the area after the cut-off date are not entitled to compensation
or any other form of resettlement assistance. All persons included in a), b) or c) above are to be
provided with compensation for loss of assets other than land.
5.3    Therefore, it is clear that all project affected persons irrespective of their status or
whether they have formal titles, legal rights or not, squatters or otherwise encroaching illegally on
land, are eligible for some kind of assistance if they occupied the land before the entitlement cut-
off date. Persons who encroach the area after the socio-economic study (census and valuation) are
not eligible for compensation or any form of resettlement assistance.
Eligibility for Community Compensation
5.4    Communities (districts, towns, wards and villages) permanently losing land and/or access
to assets and or resources under customary rights will be eligible for compensation. Example of
community compensation could be for public toilets, market place, taxi parks and health posts.
The rationale for this is to ensure that the pre-project socio-economic status of communities
where adversely impacted, is also restored.
Method to Determine the Cut - Off Dates
5.5    The entitlement cut-off date refers to the time when the assessment of persons and their
property in the identified project areas are carried out, i.e. the time when the school boards have
identified the land sites they would need and when the socio-economic study is taking place.
Thereafter, no new cases of affected people will be considered. Unfinished structures would be
identified and secured, and unused materials will be piled at the site so that the cut -off survey
can estimate investment, which should be compensated for in lieu of expenses (including labor)
incurred until the cut - off date.
19



5.6    The establishment of a cut-off date is required to prevent opportunistic invasions /rush
migration into the chosen land thereby posing a major risk to the project. Therefore,
establishment of the cut-off date is of critical importance. Because the time period between the
cut-off date and the time actual productive investments (civil works, etc.) would start bearing also
in mind that only after PAPs have been compensated and any replacement structures built
according to the requirements of this RPF, is likely to be anytime period from six months on,
special attention needs to be taken to secure the sites from rush and opportunistic invasion. These
measures should include close consultation with the recognized PAP's, signs that inform general
public of intended use of site, security patrols to identify opportunistic invaders etc.
5.7    This date is to be chosen in close consultation with the Village Administration, and
the School Boards, as soon as possible after the affected land is identified. This process
must be in full compliance with the conflict resolution mechanisms in this RPF and this date
must be communicated effectively to the potential PAP's and surrounding local
communities.
5.8    The local community will play a crucial role in identifying users of land.
20



6. A LEGAL FRAMEWORK REVIEWING THE FIT BETWEEN THE LAWS AND
REGULATIONS OF THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA AND BANK
POLICY REQUIREMENTS AND MEASURES PROPOSED TO BRIDGE ANY GAPS
BETWEEN THEM.
6.1    Land in Tanzania is owned by the state, and ownership is vested with the President as
trustee. It is categorized as follows:
*      general/public land on which socio-economic activities are permitted;
reserved/restricted lands for national parks;
*      Village Land;
*      protected areas; and forest/wildlife reserves. About 25% of Tanzania falls into
the category of reserved/ restrictive. By international standards this is a high
proportion of land under restriction. Only about 20% of potentially arable land is
actually cultivated. Communities and individuals are not permitted to use
reserved or restricted land for economic activities. Land is so designated by order
of the President or the Minister charged with conservation of natural resources.
6.2    Tenure rights to land in the first category can be held by individuals and by communities.
Village communities are allowed to hold land and to manage it, although they do not formally
own the land. Holdings of individuals can be as follows: -
*      By leasehold right of occupancy for varying periods; e.g. for 33,66,99 years
*      By customary lands i.e. in usufruct in perpetuity.
6.3    Tenure rights are defined by the Land Act No.4 of 1999 and the Village Act. The Village
Act No. 5 of 1999 provides for village land to be administered and managed by the local
communities. Land that is not village land can be allocated by the state to users under specified
tenure regimes. In addition, Participatory Land Use Planning and Management (PLUM) is
explicitly recognized in the Land Policy of 1995. The adjudication function on village lands is
assigned to the village government.
6.4    Taxation is the prerogative of local authorities. Villagers hold rights of occupancy and
use for an indefinite (i.e. unlimited) period. Village lands do not have to be titled for rights of
users and occupants to be recognized, and are not subject to rental payments.
Land Tenure for Schools
6.5    Village government has administrative control over the village land and acts as a liaison
between the government and the inhabitants of the village. Within villages, use of land is
controlled by various committees of village government.
6.6    At present, existing schools are operating on their own land. However, if School Boards
(SB's) require more land, extension of their existing land or new land, they would have to acquire
the land through the village government.
21



Comparison of Tanzanian Law and World Bank OP4.12 regarding compensation.
Category of PAPS/ Type   Tanzanian Law                  World Bank OP4.12
of Lost Assets
Land Owners              Cash compensation based upon   Recommends land-for-land
market value. Under statute.   compensation. Other
Land for Land under Customary  compensation is at
Law                            replacement cost.
Land Tenants             Entitled to compensation based  Are entitled to some form of
upon the amount of rights they  compensation whatever the
hold upon land under relevant  legal recognition of their
laws.                          occupancy.
Land Users               In some cases land users have  Entitled to compensation for
some form of secured tenure    crops, may be entitled to
extended to them under new laws.  replacement land and income
In other cases land users not  must be restored to pre-project
entitled to compensation for land,  levels at least.
entitled to compensation for crops
and any other economic assets.
Land for Land under customary
Owners of "Non           Cash compensation based on     Entitled to in-kind
permanent" Buildings     market value or entitled to new  compensation or cash
housing on authorized land under  compensation at full
government (state or local)    replacement cost including
housing programs.              labor and relocation expenses,
prior to displacement.
Owners of "Permanent"     Cash Compensation is based on  Entitled to in-kind
buildings                market value.                  compensation or cash
compensation at full
replacement cost including
labor and relocation expenses,
prior to displacement.
Perennial Crops          Cash compensation based upon   As per section G of this RPF
rates calculated as an average net  once approved by the Bank
agricultural income.           and disclosed in Tanzania and
at the Bank infoshop.
Based on this comparison, the following presented entitlement matrix is so designed to assist the
process by bridging the gaps between the requirements under Tanzania Law and the World Bank
OP 4.12. The highest of the three standards is followed in this entitlement matrix, since this
procedure also satisfies the requirements of the lesser two standards. The missing values in the
entitlement matrix will be determined at the time the resettlement plans (RAPS) are being
negotiated and prepared.
As a result, all land to be acquired by the School Boards for this program would be so acquired
subject to the Laws of Tanzania and the Bank OP4. 12.
22



* ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ S 
THE ENTITLEMENT MATRIX FOR VARIOUS CATEGORIES OF PAPS
Category of    Type of Loss                                                     ENTITLEMENTS
PAP
Compensation for   Compensation for Loss of    Compensation for Loss    Mo
Loss of Structures  land and other Assets      of Income                All,
Property       Loss of Land       Replacement Costs   Land replacement at new    crops at market rates in  Noi
Owners                            at full replacement  site, plus land clearing by  scarce season
value              the project
Loss of Structure   Compensation at    (Fences (blockwork, wire,  For lost rental income,   Mo
Residential or      full replacement   wood) at US $ ....         Lump sum cash payment     don
Business            value not          Wells at US $              of 6 months rent per      pro
depreciated.       Stores at US$ ....        tenant.
Residential    Loss of rental     No loss of          Replacement costs for non-  No loss of income       Fre
Tenant:        accommodation      structure, no       movables if installation was                        not
entitlement to     agreed with owner.                                   bef
housing at new
Business                          site.
Tenant         Loss of Premises   No Loss             Replacement cost for       For loss of business     Fre
facilities that cannot be  income, payment of half   not
moved                      of turnover for 6months   bef
Encroachers    Loss of Land       None                Where possible assistance in  crops at market rates in  Noi
(using Land)                                          securing other access to land  scarce season. For street
for crops growing subject to  vendors on right of ways
approval of local          possible access to other
authorities/communities.   sites/locations
Loss of Shelter     Compensation at    None                       Payments in lieu of wages  Noi
full replacement                               while rebuilding
Squatters                         value for structure,
(living on                        relocation to
Site)                             resettlement site,
with payment of
site rent.
Nb: All payments to be made in Tanzania Shillings (TSh). Dollar values indicated in table to allow
for international interpretation/conversion only.
23



7. METHODS OF VALUING AFFECTED ASSETS.
7.1    Valuation methods for affected land and assets would depend on the type of asset. The
land asset types identified under Tanzanian law are;
(i)    State Land not within the jurisdiction of a village
(ii)   Village Land, including customary rights of villagers
7.2    State owned land may be allocated free or sold on a commercial basis to School Board by
the Minister responsible for land administration (perhaps except for processing and registration
fees), the School Board would be expected to pay compensation to acquire land in this category
in cases where the state-owned land is being used by farmers or for instance grazed upon, settled
upon or other wise being used. "Privately" owned property, would have to be acquired at the
market value. The guiding principle is that whoever was using the land to be acquired would be
provided other land of equal size and quality.
7.3    The SEDP project will require in the most cases, the use of village lands. Therefore,
valuation methods for affected land and assets would depend on the type of asset and subject to
customary laws. Land assets would be valued according to the following method and
compensation paid for. The School Boards would compensate for assets and investments,
including labor, crops, buildings, and other improvements, according to the provisions of the
resettlement plan. Compensation rates would be market rates as of the date and time that the
replacement is to be provided. The market prices for cash crops would have to be determined.
Calculations for compensation would not be made after the entitlement cut-off date in compliance
with this policy. For community land held under customary law, the permanent loss of any such
land will be covered by community compensation, which will be in-kind, only. However, because
the bank policy on resettlement, OP4.12, makes no distinction between statute and customary
rights, not only assets and investments will be compensated for, but also land. Thus, a customary
land owner or land user on state owned land will be compensated for land, assets, investments,
loss of access etc. at market rates at the time of the loss.
Compensation Payments and Related Considerations.
7.4   Individual and household compensation will be made in cash, in kind, and/or through
assistance. The type of compensation will be an individual choice although every effort will be
made to instill the importance and preference of accepting in kind compensation if the loss
amounts to more that 20% of the total loss of subsistence assets.
FORMS OF COMPENSATION
Compensation will be calculated in Tanzania Shillings.
Rates will be adjusted for inflation.
Compensation may include items such as land, houses,
In-kind Compensation           other buildings, building materials, seedlings, agricultural
inputs and financial credits for equipment.
Assistance                    Assistance may include moving allowance, transportation
and labor
7.5    Making compensation payments raises some issues regarding inflation, security and
timing that must be considered. One purpose of providing in-kind compensation is to reduce
inflationary pressures on the costs of goods and services. Local inflation may still occur, thus
24



market prices will be monitored within the time period that compensation is being made to allow
for adjustments in compensation values. The question of security, especially for people who will
be receiving cash compensation payments needs to be addressed by the local administration.
Local banks and micro finance institutions should work closely with the local administration at
this level to encourage the use of their facilities, which will positively impact the growth of the
local economies. The time and place for in-kind compensation payments will be decided upon by
each recipient in consultation with the School Boards and the LGAs. Monetary payments should
be paid at a time in relation to the seasonal calendar.
Compensation for Land
7.6    Compensation for land is aimed at providing a farmer whose land is acquired and used
for project purposes with compensation for land labor and crop loss. For this reason, and for
transparency, "Land" is defined as an area or Homestead:
*      In cultivation
!  *   Being prepared for cultivation, or
*      Cultivated during the last agricultural season
7.7    This definition recognizes that the biggest investment a farmer makes in producing a crop
is his of her labor. A farmer works on his/her land most of the months of the year. The major
input for producing a crop is not seed or fertilizer, but the significant labor put into the land each
year by the farmer. As a result, compensation relating to land will cover the market price of labor
invested as well as the market price of the crop lost.
Land measurement
7.8    For purposes of measuring land, the unit of measurement would be that which is used and
understood by the affected farmers. Therefore, in rural areas if a traditional unit of measurement
exists, that unit should be used. If a traditional unit of measurement does not exist in a particular
area then it is recommended that land should be measured in meters or any other internationally
accepted unit of measurement. However, in such an event, the unit that is being used must be
explained to the affected farmers/users and must somehow be related to easily recognizable land
features that the communities are familiar with, such as using location of trees, stumps, etc. as
immovable pegs. The most important concem of this exercise is to ensure that the affected person
is able to verify using his/her own standards/units of measurement for him/herself, the size of
land that is being lost. Ensuring that this occurs maintains transparency in the system and will
thus avoid subsequent accusations of wrong measurements or miscalculation of areas. For
instance, a farmer losing a certain piece of land should know exactly how much land he/she is
losing, in terms of size and the replacement land must be at least of that same size and
comparable value as land lost, determinable by the farmer.
Calculation of Crops Compensation Rate
7.9    The current prices for cash crops would have to be determined. All crops to be
compensated using a single rate regardless of the crop grown. This rate incorporates the value of
crops and the value of the labor invested in preparing a new land. Determining compensation
using a single rate creates transparency because anyone can measure the area of land for which
25



compensation is due and multiply that by a single rate known to all. This approach also allows
assignment of values to previous year's land (land in which a farmer has already invested labor)
and land that have been planted but have not yet sprouted. Further, it avoids contention over crop
density and quality of mixed cropping. The value of the labor invested in preparing agricultural
land will be compensated at the average wage in the community for the same period of time. The
rate used for land compensation is to be updated to reflect values at the time compensation is
paid. The following example, which is based on 2003 data, derives a total value for a one hectare
land from the value of the crops on the land and the value of labor invested in preparing a
replacement land.
EXAMPLE OF METHOD TO BE USED TO DETERMINE A MONETARY
COMPENSATION RATE FOR LAND*
(Based on 2003 data. Tanzania Shillings payments will be revised to reflect crop values and
labor rates in effect at the time of compensation)
Item Compensated            Basis of Value              Tanzania Shillings/ha
Average of the highest 2003
official and market survey
Value of Crops              land prices per ha of staple
food crops (maize, rice etc.),
plus cash crops (e.g. sugar
cane, corn).
Labor Invested              Labor costs of preparing a
Labor_______Invested ________ replacement land.
Total                       Replacement value of crops
plus labor.
* Note: This example assumes a one-hectare land.
7.10   Crop values will be determined based on:
*      A combination of staple foods and cash crops. Specifically, the 80/20 ratio of
land that a farmer typically has in food crops and cash crops is used to determine
the chances s/he would lose food crop rather than a cash crop income.
*      The value of stable crops to be taken as the highest market price (over 3 years)
reached during the year, in recognition of these factors:
e  Although most farmers grow staple crops mainly for home consumption,
they always have the option of selling these crops to take advantage of the
market.
-  Farmers most often purchase cereals when they have run out, during the
"hungry season" when prices are high. Compensating at a lower value might
put the individual or household at risk.
26



4 Averaging the highest price of stable foods yields a high per ha value that
reimburses for the vegetables and other foods that are commonly inter-
cropped with staples, but are almost impossible to measure for compensation.
*      The labor cost for preparing replacement land is calculated on what it would cost
a farmer to create a replacement land. This value is found by adding together the
average costs of clearing, plowing, sowing, weeding twice, and harvesting the
crop. Labor costs will be paid in Tanzania Shillings at the prevailing market
rates.
7.11   The following table presents an example of a compensation schedule for a one-hectare
land. The Tanzania Shillings values are based on arbitrary labor rates, which will need to be
validated at the time payments are made.
EXAMPLE OF LAND COMPENSATION SCHEDULE OF PAYMENTS
Activity    Month Paid (generic, may be different  Labor in Tanzania Shillings/ha
depending on climate zones)       Rate Cost/day x no. Of days
Clear                    March
Plough                    May
Sow                      May
Weed                      May
Harvest                 November
Total
7.12   All agricultural labor activities are included for two reasons. First, because of the need for
transparency, all land labor will be compensated for at the same rate. Second, it is difficult to
forecast when during the growing season a farmer might need to give up his/her land. Thus, the
land compensation covers all investments that a farmer will make. In certain cases, assistance
may be provided to land users in addition to compensation payments, for example, if the farmer is
notified that his/her land is needed after the agriculturally critical date of March (generic date,
may be different in Tanzania and across climate zones) when s/he will no longer have enough
time to prepare another land without help. Assistance will be provided in the form of labor
intensive village hire, or perhaps mechanized clearing, so that replacement land will be ready by
the sowing dates. The farmer will still continue to receive his/her cash compensation so that /s/he
can pay for sowing, weeding and harvesting.
Compensation for Buildings and Structures.
7.13   Compensation will be paid by replacing structures such as huts, houses, farm
outbuildings, latrines and fences. Any homes lost will be rebuilt on acquired replacement land,
however cash compensation would be available as a preferred option for structures (i.e. extra
buildings) lost, that are not the main house or house in which someone is living. The going
market prices for construction materials will be determined. Alternatively, compensation will be
paid in-kind for the replacement cost without depreciation of the structure. The project will
survey these prices for administrative purposes on an ongoing basis.
27



Compensation will be made for structures that are:
*      Abandoned because of relocation or resettlement of an individual or household,
Or
*      Directly damaged by construction activities.
7.14   Replacement values will be based on:
*      Drawings of individual's house and all its related structures and support services,
*      Average replacement costs of different types of household buildings and
structures based on collection of information on the numbers and types of
materials used to construct different types of structures (e.g. bricks, rafters,
bundles of straw, doors etc.),
*      Prices of these items collected in different local markets,
*      Costs for transportation and delivery of these items to acquired/replacement land
or building site,
*      Estimates of construction of new buildings including labor required.
COMPENSATION FOR BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES
Buildings and structures will be replaced by an equivalent structure or, on an exception basis, cash
and/or credits will be paid based on replacement costs.
Item                   Example
House                  Raw or Baked brick
Straw or tin roof
Varying sizes (small, medium large)
Kitchen                Open, closed
Stables/sheds/pens     Cattle, goat, donkey, sheep, other
Coops                  Chicken, duck, other
Fence                  Straw/poles (per unit poles & mat), raw and/or baked brick/cement
blocks (per 1-m length)
Private Bathing
Latrine                Replacement latrines will be similar to those currently operational and
financed by the bank or other donor agencies at health centers, schools.
Open well              Internally lined with concrete rings and provided with a hand driven
pump.
Storage building       Cement/sand block walls with thatched roof on z-profiled metal sheets.
Sun Screen open        Similar to those replaced, on thatched roof on wood poles.
huts/shades
Compensation for Sacred Sites
7.15   This policy does not permit the use of land that is defined to be cultural property by the
Banks Safeguards OP 4.11. Sacred sites include but not restricted only to; altars, initiation
centers, ritual sites, tombs and cemeteries. It includes other such sites or places/features that are
accepted by local laws (including customary), practice, tradition and culture as sacred. To avoid
28



any possible conflicts between individuals and/or communities/homesteads/village government
the use of sacred sites for any project activity is not permitted under this project.
Compensation for vegetable gardens and beehives
7.16   These are planted with vegetable and ingredients for daily use. Until a replacement
garden starts to bear, the family displaced (economically or physically) as a result of the project
land needs will have to purchase these items in the market. The replacement costs therefore, will
be calculated based on the average amount that an average town dweller spends on buying these
items for one year per adult from the local market.
7.17   Beehives are placed in various locations in the bush by some individuals that specialize in
honey gathering. If such hives would be disturbed by the project activities, or access to hives is
denied, beekeepers can move them, and the bees will adapt to the new locations. Beekeepers
would be compensated by the value of one season's production costs of honey for each hive that
is moved and any reasonable costs associated with moving the hive.
Compensation for Horticultural, Floricultural and Fruit trees
7.18   With Tanzania's highly variable weather patterns, water costs and the fact that much of
the land is not suitable for growing fruits, village areas are sparsely populated with certain types
of fruit trees.
7.19   Where they exist on affected land the following example, on Mango trees for instance
will serve as a guide on how to value fruit trees and other trees of nutritional, medicinal and other
significant economic value.
7.20   They are primarily important as a source of:
*      Subsistence food for families
*      Cash produce that contribute to the local and export economy
*      Petty market income in some areas, and
*      Shade (in the case of mango and some guava trees).
*      Traditional medicinal value.
7.21   Given their significance to the local subsistence economy, which this project intends to
positively impact, fruit trees will be compensated on a combined replacement/market value. Fruit
trees used for commercial purposes will be compensated at market value based on historical
production records. If households chose to resettle, they will be compensated for the labor
invested in the trees they leave behind, because they will continue to own the trees left behind
under customary rights. It is not uncommon for individuals to own trees in other villages in which
they formally lived and, in some cases, to continue to harvest fruit from those trees for
subsistence purposes and/or sale to traders. If a household/individual chooses to transfer
ownership of the trees, transfer costs will be paid in addition to labor costs. The compensation
rate will be based on informnation obtained from the socio-economic information. Based on the
information, a compensation schedule for guava and mango trees can be developed incorporating
the following goals:
29



*      Replace subsistence Fruit (e.g. guava/mango) production yields as quickly as
possible.
*      Provide subsistence farmers with trees to extend the number of months of the
year during which the fruit (e.g. guavas/mangoes) are produced and can be
harvested as a supplemental source of food for their families during their "hungry
season".
*      Provide farmers with the opportunity to derive additional production income
from trees bearing more valuable fruits at off-season periods.
*      Provide cash payments to farmers to replace pre-project income derived from the
sale of excess guava or mango production until replacement trees produce the
equivalent (or more) in projected cash income.
7.22   The compensation schedule is based on providing a combination of new grafted and local
trees to farmers, as well as cash payments to offset lost yearly income. The schedule could
assume the following (the figures in TSH (x no.):
Local Fruit Trees, e.g. Guava/ Mangoes
Estimated Avg. Fruit Yield (kg) of Mature tree  800 to 1,300 kg/year
Estimated Yield used                          Ten sacks (1,OOOkg)/tree/year
Market Price,
*   Height of harvest season (March/April)  TSH/kg
*   End of season (late May)              TSH/kg
Price used as basis of this estimate          80% height of season; 20% end of season
Years to Production                           Six to severn
Years to Maximum Production                   Twenty
Costs of Sapling                              TSH, locally available.
Grafted Fruit Trees, e.g. Mangoes
Estimated Avg. Fruit Yield (kg) of Mature tree  800 to 1,300 kg/year
Estimated Yield used                          Almost entire yield due to market value
Market Price, (varies according to variety)
*   Height of harvest season (June/September)  TSH/kg
Price used as basis of this estimate          Price per fruit or sac (100kg) as quoted by growers
Years to Production                           Four to five
Years to Maximum Production                   Eight
Costs of Sapling                              TSH, not locally available.
Proposed Schedule for Fruit (e.g. Guava or Mango) Trees C t Down
Type/Age of Tree   Est.          In-kind replacement for          Credits/Financial
Type/Age of Tree   Years         Local Guava and Mangoes               Support.
Sapling                0-1    Deliver to Farmer:                    TSH
Trees planted after               *  Choice of two guava or mango
project cut-off date in              trees
area will not be eligible         *  (local and/or improved grafted)
for compensation                  *  Supplies: fencing to protect
*   Tree, a bucket for watering, and a
spade.
Sapling/Young Tree     1-6    Deliver to farmer:                     Equivalent of X no.
30



First minor production             *  Choice of two guava or mango    TSH in credits or other
12-50 fruits occurs                   trees                           financial support for
about age 4-5                      *  (local and/or improved grafted)  labor invested in
*   Supplies: fencing to protect Tree,  planting, fencing, and
a bucket for watering, and a    watering, made in one
Spade                         payment.
Guava/Mango Trees      6-30+   Deliver to farmer:                     Equivalent of X no.
Fruit Producing                   *   Choice of two guava or mango    TSH in credits or other
trees                           financial support for
*   (local and/or improved grafted)  labor invested in
*   Supplies: fencing to protect Tree,  planting, fencing, and
a bucket for watering, and a    watering, made in one
Spade                           payment.
Equivalent of X no.
TSH in credits or other
financial support,
representing eight years,
(8 years x 10 sacks x X
TSH/sack) lost
income/subsistence until
replacement trees begin
production.
This rate to be agreed by
farmers.
Total: Equivalent of X
no. TSH in cash or
equivalent financial
support to be paid in one
installment.
Mature Trees - Low or  30+     Same as for mature trees above         Same as above
Non- Fruit Producing
7.23   No compensation will be paid for minor pruning of trees. Compensation for removal of
limbs will be prorated on the basis of the number of square metres of surface area removed. The
total surface area of the tree will be calculated using the following formula: ( V2 diameter of
canopy )2 x 3.14.
Other domestic fruit and shade trees.
7.24    These trees have recognized local market values, depending upon the species and age.
Individual compensation for wild trees "owned" by individuals, which are located in lands as
defined in this policy will be paid. Note that wild, productive trees belong to the community when
they occur in the true bush as opposed to a fallow land. These trees will be compensated for under
the umbrella of the village or community compensation.
7.25   No compensation will be paid for minor pruning of trees. Compensation for removal of
limbs will be prorated on the basis of the number of square metres of surface area removed. The
total surface area of the tree will be calculated using the following formula: ( /2 diameter of
canopy )2 x 3.14.
31






8. ORGANIZATIONAL PROCEDURES FOR THE DELIVERY OF ENTITLEMENTS,
INCLUDING, FOR PROJECTS INVOLVING PRIVATE SECTOR
INTERMEDIARIES, THE RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FINANCIAL
INTERMEDIARY, THE GOVERNMENT, AND THE PRIVATE DEVELOPER.
8.1    Compensation (and resettlement) will be funded like any other activity eligible under the
projects' administrative and financial management rules and manuals.
8.2    Funding would be processed and effected through the School Boards financial processing
arrangements.
8.3    The compensation process which will involve several steps would be in accordance with
the individual School Board's resettlement and compensation plans, significantly;
*      Public Participation with the PAPs would initiate the compensation process as
part of an ongoing process that would have started at the planning stages when
the technical designs are being developed and at the land selection/screening
stage. This would ensure that no affected individual/household is simply
"notified" one day that they are affected in this way. Instead, this process seeks
their involvement and wishes to involve PAPs in a participatory approach with
the project, from the beginning as outlined in item k. of this report.
*      Notification of land resource holders - incases where there is clearly no
identified owner/user, the respective regional land boards and the traditional
leaders having been involved in identifying the land that the management
committee's require will notify the community leaders and representatives who
will help to identify and locate the land users. These leaders and representatives
will also be charged with the responsibility to notify their members about the
established cut-off date and its significance. The user(s) will be informed through
both a formal notification in writing and by verbal notification delivered in the
presence of the community leaders or their representative. In addition,
representatives of traditional leaders, religious leaders, other elders and
individuals who control pastoral routes, fishing areas, wild trees, or beehives,
hunting areas will accompany the survey teams to identify sensitive areas.
*      Documentation of Holdings and Assets - the regional land board and traditional
leaders and officials of the management committee will arrange meetings with
affected individuals to discuss the compensation process. For each individual or
household affected, officials of the School Board completes a compensation
dossier containing necessary personal information on, the affected party and
those that s/he claims as household members, total land holdings, inventory of
assets affected, and information for monitoring their future situation. This
information is confirmed and witnessed by regional land board, traditional
leaders or their representatives. Dossiers will be kept current and will include
documentation of lands surrendered. This is necessary because it is one way in
which an individual can be monitored over time. All claims and assets will be
documented in writing.
*      Agreement on Compensation and Preparation of Contracts - All types of
compensation are to be clearly explained to the individual and households
33



involved. The respective management committee draws up a contract listing all
property and land being surrendered, and the types of compensation (cash and/or
in-kind) selected. A person selecting in-kind compensation has an order form,
which is signed and witnessed. The compensation contract and the grievance
redress mechanisms are read aloud in the presence of the affected party and the
representative of the regional land board and the traditional leaders prior to
signing.
Compensation Payments - All handing over of property such as land and
buildings and compensation payments will be made in the presence of the
affected party, the traditional leaders and their officials and representative of the
local government administration.
Community Compensation Payments
8.4    Community compensation will be in-kind only for a community as a whole in the form of
reconstruction of the facility to at least the same standard or equivalent better standard required
by local planning regulation. Examples of community compensation include:
*      School Building (public or religious)
*      Public Toilets
*      Well or Pump
*      Market Place
*      Road
*      Storage warehouse.
8.5    Community compensation may in itself require land take and people may be affected,
thus a change of impacts which will be compensated for.
34



9. A DESCRIPTION OF THE IMPLEMENTATION PROCESS, LINKING
RESETTLEMENT IMPLEMENTATION TO CIVIL WORKS.
9.1    Before any project activity is implemented, PAPs will need to be compensated in
accordance with the resettlement policy framework. For activities involving land acquisition or
loss, denial or restriction to access, it is further required that these measures include provision of
compensation and of other assistance required for relocation, prior to displacement, and
preparation and provision of resettlement sites with adequate facilities, where required. In
particular, the taking of land and related assets may take place only after compensation has been
paid and, where applicable, resettlement sites and moving allowances have been provided to
displaced persons. For project activities requiring relocation or loss of shelter, the policy further
requires that measures to assist the displaced persons are implemented in accordance with the
individual resettlement plan of action.
9.2    The measures to ensure compliance with this policy directive would be included in the
resettlement plans that would be prepared for each land involving resettlement or compensation.
9.3    Specifically, precise details must be provided in Section q. Implementation Schedule (see
page 14) for each RAP or Section e. Arrangements for Monitoring and Implementation for each
ARAP that is prepared by the management committee. In both of these sections the schedule for
the implementation of activities agreed to between the School Board and the PAPs must be
included, such as target dates for start and completion of civil works, timetables for transfers of
completed civil works to PAPs, dates of possession of land that PAPs are using (this date must be
after transfer date for completed civil works to PAPs and payments of all compensation), and how
these activities are linked to the implementation of the overall sub project.
9.4    When the School Board present their resettlement and compensation plans to their LGAs
for approval, part of the screening process that he would use to approve recommended land would
be to confirm that the resettlement plans contain acceptable measures that link resettlement
activity to civil works in compliance with this policy. The timing mechanism of these measures
would ensure that no individual or affected household would be displaced (economically or
physically) due to civil works activity before compensation is paid and resettlement sites with
adequate facilities are prepared and provided for to the individual or homestead affected. Once
the resettlement plan is approved by the local and national authorities, the resettlement plan
should be sent to the LGA, region and MOEC for final review and approval.
35



I~~ 



10. A DESCRIPTION OF GRIEVANCE REDRESS MECHANISMS.
10.1   At the time that the individual resettlement plans are approved and individual
compensation contracts are signed, affected individuals and households would have been
informed of the process for expressing dissatisfaction and to seek redress. The grievance
procedure will be simple, administered as far as possible at the local levels to facilitate access.
10.2   The School Board being a party to the contract would not be the best office to receive,
handle and rule on disputes. Therefore, taking these concerns into account, all grievances
concerning non-fulfillment of contracts, levels of compensation, or seizure of assets without
compensation should be addressed to the Village Government.
10.3   If the verdict rendered by the Village Government is not acceptable to either the
individual affected or the School Management Board, then the parties in their compensation
contract would have agreed that the matter would be appealed to the LGAs and other higher
levels.
10.4   Notwithstanding that the grievance redress mechanism accepts that the compensation and
resettlement plans will be (contracts) binding under statute, but it also recognizes that customary
law is the law that governs land administration and tenure in the rural/village areas and is what
most Tanzanians living in these areas are used to and understand.
10.5   The grievance redress mechanisms is designed with the objective of solving disputes at
the earliest possible time which will be in the interest of all parties concerned and therefore
implicitly discourages referring such matters to the Tribunal for resolution which would
otherwise take a considerably longer time.
10.6   Also, in the local communities it takes people time to decide that they are aggrieved and
want to complain. Therefore, the grievance procedures will give people up to the end of the next
full agricultural season after surrendering their assets to set forth their case.
10.7   All attempts would be made to settle grievances. Those seeking redress and wishing to
state grievances would do so by notifying their village government. The Village Government
will inform and consult with the School Board, the LGAs to determine claims validity. If valid,
the Villagge Government will notify the complainant and s/he will be settled. If the complainants'
claim is rejected, then the matter will be brought before the LGAs for settlement. The decision of
the LGAs would be final and all such decisions must be reached within a full growing season
after the complaint is lodged.
10.8  If a complaint pattern emerges, the school board, LGA, with the village governments will
discuss possible remediation. The local leaders will be required to give advice concerning the
need for revisions to procedures. Once they agree on necessary and appropriate changes, then a
written description of the changed process will be made. The school boards, the LGAs, and
Village Government will be responsible for communicating any changes to future potential PAPs
when the consultation process with them begins.
37



l  8  *~~~~~~~~~~~~
-~~



11. A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARRANGEMENTS FOR FUNDING RESETTLEMENT
AND COMPENSATION, INCLUDING THE PREPARATION AND REVIEW OF
COSTS ESTIMATES, THE FLOW OF FUNDS, AND CONTINGENCY
ARRANGEMENTS.
11.1   The estimate of the overall cost of resettlement and compensation would be determined
during the socio-economic study. The School Boards would have to finance the resettlement
compensation because they are the parties who would be impacting livelihoods. At this stage, it is
not possible to estimate the likely number of people who may be affected since the technical
designs/details have not yet been developed and land needs have not yet been identified. When
these locations are known, and after the conclusion of the site specific socio-economic study,
information on specific impacts, individual and household incomes and numbers of affected
people and other demographic data would be available, thus facilitating the preparation of a
detailed and accurate budget for resettlement and compensation. The management committee will
prepare the resettlement budget and will finance this budget through the administrative and
financial management rules and manuals like any other activity eligible for payment under the
SEDP. This budget will be subject to the approval by MoEC.
11.2   At this stage however, all that can be reasonably and meaningfully prepared is an
indicative budget, highlighting key features that the budget must contain, inter alia, as follows:
Item                 Costs (in TSH)*                   Assumptions
1   Compensation for loss of Land                       For land acquisition purposes, based on cost
/hectare        realized in projects involving similar issues in
Tanzania.
2   Compensation for loss of                            Includes costs of labor invested and average
Crops                         /hectare of farm lost  of highest price of staple food crops as per
methods described in Section G of this RPF
3   Compensation for loss of                            Those affected would be provided with shared
access to pastoralists               N/a            access, or alternate routes (decision agreed
through consultation and participation of all)
4   Compensation for loss of                            Data provided from revised socio-economic
access to fishing resources.    Say, /fishmonger    study will determine market values of catch,
fish products etc. that is produced.
5   Compensation for Buildings                          This compensation would be in-kind. These
and Structures                                      new buildings would be built and then given
to those affected. Cost based on basic housing
needs for a family of ten, including house with
four bedrooms, ventilated pit latrines, outside
kitchen and storage.
6   Compensation for Trees            /year/tr          Based on methods described on page 28-29 of
/Year/tree      this RPF for compensation for trees.
7   Cost of Relocation                /oshl              hscs st aiiaetasotto,ec
7   Assistance/Expenses               /household        This cost is to facilitate transportation, etc.
8   Cost of Restoration of               Say            Assumed to be higher than the GDP/capita.
Individual Income
9   Cost of Restoration of               Say            Through employment in Program Activities.
Household Income
10  Cost of Training Farmers,                           This is a mitigation measure, which seeks to
pastoralists and other PAPs                         involve those affected by the project activities.
This figure represents a costs of around
TSH/person
* These costs are to be confirmed during the socio-economic study and revised at the time the payments arc made
39



12. A DESCRIPTION OF MECHANISMS FOR CONSULTATIONS WITH, AND
PARTICIPATION OF, DISPLACED (ECONOMICALLY OR PHYSICALLY)
PERSONS IN PLANNING, IMPLEMENTATION, AND MONITORING.
12.1   Public consultation and participation are essential because they afford potential PAPS the
opportunity to contribute to both the design and implementation of the program activities and
reduce the likelihood for conflicts between and among PAPs and the management committees.
The way land administration is undertaken in Tanzania today based on long standing traditional
and cultural practices make public consultation with the rural communities, indispensable.
Furthermore, as the rural communities are the intended ultimate beneficiaries of this project,
effective and close consultation with them is a pre-requisite for project success. In recognition of
this, particular attention would be paid to public consultation with potentially affected
individuals/households/homesteads when resettlement and compensation concerns are involved.
12.2   Public consultation will take place at the inception of the planning stages when the
potential land areas are being considered. The participation strategy would evolve around the
provision of a full opportunity for involvement. Therefore, as a matter of strategy, public
consultation would be an on-going activity taking place through out the entire project cycle. For
example, public consultation would also occur during the preparation of the (i) the socio-
economic study, (ii) the resettlement and compensation plan and (iv) the preparation of the
District Secondary Schools Development Plan (v) during the drafting and reading of the
compensation contract.
12.3   Public participation and consultation would take place through meetings, radio programs,
request for written proposals/comments, filling in of questionnaires/ application forms, public
readings and explanations of project ideas and requirements, making public documents available
at the National, local and homestead levels at suitable locations like the official residences/offices
of village governments/elders. These measures would take into account the low literacy levels
prevalent in these rural communities by allowing enough time for responses and feedback.
12.4  Notwithstanding, the best guarantor for public interest is the Village Government and
other local leaders who are responsible members of their local communities and can inadvertently
be part of the potentially displaced (economically or physically) individuals/households either in
part or in whole.
12.5  Monitoring of this process would be through the Village Government as part of the
individual resettlement and compensation plans and overall the monitoring and evaluation
mechanism of the entire program. This requirement is line with the Bank policy on disclosure.
40



13. ARRANGEMENTS FOR MONITORING BY THE IMPLEMENTATION AGENCY
AND, IF REQUIRED, BY INDEPENDENT MONITORS.
13.1   The arrangements for monitoring would fit the overall monitoring plan of the entire
SEDP, which would be through the Ministry of Education and Culture (MoEC).
13.2   The SEDP will institute an administrative reporting system that:
(a) alerts project authorities to the necessity for land acquisition in a School Board's
design/application package and its technical requirements,
(b) provides timely information about the valuation and negotiation process,
(c) reports any grievances that require resolution, and
(d) documents timely completion of project resettlement obligations (i.e. payment of the
agreed-upon sums, construction of new structures, etc.) for all permanent and
temporary loses, as well as unanticipated, additional construction damage.
13.3  Consistent with the Environmental and Social Management Framework, the School
Boards and District Engineer would be responsible for periodically transferring the information
compiled "on the ground" to the MoEC, so that it is alerted in a timely manner to any difficulties
arising at the local level.
13.4   The objective will be to make a final evaluation in order to determine;
(i) if affected people have been paid in full and before implementation of the sub
project activities,
(ii) if the people who were affected by the program have been affected in such a way
that they are now living a higher standard than before, living at the same standard
as before, or they are they are actually poorer than before.
13.5  A number of indicators would be used in order to determine the status of affected people
(land being used compared to before, standard of house compared to before, level of participation
in project activities compared to before, how many kids in school compared to before, health
standards, etc). Therefore, the resettlement and compensation plans will set two major socio-
economic goals by which to evaluate its success:
*      Affected individuals, households, and communities are able to maintain their pre-
project standard of living, and even improve on it; and
*      The local communities remain supportive of the project.
*      The absence or prevalence of conflicts
41



13.6  In order to access whether these goals are met, the resettlement and compensation plans
will indicate parameters to be monitored, institute monitoring milestones and provide resources
necessary to carry out the monitoring activities.
13.7   The following parameters and verifiable indicators will be used to measure the
resettlement and compensation plans performance;
*      Questionnaire data will be entered into a database for comparative analysis at all
levels of Government,
*      Each individual will have a compensation signed dossier recording his or her
initial situation, all subsequent project use of assets/improvements, and
compensation agreed upon and received,
*      The School Boards will maintain a complete database on every individual
impacted by the project land use requirements including relocation/resettlement
and compensation, land impacts or damages,
*      Percentage of individuals selecting cash or a combination of cash and in-kind
compensation,
*      Proposed use of payments,
*      The number of contention cases out of the total cases,
*      The number of grievances and time and quality of resolution,
*      Ability of individuals and families to re-establish their pre-displacement
activities, land and crops or other alternative incomes,
*      Pastoral and Agricultural productivity of new lands,
*      Wildlife Conservation, eco-tourism activity on acquired land as per plan,
*      Number of impacted locals employed by the School Boards civil works
contractors,
*      Seasonal or inter annual fluctuation on key foodstuffs,
*      General relations between the project and the local communities.
13.8   The following indicators will be used to monitor and evaluate the implementation of
resettlement and compensation plans;
VERIFIABLE INDICATORS
Monitoring                                 Evaluation
Outstanding compensation or resettlement contracts  Outstanding individual compensation or
not completed before next agricultural season.  resettlement contracts.
Communities unable to set village-level   Outstanding village compensation contracts.
compensation after two years.
Grievances recognized as legitimate out of all  All legitimate grievances rectified
42



complaints lodged.
Pre- project production and income (year before  Affected individuals and/or households
land used) versus present production and income of  compensated or resettled in first year who have
resettlers, off-farm-income trainees, and users of  maintained their previous standard of living at final
improved agricultural techniques.         evaluation.
.   .               .     ~~~~~~~~Equal or improved production per affected
Pre- project production versus present production  housldomested.
(crop for crop, land for land).
Pre-project income of vulnerable individuals  Higher post- project income of vulnerable
identified versus present income of vulnerable  individuals.
groups
13.9   Financial records will be maintained by the School Boards, the LGAs and the MoEC, to
permit calculation of the final cost of resettlement and compensation per individual or household.
Each individual receiving compensation will have a dossier containing;
*      Individual biological information,
*      Number of people s/he claims as household/homestead dependents
*      Amount of land available to the individual or household when the dossier is
opened.
13.10  Additional information will be acquired for individuals eligible for resettlement and/or
compensation:
*      Level of income and of production
*      Inventory of material assets and improvements in land, and
*      Debts.
13.1 1 Each time land is used /acquired by a School Board, the dossier will be updated to
determine if the individual or household/homestead is being affected to the point of economic
non-viability and eligibility for compensation/resettlement or its alternatives. These dossiers will
provide the foundation for monitoring and evaluation, as well as documentation of compensation
agreed to, received, and signed for.
13.12 It is normal that some compensation procedures and rates may require revision at some
time during the project/program cycle. The School Boards, the LGAs and the MoEC, will
implement changes through the Change Management Process in the Monitoring and Evaluation
manuals of the project/program, which will require feed back from:
*      Indicators monitored by the local regional governments to determine whether
goals are being met, and
*      a grievance procedure for the local community to express dissatisfaction about
implementation of compensation and resettlement.
13.13 This framework is suggesting that the office of the Regional Governments are structured
into the whole M&E component of the project/program. This would take the form of giving the
regions the mandate to carry out independent monitoring of the implementation of the
43



resettlement and compensation plans at periodic intervals of quarterly or half yearly (as
circumstances dictate) during the program life. Their report would then be sent to the LGAs and
MoEC, and the School Boards and become part of the official documents of the program.
44



ANNEX 1.1L
ENVIRONMENTALLY SENSITIVE AREAS (ESA'S) and ECOSYSTEMS
1.     Areas prone to natural disasters (geological hazards, floods, rain storms, earthquakes,
landslides, volcanic activity, etc.)
2.      Wetlands: (Flood plains. Swamps, lakes, rivers, etc.) water bodies.
3.     Areas susceptible to erosion e.g. (a) hilly areas with critical slopes and (b) unprotected or
bare lands.
4.     Areas of importance to threatened cultural groups.
5.     Areas with rare/endangered/or threatened plants and animals.
6.     Areas of unique socio-cultural, historic archaeological, scientific, tourist areas.
7.     Polluted areas.
8.     Area subject to desertification and bush fires.
9.     Coastal areas and Marine ecosystems, such as coral reefs, Islands, lagoons and estuaries,
continental shelves, beach fronts and inter tidal zones.
10.    Areas declared as, national parks, water shed reserves, forest reserves, wildlife reserves
and sanctuaries, sacred areas wildlife corridors and hot spring areas.
11.    Mountainous areas, water catchment areas and recharge areas of aquifers.
12.     Areas classified as prime agricultural lands or range lands.
13.    Green belts or public open spaces in urban areas.
14.    Burial sites and graves.
15.    Areas declared as, national parks, water shed reserves, forest reserves, wildlife reserves
and sanctuaries, sacred areas wildlife corridors and hot spring areas.
13.14 Mountainous areas, water catchment areas and recharge areas of aquifers.
13.15 Areas classified as prime agricultural lands or range lands.
13.16  Green belts or public open spaces in urban areas.
13.17 Burial sites and graves.
l l Culled from Appendix 10 of Vol. 1, Tanzania Environmental Impact Assessment Procedure and
Guidelines (rev. March 2002).
45



ANNEX 2: TEMPLATE FOR PREPARING RESETTLEMENT AND COMPENSATION
PLANS (RAPS).
Annex 2: Template for Preparing Resettlement and Compensation Plans
(RAPs).
This template is extracted from OP 4.12 Annex A which can also be found on the Banks website
at www.worldbank.org.
The scope and level of detail of the resettlement plan vary with magnitude and complexity of
resettlement. The plan is based on up-to-date and reliable information about (a) the proposed
resettlement and its impacts on displaced persons and other adversely affected groups, and (b) the
legal issues involved in resettlement. The resettlement plan covers elements, as relevant. When
any element is not relevant to project circumstances, it should be noted in the resettlement plan.
Description of the sub project: General description of the sub project and identification of sub
project area.
Potential Impacts: Identification of (a) the sub project component or activities that give rise to
resettlement, (b) the zone of impact of such component or activities, (c) the alternatives
considered to avoid or minimize resettlement; and (d) the mechanisms established to minimize
resettlement, to the extent possible, during project implementation.
Objectives: The main objectives of the resettlement program.
Socio-economic studies: The findings of socio-economic studies to be conducted in the early
stages of project preparation and with the involvement of potentially displaced people, including;
(a) the results of a census survey covering;
(i) current occupants of the affected area to establish a basis for design of the
resettlement program and to exclude subsequent inflows of people from
eligibility for compensation and resettlement assistance.
(ii) standard characteristics of displaced households, including a description of
production systems, labor, and household organization; and baseline information
on livelihoods (including, as relevant, production levels and income derived from
both formal and informal economic activities) and standards of living (including
health status) of the displaced population
(iii)the magnitude of the expected loss, total or partial, of assets, and the extent of
displacement, physical or economic
(iv) information on vulnerable groups or persons, for whom special provisions may
have to be made; and
46



(v) provisions to update information on the displaced people's livelihoods and
standards of living at regular intervals so that the latest information is available at
the time of their displacement.
(b) Other studies describing the following:
(i) land tenure and transfer systems, including an inventory of common property
natural resources from which people derive their livelihoods and sustenance,
non-title-based usufruct systems ( including fishing, grazing, or use of forest
areas) governed by local recognized land allocation mechanisms, and any issues
raised by different tenure systems in the sub project area.
(ii) The patterns of social interaction in the affected communities, including social
support systems, and how they will be affected by the sub project
(iii) Public infrastructure and social services that will be affected; and
(iv) Social and cultural characteristics of displaced communities, including a
description of formal and informal institutions (e.g. community organizations,
ritual groups, non governmental organizations (NGO's) that may be relevant to
the consultation strategy and to designing and implementing the resettlement
activities.
Legal Framework. The findings of an analysis of the legal framework, covering;
(a) the scope of the power of eminent domain and the nature of compensation associated
with it, in terms of both the valuation methodology and the timing of payment,
(b) the applicable legal and administrative procedures, including a description of the
remedies available to displaced persons in the judicial process and the normal
timeframe for such procedures, and any available alternative dispute resolution
mechanisms that may be relevant to resettlement under the sub project,
(c) relevant law (including customary and traditional law) governing land tenure,
valuation of assets and losses, compensation, and natural resource usage rights,
customary personal law related to displacement, and environmental laws and social
welfare legislation,
(d) laws and regulations relating to the agencies responsible for implementing
resettlement activities,
(e) gaps, if any, between local laws covering eminent domain and resettlement and the
Bank's resettlement policy, and the mechanisms to bridge such gaps, and,
(f) any legal steps necessary to ensure the effective implementation of resettlement
activities under the project, including, as appropriate, a process for recognizing
claims to legal rights to land, including claims that derive from customary and
traditional usage.
Institutional Framework: The findings of any analysis of the institutional framework covering;
47



(a) the identification of agencies responsible for resettlement activities and NGOs that
may have a role in project implementation;
(b) an assessment of the institutional capacity of such agencies and NGOs; and
(c) any steps that are proposed to enhance the institutional capacity of agencies and
NGOs responsible for resettlement implementation.
Eligibility. Definition of displaced persons and criteria for determining their eligibility for
compensation and other resettlement assistance, including relevant cut-off dates.
Valuation of and compensation for losses. The methodology to be used in valuing losses to
determine their replacement cost; and a description of the proposed types and levels of
compensation under local law and such supplementary measures as are necessary to achieve
replacement cost for lost assets.
Resettlement Measures. A description of the packages of compensation and other resettlement
measures that will assist each category of eligible displaced persons to achieve the objectives of
OP 4.12. In addition to being technically and economically feasible, the resettlement packages
should be compatible with the cultural preferences of the displaced persons, and prepared in
consultation with them.
Site selection, site preparation, and relocation. Alternative relocation sites considered and
explanation of those selected, covering,
(a) institutional and technical arrangements for identifying and preparing relocation sites,
whether rural or urban, for which a combination of productive potential, location
advantages, and other factors is at least comparable to the advantages of the old sites,
with an estimate of the time needed to acquire and transfer land and ancillary
resources,
(b) any measures necessary to prevent land speculation or influx of eligible persons at
the selected sites,
(c) procedure for physical relocation under the project, including timetables for site
preparation and transfer; and
(d) legal arrangements for regularizing tenure and transferring titles to resettlers.
Housing, infrastructure, and social services: Plans to provide (or to finance resettler's provision
of) housing, infrastructure (e.g. water supply, feeder roads), and social services to host
populations; any necessary site development, engineering, and architectural designs for these
facilities.
Environmental protection and management: A description of the boundaries of the relocation
area; and an assessment of the environmental impacts of the proposed resettlement and measures
to mitigate and manage these impacts (coordinated as appropriate with the environmental
assessment of the main investment requiring the resettlement).
Community Participation: a description of the strategy for consultation with and participation of
resettlers and host communities, including
48



S &
(a) description of the strategy for consultation with and participation of resettlers and
hosts in the design and implementation of resettlement activities,
(b) a summary of the views expressed an how these views were taken into account in
preparing the resettlement plan,
(c) a review of the resettlement alternatives presented and the choices made by displaced
persons regarding options available to them, including choices related to forms of
compensation and resettlement assistance, to relocating as individual families or as
parts of pre-existing communities or kinship groups, to sustaining
(d) existing patterns of group organization, and to retaining access to cultural property
(e.g. places of worship, pilgrimage centers, cemeteries); and
(e) institutionalized arrangements by arrangements by which displaced people can
communicate their concerns to project authorities throughout planning and
implementation, and measures to ensure that such vulnerable groups as indigenous
people, ethnic minorities, landless, and women are adequately represented.
Integration with host populations: Measures to mitigate the impact of resettlement on any host
communities, including,
(a) consultations with host communities and local governments,
(b) arrangements for prompt tendering of any payment due the hosts for land or other
assets provided to resettlers,
(c) arrangements for addressing any conflict that may arise between resettlers and host
communities, and
(d) any measures necessary to augment services (e.g. education, water, health, and
production services) in host communities to make them at least comparable to
services available to resettlers.
Grievance procedures: Affordable and accessible procedures for third-party settlement of
disputes arising from resettlement, such grievance mechanisms should take into account the
availability of judicial recourse and community and traditional dispute settlement mechanisms.
Organizational responsibilities: The organizational framework for implementing resettlement,
including identification of agencies responsible for delivery or resettlement measures and
provision of services; arrangements to ensure appropriate coordination between agencies and
jurisdictions involved in implementation; and any measures (including technical assistance)
needed to strengthen the implementing agencies capacity to design and carry out resettlement
activities; provisions for the transfer to local authorities or resettlers themselves of responsibility
for managing facilities and services provided under the project and for transferring other such
responsibilities from the resettlement implementing agencies, when appropriate.
Implementation Schedule: An implementation schedule covering all resettlement activities from
preparation through implementation, including target dates for the achievement of expected
benefits to resettlers and hosts and terminating the various forms of assistance. The schedule
49



should indicate how the resettlement activities are linked to the implementation of the overall
project.
Costs and budget: Tables showing itemized cost estimates for all resettlement activities,
including allowances for inflation, population growth, and other contingencies; timetable for
expenditures; sources of funds; and arrangements for timely flow of funds, and funding for
resettlement, if any, in areas outside the jurisdiction of the implementing agencies.
Monitoring and evaluation: Arrangements for monitoring of resettlement activities by the
implementing agency, supplemented by independent monitors as considered appropriate by the
Bank, to ensure complete and objective information; performance monitoring indicators to
measure inputs, outputs, and outcomes for resettlement activities; involvement of the displaced
persons in the monitoring process; evaluation of the impact of resettlement for a reasonable
period after all resettlement and related development activities have been completed; using the
results of resettlement monitoring to guide subsequent implementation.
50



