Project Information Document (PID)
Project Name                              TANZANIA-Secondary Education
Development Program
Region                                   Africa Regional Office
Sector                                   ES - Secondary Education
Project code                             PE-P083080-LEN-BB
Borrower(s)                              Government of the United Republic of
Tanzania
Responsible Agency:                      Prime Minister's Office
Address:                                 Mrs. Rose Lugembe, Permanent Secretary
Prime Minister's Office                  Tel: (255) 022 2117349-58
P.O. Box 3021                            Fax: (255) 022 2112850
Dar es Salaam, Tanzania                   Email: ps(pmo.go.tz
Implementing Agencies                     Ministry of Education and Culture
Address:                                  Mrs. Mwatumu Malale, Permanent Secretary
Ministry of Education                     Tel: (255) 022 2113139
P.O. Box 9121                            Fax: (255) 022 2113271
Dar es Salaam, Tanzania
Environment Category                     B
Date PID Initially Prepared              8/18/2003
Projected Appraisal Date                  1/05/2004
Project Board Date                       2/26/2004
Country and Sector Background
The general education system in Tanzania comprises seven years of primary education, four years
of lower secondary and two years of upper secondary education. Tanzania currently faces three
main challenges in secondary education: increasing access, raising quality, and reducing costs.
Tanzania has one of the lowest secondary gross enrollment ratios anywhere in the world. Only
about seven percent of the relevant age group attends secondary education, compared with an
average of nearly 30 percent for Sub-Saharan Africa as a whole. This is the result of a deliberate
policy after independence to restrict access to secondary education and limit provision to public
schools.
Restrictions on private secondary education were relaxed in the mid-1990s, and this led to rapid
growth of private secondary schools. This policy proved to be an effective way to cope with
some of the excess demand for secondary schooling in the context of tight constraints on the
public budget. Currently, private providers enroll about 40 percent of all secondary students.
However, private schools face major constraints to increase their enrollments due to restricted
access to investment resources and limited affordability by households. As a result the bulk of
future increases will likely come from the public sector through increased support of "community
schools" in which communities contribute to the provision of buildings while the Government
finances teachers and some operating costs.
The current limited provision of secondary education is economically unwise and socially
unsustainable. Economically Tanzania is being held back by the low level of human capital
development resulting from the restricted access to secondary education.  Over time the



Government will have to transform the secondary education system from one servicing a small,
privileged clientele into an expanded system catering to a much larger and more diverse group of
children. How to manage this expansion in a fiscally sustainable manner is a major policy
challenge.
Objectives and description
The proposed adjustment operation to support the Secondary Education Development Program
(SEDP) seeks to achieve three basic objectives: (a) to increase the proportion of the relevant age
group completing secondary education; (b) to improve learning outcomes of students, and (c) to
enable the public administration to manage secondary education more effectively. The long-term
aim of the operation is to build a productive and adaptable labor force, as well as supplying more
and better qualified students at higher levels of the education system, to support continued growth
and diversification of the economy to allow Tanzania to participate more successfully in the
global economy.
Preliminary Content
(1) Policy reforms to improve access and equity
* Better resource utilization - reduced teaching costs per student. The proposed
program features, therefore, a set of changes in policy and practice to use teaching
resources more intensively. Chief among these are policies on teacher deployment and
utilization.
*  Relieving constraints on the expansion of public and private secondary education.
The SEDP will provide development grants on a matching basis to both communities
and private institutions that qualify.
*  Relieving financial constraints on enrollment of the poor. The program will include
a scholarship scheme to enable the enrollment of qualified but poor students.
*  Breaking the bottleneck of trained teachers. Policies will be adopted to attract and
retain qualified secondary teachers in the teaching service, and the output of degree-
level teachers will be increased.
(2)  Reforms to improve educational achievements
* Countering the under-financing of non-teaching costs. SEDP features the
introduction of capitation grants (i.e., a normative funding formula) for recurrent non-
salary costs in secondary education, both public and private.
*  Curricula, testing and textbooks. The number of subjects in the curriculum will be
reduced, and the content updated and improved. Quality of textbooks will be improved
and costs reduced. The Form II and Form IV examinations will be reformed to support
good teaching practices.



* Better teacher competencies including a large-scale scheme for continuous in-service
training for teachers.
(3) Reforms in service management and delivery
* Revised Regulatory Framework for provision of quality secondary education.
* Decentralization aimed at devolving major administrative and management functions
(including student admission and placement, and teacher recruitment and deployment)
to lower levels of the system.
Financing           (US$ million):
Proposed IDA Credit      100
Total Program Cost:      200
Poverty Reduction Intervention: Y
Environment category: B
The proposed IDA credit will support, among other things, increased access to secondary
education which will require rehabilitation and construction of schools and classrooms, as well as
provision of water supply and sanitary facilities. Public school places would especially be
expanded in rural areas and in poor or remote communities unable to provide their own schools or
attract private schools. In order to ensure that the construction of these schools and related
facilities under SEDP will not incur negative environmental and social impacts, an Enviromnental
and Social Management Framework (ESMF) and a Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) will be
prepared by the Government.
Contact:
Task Manager
Donald B. Hamilton
Tanzania Country Office
50 Mirambo Street,
Dar es Salaam
TANZANIA
Telephone: 255-22-2114575/7
For information on other documents contact:
Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:    (202) 522-1500



WB15430
Q:\My Documents\Personial\DATA\tan\sector issues\ESDP\Post-Prirnary Education and Training\secondary education\lnitial PID_ September 10,
2003.doc
September 11, 2003 2:55 PM



