Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3915 TA 
GRANT NUMBER H093 TA 
 
Development Financing Agreement 
 
(Secondary Education Development Program) 
 
between 
 
THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated   July  5, 2004 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3915 TA 
GRANT NUMBER H093 TA 
DEVELOPMENT FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated July 5, 2004, between THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a letter dated 
 
April 5, 2004
,
2004 (the “LDP”), describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed 
to achieve structural adjustment of the Borrower's secondary education subsector (hereinafter called 
the Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting 
assistance from the Association in support of the Program during the execution thereof; and 
(B) 
on the basis, inter
alia
,
of
the foregoing, the Association has decided in support of 
the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Financing available in three 
tranches as hereinafter provided; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” of 
the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (as amended through October 6, 1999) with the 
modifications set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement: 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General 
Conditions and in the preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and 
the following additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a) 
“BOT” means Bank of Tanzania, the Borrower’s Central Bank, established 
pursuant to the Bank of Tanzania Act Number 1 of 1995 of the laws of the Borrower; 
(b) 
“Capitation Grant” means a grant provided by the Borrower to a School 
Board (as hereinafter defined) to meet necessary expenditures for recurrent school 
operations, including teaching and learning materials, textbooks, administration, school 
level teacher development, and maintenance; 
Page  3
-
2
-
(c) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of this 
Agreement; 
(d) 
“Effectiveness Tranche” means the Tranche of the proceeds of the Credit and 
the proceeds of the Grant allocated to Category (1) in the table set forth in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement to be released by the Association on or after the Effective 
Date; 
(e) 
“FY” means the Borrower’s fiscal year beginning on July 1 of each year and 
ending on June 30 of the following year; 
(f) 
“Government Schools” means any of the secondary schools referred to 
Section 31 of the National Education Act No. 25 of 1978 of the Borrower as amended to 
date; 
(g) 
“LDP” means the Letter of Secondary Education Subsector Development 
Policy referred to in the first paragraph of the Preamble to this Agreement; 
(h) 
“Local Government Authority” means a district council, a town council, a 
municipal council, or a city council, established under the Local Government Act Nos. 7 
and 8 of 1982 of the Borrower; 
(i) 
“MOEC” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Education and Culture; 
(j) 
“School Boards” means School Boards, established under Section 38, 
Subsection 3 of the National Education Act No. 25 of 1978 of the Borrower; 
(k) 
“School Development Grant” means a grant provided by the Borrower to a 
School Board to meet necessary expenditures for constructing, procuring and rehabilitating 
school infrastructure, furniture and equipment, based on approved school development 
plans; 
(l) 
“Second Tranche” means the Tranche of the proceeds of the Credit allocated 
to Category (2) in the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(m) 
“SEDP” means the Borrower’s Secondary Education Development Program 
adopted on March 17, 2004; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(n) 
“Tanzanian Shillings” or “Tsh” means the currency of the Borrower; 
(o) 
“Third Tranche” means the Tranche of the proceeds of the Credit allocated to 
Category (3) in the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;  
(p) 
“TIE” means the Tanzania Institute of Education, an agency established and 
operating pursuant to the Institute of Curriculum Development Act of 1975 of the Borrower; 
and 
(q) 
“Tranche” means any of the following: the Effectiveness Tranche, the 
Second Tranche and the Third Tranche. 
ARTICLE II 
The Financing 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement:  
(a) 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to eighty-two million seven hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 82,700,000) (the Credit); and 
(b) 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to seventeen million seven hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 17,700,000) (the Grant). 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit and the Grant from the Credit 
Account and the Grant Account in support of the Program. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first request for 
withdrawal from the Credit Account and the Grant Account, and thereafter maintain in BOT, a 
Deposit Account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. All withdrawals 
from the Credit Account and the Grant Account shall be deposited by the Association into the 
Deposit Account. 
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Financing shall not be used to 
finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. If the 
Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Financing shall have been 
used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Association: (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount of said 
Page  5
-
4
-
payment, or (ii) if the Association shall so request, refund such amount to the Association. Amounts 
refunded to the Association upon such request shall be credited to the Credit Account and Grant 
Account for cancellation. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2007 or such later date as the Association 
shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association: (i) a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association 
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum: and (ii) a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Grant not withdrawn from time 
to time at a rate to be set by the association as of June 30 of each year, such rate not to exceed the 
rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the date of 
this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by 
the Borrower from the Credit Account or the Grant Account (as the case may be) or cancelled; and 
(ii) at the respective rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The respective 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 
2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
Each commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association shall 
reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of the 
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of 
the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be 
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate of three-
fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
April 1 and October 1 in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 1 
and October 1 commencing October 1, 2014 and ending April 1, 2044. Each installment to 
and including the installment payable on April 1, 2024 shall be one percent (1%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal 
amount. 
Page  6
-
5
-
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by the Association of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the 
principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual 
payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six 
months or more after the date on which the Association 
notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of 
principal. 
 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the modification 
referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the 
amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the 
Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to 
time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification. 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the 
Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the 
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform 
to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
Section 2.09. BOT is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking 
any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement 
and Article V of the General Conditions. 
Page  7
-
6
-
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of 
either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions 
specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association 
for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such 
detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be taken after the 
disbursement of the Financing which would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of 
the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any action specified in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
(d) 
If, after said exchange of views, the Association is not so satisfied, the Association 
may give notice to the Borrower to that effect and, if within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower 
shall not have taken steps satisfactory to the Association, in respect of (a), (b) and (c) above, as the 
case may be, then the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit or Grant, or any part thereof. 
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(b) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four 
months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and 
(c) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit Account 
and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested. 
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Event of Suspension 
Page  8
-
7
-
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following additional 
event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the 
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
Page  9
-
8
-
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the effectiveness 
of the Development Financing Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions: 
The Borrower has furnished to the Association evidence that it has: 
(i) 
issued circulars satisfactory to the Association governing delivery to, and 
management of capitation, development and scholarship grants in secondary 
schools; 
(ii) 
issued circulars determining criteria and norms acceptable to the Association for 
posting of teachers in Government Schools; and 
(iii) 
caused TIE to: (a) enter into legal agreements satisfactory to the Association, 
with private sector publishers, for the purposes of publishing existing textbook 
titles; and (b) disengage from the business of publishing any new textbooks for 
secondary schools. 
 
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement  is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  10
-
9
-
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister of Finance 
of the Borrower is designated as the representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 
of the General Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the 
General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
P.O. Box 9111 
Dar es Salaam 
Tanzania 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
TREASURY   
41329   
 
(255) 222 11 77 90 
 
Dar es Salaam  
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association  
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
Page  11
-
10
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Dar es Salaam, 
The United Republic of Tanzania, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA 
 
By  /s/  Grey Mgonja   
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By  /s/  Judy O’Connor 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  12
-
11
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the 
Financing and Excluded Expenditures 
1. 
Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this Schedule, the table below sets forth the 
amounts allocated to specific Tranches to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and Grant Account: 
 
Amount of  the 
Amount of the    
  
 
 
Credit Allocated 
  
Grant Allocated 
 
% of 
 
(Expressed in  
(Expressed in   
Expenditures 
 Categories
SDR Equivalent)
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) Effectiveness  Tranche   
15,800,000 
 
    17,700,000 
   100% 
(2) Second Tranche 
 
 
33,500,000 
 
 
 
   100% 
(3) Third Tranche 
 
 
33,400,000 
 
 
 
   100% 
 
_________ __________ 
 
Total 
 
    
         82,700,000 
17,700,000 
 
========= 
 
    ========= 
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, and for purposes of Section 
2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Financing shall not be used to finance the 
following expenditures: 
 
(a)  
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services 
supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
(b) 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank shall have financed or agreed to 
finance under another credit or a loan; and 
(c) 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the United 
Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or 
Page  13
-
12
-
subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Borrower: 
 Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112 
- 
  Alcoholic 
beverages 
 
121 
- 
  Tobacco, 
unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122 
- 
  Tobacco, 
manufactured 
 
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525 
- 
  Radioactive 
and 
 
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
  Pearls, 
precious 
and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
 
718 
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 728 
728.43 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery 
 
897 
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
Page  14
-
13
-
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971 
- 
  Gold, 
non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates); 
(d) 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
(e) 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import of which 
is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which the Borrower is a 
party;  
(f) 
expenditures: (i) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank 
or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (ii) on account of any 
payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or import is prohibited by a 
decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
(g)  
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Financing during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to remedy the 
situation. 
3. 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Credit Account under Category (2) of the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule unless: 
 
(a) 
the full amount of the Effectiveness Tranche has been withdrawn by the 
Borrower under the Development Financing Agreement; and 
 
(b) 
the Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in 
Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Association: (i) that the 
macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is consistent with the objectives of the 
Program, (ii) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the Program, 
and (iii) that the actions described in Part A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement have been 
taken. 
Page  15
-
14
-
4. 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Credit Account under Category (3) of the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule unless:  
 
(a) 
the full amount specified in Category (2) has been withdrawn by the 
Borrower; and  
 
(b) 
the Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in 
Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Association: (i) that the 
macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is consistent with the objectives of the 
Program, (ii) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the Program, 
and (iii) that the actions described in Part B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement have been 
taken. 
Page  16
-
15
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Actions Referred to in Section 3.01 (a) 
of this Agreement 
Part A
:
Conditions for the release of the Second Tranche
1. 
The Borrower has allocated appropriate budgetary resources for FY 2004 - 2005 on 
the basis of criteria and norms referred to in paragraph 
–
of
the LDP as required to ensure 
adequate staffing levels and delivery of capitation, development and scholarship grants for 
Government Schools. 
2. 
The Borrower has adopted a package of incentives designed to attract and keep 
teachers in underserved areas.  
3. 
The Borrower has amended, in substance satisfactory to the Association, its Circular 
No 2 of 1998 dated August 15, 1998 governing mechanisms for approval of educational 
books.  
4. 
The Borrower has adopted and implemented a program of actions designed to foster 
continuous development of professional skills for teachers and school administrators for 
secondary education across the Borrower’s  territory (mainland). 
5. 
The Borrower has reduced the level  of tuition fees due by students attending 
Government Schools (day schools) from Tsh 40,000 to Tsh 20,000. 
Part B
:
Conditions for the release of the Third Tranche
1. 
The Borrower has allocated appropriate budgetary resources for FY 2005 – 2006 on 
the basis of criteria and norms referred to in paragraph – of the LDP as required to ensure 
adequate staffing levels and delivery of capitation, development and scholarship grants for 
secondary schools. 
2. 
The Borrower has amended  regulations determining: (a) the national curriculum 
required for successful graduation from secondary education level; and (b) examinations 
required to be taken by all students enrolled in secondary education in the Borrower’s 
territory, all in substance satisfactory to the Association. 
Page  17
-
16
-
3. 
The Borrower has issued regulations in substance satisfactory to the Association 
determining functions and responsibilities allocated to central authorities, regional 
secretariats, local authorities, school boards and school managers so as to improve 
management and satisfactory delivery of adequate secondary education services across the 
Borrower’s territory (mainland). 
Page  18
-
17
-
SCHEDULE 6  
Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows: 
1. 
Section 1.01 is amended to read: 
“These General Conditions set forth certain terms and conditions generally 
applicable to development financing granted by the Association as a development 
credit and development grant to its members. They apply to any development 
financing agreement providing for any such development finance to the extent and 
subject to any modifications set forth in such agreement.” 
2. 
Paragraph 8 of Section 2.01 is amended to read as follows: 
“8. 
“Development Financing Agreement” means the particular 
Development Financing Agreement to which these General Conditions 
apply, as such agreement may be amended from time to time.  Development 
Financing Agreement includes these General Conditions as applied thereto, 
and all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Development 
Financing Agreement.” 
3. 
Paragraph 12 of Section 2.01 is amended to read: 
 12. 
“‘Project’ means the Program, referred to in paragraph A of the preamble to 
the Development Financing Agreement, in support of which the Credit and the 
Grant are made.”; 
4. 
The following new paragraphs are added to Section 2.01: 
“15. 
“Grant” means the development grant provided for in the Development 
Financing Agreement.” 
“16. 
“Grant Account” means the account opened by the Association on its 
books in the name of the Borrower to which the amount of the Grant is 
credited.” 
Page  19
-
18
-
“17. 
“Financing” means, collectively, the Credit and the Grant.” 
“18. 
“Financing Accounts” means, collectively, the Credit Account and the 
Grant Account (or, where the context so requires, either of the Credit Account or the 
Grant Account).” 
5. 
The term “Credit”, wherever used in the following Articles and Sections of the General 
Conditions, is amended to read “Financing”:  Sections 2.01(3), 2.01(12), 4.01, Article V, Article VI 
(excluding Section 6.05), Section 7.01(d), Article VIII, and Article IX. 
6. 
The term “Credit Account”, wherever used in the following Articles and Sections of 
the General Conditions, is amended to read “Financing Accounts”: Section 2.01(6), 4.01, 
Article V, Article VI, and Section 12.03. 
7. 
The term “Development Credit Agreement”, wherever used in the General Conditions, is 
amended to read the Development Financing Agreement. 
8. 
Section 3.01 is modified to read as follows: 
“Section 3.01.  
Financing Accounts.  
The amount of the Credit shall be credited to 
the Credit Account and may be withdrawn from the Credit Account by the Borrower 
as provided in the Development Financing Agreement and in these General 
Conditions.  The amount of the Grant shall be credited to the Grant Account and 
may be withdrawn from the Grant Account by the Borrower as provided in the 
Development Financing Agreement and in these General Conditions.” 
9. 
Section 4.01 is modified to read: 
 
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from the Credit Account and the Grant Account shall be made in the 
currency of the deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the Development 
Financing Agreement.”; 
10. 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit and 
the Grant from the Credit Account and the Grant Account, respectively, in 
accordance with the provisions of the Development Financing Agreement and of 
these General Conditions”; 
Page  20
-
19
-
11. 
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
12. 
The phrase “(including any development financing agreement or development grant 
agreement)” is added to Section 6.02(a)(ii) after the words “any development credit agreement” and 
before the words “between the Borrower and the Association”, to Section 6.02(c)(i) after the words 
“any development credit agreement” and before the words “with the Association”, and to Section 
7.01(b)(i) after the words “any other development credit agreement” and before the words “between 
the Borrower and the Association”.   
13. 
Section 6.05 is amended to read as follows: 
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, any cancellation 
of any amount of the Credit shall be applied 
pro rata
 to the several installments of 
the principal amount of the Credit maturing after the date of such cancellation.” 
14. 
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read: 
 
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution of the Program referred to in 
paragraph A of the preamble to the Development Financing Agreement, the performance by 
the Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations under the Development 
Financing Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit and of the 
Grant.”; and 
15. 
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 and 9.08 are 
renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07. 
 
