                                                       2                                      36025

                                          I. BACKGROUND

 3.  The objective of the IDA operation is to provide support to the Government o f Tanzania inreforming
 the delivery o f secondary education through the SEDP as part of the implementation o f the Education
 Sector Development Program (ESDP). The long term aim o f the SEDP is to build a productive and
 adoptable labor force as well as supplying better quality students for higher levels o f the post-secondary
 education and training system. This would help increase and sustain growth o f the national economy, and
 allow Tanzania to participate more effectively in the global economy. SEDP also aims at reducing
 poverty by increasing the proportion of students from poor households and communities complete
 secondary education that would enable them to enter the labor market. The specific objectives of the
 SEDP are to: (i)expand access by increasing the proportion o f the relevant age group completing
 secondary education (ii) improve quality through raising the learning achievements of students, especially
 girls; and (iii)
                strengthen management by enabling the public administration system to manage secondary
 education more effectively. Policy measures adopted by the Government aimed at achieving these
 objectives include interventions to: (a) make more efficient use of resources, (b) provide capitation and
 development grants to schools and communities (c) expand teacher supply, (d) lower household costs for
 secondary education, by reducing tuition fees in day schools and expanding the scholarship program for
 students from very poor households, and (e) enhance partnership with the non-government sector.

 4. Substantial progress i s being made towards achieving the objectives through implementation o f the
 policy measures. Gross Enrolment (GER) in secondary education increased from 7.4 percent in 2003 to
 9.4 and 11.7 in 2004 and 2005 respectively (Basic Education Statistics in Tanzania 1995-2005).
Enrolment o f Form Istudents in Ordinary Level secondary education has increased from 98,738 in 2004
to 134,963 in 2005. The expansionhas been supported by increases in Government recurrent budget, and
 investments through the SEDP program. This has greatly helpedto (i) enrolment capacity o f some
                                                                         expand
of the existing schools through construction of additional classrooms and establishment o f new schools;
(ii)recruitmentand deployment ofadditionalteachers; (iii)provisionalofscholarships to pupilsfrom
very poor households who cannot afford secondary education, as well as reduced school fees in public
day secondary schools most o f which were initiated by communities; and (iv) provision o f capitation
grants to school to enable financing o f teaching materials and textbooks. Nevertheless, the demand for
inore infrastructure, teachers and learning materials in secondary education enroIment i s expected to
increase further given the planned enrolment targets and the increased number of primary education
completers resulting from free universal primary education. The Gross Enrolment ratio (NER) in primary
education was 106.4 percent in 2005 compared to only 11.7 percent in secondary education. The
Government's target is to ensure 50 percent o f the age group complete lower secondary education by
2010 compared to 5-6 percent in 2003. In general, communities are pleased that more children are now
getting access to secondary education. Schools have also been able to purchase more textbooks and
teaching materials given the increased financial resources directed to school levels through capitation
grants. Private publishers and booksellers have also become inore active given the launching o f private
publishingo f school materials and textbooks.

Macro-EconomicDevelopments
5. Since 1995, the government has shown constant commitment to macroeconomic structural reforms
which have helped to enhance stabilization o f the economy. Over the last five years the GDP growth rate
has averaged more than five percent. Tanzania economy grew by 6.7 percent in 2004 and estimated to
have grown by 6.9 percent in 2005. Mining and construction grew by 15.6 and 11 percent in 2004
respectively. The agricultural sector which i s important in the poverty reduction efforts inTanzania, grew
by 6 percent in 2004.while it is estimated to have declined to 5.3 percent in 2005 due to lack o f enough
rain. Agriculture contributes about 46 percent of Tanzania's GDP and about 86 percent of households

                                                       3
 depend on agriculture for their livelihood. There i s also an increased growth in the manufacturing sector
 to 7 percent in 2004. Investmenthas been growing more than the GDP to a ratio o f 17 percent in 2001 to
 21 percent in 2004. Both public and private investments increased at the level o f 7.7 and 13.2 percent
 respectively in 2004. Foreign direct investment continues to be key in the Tanzanian investment with
 increased external financial flows.      Export trade has more than doubled between 2000 and 2004
 particularly in the aspects o f gold and tourism industries. Sustainability of these growth rates i s expected
 to help reduce poverty by half in 2015.

 6. Total Central Government Expenditures increased from 22 percent o f GDP in 2003/04 to 25 percent
 of the GDP in 2004/05. The increase was a result o f (i) improved performance o f domestic revenue which
 rose from 13.0 to 13.6 percent of the GDP; (ii)domestic and foreign borrowing. Importantly, domestic
 borrowing scaled up in 2004/05 amounting 1.1 percent after several years of negative borrowing. The
 Public Expenditure (PER) and Financial Accountability Reviews involving a broad spectrum o f
 stakeholders i s the key forum through which fiscal management and performance are assessed. The
 process i s particularly essential for General Budget Support. Currently, the government is reviewing the
 PER process to ensure it is more aligned to the National Strategy for Growth and Reduction for Poverty
 (NSGRP) and the budget process with review process o f different sectors. This would also help to
 strengthen the quality and efficiency in public expenditure.Monetary supply has in general grown to 25.5
 percent in 2004/05. This i s consistent with the inflation rate which fell to 4.1 percent in the same year.
 Aid flow has increased causing high interest rates which could cause negative consequences to private
 sector growth. The situation i s however manageable given the declining rate o f inflation over the recent
 years.

 Growth and PovertyReduction
 7. The National Strategy for Growth and Reduction o f Poverty (NSGRP) i s a second national organizing
 framework focusing on poverty reduction within the national vision 2025. The framework was approved
 by the Cabinet in February2005 spelling out three key clusters of poverty reduction outcomes aimed at (i)
 reducing income poverty particularly in rural areas where 87 percent o f the poor live; (ii)improving
 quality o f life and social wellbeing; and (iij) strengthening governance and accountability.
Implementation of the NGSRP is underway and would require an estimated GDP growth rate o f 6-8
percent per annum up to 2015. In order to achieve this, the focus i s to increase investments towards
modernizing small, medium and large scale agricultural enterprises including agro-processing to benefit
poor communities. Attention is also provided to ensure improved trade, services and markets,
infrastructure and creation o f a conducive environment for private investment. Specifically, this would
also entail rising of the number of post-primary and post-secondary completers for improved technologies
and knowledge required for growth o f the economy. A household budget survey carried out in 2000/01
showed a rather modest decline in poverty from 42.8 percent in 1992 to 38.6 in 2001. Projections show
that poverty declined further to 33.8 percent in 2004. The projected growth rates to be achieved through
implementatioii o f the NGSRP are expected to reduce poverty further by 2015.

RecentDevelopmentsinNon-incomeDimensions of Poverty and Public Service Delivery
8. HIV/AIDS i s still a challenge to Tanzania with a prevalence rate o f 7 percent (7.7 and 6.3 percent for
females and males respectively). Recent developments in Tanzania's fight against HIV/AIDS include the
establishment o f the Tanzania Commission for AIDS (TACAIDS) which has a fully staffed secretariat
since January 2003, and the appointment o f members o f the coinmission including representatives from
civil society. The Government has increased its allocation o f financial resources for implementing
HIV/AIDS interventions guided by the multi-sectoral strategic framework which was launched in 2003
under implementation by government and non-government actors. A recent HIV/AIDS report indicates
that the Government has increased spending on HIV/AIDS by 79 percent since 2002/2003. External
support for HIV/AIDS has also increased representing90 percent of the overall expenditure. The World
Bank is among the agencies supporting the Government o f Tanzania in implementing its HIV/AIDS
strategy through the Tanzania Multisectoral Aids Project (TMAP). This includes the Clinton Foundation

                                                     4
 expected to support care and treatment to about 400,000 people living with HIV/AIDS with an estimated
 cost o f about US$535 million over five years.

 9. Education. Government is committed to increase access, quality and equity at all levels o f the
 education system. Key measures in the achievement of these objectives are being implemented through
 the Primary Education Development Program (PEDP) supported jointly by the government and
 development partners. The measures have included abolition of primary school fees in2001 and increased
 budgetary allocations to include among other things, provision of development and capitation grants to
 schools. Other measures have included increased pre-service training o f teachers and supporting them
 through continuous professional development. There is positive impact being achieved from the PEDP
 implementation towards universal completion of quality primary education. As a result o f the PEDP
 implementation, the NERhas increased from 65.8 percent in 2001 to 94.8 percent in 2005.

 10. The Secondary Education Development Program (SEDP) is being implemented inmost communities
 in the country. The measures have included reduction of fees and provision of scholarships to qualified
 students from very poor households to ensure equitable access to secondary education. There have been
 also increases in budgetary allocations which has enabled disbursement of development and capitation
 grants to schools; increased pre-service training o f teachers at diploma and degree levels as well as
 recruitment o f licensed teachers; teacher deployment to needy schools i s also being implemented. The
 number o f government secondary schools increased from 528 in 2001, 828 in 2004 and to 1202 in 2005.
 However, teacher supply and quality enhancement remains a big challenge to the expanding secondary
 education system. Measures to address the issue are underway through enrolment expansion for degree
 and diploma level teachers. Intake at degree level increased from 300 students in 2004 to 700 in 2005.
 Diploma level training also increased from an enrolment of 2,400 students to 3,573 in 2005, and about
 4000 students are planned to be enrolled in 2006. The Government is also in the process o f developing a
comprehensive strategy for teacher development, and management.

 11. The Government is also committed to improve higher and technical education to ensure increased
access and equity, efficiency and quality. Interventions aimed at expanding the system have started
including provision of student loans to both public and private higher education institutions to ensure
increased enrolment and equitable access.



                       11.     PROGRESSAGAINST TRANCHE         RELEASE    CRITERIA

 12. The government has made good progress in implementing the Secondary Education Program. In
particular, the Agreed Actions for the second tranche release as stipulated in Part A o f Schedule 2 to the
Development Financing Agreement (DFA) have been implemented as summarized below. Evidence o f
the implementation i s provided through the respective annexes.

Condition 1: The Borrower has allocated appropriate budgetary resources for FY 2004-2005 on
the basis of criteria and norms referred to in paragraph - of the LDP as required to ensure
adequate staffing levels and delivery of capitation, development and scholarship grants for
Government Schools.         The key indicators include: (i)Allocation of appropriate budgetary
resources for 2004-2005;        (ii)Adequate staffing;      and (iii) Delivery of capitation grants,
development grants,and scholarships grants. Thecondition is met.

13. Allocation of appropriate budaetarv resources: Recurrent budget allocation for the full education
sector increased by 28 percent in FY 2004/05 and by 11 percent in 2005/06. Recurrent allocations to the
secondary education sub-sector increased with 20 percent between2003/04 and 2004/05, and with further
23 percent by 2005/06. The increases in recurrent budget are sufficient to finance the increases in
teaching staff. Recurrent expenditures financed over the development budget increased significantly in

                                                    5
the period as the program funds became available. Thus, total increase in recurrent expenditures was
 about 80 percent from 2003/04 to 2004/05. There are coiicerns about sustainability of the expansion
 given the high share of recurrent expendituresfinancedover the development budget from program funds.
 These funds are utilized to finance capitation grants for learning materials, school based seminars for
professional development of teachers and related quality enhancement initiatives at school levels.
Development expenditure increasedfrom Tshs. 5 billion to 39.9 billions.

 14. Adequate staffing: An objective of the program is that pupil-teacher ratio will be of 30:l by 2009.
Evidence provided by tlie Borrower shows that the situation is improving to ensure every teacher has
enough workload in accordance with tlie establishedguidelines and norms stipulated inthe Mechanisms
                                                                                             "
for Posting Teachers to Government Secondary Schoolsfor the Secondary Education Development Plan
2004-2009". The pupil teacher ratio was 20: 1 in 2003 and has improved to 26.1 by June 2005 (Basic
Education Statistics 2005). However, teacher demand keeps on increasing given the ongoing expansion
of secondary education. In this regard more teachers were recruited and deployed between 2004 and
2005. The first batch of the new teachers employedconsisted of 305 licensedteachers who had completed
Advanced Level secondary education. These teachers were recruited and trained for one month to
familiarize themselves with the teacliing profession. Upon completion of tlie training, they were awarded
each, a teaching license. The second batch consisted of 1467 diploma and degree level teachers who had
completed training from different institutions. Altogether a total of 1772 licensed, diploma and degree
level teachers were employed and deployed to different needy schools including underserved areas.
Delivery of degree level teachers has remained low for many years with a ratio of 20: 80 degree and
diploma level respectively. In order to increase the number of degree level teachers, the government
converted the Chang'ombe Teacher Training College, and Mkwawa High School to Constituent
Education Colleges under the University of Dar es Salaam in August 2005. As a result, degree level
enrolment in the public institutions has increased from 300 students in 2004/05 to 700 in 2005/06.
Enrolment of candidates for teacher training at diploma level increased from 2,689 in 2004 to 3,593 in
2005. Enrolment in 2006 for diploma level is expectedto increase to 4000 students.

15. In order to have a long term strategy on teacher supply and development, the Government plans to
strengthen the teacher development system further. Terms of Reference (TOR) for this activity were
developed and approved by different stakeholders involving the Government, Development Partners and
the Civil Society Organisations participating in the Basic Education Development Committee (BEDC).
Based on tlie TOR an invitation for expression of interest for the "Teacher Development and
Management Strategy (TDMV has been implemented. An inception report for the strategy will be
finalised inMid April 2006.

16. Capitation Grants: According to the program, capitation grants for learning materials and textbooks
would be disbursed to secondary schools at a rate of Tshs.25,000 per pupil per year. Government
allocated about 3 billion shillings for these as recurrent expenditures under the development budget
against projected 7.8 billion shillings. An amount of Tshs. 4, 280,220,000 was disbursed to 803 schools
(with 214,011 students) out of tlie 828 Government schools which were registered by 2004 with a total
enrolment of 264,888 students. The amount disbursed to these schools was approximately Tshs 20, 000
per student which was a bit less than tlie planned grant of Tshs. 25,000. Nevertheless 97 percent of the
schools registered by 2004 and 87 percent of the student body during tlie same period got capitation
grants.

17. More fbnds will be required for the grants in the 2006 academic year given the increasednumber of
government secondary schools, students' enrolments, as well as the need to provide the full capitation
grants up to Tshs. 25,000 per student. The number of schools registered increased to 1202 with a total
enrolment of 355,188 students by June 2005. Importantly, the capitation grants disbursed already to the
803 government schools have enabled the schools to purchase text books and teaching materials, thus
contributing to quality improvement inteaching and learning

                                                      6
 18. Development Grants; The program stipulates that Development Grants would be allocated based on
the extent the area i s underserved. About 34 billion shillings are allocated for development expenditures
in the budget for 04/05. As it turns out, about 930 government schools in different districts and
communities have benefited froin the grants. A total of Tshs 19,587,000,000 were disbursed to bank
accounts o f these schools to (i)expand the capacities o f existing schools through construction o f more
new classroom and furnishing (ii)rehabilitation and maintenance of school facilities (iii)construction of
new schools and (iv) construction o f teacher houses, assembly halls, hostels, toilets and girls private
rooins, and other necessary facilities. About 1569 new classrooms were constructed to expand school
enrolment out of a target o f 1914. About 425 new schools were constructed with a few classroom in
underserved areas that had a considerable population o f primary education completers. Construction of
more classrooins in these new schools is planned in 2006 to ensure the schools get enough classroom to
operate in full capacity. Enrolment into Advanced Level secondary education also increased from 15,925
students to 18,154 in the same period.

 19. Scholarship Grants; About 23,587 students froin very poor households studying in Form 1, 2, and 3
are benefiting froin the scholarship program that started in 2003. Management o f the program i s guided
by the "Guidelines for Provision of scholarship Grants to Secondary School PupilsJi.om Low Income
Households" to support the identified eligible pupils. The total amount of funds disbursed to schools with
scholarship students in the 2005 academic year was Tshs.4,235 inillions at an average o f Tshs.180,000
per student . The ainount covered expenses for fees, uniforms, medical, pocket money and transport. Out
o f the scholarship students, 12,020 (5,101 girls and 6,919 boys) o f them were in Form I in the 2005
school year.

Condition 2: The Borrower has adopted a package of incentives designed to attract and keep
teachers in underservedareas. The condition is met.

20. The Government has adopted a policy o f constructing teacher houses, particular in undeserved areas.
Availability o f teacher houses within school compounds, especially in communities where teachers
cannot find any houses to rent, has been one of the key incentives in deploying teachers. The Borrower
has indicated that, out of the total amounts of the Development Grants disbursed to schools, Tshs. 8,172
inillion was used for construction o f teacher houses especially in the remote areas. Government circular
number 12 of November 2004, provides guidelines for construction o f teacher houses particularly in
underserved areas with the aim of motivating teachers to teach in remote areas. As a result, 903 teacher's
houses were constructed in 888 different schools within local coininunities under the supervision o f
district council engineers. Teacher support system are being strengthened to reach teachers in remote
areas through school based continuous teacher development using accreditation and non-accreditation
programs. This has been mostly through programs organized by the Open University o f Tanzania using
distance education approaches and through the school inspectorate system.

Condition 3: The Borrower has amended, in substance satisfactoryto the Association, its Circular
No., dated August 15, 1998 government mechanisms for approval of educational books.
condition is met.

21. The Government has issued Education Circular Number 7 o f 2005, replacing Circular number 2 o f
1998 on the approval system of Educational Books and Materials. The current Circular, aims at
strengthening the approval system making it more transparent and efficient involving private, public and
civil society stakeholders. Further,the Circular re-enforces private book production and publishingwhich
was not the case in the previous years.

Condition 4: The Borrower has adopted and implementeda program of actions designed to foster
continuous development of professional skills for teachers and school administrators for secondary
education across Borrower's territory (mainland).          Indicators: (i) Continuous Development of
Teachers; and (ii)Developmentof school administrators: The condition is met.

                                                       7
 22. Continuous development of teachers: School-based training is ongoing at schools and within teacher
 training colleges delivered through distance education combined with short sessions o f face to face
 interactions. The training program is organised by the Open University o f Tanzania. About 505 science
 and mathematics teachers from various schools participated in short training for a period o f three weeks in
 2005 aimed at improving the teaching o f maths and sciences. About 71 diploma level teachers of maths
 and sciences are being supported by the government to attend degree level upgrading training at Tuinaini
 private university. Low performance o f students in maths and sciences was one o f the identified issues
 that would be addressed in the SEDP implementation. Upgrading o f secondary education teachers i s also
 ongoing using teacher colleges and the University of Dar es Salaam.

 23. The school inspectorate system has been strengthened with increased transportation to enable zonal
 based inspectors to visit scliools more often to inspect schools and at the same time conduct school based
 seminars aimed at improving teaching levels and school management. A Training Manual for School
 Inspectors was developed in 2005 to provide guidance on among other things, school based training of
 teachers.

 24. In order to equip college tutors with adequate skills for training primary and secondary education
 teachers, a total of 296 tutors from different Teacher Training Colleges are being trained by the Open
University of Tanzania using distance learning approaches, upgrading the tutors to degree levels. About
 14 tutors are also being trained for upgradingto post graduate Advanced Diploma level.

25. Continous develo-pment of school administrators: About 3,800 actors responsible for management
and administration at schools and other levels were trained for a period of 10 days throughout the country.
The training was conducted in eight different zones and was attended by heads o f schools, members o f
school construction committees, regional and district engineers, and education officers at various levels.
The aim of the training was to inform people about the SEDP reforms in relation to roles o f the various
stakeholders at these different levels. A strategy to strengthen school management involving heads o f
schools and school boards is also underway. This includes strengthening o f the teacher support and
quality assurance systems through capacity building of School Inspectors at all levels. The school
inspectors in turn train school heads and school boards as well as other key players in management and
administration guided by the       "Training Manual for School Inspectors " designed by the respective
education mitiistry in2005.

Condition 5:       The Borrower has reduced the level of tuition fees due by students attending
Government Schools (day schools) from Tshs. 40, 000 to 20,000 starting in 2005 school year.
Indicators: Government,Circular, Fees Compensation to schools. The condition is met.

26. Government Circular Number 11 dated September 2004 issued by the Chief Education Officer
reduced school fees o f all government day secondary schools from Tshs. 40,000 to 20,000 (by 50 percent)
effective January 2005. The Circular was issued to Regional Administrative Secretaries, Zonal School
Inspectors, and all Heads of Secondary schools. Reports and other information sources indicate that the
policy is being implemented in all government day schools since January 2005. This has greatly
contributed to increased accessto secondary educatioii at community levels.

27. Given the implementation o f the policy, a total of Tshs. 3, 461 millions was disbursed to 732 day
government schools as compensation o f the reduced fees per pupil. About 173,05 1 students in
government day schools benefited from the fee reduction policy in 2005. This i s approximately 49% o f
students enrolled in government schools by 2005.

                                                     8


                                          111.   CONCLUSION

28. Inview o f the overall performance and progress with the iinpleineiitation of the program supported by
the Credit and the Grant and in compliance with the specific conditions o f release as described in
paragraphs (12-27) above the International Development Association has informed the Borrower of the
availability o f the second tranche inthe amount o f SDR33.5 million.

