                                         Document of
                                      The World Bank

                                  FOROFFICIAL USEONLY


                                                                             ReportNo: 27631




                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENTASSOCIATION


                                    PROGRAMDOCUMENT

                          FORA PROPOSEDADJUSTMENT CREDIT

                                     INTHEAMOUNT OF

                           SDR 82.7 MILLION(US$123.6 MILLION)

                             AND A GRANT INTHE AMOUNT OF

                            SDR 17.7MILLION(US$26.4MILLION)

                                            TO THE

                             UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA

                                             FORA

                 SECONDARYEDUCATIONDEVELOPMENT PROGRAM



                                         May 14,2004




Human Development 1
CountryDepartment4
Africa RegionalOffice



This document has a restricteddistributionandmay be usedby recipientsonly inthe performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosedwithout World Bank authorization.

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                   (Exchange Rate Effective February27,2004)
                         Currency Unit = TanzanianShillings(TSH)
                                1TSH = US$0.00090
                                 US$1 = TSH 1110
                                 FISCAL YEAR
                                  July -   June

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
EMAC     EducationalMaterialsApproval Committee
EMIS     EducationManagement Information System
ESDP     Education Sector DevelopmentProgram
ESMF     Environmental and SocialManagementFramework
F M      Financial Management
FTE      Full-Time Equivalent
GER      Gross Enrollment Ratio
GOT      Government o f the United Republic of Tanzania
GNP      Gross National Product
HIPC     Heavily IndebtedPoor Country
HRDP     Human Resources DevelopmentProject
IBRD     International Bank of Reconstructionand Development
ICT      Information CommunicationTechnology
IDA      International DevelopmentAssociation
IMF      International Monetary Fund
LGAs     Local GovernmentAuthorities
LGRP     LocalGovernment Reform Program
MDGs     Millennium DevelopmentGoals
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MoEC     Ministry of Educationand Culture
MoF      Ministry of Finance
MTEF     Medium-Term ExpenditureFramework
NECTA    National ExaminationCouncil ofTanzania
NGO      Non-GovernmentalOrganization
ODA      Overseas DevelopmentAssistance
OED      OperationsEvaluationDepartment
PEDP     Primary EducationDevelopment Program
PER      Public ExpenditureReview
PM       ProcurementManual
PMO      Prime Minister's Office
PO-RALG  President's Office- RegionalAdministration and Local Government
PRBS     Poverty ReductionBudget Support
PRGF    Poverty ReductionAnd Growth Facility
PRS     Poverty ReductionStrategy
PRSC    Poverty ReductionSupportCredit
PRSP    Poverty ReductionStrategy Paper
PSAC    ProgrammaticStructuralAdjustment Credit
PSRP    Public ServiceReform Program
RPF     ResettlementPolicy Framework
SECAL   Structural Credit Adjustment Lending
SEDP    Secondary EducationDevelopmentProgram
SEMP    Secondary EducationMaster Plan
TIE     Tanzania Institute of Education

TPR     Teacher-Pupil Ratio
TTC     Teacher Training College
URT     UnitedRepublic ofTanzania


                       Vice President:     Callisto Madavo
                     Country Director:     Judy O'Connor
                      Sector Manager:      Dzingai Mutumbuka
                   Task TeamLeader:        Donald Hamilton

                                                                                         FOROFFICIALUSEONLY
                                     THE UNITED REPUBLICOF TANZANIA
                      SECONDARY EDUCATIONDEVELOPMENTPROGRAM(SEDP)

                                                      TABLE OF CONTENTS


           I.                      FINANCING AND PROGRAMSUMMARY                                                 i

           I1.   INTRODUCTION              ...................................................................................................
                                                                              ..................................................................  1

           I11. SECONDARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM.............................
                 MACROECONOMIC FRAMEWORK                                                                                                          2
                                                                                                                                                  4

              .B .
               A .      Sector Issues   ......................................................................................................    4
                        Government Strategy and SEDP                 ..........................................................................   6
                 (1) Policy Reformsto ImproveAccess andEquity                            ........................................................ 8
                 (2) Reformsto ImproveEducationalAchievements
                 (3) Reforms in Service Management and Delivery....................................
                                                                                           ...................................................... 9

                 (4) Phasingo f Reforms....................................................................                                      10
                                                                                                                                                 11
               C .                                                                                                                                11
               D .      ProgramFeasibility..........................................................................................
                        Poverty Reductionand Social Impact ................................................................                       12
               E .                                                                                                                                12
                        FinancialManagementand Procurement............................................................
                        EnvironmentalSafeguards ................................................................................
               F .                                                                                                                                13
               G .      Monitoring and Evaluation...............................................................................                  13

           FINANCING .................................................................................................................
           IV. THE PROPOSED SECONDARY EDUCATIONDEVELOPMENT
                                                                                                                                                  14
               A .      FinancingRationaleand Coverage....................................................................                        14
               B .      Risks...............................................................................................................      16
               C .      Financingand DisbursementArrangements .......................................................                             17
           V.D IDA OPERATIONS ..............................................................................................
                 .      Agreed actions for tranche release .....................................................................                  18
                                                                                                                                                  20
           VI. COLLABORATIONWITH IMF AND OTHER DONORS ................................                                                            22


        Annexes

                                                                                                                                                  23
        Annex B: Tanzania Key Economic Indicators ..................................................................
        Annex A: Tanzania Social Indicators ................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                  24
        Annex C: Status o fBank Group Operations inTanzania..................................................                                     25

        Annex E: Logical Framework .......................................................................................... 27
        Annex D: Program Data Sheet .........................................................................................                     26

        Annex F: Letter of Secondary Education Sub-SectorPolicy ...........................................                                       30
        Annex G: Institutional and ImplementationArrangements .............................................                                       31
        Annex H: Key Performance Indicators ............................................................................ 38
        Annex I:Summary Environmental and Social Management Plan...................................                                               42
        Annex J: Economic and FinancialAnalyses ....................................................................                              46


        This operation was preparedby a team led by Donald Hamilton (AFTHI). with team membersof Rest Lasway (AFTH1).
        DinaAbu-Ghaida (HDNED). Keith Hinchliffe (AFTHD). T.Mpoy-Kamulayi (LEGAF). SteveJ.Gaginis(LOAGZ).
        JustinaKajange. Evelyne Kapya (AFC04) and consultants Sam Bartlett.George Bethell. Andrew Clegg. Carmelle
        Denning. RichardJohanson. and Keith Lewin. The quality assurance team consists of Richard Cambridge (AFTOS).
        Jacob Bregman(AFTH3). and Kin Bing Wu (SASHD).




lwithoutWorld Bank authorization                          .                                                                                  ...


                    THE UNITEDREPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
               SECONDARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM


                   FINANCINGAND PROGRAMSUMMARY

Borrower:         The UnitedRepublic of Tanzania

Amount:           US$ 150million equivalent (US$26.4 an IDA Grant)

Terms:            Standard IDA credit terms with a maturity of 40 years

Program0bjectives
And Description:
                  The proposedfinancing is to support reforms by the Governmentofthe
                  UnitedRepublicofTanzania insecondary educationthroughthe
                  Secondary EducationDevelopment Program(SEDP). The objectives of
                  the SEDP are to: (i) increase the proportionof the relevant age group
                  completing secondary education, (ii)   improve learningoutcomes of
                  students, especially amonggirls, and (iii) the public
                                                             enable
                  administrationto manage secondary educationmore effectively. Inorder
                  to expandenrollments with equity the SEDP includesmeasuresto: (a)
                  make more efficient use ofresources, (b) provide development grantsto
                  schools and communitiesmainly inunderservedareas, (c) expand
                  teacher supply, (d) lower householdcosts for secondary educationand
                  expandthe scholarshipprogram for students from poor families, and (e)
                  enhance the partnershipwith the non-governmentsector. The program
                  for quality improvement includes: (a) curricula and examinations
                  reforms, (b) provision oftextbooks and teachingmaterialsthrough
                  capitation grants to schools, and (c) quality improvements inpre-service
                  teacher training together with establishment of a system for professional
                  in-serviceteacher development. SEDP also includes institutional
                  reforms and capacity building at central, region, district, and school
                  levelsfor more efficient operationofthe secondary educationsystem.

Risks:            The programentails moderaterisks. One risk is that the governmentwill
                  be unableto deliver on promises to allocate more funds to education in
                  general, and secondary educationinparticular inview of competing
                  priorities. Another risk is inadequatepublic capacity to manage the
                  implementationofa large secondary educationsystemsimultaneously
                  with the current Primary Education Development Program(PEDP). A
                  furtherriskis that the governmentmay beunableto produceor hire
                  sufficient numbersofteachers for the expansionofenrollments, or attract
                  them to underservedareas. Finally, facilities to be constructedunderthe
                  program inareas with relatively lower incomesmay be underutilized if
                  parents still cannot afford the fees required.

Benefits:         The main economic benefits ofthe operation are: (a) the increased
                  number of secondary graduates given that they are seen to be more
                  productivethan primary graduates, (b) the returns to the improvement in



                                         i

                the quality of secondary graduates, and (c) efficiencies achieved through
                reducedteaching costs per student. An equity rationale also supports the
                program as overall enrollments increase, supported by reduced fees to
                day students and targeted scholarships, access will extend to larger
                numbers o f students from poor families and more girls at secondary
                level.

Estimated
Disbursement:   Three tranches o f US$50 million each will be disbursed after the agreed
                actions for tranche release are successfully completed.




                                       ..
                                       11

                     INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                  PROGRAM DOCUMENT FOR
                                    A PROPOSEDFINANCING
                         TO THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
                                               FORA
                  SECONDARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENTPROGRAM



                                     I. INTRODUCTION

1. The United Republic of Tanzaniahas requestedassistance from IDA inthe amount of
US$l50 millionto help finance the proposedSecondary EducationDevelopmentProgram
(SEDP). The total financing will includeanIDA Grant ofUS$26.4 million. The borrower has
requestedthat the credit ofUS$ 123.6 million be on standardIDA terms with 40 years maturity
and a 10-yeargrace period.

2.    The objective ofthe IDA operation is to provide supportto the Governmentof Tanzania in
reforming secondary educationthrough the SEDP. The Programwould be the second phase in
the implementationo f its EducationSector DevelopmentProgram(ESDP). This phasewould
buildon achievementsfrom the first phase program, the Primary EducationDevelopment
Program(PEDP) supportedby athree-trancheAdjustment Credit (Cr.3 570-TA) approved in
October 2001. The first and second tranches ofthis Credit havebeenreleased. The SEDP aims
to (i)increase the proportion of the relevant age group completing lower and upper secondary
education, (ii)improve learning outcomes of students, especially girls, and (iii) the public
                                                                                   enable
administrationto manage secondary educationmore effectively. The access and equity objective
is to be achievedthrough measuresto use existing resources more efficiently, assist poor
communitiesto build and expandfacilities, expandteacher outputs, reducethe costs of secondary
educationto households,provide scholarshipsto poor students and collaborate with non-
governmentschools. The quality objective will be pursuedthrough reforms incurricula,
textbooks, examinations andprofessionaldevelopment o fteachers. Improved service delivery
includes institutional capacity building at central, district, and school levels. Basedon
projectionsof the resources neededfor achievingthe government's policy goals for the
developmentof secondary education, with sufficient resources reservedfor primary education,
the availabletotal educationsector budgetaryallocation without the externalsupportwould be
around20 percent lower than the estimatedcosts during fiscal years 2004 through 2009. To
effectively tackle the sector issues, immediateadditional funding is therefore necessaryto support
investmentsinthe Government's SEDP.

3.     The structure of the report is as follows. Part I1presents the macroeconomic framework in
Tanzania. PartI11describes the Government's Secondary EducationDevelopmentProgram. Part
IV providesdetails ofIDA'S operation. PartV discusses IDA'Sportfolio implementation,
particularly with regardto lessons learnedfrom IDA operations inthe country context. PartV I
discusses the collaborationbetweenTanzania andthe International Monetary Fund(IMF) and
other external donors. The report concludeswith arecommendationfor financing approval from
the ExecutiveDirectors.




                                                   1

                         11.     MACROECONOMICFRAMEWORK

4.       Since the mid-l990s, Tanzaniahas made substantialprogress in implementing structural
reforms inthe economy and achievingmacroeconomicstabilization. At the start ofthe reform
process, economic growth was slow to pick upbutthe annualrate over the last 5 years or so has
averagedover 5 percentand was 6.2 percent in2002. Not only has growth accelerated, it has also
become muchmore resilient to adverse shocks. This is illustrated by the fact that despite the poor
rains in2003, expectedGDP growth is still a very respectable5.5 percent. Growth rates of over
6.0 percent are anticipatedinfuture years. Fiscalconsolidation has beencentralto the success in
macroeconomicstabilization. Insupport ofTanzania's reform program, donors have provided
sizable financial assistance andthis has almost coveredthe government'sdomestic financing
needs. This has again ledto lower interest rates and stimulatedprivate sector growth. Continued
conservativefiscal policy management, supportedby cautiousmonetary policy, contributedto a
decline ininflation from 7.0 percent at end-1999to 4.5 percent in2002 and to 4.2 percent by
March2003.

5,      Tanzania's overall balanceof payments position improved in2002/2003 due to larger
h
inflows of donor assistance, as well as the impact of debt reliefunder the HIPC Initiative.
However, the current account deficit, excluding official transfers, widened slightly inspite of a
strongincrease innon-traditional exports, mainly gold, combinedwith amoderateimprovement
intraditional exports. Importsrosesignificantly in2002/03, reflecting the investmentcycle ofthe
miningsector and a returnto trend following lower than normal imports inthe previous year.
Additionally, service imports increasedbecauseofa rise intelecommunications-related
payments. Internationalreserves are equivalentto 7 months of importsof goods and non-factor
services. The exchange rate has continuedto depreciateand is now close to the IMF's estimated
equilibrium real rate. Foreigndirect investmentreached a peak in2000 mainly on account of
investmentsinthe mining sector. Since then, some ofthe largest investmentsof these have been
completedand gold productionhas come on-stream. As a consequence, foreign direct
investment has declinedbut is still muchhigher than inpre-reform years and compares well with
other countries inthe region.

6.       Tanzania completedall of the requiredconditions to reachthe completion point under the
HIPC Initiative inNovember2001. As aconsequence, debt reliefgrantedby IDA and the IMF,
and by the Paris Club, is at a level to ensure the sustainability ofTanzania's public and publicly
guaranteedexternal debt. The Government has also taken significant steps to deal with its
domestic debt, and has reducedits arrears with the private sector. Debt management has been
strengthenedthrough the adoptionof aNational Debt Strategy in2002 and an amendment to the
Loans, Guarantees and Grants Act.

7.       Fiscal developmentsinFY 2002103 were characterizedby a substantially better-than-
projectedrevenueperformance, as well as higher-than-expectedexpenditure. Revenue exceeded
projections by 0.3 percent of GDP on accountof buoyant receiptsfrom VAT, import duties and
non-tax revenue. Total expenditureexceededprojectionsby 1.2 percent of GDP, due to higher
than projectedend-of-yearcatchup inrecurrentexpendituresandthe upwardrevision of
developmentexpenditures financed with foreign grants. Inthe first quarter 2003104, revenues
again exceeded projectionsby 0.1 percentof GDP, but expenditures remainedbelow budgetdue
to a shortfall inprogramsupport and lower-than-expectedpaymentsof interest on external debt,
as well as arecordedshortfall inforeign-financeddevelopmentexpenditure. Expenditure
executioninthe first five months of 2003/04, nonetheless, substantiallyexceededthat inprevious


                                                   2

years, with priority sector expenditures over performing by 5 percent relative to projections. The
deficit-to-GDP outturn (after grants) in 2002103 was 4.3 percent and is projectedto decline to 3.6
percent 2003104.

8.       Over the pastthree years, the level and compositionof foreign aid to Tanzania has
changed ina number of important ways. Grants and soft loans (net) to Tanzania increasedfrom
4.0 percent o f GDP in 1997to 5.9 percent in2002. As a proportiono ftotal budget ODA
currently accounts for about 40 percent. Until 1999project support was increasing and program
support decreasing. This trend has beenreversed with a decline inproject support and an
increase inprogram support including HIPC debt relief. Program support provides the flexibility
to fully integrate recurrent and development spending under the MTEF.

9.       With the adoption of the National Poverty Eradication Strategy and, inparticular, the
Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRS), poverty reductionhas become the overarchingobjective of
public policy. The comprehensive HouseholdBudget Survey 2000101 indicates the challenge.
Between 1991and 2001 basic needs poverty decreasedonly from 39 percent to 36 percent and
food poverty from 22 percent to 19percent. The Government's PRS prepared in2000
emphasizes priority sectors of primary education, primary health care, agricultural researchand
extension, ruralroads, thejudiciary, and HIV/AIDS. The expenditure plan inthe budgethas been
closely aligned with these core activities. Most of the targets inthis programhavingbeen
achieved and the Government is now preparinga revisedStrategy that will focus on growth and
diversification o f the economy, and the integrationo fthe MillenniumDevelopment Goals
(MDGs).

10. Tanzania's economy today is largely market oriented and has inplace many elements
requiredfor private sector-led growth. However, it does not have an adequate qualified and
trained work force essential for rapid economic growth and for effective diversification o f the
production and export bases. The combination of intermittent economic growth, fiscal
constraints, and inadequate sector policies and programs constrained the performance o fthe
education sector inthe late 1980sand early 1990s. Recent reforms inprimary education lifted the
gross enrollment rate to 100 percent in2002. The secondary school Gross Enrolment Ratio
(GER), however, remains among the lowest inSub-SaharanAfrica atjust ninepercent ofthe
relevant age group.




                                                  3

            111.     SECONDARYEDUCATIONDEVELOPMENT PROGRAM

11.      The Governmentproduceda framework for an overall EducationSector Development
Program(ESDP) inthe late 1990s. Because of the onerous task of developingan investment
programfor all sub-sectors concurrently, the government decidedto address the main issues sub-
sector by sub-sector, startingwith the top priority -primary education. The first program
developedunder the ESDP framework umbrellawas the Primary EducationDevelopment
Program(PEDP), approved in2001. Inaddition to the educationalobjectives,PEDP addresses
issues of budget, personneland system managementassociated with achieving a more
decentralizedsystem of basic education. The reforms of primary educationhave now taken hold,
as indicatedby the increase inthe gross enrollment ratio from 78% in 2000 to over 100% in2003.
The secondphaseofthe ESDPfocuses onreforms insecondary education. The SEDP seeks to
expandaccess equitably, and to improve learningachievementsacross the board.

A.       Sector Issues

12.     Extensivesector analyses have beendone since the mid-90s, including specific
evaluationsofsecondary education, as preparationfor the ESDP andfor a subsequent master plan
for secondary education. Governmentproducedan EducationSector Country Status Report in
2000 with emphasis on Primary education, which drew from previousanalytical work, and
deepenedthe analysis of costs and financing issues. The Public ExpenditureReviews andthe
Medium-Term ExpenditureFrameworkhave also provided insights into publicfinance issues in
the sector. More recently, acomprehensivereview ofsecondary educationwas undertakenas
part of Bank-supportedsector work on post-primaryeducationandtraining. Subsequently,
specific studies were commissionedon secondary teacher demand and supply, curricula,
textbooks, examinationsandthe administrationandmanagement of secondary education. The
major sector issues identified inthese analyses and addressed inthe SEDP are summarized
below.

13.     The generaleducationsystem is comprisedof sevenyears ofprimary education, four
years of lower secondary and two years of upper secondary. The systemcurrently faces three
main challenges in secondary education: increasingaccess, raising quality, andreducingcosts.
Tanzaniahas one ofthe lowest secondary gross enrollment ratios in Sub-SaharanAfrica. Only
about nine percent of the relevant age group attends secondary educationas a whole (compared
with an average of 27 percent for Sub-SaharanAfrica inyear 2000) including about 11percentat
lower secondary and less than 2 percent at upper secondary. Only 22 percent of primary school
leavers inTanzaniahave a chance to continue their educationat the secondary level, compared
with 50 percent inUganda(2001). Secondary enrollment ratios are low for all population groups,
butespeciallyfor low-income youth andstudents inrural areas. Few governmentschoolshave
beenestablishedand inadequateincentives existto provide non-governmentschoolsinrural
communitieswhere householdsare unableto pay the fees required.

14.     A policy shift inthe mid 80's with strongemphasis on community andprivate sector
participation ineducation leadto a rapid growth of non-governmentsecondary schools. This
policy provedto be an effective way to cope with some ofthe excess demandfor secondary
schoolinginthe contextof tight constraintsonthe public budget. Currently, private providers
enroll 40 percent of all secondary students. However, non-government schools face major
constraintsto increase their enrollments. Constraintsinclude a significant and lengthy
registrationprocess and limited ability ofparentsto pay both teaching and capitaldevelopment
costs. At present fee levelsthe private sector may already have tappedmost of its potential
clientele. The bulk of future increases inenrollments will likely come from the public sector


                                                  4

through increased support of "community schools". Community secondary schools are the means
by which communities express an effective demand for secondaryeducation. They are built on
community or donated land innon-urban settingsby membersofthe community without
government help. Once functioning, the communities may apply for government assistance,
which requires that nationalminimumstandards be met. Government supports approved
community schools by payingall teacher and staff salaries and providing some teaching and
learningmaterials. Other recurrent costs mustbe borne by the school from fees. Community
schools make up the vast majority of the government supported secondary schools. The
government directly owns 101 secondary schools1,compared with about 674 community-owned
secondary schools, 87 per cent of the total. Ifaccess to secondary education is to be expanded
equitably, communities indisadvantaged and underservedareas have to be assistedas many
cannot afford the initialcosts of construction.

15.      The Government introduced fees inpublic secondary schools inthe late-1980s.
Currently, the fees and other contributions from parents amount to 35-40 percent of the total
government costs per student. This level of cost sharing is prohibitive for many households,
giventhe low household income level o fTanzania. Feesfor government and non-government
secondary education exceedthe financial capacity of most poor families and depress the overall
demand for secondary education.

16.      The current limitedprovision of secondary education is economically unwise and socially
unsustainable. Economically Tanzania is beingheldback by the low level of human capital
development resultingfrom the restricted access to secondary education. The recent introduction
o f free primary education has causeda bulge inprimary enrollments, and the increasing number
o f primary school leavers will create mounting pressure for places insecondary schools. Over
time the Government will have to transformthe secondary education system from one servinga
small, privilegedclientele into a mass system catering to a much larger and more diverse group o f
children. How to managethis expansion ina fiscally sustainable manner is a major policy issue.

17.      The quality of secondaryeducation is low. Giventhat only one infive primary school
graduates enter secondary school and that the secondary pupil-teacher ratio averages 1:22, one
would expect highachievements insecondary schools. This is not the case. The secondary
system functions poorly interms of learningachievements. Inthe absence of better measures o f
student achievement, performance interminal examinations must be usedas a proxy for the
quality o f learning. About 80 percent o f students pass the examinationat the endo f the four year
lower cycle, but halfo f all examinees achieve only the lowest level, Division IVYwhich requires a
minimumof a "D" pass intwo subjects (and does not require a pass ineither mathematics or
science). Substantial gender differences also occur: girls under-perform, particularly in
mathematics (with pass rates o f only around 20 percent in2000) and insome sciences. As a
result, the transition rate for girls from lower to upper secondary is only 23% compared with 33%
for boys. One survey reports that about half of the students benefitfrom outside tuition which
poorer students cannot afford. Students perform much better at the upper secondary level,
averaging 95 percent pass rates. However, this obscuresthe fact that only about a quarter o f
examinee achievesthe upper grades (A-C) in principal subjects.

18.      Low student achievement inthe lower secondary cycle stems from multiple, interrelated
deficiencies. The curriculum is overloaded, with 13 subjects at the lower secondary level. The
switch to Englishfrom Kiswahilias a medium o f instruction in Form 1 makes comprehension
even more difficult for students. Another concern is the shortage of qualified teachers

' The government  has not built any new secondary schools since 1980.


                                                    5

particularly inmathematics. Retentionof degree teachers is also a problem. Highturnover
reflects competingjob opportunities for degree teachers inan expanding economy. Access to in-
service training is rare for all secondary teachers, who have little opportunity to update their
content knowledge. Teaching is done with a limitednumber of textbooks, which are in short
supply inmost schools as are teacher guides andsupplementary printed materials. Schools are
supposedto buy textbooks, but public schools receive only the equivalent of $0.61 per student per
year for this purpose. Terminal examinations, emphasize recall of memorized facts and
procedures rather than higher order skills. This distorts teaching practices inthe classroom.
External inspectors visit the schools annually to evaluate compliance with standards, and this
appears to be one of the brighter spots inthe system.

19.      Curricula have beenchanged at the margin from time to time, butno fundamental review
and revisiono f secondary curricula has taken place over the past quarter of a century. Thus,
much o f the content inthe curricula is out of date. Curricula are not outcome basedwith clear
and reasonablelearning goals linkedto criteria. The schoolcurriculum could also serve to
transmit vital information on national priorities, such as information on HIV/AIDS for pupils and
teachers. Some HIV/AIDS interventions for teachers and pupilshave been initiatedby different
agencies supporting the Government. However, the efforts are fragmented and there is no
comprehensive HIV/AIDS strategy for the sector.

20.      Secondary education absorbs only about seven percent o f total public spending on
education. Yet, public expenditure per student is still higher than necessarybecauseof the
inefficient use ofteachers. Major expansion of secondary enrollments cannot be achieved or
sustained at the present level of teaching expenditure per student. The prime sources of
inefficiency seem to be overloaded curriculum and relatively low teacher workloads particularly
inurban districts.

21.      All government secondary schools are supervised directly from the MOEC. School
administrators have authority over school level decisions but little flexibility inthe use of
government budgetary resources. Greater effectiveness requires a review o fthe regulatory
framework and some degree o f devolution, with new roles definedfor regions, districts, school
boards and school heads for the delivery o f secondary school services.

B.       Government Strategy and SEDP

Government Strategy

22.      Social sector development is one ofthe most important elements within Tanzania's
poverty reduction and development framework. In 1995,MoEC prepared an Education and
Training Policy that emphasized liberalizing the education sector instep with the rest of the
economy and increasing the accountability o f service providers to clients. Expenditure reviews,
education sector work and specific analyses have identifiedthe critical constraints on the
provision and further development o f secondary education. Furthermore, with the overall
objective of producing more and better qualified graduates to support the development efforts o f
Tanzania with a much strengthened labor force, the Government's sector policies have been
refinedand finalized basedon extensive consultations with technical working groups comprising
all stakeholders.

23.      The SEDP (2004-2009)updates and expands an earlier Secondary Education Master Plan
(SEMP). As stated inthe Government's Letter of Secondary EducationDevelopment Policy,
SEDP is the nexttop priority after primary education inthe Government's sector-wide



                                                    6

developmentprogram. The government's secondary programis basedon a carefulanalysis of
enrollment targets, teacher demand and financial requirements for the sector as awhole. GOT'S
preference is to pursue a high growth scenario that would yield GERs ofabout 17%informs 1-4
by 2006 and 49 YOby 2010 to meet the labor marketneeds as well as to absorb the bulge of
students from primary educationinthe next few years. At the upper secondary level the gross
enrollment ratios will increase from 2% in2004 to 3% by 2006 and 5% by 2009. Entrantsto
lower secondary educationwould increasefrom 135,441 in2004 to 226,000 in2006 andto
554,000 by 2009.

24.      However, because of the uncertaintiesabout how the resourceand institutional
requirementsfor the high growth scenario would be met, it was thought prudentto start with the
mediumgrowth scenario which is consideredmore feasible. A switch to the highgrowth
scenariocould be made after it becomesclear that the resources and capacity to achievetargetsin
this scenariowould bemade available. Overall, the mediumgrowth scenariocalls for an increase
ingross enrollmentratios inlower secondaryto 15%by 2006 and23% by 2009. At the upper
secondary level gross enrollment ratioswould increase from 2% in2003 to 3% by 2006 and 5%
by 2009 with a tripling of student intake. Entrantsto lower secondary would increase from
135,441 students in2004 to 189,000 by 2006 and 299,000 by 2009. Upper secondary intake
would expandfrom 15,740 in2004to 22,880 in2006 and49,212 in2009. A salient challenge
will be to meet the requirementsfor teachers. Overall, 2,900 more secondary teachers must be
hired eachyear by 2006 increasingto 6,800 by 2009. Inaddition, the annualrequirementfor new
classrooms ingovernment secondary schools will increase to 1,360 in2006 and 2,485 in2009.
(see Annex J).

25.      Expansionof the system even with the mediumgrowth scenariowould require a
significant increase infinancial resources. Together with the protection of PEDPto universalize
primary schooling anda modestexpansionofhigher education, total recurrent public resources
for the educationsector would needto increase from a current level of 3.6% of GDP to 4.2% in
2006 and beyond.

Secondary EducationDevelopmentProgram

26.      The Secondary EducationDevelopmentProgram (SEDP) seeks to achieve three basic
objectives. The first is to increasethe proportion ofthe relevant age group completing secondary
education, especially underservedgroups who are now getting better opportunitiesto complete
primary educationthrough the PEDP. This will requiremeasuresto ease constraintson
enrollment expansion; to reducethe cost per student (a burdensharedby householdsandthe
public sector); and to provide more equitable access and output The second objective is to
improve learning outcomesof students, especially for girls and at the lower secondary level. The
third objective is to enable the public administrationto manage secondary educationmore
effectively through the devolution of authority to lower levels and the strengtheningof
management capacities. The long-termaim is to builda productive and adaptable labor force, as
well as supplying more andbetter qualified students at higher levels ofthe educationsystem, as
neededfor continuedgrowth and diversification to allow Tanzaniato participatemore
successfully inthe global economy. Inaddition, SEDP seeks to reduce poverty through
increasingthe proportion ofthose from poor communitieswho complete secondary schooling and
are enabledto enter the modernsector labor market. Annex Epresents the logical framework for
SEDP.




                                                 7

(1)     Policy Reformsto ImproveAccess and Equity

27.     The specific strategiesto raise access and equity in secondary education includethe
following measures:

    reducingteaching costs per student by increasing the ratio of teachers to students subject to a
    maximum o f 1:30;

    assisting communitiesto buildschools and providing incentives for non-government schools
    to increase their enrollments further;

    lowering the costs of education to households;

    expanding scholarships for children from poorer families;

    introducing innovative schemes to produce qualified teachers more quickly and support their
    practice more effectively; and

     expanding distance learningprograms for those who cannot access formal secondary
    education.

28.      Resource utilization -reducing teachingcostsper student: The scope for expanding
secondary education is limitedby excessive teaching costs per student. The proposed Program
features, therefore, a set of changes inpolicy and practice to use teaching resources more
effectively. Chief among these are policies onteacher deployment and utilization. The target is
to raise the average number of students per teacher from 1:22 to 1:30 within five years, thus
reducing unit costs and allowing a substantial increaseinenrollments. This, inturn, requires
consolidationof the curriculum (focusing on fewer core subjects); increasesinthe average
number of teaching periods deliveredper week; and establishment/enforcemento f minimumclass
sizes, particularly at the upper secondary level. Inaddition, some physical facilities are
underusedat presentand improvements in scheduling offer a means of raisingthe pupil-teacher
ratio simply by increasing the intake.

29.      Relieving constraints on the expansionofpublic andprivate secondary education:
Accommodating substantially more students insecondary schools requires the constructionof
new schools andnew classrooms inexistingschools. Communities inmany poor areas have been
unable to afford the costs o f constructing schools, a prerequisite for government takeover o f the
operating costs. To remove these constraints, the SEDP will provide development grants to
communities that qualify basedon agreedcriteria. The grants will be paid by MOEC to schools
through the sub-treasury accounts. Inaddition, the programwill include policy changes, such as
 streamlining procedures for registration.

 30.     Relievingfinancial constraints on enrollment: The highcost to households limits the
 demand for secondary education. SEDP therefore includes steps to make secondary education
 more affordable, including reductions intuition fees ingovernment day schools from TSh 40,000
 to TSh 20,000 as well as elimination of other contributionsthat would deter enrollment. For
 those still unable to affordthe direct costs, SEDP includes an expanded scholarship scheme to
 enable the enrollment of qualified students from poor household.

 31.     Breaking the bottleneck of trained teacher supply: Lack ofteachers forms a tight
 constraint on major expansion o f secondary enrollments. First, policies will be adopted to attract



                                                  8

and retain qualified secondaryteachers inthe teachingservice, such as improvementsin
conditions of service and increasedopportunities for professionaldevelopment. Second, the
output ofqualified teachers will be accelerated by reducingthe lengthof pre-servicetraining from
two to one year at diploma level. For degree leveltraining, the governmentwill look into
possibilities oftraining teachers from four to three years combinedwith one year of in-service
professionalmentoringineach case.

32.     Establishing distancesecondary equivalencyprograms: Efforts will also be madeto
establishsecondary educationequivalencyprogramsby open and distancelearning. Such
programshave hadgood experiences in some countriesinthe SADC region andelsewhere, and
they offer an opportunity for youth and adults bypassedby formal secondary systemto obtain
secondary qualifications. The keys to success of equivalencyprogramsare quality teaching
materials, local support from distancetutors (often teachers using school facilities inthe late
afternoon) and reasonable postal delivery. Offerings by ICT will also be explored.

(2)     Reformsto Improve EducationalAchievements

        Strategiesfor raising the quality of learninghave the following elements:

     Reform of curricula, including concentrationon fewer, updatedsubjectswith more focus on
    definedlearning outcomes;

    comprehensiveexaminationsreform coupledwith improved school-basedmonitoring and
    assessment;

    measuresto stimulate a market for textbooks and improve their quality;

    practical pre-serviceteacher training and provision of opportunitiesfor continuous
    professional developmentof teachers; and

    attentionto HIV/AIDS and other cross-cutting issues.

34.      Curricula, testing and textbooks: Major reforms are neededinthe secondary curriculum
to reduce the number of subjects and to update the content, including adapting levels of difficulty
to appropriategrades. The Form 2 and Form4 examinationswill also be reformedalso to test
better desiredcompetencies. This orientationwill provide strongincentives for the redirection of
teachingand, in particular, should discourage the excessive use of memorization inthe classroom.
Assessment of learningoutcomeswill be monitored as part ofthe programvia improved analysis
of examination performanceandthrough the establishmentof a national assessment system.
Incentivesfor book publishersand sellers needto be establishedand anew system adoptedfor
generatingnew textbooks, with better designs andmore reasonablecosts, andreflectingthe
revisedcurricula. Capitation grants to schools for teachindlearning materialsare expectedto
providethe effective demandfor publishersto developthe necessarymaterialsand for
booksellersto supply the schools directly. Inadvance ofthe new curricula, existing TIE
textbooks will be offered to private sector publishers for revision, re-writing, editing, designing
and illustrating andmanufacture as durabletextbooks. To ensure that schools are not supplied
with sub-standard textbooks, the MOEC will adopt a strengthened evaluationand approval
systemthrough EducationMaterials Approval Committee(EMAC) with rigorous standards for
textbook durability, content quality and price, i.e. "value for money".




                                                  9

35.      Countering the under-financingof non-teachingcosts: SEDP features the introduction of
capitation grants (i.e., a normative funding formula) for recurrent non-salary costs insecondary
education, both government and non-government schools. The grants would be allocated to
schools through regional sub-treasuries and district authorities onthe basis of verified student
enrollments, with higher per student grants givento upper secondary schools. The grants would
cover non-teacher operating costs, especially textbooks, teaching materials and in-service
development o f staff. Eligible non-government secondary schools (e.g. non-profit) would receive
halfthe capitation grants.

36.      Teacher Competencies: Improved quality of learning inschools will not be achieved
without raisingthe professional knowledge and abilities o fthe current teacher force as well as
those whojoin the system inthe future. Pre-service teacher training at the diploma level will
become less academic, more balanced andmore practical. Instead of two years o f academic
training, trainees will undergo one year training inresidence at TTCs plus one school year of
extended practice teaching in schools. SEDP also includes the introduction of a national program
for continuous in-service development for teachers and school administrators. Strategically, the
scheme will first target school heads, as the principal agents for school improvement.

37.      HIV/AIDS Several cross-cutting issues have been identifiedthat require study to
improve understanding, followed by the development and implementationof appropriate
interventions. These include an evaluation of the current HIV/AIDS intervention programs. In
this context SEDP calls for (i)an assessmentof ongoing projects on -IIV/AIDS        for schools
towards a comprehensive approach for public and non-public schoolstargeting pupils and
teachers; and (ii) integrationof HW/AIDS information in the curriculum for secondary education
pupils as well as for teacher training. Increasedenrollment and retention insecondary education
will of itselfreduce HIV/AIDSinfectionsaccordingto recent studies.

(3)    Reforms in Service Management and Delivery

38.      RevisedRegulatovy Framework The program includes the review andrevision o fthe
regulatory framework as it pertains to all schools, government and non-government. Procedures
for registrationo f non-government schools will be streamlined. Gaps and inconsistencies inthe
legal framework within and among government ministrieswill be addressed.

39.      Decentralization: Inaccordancewith government-wide reforms of local administration
and the steps taken under PEDP, the program will devolve major administrative and management
functions (including student admission and placement, and teacher recruitment and deployment)
to lower levels ofthe system. The functions o f regional offices will undergo reforms, which will
include increasedresponsibilies to manage secondary education. The role and capacity o f the
inspectorate inthe program will be reviewedand appropriate measures taken to maximize its
effectiveness. The composition and functions of school boards will be strengthenedto reflect
more community control. The role of community participationwill be reinforced through
reforms inthe composition o f school boards, which will take on additional management
responsibilities. School heads will be authorized to take on new duties for which they will
receive training. School board members, school heads, and senior academic and administrative
staff will be provided with management training to undertake their new responsibilities. This
devolution also has implications for the center, including a strengthening o f its role inanalysis,
setting policy and standards, planning, and monitoring performance. The specific aspectso f the
devolution, including new systems for financial flows to schools, are being worked out. Finally,
the EMISsystembeingdeveloped will be strengthenedinscope.




                                                  10

(4) Phasing of Reforms

40.      SEDP consistsofthree strands ofreforms: expansionof secondary education, quality
improvementsand better management. Each strand entails differentsequencing. Expansion
requires first the restructuringof pre-serviceteacher training to expandteacher outputs rapidly.
Increasingthe average number of students per teacher must also be done early inthe Programto
facilitate initial expansionand an early start onthe constructionof new schools and classrooms.
Quality improvementscould beginwith revision of curricula. When curricula are completed,
examinationreform and production of new textbooks can start. Reforms inorganizationand
system management must first be plannedin detailto be introducedinthe second and third years
of implementation.

C.       Program Feasibility

41.      SEDP is technically soundand financially feasible. The technical design of various
components of the programwas done by governmentandvettedthrough government'sthematic
technical working groups on schoolaccess, educationquality, financing andresources, and
institutional arrangements. Technicalassistance was provided inthe areas of: curricula;
textbooks; examinations; pre-serviceand in-service teacher professionaldevelopment. The
implementationarrangements are built on experiences with the on-going PEDP, as revisedand
modified to take into account lessons learned. The PEDP adopted, inter alia, a series of revised
regulationsandproceduresinfinancial managementand procurementto ensure efficient flow of
funds to, and effective utilization of funds at, school/community level.

42.      SEDP is also financially feasible providedboth government and donors are willing to
fund secondary educationaccordingto the level ofpriority, which the sub sector is being given in
the evolving PRSto be publishedlater this year. The activities inthe Programare plannedto be
implementedbetween2004 and 2009, thoughthe financial implications runover into future
years. Assuming (a) the government'scurrent estimates of growth inGDP and domestic
revenues, and(b) an increase for the educationsector inthe shares of these aggregatesto levels
pertaining inseveralneighboringcountries, the modeldevelopedduring the preparationfor
enrollment and financial projectionssuggests a financing gap which can realistically be filled by
donor funding (see Annex J).

43.      More specifically, assumingthat the current programto universalizeprimary educationis
fully fundedandthat higher educationmaintains modest expansion, educationsector recurrent
expenditure would needto increase from 25 percent to 30 percent oftotal governmentrecurrent
expenditure andfrom 3.6 percentof GDP to 4.2 percentby 2009, and remain at these levels for
severalyears. Within the overall recurrent allocationto education, the share for secondary would
needto increase from the current very low level of 7 percent to around 16 percent by 2009 and
continueto climb. While these increasedshares are plausibleover the mediumterm, they would
be difficult to attaininstantly and a recurrent financing gap is projectedduring the early years of
the Program. This, plusthe estimateddevelopmentexpenditures, will result inanoverall
financing gap inthe first three years of the Programofroughly 49 million U S dollars in 2004/05,
70 million U S dollars in2005/06 and 88 million U S dollars in 2006/07. Consequentlyaround
207 millionU S dollars of externalassistancewould be required. It is anticipatedthat other
donors will add to the proposedFinancing of 150million US dollars through the PRBS and
specific sector support inother years. Inlater years, future Bank support for this sub sector could
be consideredfor inclusion inthe PRSCs.




                                                   11

D.      PovertyReductionand SocialImpact

44.     The program complies with all applicable Bank policies. SEDP will expand accessto
secondary education substantially, particularly inremote areas where most ofthe economically
and socially disadvantaged populations are located. It will also reduce financial barriers to
participationby the poor by expanding substantially the number o f children from lower income
households who receive scholarship assistance. SEDP will benefithouseholds with children
enrolled insecondary education by improvingschool inputsand education quality. With better
access and higher quality secondary education, the poorest populationwould have an opportunity
to strengthen their capacity to earn increasedincome.

45.     Better educated graduateswill support the overall development efforts of Tanzania with a
much strengthened labor force, which will enable poverty reduction to be achieved at a faster
rate. Inaddition, the large amounts o f funds flowing into communities for school construction
and school materials will bringincreaseddemand for local goods and labor thus potentially
increasing individual income. Inaddition to raising incomes, a higher prevalence of secondary
education will increasethe quality of life through, for instance, reduced child mortality and
improvements innutrition and health standards.

46.     An improvedpublic policy and financial management system would increasethe
effectiveness inthe use of public sector and donor resourcesby better identifyingpriorities of
investments, and improvingtargeting of resourcesto highpriority areas with minimumleakage.
Decentralizationof education managementwill lead to more appropriate solutions for
communities and more effective delivery o f education services. Schools and communities will
have greater input indecision making, givingthem a greater stake and interest inthe success of
education service delivery.

E.      EnvironmentalSafeguards

47.     The school construction programunder the SEDP potentially gives rise to environmental
concerns. The Government has prepared an Environmental and SocialManagement Framework
(ESMF) to address these issues. The Framework is consistent with national laws and
requirementsrelatingto environmental managementfor development projects as well as the
Bank's triggered Safeguard Policy, Environmental Assessment OP 4.01. The ESMFcontains a
screening mechanism that school management boards would use to identifythe adverse potential
impacts from their proposed construction activities. This includes corresponding mitigation
measuresrequiredduringthe planning, construction, and maintenance stages o f constructed,
expanded or rehabilitatedschools. The ESMF also contains a monitoringmechanism to (i)
ensure that these mitigation measures are successfully implementedat all stages, (ii)  identify
where applicable, corrective measures to the environmentalmanagement process contained inthe
ESMF, and (iii) make a final evaluation regardingthe success ofmitigation measuresin
                 to
eliminating, off-setting or reducingthe adverse impacts to acceptable levels.

48.     The ESMFcontains verifiable indicators to measurethe mitigation plan. The ESMF
places significant responsibilitieson the school boards for self-monitoring and oversight
monitoring responsibilities on the Local Government Authorities (LGAs) with capacity building
and training support from the Vice President's Office. Furthermore, the ESMFcontains a
consultation planto facilitate the participation o f local communities and other stakeholders inthe
planning and decision making process. Inaddition to the ESMF,the Government of Tanzania
has also prepared a Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF), consistent with the requirements o f
the Banks triggeredSafeguardsPolicy, Involuntary Resettlement OP 4.12. Decisions on school



                                                  12

location and expansion inthe SEDP would be made with active participation o f the local
communities. Also, the Government has prepared the RPFto meet the needs o f those people who
may be affected by the SEDP construction that may lead to their involuntary resettlement due to
loss o f or access to land, shelter and or other economic assets and hencethreaten their livelihoods.



F.       FinancialManagementand Procurement

49.      An assessmentofthefinancial management system for SEDP concluded that the program
currently satisfies minimumWorld Bank Financial Management requirement. The Financial
risks associatedwith the operation are considered moderate givengovernment's demonstrated
ability to manage adjustment programs, includingthe PRGF, PSAC, PRSC and the PEDP.
However, inorder to strengthenthe system GOT will take the following actions: (a) prepare a
financial managementand accounting manual and distributeit to secondary schools at the
inception of the program; (b) by the secondyear train all agencies managing SEDP funds inthe
use o f FMmanual; and (c) audit the Deposit Account usingauditors appointed by the Controller
and Auditor General. Current procurement practice shows that procurement o f fixed assets and
vehicles for secondary schools is centralized at the Ministryof Educationand Culture, with
secondary schools involved inprocurement o f items relatedto recurrent academic needs and
services. A general procurement capacity assessment revealed a lack of procurement capacity at
both levels and the needfor its strengthening. The areas o f weakness have been identifiedas lack
o f skilled personnel, filing and record keeping systems, and lack o f skills inpreparation o f
procurement plans. Under SEDP, procurement will be carried out by respective secondary
schools followingdetailed procedures outlined inthe Procurement Manual (PM), currently under
preparation. The P M is beingprepared inaccordance with the Public Procurement Act o f 2001.
See Annex G for the Government's detailed SEDP implementationand institutional
arrangements, including financial management.

G.        Monitoringand Evaluation

50.       The development of secondary education monitoringandevaluation (M&E) systems has
been a focus of discussion throughout the SEDP planningprocess. Tanzania has developed an
impressive Poverty MonitoringSystemthat provides a strong foundation for sector-specific M&E
systems. However, MoEC faces a range o f challenges indeveloping and utilizing a robust
education management information system (EMIS) as indicatedinAnnex G. Processesfor data
collection and dissemination have beenestablished. Data quality varies, verification protocols are
weak, and analyticalwork is underdeveloped. Overall, EMISdoes not realize its potentialto
facilitate informed planningand policy-making within MoEC.

51.       Inlightofthese challenges, the SEDP M&Eframework has beendesigned to
complement broader management reforms within MoEC. EMISwill be strengthened through
needs assessment, system design and capacity building. The SEDPM&E framework itself
(Annex H),seeks to focus onbothshort-term reformimperatives and longer term program
outcomes, while adopting a pragmatic position on the type and quality o f data available from the
EMIS. The impacts ofthe program interms ofeducational achievement andpoverty reduction
will be difficult to quantify inthe short term. Annual reviews, combining both internal and
external expertise, have beenscheduled to verify program achievements and support
organizational learning.




                                                   13

 IV.      THE PROPOSED SECONDARY EDUCATIONDEVELOPMENT FINANCING

A.       FinancingRationaleand Coverage

52.      A strong case can bemade for increasedpublic intervention insecondary education in
Tanzania interms o f its potential impact on economic growth and on social equity. Both arise
from the increasednumber of higher quality secondary school graduates with productivity levels
higher thanthose ofprimary school graduates.

53.      Economic growth: Today's rapidly growing economies depend increasingly on the
creation, acquisition, distribution, and use of knowledge. An important pillar o f the knowledge-
basedeconomy is an educatedand skilled populace that can create and use knowledge. In
addition, there is growing evidence that at least halfof aggregate economic growth is drivenby
increases infactor productivity rather than by factor accumulation ineither capital or labor.
Secondary education plays a particularly important role inthis regard. Inan increasingly
globalized economy, developing countries may be able to attain increases infactor productivity
through technology transfer from the global "leaders". Such technology transfer can happen
through trade, foreign direct investment, and through learningacross international supplier-
producer chains. However, much o f the technology developed inthe leader countries is very skill
intensiveand therefore "inappropriate" for developing countries without a minimumthreshold
level of skills. Several recent studies have concluded that a large pool o f workers with secondary
education is indispensable to attracting imports of technologically-advanced goods and foreign
direct investment.

54.      The value of secondary educationto the individual Tanzanian is clearly apparent from an
analysis of the 2000/2001 Integrated Labor Force Survey. The average hourly wage for those
wage earners with a primary education was roughly 200 TSh. as compared to over 700 TSh. for
those with a secondary education. A more extended analysis o f wage differentials controlling for
individual characteristics such as experience, geographic location, and gender suggestedthat the
returnsto an additionalyear of schoolingamounted to 16percent. Again controlling for these
individual characteristics, a wage earner with a complete primary education earned 75 percent
more than an uneducated wage earner; an employee with complete lower secondary made 163
percent more; and one with a complete upper secondary education earned 181percent more.

55.      Evidence from recent tracer studies suggests that virtually all secondary and tertiary level
graduates are eventually absorbed into occupations appropriate to their level of education.
Secondary graduates inthe informal sector are muchmore likely to be either wage employees or
employers than are primary graduates who tend to be self-employed in low productivity
occupations.

56.      Insummary, economic growth and diversification will increasinglyrequire higher levels
of skill and education, as demonstrated inthe CEM, "Tanzania at the Turn of the Century: From
Reforms to Sustained Growth and Poverty Reduction". The current secondary output does not
adequately support this strategy. Evidence from recent labor market surveys indicates a
significant income premium to secondary education; and tracer studies suggest that virtually all
secondary andtertiary level graduates are eventually absorbed into occupations appropriate to
their levelofeducation. Already Tanzanians are losing out to qualified citizens from other
countries who seek employment inTanzania because the education and training system is not
able to meet labor market demands.




                                                  14

57.      Social equity: The returnsto education outlined above are not spread equally across all
population groups. The distribution of education inTanzania by geographic location, gender and
household income status shows who is garnering these returns. Data from the 2000/2001
Household BudgetSurvey indicate that lower secondary enrollment rates are 7 times higher for
urban than for rural children, and again 7 times higher for children inthe highesthousehold
income quintilethan for those inthe poorest quintile. The inequities are even greater for upper
secondary schooling. An expansion of the overall level o f participation insecondary schooling
can be expected to raise the levels ofthose under-representedmost. However, part o fthe reason
for the lower participationrate of poor children is the highfinancial burdenof attending
secondary school, which is demonstrated inthe recent Household Budget Survey. The findings
highlightthe needfor alleviatingthe privateexpenditures ofhouseholds onsecondaryeducation
by reducingschool fees as well as other direct costs.

58.      Lending Instrument: The proposed operationwill follow a sector adjustment approach.
This approach has beenusedsuccessfully to carry out fundamental reformsto expand enrollment
and improve quality inprimary education inTanzania supported under the PEDP. A SECAL is
also needed to reform secondary education inTanzania, which has one of the lowest enrollment
rates inAfrica. Fundamental changes are neededto increase enrollment and improve quality in
bothgovernment and non-government schools. These changes include reducingthe costs to
households, redesigningand restructuring education programs and strengtheningsystem
management through decentralization. These changes will take time and needto be nurturedina
flexible way ina complex environment. A SECAL will enable the Bank to support the policy and
institutional changes necessaryto attack system-wide issues, focusing attention on priority
reforms and appropriate resource allocation insecondary education while helpingthe
Government to build a sustainablesystem for providing quality secondary education. Three
tranches are necessaryto allow time for the requiredreforms to mature progressively. It was
deemedunsuitable to incorporate the SEDP into the PRSC currently beingprepared, because o f
the scale and complexity ofthe changes beingplannedand the needto support directly the change
process over three years. To loadthe PRSC with a large secondary education sector program
could result init beingunwieldy and unworkable. Inaddition, the annual nature o f the PRSC
would be a limitation as it is usually a one tranche operationand would break an evolving process
into discrete actions and risk losingthe coherence of the proposed reforms. Once the key reforms
insecondary education havebeenundertakenanda clear policy framework established, future
support for this sub-sector will be considered for inclusion inthe PRSC.

59.      Links with Broader Objectives:The proposed SEDP aligns closely with government
policy, IDA'SCountry Assistance Strategy (CAS) and the Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRS).
The education sector has beengiven priority inthe context of government's comprehensive
poverty reduction strategy. The CAS focuses on higher growth, poverty reduction and
institutionalreforms to improve governance and service delivery. The lendingprogram includes,
inter alia, policy-based lendingoperations insupport of sectoral reforms. One o ftwo stated
benchmarks inthe CAS for country performance ineducation is an increase inthe transition rate
from primary to secondary schools. The PRSP also includes this indicator and calls for
expanded secondary education through existing government schools and encouragement o f non-
government schools. A target is to have one secondary school inevery ward (implyingabout
2,500 secondary schools, compared with 1,000 at present). The Tanzania Development Vision
2025 calls for atransition rate of 50 percent from primary to secondary education (compared with
22 percent of a much lower primary output at present). With projected financing deficits
resultingfrom the comprehensive scope and goals o f SEDP, the IDA operation would again
provide fundingto support a major component o f the sector development program.




                                                  15

60.      Analytical Underpinnings:IDA has a richbody of up-to-datecross-sectoraland sector-
specific analytic work relevantto the educationsector inTanzania. This includesthe Country
Assistance Strategy, the CountryEconomic Memorandum, the growth study "Tanzania at the
Turn of the Century" andthe Tanzania Social Sector Review. Most recently, the Post-Primary
Education andTraining Review was producedincloseconsultationwith abroad cross-sectionof
Tanzanianstakeholders. Combinedwith Tanzania-specificoperationalexperienceculledfrom a
series of educationprojectssupportedby IDA and other donors, especially implementationofthe
PEDP, this knowledgebase is expectedto facilitate the achievementof Tanzania's goals inthe
secondary educationsub-sector. IDA'Swork insupportingthe decentralizationand devolution
program inTanzania inthe context ofthe Local Government Reform andthe Public Service
Reform Programswill also provide critical inputs for the development of appropriate institutional
systems and capacitiesfor improveddelivery of secondary education.

61.      ExpectedAdjustment Outcomes:The proposedadjustment operation supportsthe first
three schoolyears (2004-2006) of the longterm SEDP. The mainpurposeof the adjustment
operationis not quantitative, althoughsubstantialnumbers of schools will be built, classrooms
constructed,teachers trainedand students enrolled. The main purposeis to lay a foundation of
reforms on which can be built over the mediumterm asystem of quality secondary educationthat
i s relevant, effective and efficient. Specifically, within the three-yearreform period curricula will
be reviewed and revisedandteachers orientedintheir use; a new examinationssyllabus will be
completedand issued; a new pre-serviceteacher training structure and content will be
established; policies will be adoptedto make more productive use ofteachers; new textbooks will
start to have beendeveloped; and a new organizationalstructure put inplace with capacities built
to perform more functions effectively at lower levels. This does not meanthat all the reforms
will have beenfully completedwithin three years. Experienceshows that such far reaching
changes cantake up to decade to take root fully. However, a solid foundation will have been laid
to enable governmentto achieve its longer term plan objectives.

B.       Risks

62.      The risks associated with the operationare consideredmoderategiven GOT'S
demonstratedability to manage adjustmentprograms, includingthe PRGF, PSAC andthe PEDP.
However, the following riskswill be addressed.

63.      Financial: One risk is that the government, inview ofcompetingpriorities, will be
unableto deliver on promisesto allocate more funds to educationin general, and secondary
educationinparticular. This generalrisk will be mitigated by the ongoing efforts to strengthen
the role of domesticstakeholdersinbudgetformulation andreview. More directly, the riskwill
be mitigated by the government's very public commitmentto the development of primary and
secondary educationas ameans ofreachingthe MDGs, increasingequity and increasingthe
capacity ofthe labor force. Substantialroom exists for increasedallocationsfor secondary
educationinview ofthe relatively low share of government revenues devotedto education
(below the regionalaverage), and with that the very low share which secondary education
receives(9 percent). A moremodest expansionscenario, assumingshortfalls inGOT budget
allocations to secondary education, would still allow substantialincreases inpupils over time who
would benefitfrom the reforms and additional inputs to the system underthe Program.

64.      Implementationcapacity: A potential risk is inadequate public capacity to manage the
implementationof an expanded secondary educationdevelopment programsimultaneouslywith
its implementationof the large PEDP. The issue of capacity is accentuated by the comprehensive
scope ofthe reforms neededin secondaryeducation, including the achievement of expansionwith



                                                    16

quality improvements and managing a new flow o f funds. Organizationalreforms at the central
MOEC, regional offices, districts and schools will also necessarily take time. At present,
professionals are inshort supply with the neededskills and experience inpolicy analysis and
formulation, planning, monitoring and evaluation. The government's program includes moving
many administrative functions from the center to lower levels o fthe system and to schools where
they can be exercised more efficiently and effectively. This will free the central administrationto
concentrate more on policy development and monitoring the implementation of reforms such as
included inthe SEDP. The government plans to introduce a sustained program o f capacity
buildingfor staff at all levels. Expert services are also envisaged under the programto assist in
implementation at all levels.

65.      Teachers: One programrisk i s that not enough qualified teachers would be produced to
support intended enrollment expansion. This could compromise service delivery, leadto
overcrowding o f classrooms or scaling back o f construction. Currently it takes two to four years
to produce such graduates, and intake comes from a small pipeline o f successful graduates from
Form 6. The program includes a detailed, innovative plan for increased production of teachers.
Implementation o fthe plan is linkedto tranche release conditions. Projections indicate that at
peak expansion upto 27% o f graduates from Form 6 would need to enter diploma level teacher
training. The level of uptake into pre-service teacher training will be kept under careful review
by the Ministry, and measures taken - such as elimination of tuition charges and addition of
bursaries -to increase its attractiveness as needed. Another risk is that sufficient teachers, once
trained, may be unwillingto take up positions inthe disadvantaged areas intendedfor
construction. The program requires that an incentives package be developed to ensure that
sufficient qualified teachers are attracted to the target areas and regions under SEDP.

66.      Affordability: Facilities to be constructed underthe program inruralareas and areas with
relatively lower incomes may be underutilized ifparents still cannot afford the direct and indirect
costs. Development and capitation grants are intendedto be basedon careful analysis o f demand
inthe catchment area, andthis will be monitored. Inadditionto scholarships administered
locally, the SEDP includes measuresto minimize the direct costs to parents o f secondary
education, including development and capitation grants, and reductions inpayments for tuition
fees and textbooks.

C.       Financingand DisbursementArrangements

67.      The proposedIDA financing would be US$ 150 millionofwhich US$26.4 will be an
IDA Grant andUS$ 123.6millionwill bea credit. The borrower would bethe UnitedRepublic
o f Tanzania. Disbursement would be inthree tranches of US$50 millioneach for FY2004,
FY2005 and FY2006. The IDA grant will be includedinthe first tranche o f US$50 million. The
first tranche would be releasedupon Boardapproval and effectiveness of the Development
FinancingAgreement. The other two tranches would be subject to satisfactory implementationof
the reform program, and the completion of applicable actions for tranche release. The final
policy matrix specifyingthe content o f tranche release actions and performance targets was
agreedwith the URT government duringnegotiations.

68.      Disbursement arrangementswill follow the simplified procedures approved by the Board
on February 1, 1996. The Government of URTwill open an account inthe Bank o f Tanzania.
UponIDA notification of tranche release, proceeds o fthe IDA Financing will be deposited by
IDA inthis account at the request ofthe URTgovernment. A routine audit ofthe account will
not be required, but IDA reservesthe rightto require it.




                                                    17

D.       Agreed actions for tranche release

69.      The Government is committedto the development and implementation o f SEDP. The
MinisterofEducationandCulture madeanexplicit statement onproposals for the development
o f secondary education during the debate on the 2003104 budget. The statement received
overwhelming support from other Parliamentarians. GOT has also taken the following actions to
facilitate SEDP progress:

         General SecondaryEducation:

         m
         .   Completedand discusseda sub-sector report on secondary education with donors and
             other stakeholders;

             Prepared and discussedthe draft Secondary Education Development Programwith a
             cross section of the educational professionals, donors, NGOs and other stakeholders.

         Access and equity:

             Agreed to reduce the cost of secondary education to households by a substantial
         .   expansion ofthe scholarships program;

             Strengthenedlinks with non-government schools to enhancetheir capacity to expand
             provision of quality secondary education.

         .
         Improving learning outcomes:
         .   Agreedto allow schools to retainschool fees for use for recurrent expenditure;

             Agreedto reducethe number of subjects inthe curriculumto increasetime on task
             for core subjects.

         Institutional arrangementsfor planning and delivery of education services:
         .   Decentralized significant aspects o f secondary schoolmanagementto regional levels;

             Increased the role of schools inthe management o f school accounts.

70.      The first tranche will bereleaseduponthe fulfillmentofthe following conditions of
effectiveness:
         .   Enactment of regulations on capitation, development and scholarship grants for
         .   secondary schools;

             Enactment of regulations on norms for postingo fteachers inpublic schools with a
             view to achieving by 2008 a ratio o f at least 30 students per teacher; and

            .Conclusion of arrangementsbetweenthe Tanzanian Institute of Education(TIE) and
             private sector publishers for publishingexistingtextbook titles, and to disengage TIE
             from publishingnew textbooks for secondary schools.

71.      The secondtranche will be releaseduponthe fulfillment o fthe following conditions:



                                                  18

       Budgetary allocations madeto cover staffing, scholarships, capitation grants, and
       development grants for facilities andpedagogical improvements according to agreed
       norms;

       Government reduction infees for public secondary schools from TSh40,000 to TSh
       20,000 starting in2005 school year;

       Enactment of regulations for a packageo f benefits to attract teachers to underserved
       areas;

       Revision of the textbook evaluation process, incorporatingagreed criteria, standards
       and procedures; and

       Adoption and implementationof a programfor continuous professional development
       of school managers and teachers in secondary education.

72. The thirdtranche will be releaseduponfulfillment o fthe following conditions:

       Budgetary allocations made to cover staffing, scholarships, capitation grants, and
       development grants for facilities and pedagogical improvements accordingto agreed
       norms;

       Revisedcurricula completed and introduced; revisedexamination structure approved
       and distributedto all schools; and

       New regulatory framework and organizational structure inplace for decentralized
       management of secondary education.




                                           19

                                    V.     IDA OPERATIONS

73.     IDA has financed ten education projects inTanzania starting with the FirstEducation
Project in 1964. Following the SeventhEducation Project approved in 1980, the most recent
projects inthe sector include Human Resources DevelopmentPilot Project I(1997), and the
PEDP (2002). Most ofthese operations were rated satisfactory with regard to their development
objectives including improving education quality and efficiency, increasing school access, as well
as promoting school retention. Most importantly, these operations provided and continue to
provide valuable experience, and constitute a good basis for designing various elements o fthe
SEDP.

74.     Tanzania has a longrecordof implementing adjustment operations. A Country
Assistance Evaluation (OED, 2001) has identifiedstrengthand weakness o f IDA'S adjustment
operations inTanzania. This evaluation noted IDA'Semphasis on addressingthe issue of
stagnant social indicators inTanzania. Inparticular, the report identified a lack of balance
between the attainment of fiscal discipline and protection of operations and maintenance
spending. The introductionof a school capitationgrant would reinforce the proportionof
spending inthe total secondary education budget devoted to textbooks and teaching materials.

75.     The SEDP builds onthe impetus and experiences o f PEDP. PEDP has pioneered a
decentralized system for channeling funds directly to schools through local authorities. It
abolished tuition and other fees that were a barrier to the enrollment o f children from poor
families. It directly attacked systemic issues o f under-fundingfor essential expenditures such as
textbooks and teaching materials. The outcomes o f PEDP are expected to solve one of the
fundamental constraints on the expansion o f secondary education: an adequate and representative
supply of qualified graduates from the primary system. The lessonso fPEDP implementation
have beenstudied, distilled and fed into the design o f the proposed secondary adjustment
operation. Further lessons learned and reflected inthe program designalso includethe following:

             PEDP demonstrated the importance of sequencing reforms. It was found to be
             relatively easy to buildnew classrooms, but more complex and time-consuming to
        .    train teachers, develop and delivertextbooks and revise curricula. The lesson is that
             qualitative reforms should start early inthe educational reform program.

             Organizations and human resourcesdictate the pace o f educational reforms. For that
             reason an assessment was carried out as part o f preparationonthe organization and
             delivery o f secondary education. The SEDP implementation phase features
             continuous work on capacity buildingfor further organizationaldevelopment.
             Implantingorganizational reforms i s expected to be a major challenge and effort
            throughout execution.

             Accountability and efficiency o f resource utilization can be enhancedwhen funds
             flow downstream to be managed at the community and school levels. The flow o f
             funds and intendedutilization offunds needto be designed-inpartthrough manuals
             and guidelines-- and accountabilities identifiedwithin the context of public
             administration reforms. Delivering funds directly to communities is an effective way
            to effect school improvements on a wide scale.




                                                  20

.One of the lessonsof PEDP is the needfor flexibility inuse o f grants within agreed
 criteria and procedures. This allows communities to identify their most pressing
 needs. Requirementscannot easily be prescribed from above. For example, some
 communities placed the highest priority on water supply or sanitary facilities for
 schools under PEDPrather than classroom construction.

 Preparations for PEDP were carried out under the guidance of the Inter-ministerial
 Steering Committee for Educationand Training and within the ESDP structure. This
 process demonstratedthe value o ftransparent collaborationamong stakeholders,
 NGOs and donors at policy, technical and financial levels, as well as with monitoring
 and evaluation. At the same time, the government's authority and responsibility to
 implementthe agreedprogramwas clearly differentiated.

 PEDP experiencesalso underscore the point that fostering and respecting government
 ownership of its sectoral reforms contributes greatly to ensuringsustainability.
 Collaboration occurred between the government, donors and NGOs inthe preparation
 o f the PEDP, but the final documentation was prepared by government officials, as
 was the SEDP program.




                                     21

              VI.     COLLABORATION WITH IMFAND OTHER DONORS

76.      Inthe context ofthe EnhancedHIPC program, IDA, IMFandother donors havebeen
supporting the GOT inthe implementationofthe PRS, particularlyinestablishingaMTEF, as
well as carryingout annualPERs. The proposed SEDPhas beenpreparedwithinthe context of
the parametersestablishedby this exercise.

77.      IDA has beencollaboratingwith developmentpartnersthroughthe ESDP structure ledby
the PMO, andset upby GOTto coordinateeducationandtrainingsector ministriesand
institutions. This structure allowsfor collaborationontechnical issues as well as forjoint
appraisalofprograms, as well as monitoringof programsandreportingmechanisms. Inaddition,
separate meetingsof developmentpartners are heldto develop a coherent approach inproviding
support to Tanzania's development efforts.




Attachments
Washington, D.C.

May 14,2004




                                                22

                                       Annex A: Tanzania SocialIndicators


                                                     Latest single year         Same regionlincome group

                                                                                    Sub-
                                                                                  Saharan            Low-
                                               1970-75   1980-85    1995-2001      Africa          income

POPULATION
Total population, mid-year (millions)             15.9        21.8       34.4       673.9          2,505.9
  Growth rate (Oh annual average for period)       3.0         3.2        2.4         2.5              1.9
Urban population (Oh of population)               10.1        17.6       33.2        32.3             30.8
Total fertility rate (births per woman)            6.8         6.5        5.2         5.1              3.5

POVERTY
(% of population)
National headcouqt index                                                 35.4
  Urban headcount index                                                  23.5
  Rural headcount index                                                  38.6

INCOME
GNI per capita (US$)                                                      280         460             430
Consumer price index (1995=100)                      1           8        190
Food price index (19951100)                                      7        200

INCOMElCONSUMPTlON DISTRIBUTION

Share of income or consumption
Gini index
Lowest quintile (Oh of income or consumption                   5.0
Highest quintile (% of income or consumptiot                  53.0

SOCIAL INDICATORS
Public expenditure

  Health (% of GDP)                                                        2.8         2.5             1.1
  Education (Oh of GDP)                                                    2.1         3.4             2.8
  Social security and welfare (% of GDP)
Net primary school enrollment rate
(% of age group)
  Total                                                         56         65
      Male                                                      55         82
      Female                                                    56         79          52

Access to an improved water source
(% of population)
  Total                                                                    68          58               76
      Urban                                                                90          83               90
      Rural                                                                57          46               70
Immunization rate
(% under 12 months)
  Measles                                                       66         83          58               60
  DPT                                                                      86          53               61
Child malnutrition (% under 5 years)                                       29
Life expectancy at birth
(years)
  Total                                             48          51         44          46               59
      Male                                          46          49         43          45               58
      Female                                        50          53         44          47               60
MortaIity
   Infant (per 1,000 live births)                  118         100        104         105               80
   Under 5 (per 1,000 live births)                 197         160        165          171             121
  Adult (15-59)
      Male (per 1,000 population)                  513         451        569         520              312
      Female (per 1,000 population)                419         370        520         461              256
   Maternal (modeled, per 100,000 live births                            1,100
Births attended by skilled health staff (Oh)                    58         35
2003 World Development Indicators CD-ROM, World Bank



                                                        23

                               Annex B: Tanzania Key Economic Indicators




                  icator

Sational accounts(as YOof GDP)
Grossdomesticproductla                      100       100      100   100    100    100   100    100
 Agriculture                               45.1      45.0      44.8  44.4  43.4   43.4   43.4   43.4
 Industry                                   15.5      15.7     16.0  16.3  16.9   17.3   17.5   17.6
 Services                                  39.4      39.2      39.2  39.3  39.8   39.3   39.1   39.0

TotalConsumption                           96.6      90.8      91.6  89.5  93.2   92.0   91.3   91.5
Grossdomestictixedinvestment                15.4      17.4     16.8  17.2  18.7   18.7   18.2   18.0
 Governmentinvestment                       3.1       3.4      3.5   4.0    5.1    5.1    4.6    4.4
 Privateinvestment                          12.3      14.1     13.3  13.2  13.6   13.6   13.6   13.6

                                            13.8      14.4     15.3  16.7  18.0   18.4   17.8   17.2
                                           26.0      22.7      23.9  23.6  30.2   29.4   27.8   26.8

Gross domesticsavings                       3.4       9.2      8.4   10.5   6.8    8.0    8.7    8.5
Gross nationalsavingsIC                     2.0       7.6      7.3   10.2   6.5    7.9    8.6    8.5

Memorandumitems
Grossdomesticproduct                       8635      9079      9342  9414  9513   10337 11405   12567
(US$ millionat currentprices)
GNIpercapita(US%, Atlasmethod)              250       270      270   280    280    280   300    320

Realannualgrowthrates("1%  calculated from 1992prices)
 Gross domesticproductatmarketprices        3.6       5.7      6.1   6.3    5.5    6.4    6.5    7.0
 Gross DomesticIncome                       3.9       5.9      11.1  7.3    5.1    7.7    6.6    6.9

Realannualpercapitagrowthrates(`3%   calculatedfrom 1992priiXS)
 Gross domesticproductatmarketprices        1.1       3.6      3.3   4.2    3.0    3.9    4.0    5.8
 Totalconsumption                           1.3       -1.8     10.9   1.5   7.1    4.0    3.9    5.9
 Privateconsumption                         2.6       -2.9     21.9  0.2    4.9    2.9    3.3    5.3

BalanceofPayments(US%millions)
 Exports(GNFS)h                            1190      1307      1430  1569  1711   1905   2034   2160
   Merchandise(fob)                         543       663      776   903   1060   1224   1320   1406
 Imports( W S )                            2242      2064      2232  2224  2877   3041   3173   3370
   Merchandise(fob)                        1368      1368      1563  1512  2084   2170   2252   2387
 Resourcebalance                           -1052     -757      -802  -656  -1166  -1136  -1139  -1210
 Netcurrenttransfers                        -38       -38      -19    49     8      5     14      0
 Currentaccountbalance(beforegrants)       -1172     -900      -907  -690  -1196  -1146  -1146  -1203
 Currentaccountbalance(after p t s )       -639      -366      -352  -133  -472   -475   -445   -470

 Netprivateforeigndirect investment         517       463      327   240    248    260    273    287
 Long-termloans(net)                        184       118      574   100    346    235    199    189
  Official                                  177       111      273   104    351    235    193    185
  Private                                    -7        -7      -301   4      5      0     -6      -4
 Othercapital(ne<incl.errors &ommissic      -44      -194      -63    -6     0      0      0      0
 Changeinreserves/d                        -125      -148      -171  -347  -268   -185   -188   -200

Memorandum items
Resourcebalance("7 ofGDP)                  -12.2      -8.3     -8.6  -7.0  -12.3  -11.0  -10.0   -9.6
Realannualgrowthrates(YF92 prices)
 Merchandiseexports(fob)                    -2.4      17.8     16.4  -4.5   10.5   10.9   11.1   3.0
  Manufactures                             -27.9     59.1      64.3  17.3   10.8   10.8   8.8    8.9
 Merchandiseimprts (cia                     7.4       -2.4      7.7  -3.3  37.9    4.1    3.8    6.0




                                                           24

                                Annex C:Status ofBankGroup OperationsinTanzania


                                                         Operations Portfolio (IBRDIIDA and Grants)
                                                                        As Of Date01/16/2004
          Closed Projects          102



IBRDIIDA
 Total Disbursed(Active)             697.44
       of which has beenrepaid       0.00
 Total Disbursed(Closed)             3,173.27
       of which has beenrepaid       703.03
 Total Disbursed(Activet Closed)     3,870,703,094.41
       of which has beenrepaid       703,032,028.34
 Total Undisbursed(Active)           732.20
 Total Undisbursed(Closed)           2.15
 Total Undisbursed(Active+ Closed)   734,348,505.85



 Active Proiects
                                                                              Last PSR
                                                                        SupervisionRating

Project ID                         Project Name                   DeveloDment        ImDlementation
                                                                   Obiectives           Proaress      Fiscal Year

PO02804                            AGRIC RESEARCH              S                            S            1998
PO59073                            DAR WATER SUP & SANll S                                  S           2003
PO57187                            FlDP II                     S                            S           2000
PO71014                            HIV/AIDS                    S                            S           2004
PO02789                            Human Res. Dev. I           S                           HS            1998
PO73397                            Lower KihansiEnvironment;S                               S           2002
PO49838                            PRIVATIZATION               S                            S           2000
PO60833                            PUBLIC SERV REF PROG S                                   S           2000
PO67103                            Partic. Agr. Dev. and Empo\S                             S            2003
PO71012                            Primary Educ.Dev. ProgranS                               S            2002
PO47762                            RURAL WATER SUPPLY S                                     S            2002
PO50441                            RegionalTrade Fac. Proj. - S
                                   RURAL& MICRO FIN SVC S                                   U            2000
PO69982                                                                                     S            2001
PO82335                            Second HealthSector Dev. #                               #            2004
PO65372                            SocialAction Fund           S                            S            2001
PO02822                            TANZANIA PSAC I             S                            S            2000
PO47761                            TAX ADMINISTRATION          S                            S            1999
PO58706                            TZ ForestConservation andS                               S            2002
PO02770                            TZ ROADS I1                 S                            S            1994
PO02797                            TZ SONGO SONGO GAS [:S                                   S            2002
PO46837                            TZ:LAKE VICTORIA ENV. HS                                HS            1997
PO38570                            TZ:RIVER BASIN MGMSM S                                   S            1997
PO02758                            URBAN SECTOR REHAB S                                     S            1996
OverallResult




                                                                  25

                      Annex D: Program Data Sheet


                     Timetableof Key processingevents


Appraisal:                           February 3,2004

Negotiation:                         March 30, 2004

Board Presentation:                  June 8,2004

EffectivenessDate:                   September 8,2004

Closing Date:                        September 8,2007




                                     26

       Y
       VI
       L
       8




iI
D
I
<
c
C
eec

.(
eec

           eo
           N




    vi
c
I   a,
0    3
c  .-m
     VI

'0
S
m

Annex F: Letterof Secondary EducationSub-sector Policy
    (Located at the end ofthis report after Annex K)




                           30

                  Annex G: Institutionaland ImplementationArrangements


1.      Policy,legaland regulatoryframework
 Issues:

(a)     Excessivelycentralizedmanagement of secondary education. This centralized control
is underpinned by the current legislation (Education Act), which has not changed in line with the
1995 Education and Training Policy and ongoing decentralization reforms.

(b)         Gaps and inconsistenciesin legislation: Some o fthe provisions inthe current
Education Act are not internally consistent with the provisions inthe Regulations issued by the
MinisterofEducation in2002. There are also inconsistencies betweenthe EducationAct, the
Local Government (District Authorities) Act, 1982 andRegional Administration Act, 1997. The
current legislation does not cater for the evolving diversity, and increasing role for the private
sector.

Stratevies

(c)     A more enablingenvironment will be created for rapidexpansion of secondary education
inorder to: (i)facilitate the speedy achievement of SEDP strategic objectives and the smooth
implementation o f the program, and (ii)the current Education Act will be revisedto
accommodate minimal amendments necessary to facilitate smooth implementationof the SEDP.
These will be complemented by changes inpolicy and regulatory framework.

(d)      Specifically, changes will be made to the policy, legal and regulatory framework under
SEDP to achieve the following:

        0        To enable decentralised administration o f Secondary Education.

        0        To streamline and harmonise secondary schools classification.

        e        To enable speedier registrationof non-government schools.

        0        To enable owner management of private schools.

        0        To divest from non-core roles and functions from Tanzania Institute of Education
                 (TIE).

        0        To enable maintenance of database o f registeredschools by the ChiefEducation
                 Officer (CEO).

        0        To provide a role for the CEO inestablishment o f schools.

        0        To enable effective inspectionand monitoring o f performance o f all schools.

        0        To enable schools and school Boards to manage andbe accountable for school
                 funds.




                                                  31

2.        Organization and management arrangements
Issues:

(a)       An excessively centralised managementsystemwith virtually most decisions beingmade
by MoEC headquartersstaff. This is not consistent with policy shifts infavour of
decentralisation.

(b)       An ambiguous role and limitedcapacity ofthe RegionalEducationOfficer. The
Education Act states that RegionalEducationOfficers (REOs) will be representatives ofthe CEO
intheir respective areas, which placesthem under the MoEC. Thus, MoEC appoints the REOs.
However, the institutional locus of REOs inthe decentralized Government framework that was
promulgated in 1987 is under Regional Administration Secretariat (RAS), to whom the REO
reports.

(c)       Weak inspectorate function due to the inadequate staffing and facilitation.

(d)       Poor managemento fthe teaching force leadingto disincentives, demotivation and
obstacles to teachers' performance. There is lack o f clarity incareer progression, slow payment
system for non-salary claims, poor teaching environment and infrastructure, and inadequate
teaching materials.

(e)       Limitedparticipationof local communitiesinthe management of schools.

(0        Low capacity of the NationalExaminationCouncil of Tanzania (NECTA), which affects
its ability to execute its roles effectively. The problems include under funding, limited skilled
personnel and exam processing equipment.

  Stratepies:


(g)       Decentralizationto regions, schools and local communities inorder to achieve greater
effectiveness and operational efficiency. Except policy, curriculum development, examinations
inspections, resources, mobilization, and other core functions o f MoEC, the focus o f secondary
schools managementwill be at the Schools Boards.

(h)       Enhance a direct and prominent role for Regional EducationOfficers inthe management
o f secondary education, and as such, their direct accountability to the ChiefEducationOfficer.
,Additionalroles will include monitoring and evaluation of the quality o f education, inspection,
transfer of students and teachers, and teacher recruitment and deployment. Inthis regard, it is
recommended to strengthen and re-define roles at the regional level to be directly responsible for:
(i) curriculum implementationand examinations administration, (ii) management, (iii)
                                                                       teacher
Schools Boards oversight, and (iv) inspector, who will transferred from the zonal levels.

(i)      Roles at the school, district and Regional Levels will be re-definedto incorporate SEDP.

('j)      Schools and School Boards will be empowered so that they can make decisions affecting
the school suchas use of funds, disciplinary matters, and construction. Financialreporting
systems will be strengthened and appropriately qualified accountants hired ineach school, in
addition to establishing a permanent Finance and BudgetingCommittee.

(k)      Localcommunities will be mobilized to participate in construction of schools and in
decisions relatingto the management of the secondary schools.


                                                    32

(1)     The Inspectoratesystemwill be strengthenedby extendingit down to the regional level.
Inaddition, adetailedcapacity building programfor the inspectorswill bepreparedand
implementedat boththe Ministry andthe regionallevels.

(m)     Professionalmanagementofthe teachingforce will be improved to enhancedteacher
moraleandmotivation.

(n)     A comprehensivecapacity buildingprogramwill be developedand implementedinthe
framework of the SEDP.


3.      Management Information System (MIS)

Issues with the current MIS:

(a)     There is no MIS strategyor Information Communication Strategy(ICT) as aresult
previous investmentinMIShave beenadhoc. For example, each department has its own budget
for procuring computers and softwarenot basedon a strategic MISdevelopment.

(b)     Currentdata collection, processingand disseminationis cumbersome.

(c)     Current systems are not user friendly (e.g. Statistical database is characterbasedwhich
requirethe users to rememberthe commands).

(d)      Statisticaldatabase works on stand-alone computerswhich limit electronic sharingof
information.

(e)     Currentdatabases are not integrated.

(storage
 f )    Some PersonalComputers inthe EMISsectionhave limited processingpower and
        capacity to handle larger files and newer versions ofthe standardsoftware.

(g)     The EMISDevelopmentplan 2004-2007though still ina draft form does not seem to
prefer offthe shelfDatabases but rather consider developingdatabases (i.e. bespoke).

Stratepies:

(a)     A three-phase process will be adoptedto developthe MISunder the SEDP. The first
phase will entail re-engineeringthe process ofcollecting data to ensure that collection is done
efficiently and data is validated at schools, district and regional levels, building capacity of data
collection at the source of data (e.g. at schools and districts); and developing mechanismof
validating data, which can be done by the software inbuilt mechanismas well as physical
validation where head of schools, district and regional levels will be heldresponsiblefor quality
ofthe data submitted.

(b)     Inthe secondphase, anoverall ICT Strategythat will assist the Ministry to invest
economically inICT will be developed. The strategy will identify systemrequirements interms
of its outputs, data inputs, database, operatingsystem, communication infrastructure,hardware,
etc. The terms of reference should include developingICT strategiesfor all institutions involved
ineducationdatacollection (e.g. NECTA, TSC andTIE).




                                                   33

(c)       Third, an integrated EMISwill be designedand implementedacross the country. The
system will enable first level automation and validation o f data inputs and processing at either
school or district levels.

4.        FinancialManagement, ProcurementAnd AccountingArrangements


Issues:

(a)       Current financial and accounting arrangementsreflect the centralized and management
regime for the secondary education system. Schools budgets are consolidated into the MoEC
vote, and the ministrymakes decisions on ceilings, allocations and disbursements. Evencontrol
and disbursement of school fees for the Government assisted schools is on the Government's
(MoEC) IntegratedFinancialManagement System(IFMS), which uses regional Sub-Treasuries
for establishments outside Dar es Salaam.

(b)       A significant proportion offunds made available by Government are retained and
disbursedat MoEC headquarters, usually cater for payments ofpersonnel emoluments and
utilities. Funds for teaching materials (laboratories materials and reference materials) and
cateringcosts are disbursedto schools by warrant o f funds through regional Sub-Treasuries.
Accounting for these expenditures is processedby the IFMIS.

(c)       While there &re realstrengths inthe use ofthe centralised (Regional Sub-Treasury based)
systems, it has also major deficiencies, which include the following:


      0   Subventions disbursedto public schools are made irrespective o f approved budget and
          allocations.


      0   There are no objective criteria for allocation of funds among the public secondary
          schools. Neitherdo the allocations reflect imbalances by location, income and gender


      0   While disbursementsare expected to be made on quarterly basis, this is usually not the
          case.


      0   Schools' monthly reports are not producedon time. Inaddition, some of the reports have
          errors and as a result there are delays inpreparingthe monthly flash reports at the
          ministry.


      0   The warrant of funds dispatchedto headsof schools/ regional SubTreasuries are not
          received on time due to inadequate communication facilities and as a result, there are
          delays inthe implementationof plannedactivities.


      0   Most secondary schools do not have staff with adequate skills and capacity inthe areas o f
          both accounting and procurement personnel.


      0   The revenue section at the MoEC which deals with monthly reports collated from schools
          does not have enough facilities and capacity to process information received.




                                                   34

   0   Auditingo f secondary schools expenditure concentratesmore onthe review of document
       available at regional SubTreasuries and at the ministry and very little verification of
       activities is carried out at schools.

(d)    Other issues with the current financial and accounting arrangements include, that:

   a   Financingmechanisms are not responsive to priorities and imbalances. Currently, over
       60 percent o f budgetary allocations go to personnel enrolments and as a result o fthis, the
       key quality related inputs such as textbooks, chemicals, new technologies, disadvantage
       groups etc, are poorly funded. In addition, government allocations to public secondary
       schools are made irrespective o f locations, income and gender consideration. This
       method is insensitive to the equity principle and tends to exacerbatethe levels o f
       inequalities.


   0   Inefficiency of relyingon regional Sub-Treasury for channelling and controlling funds to
       schools. Remoteness of schools from regional Sub Treasuries and delay inreceivingthe
       warrant of funds and guidelines on funds disbursedby the Treasury, tend to negatively
       affect the effectiveness of Sub Treasuries.


   0   Poor collection, control and management of the school fees since there are disincentives
       and no effective guidelines on enforcement o f fees collection. Schoolmanagement has
       no authority to spendthe money unless the amounts collectedare first transferred to
       regional Sub-Treasuries and this tends to demoralise the school management givendelays
       inaccessingthe funds. Also, there are inadequaciesinthe accountability of school fees.


   a   There is inadequatecapacity to process, manage and account for government funds at
       school level. This is primary due to inadequatenumber of qualified staff and modern
       tools for information processing.

   a   MoEC has inadequate capacity to oversee proper utilization of funds at schools level.
       For example, there are no qualified accountants at the ministryand school levels. In
       addition, internal audit department has no capacity to visit all government schools inthe
       country.

Stratew:

(a)    SEDP implementationwill operate within the Medium Term Plan and Expenditure
Framework (MTEF) approach, and IntegratedFinancialManagement System (IFMS).

(b)    World Bank and other development partners will deposit funds into an established USD
holding account at the Bank o f Tanzania and thereafter channel their financing for specified
SEDP activities through the Consolidated Fund. Grants will be accounted for as part o f MoEC
voted expenditure. Funds will be releasedfrom these accounts to meet SEDP quarterly
expenditure.

(c)    Inthe initialtwo years ofthe SEDP, schools will continue to useregional Sub-Treasuries
inprocessingandeffectingpayments. However, to address challenges ofusingregional Sub-


                                                35

Treasuries, and in line with decentralisation o f managementto schools and local communities,
measures will be taken under the programme to shift control of funds to the schools.

(d)     Inthe mediumto longterm, SEDP grants will be channelled directly to school's bank
accounts. To this end, the following measures will be put inplace to enable devolvement of
financial management and accountability to Schools Management Boards:


    0   Promulgation of a new policy, legal and regulatory framework to enable schools to
        receive and account effectively for all funds;


    0   Strengthening, legislation and regulation to empower School Boards in school financial
        management. This will legally enable the Boards to prepare school's balance sheets and
        budgets, monitoringand oversight o fschool's activities.


    0   Introduction of a simple accounting system to be applied at school level, including the
        development o f procedures and accounting manual.


    0   Training accounting personnel, heads of schools and members of school boards on
        responsibilities and system for managing and accountability for all funds.

(e)     SEDP will provide support to private schools inthree modalities: (i)scholarship to the
needy; (ii)enablingparticipation inmanagementdevelopment activities; and (iii) effective
                                                                                  more
schools. To determinewhich schools qualify for financial support under such fiscal measures.
The following indicative criteria will be used:


    0   The schools must not restrict admission of students on the basis of unconstitutional,
        illegal, cultural or religious basis. In other words, the school must be open to all
        Tanzania communities.


    e   The school must be subject to financial scrutiny from the ministry.


    0   The government and community mustbe represented inthe school boards.

5.      ProcurementCapacityand Arrangements

(a)     Current procurement practice of secondary education shows that procurement of fixed
assets and vehicles for secondary schools is centralized at the Ministryof Educationand Culture
HQ,with secondaryschools involved inprocurement of items relatedto recurrent academicneeds
and services.


(b)     Currently, the Director o fAdministration and Personnel (DAP) is responsible for all
programs of fixed assets and vehicles. The DAP overseesthe MinistryProcurement Unit (MPU)
inhisdepartment. The headofMPU, who is the ministry'sSenior SuppliesOfficer (SSO I),        is
responsible for carrying out day-to-day tasks. The SSO Iis assistedby SSO I1to carry out day to
day procurement at the ministryinaccordancewith Art 19 o f the Public Procurement Act (PPA),
2001.



                                                  36

(c)     Procurementunder SEDP will be decentralizedat the Secondary Schoolsand will be
conductedin accordancewith the PPA. Detailedprocurementprocedures are outlined inthe
ProcurementManual (PM), currently under preparation. The PM is beingpreparedinaccordance
with the PPA and the Governmentwill disseminateit before effectiveness. Eachsecondary
school will be requiredto constitutea SchoolProcurementCommittee (SPC) responsible for
approving contracts at a limited threshold. The SchoolBoard (SB) will be requiredto approve
the contracts of value above SPC thresholds. The functions ofthe MoEC with regardto
procurementofwork shall be confinedto quality assurance, inspectionandtechnical support in
terms ofpreparingstandard drawings documents, Billof Quantities (BOQ), organize
developmentoftechnical specifications, bid documents etc. All private schools supportedunder
SEDP arrangement will be requiredto comply with Governmentprocurementprocedures. In
summary, procurementofworks, goods, textbooks, and services is categorizedas follows:

        Works (construction of class rooms, toilets, teachers' houses, libraries and laboratory)


    0   Consultancyservices


    0   Text books usingthe MOEC approvedlist of titles.


    0   Goods (office andteachingconsumables, laboratoryequipment and supplies, and library
        materials)

(d)     A general procurementcapacity assessment has revealedlack of procurementcapacity at
both levels(MOEC HQ and Secondary Schools) andthe needfor strengtheningsuch capacity.
The areas ofweakness hasbeenidentified as lack ofskilled personnel, filing andrecordkeeping
systems, and lack of skills to prepare procurementplans. Following is a summary o f some o fthe
issues that negativelyaffect effective procurementat the secondary schools and at MOEC HQ.


    0   Schools do not prepare annualprocurementplan at the beginning of the year based on
        approvedbudgetallocations. This could be causedby the fact that quarterly allocations
        made to schools do not always meet the schoolneeds. Inaddition, there are no projected
        requirementsof items for procurementat all levels.


    0   Lack of capacity and skilled personnelhas been a major impediment to conducting sound
        procurementat all levels.


    0   There is no automatedinformation systeminplace for the supply chain managementof
        productslgoodsat the ministry.

Underthe program a detailedprocurementneeds assessment will be undertakenand a
comprehensivecapacity building programwill be developedand implemented. Eachyear the
MOF will engage a consultantto carry out Ex-post procurementreview and action would be
sharedwith the Bank.




                                                37

Y-
0     Tm


            00
            m

n
.-0
Y
e>
m
0

 ui
 3
 c
 v)


 U
 aJ




c
5
v)

5
a,



       0
       d

m




     A I

            Annex I:Summary Environmentaland SocialManagementPlan


1.       Education is one ofthe priority sectors specifiedinthe Tanzania DevelopmentVision
2025 and the PRS. Withinthis context, the government is deepeninga comprehensiveEducation
Sector DevelopmentProgram(ESDP). The ESDPhas definedthe following general priorities:

         0       Priority inspendingon basic education;

         0       Improvementinequitable access to quality secondary education;

         0       Demand-drivenand market-orientedpost-secondaryand higher education; and

         0       Institutional developmentto improve sector management and strengthen
                 implementationcapacity.

2.       As part ofthe ESDP, the GovernmentofTanzaniahas preparedthe Secondary Education
DevelopmentProgram(SEDP). The Objective ofthe SEDP is to promote economic and social
developmentand reduce povertythrough humanresourcedevelopmentat the secondary level,
especially for disadvantagedgroups. The specific objectives ofthe SEDP are:

         0       To increasethe proportion ofthe relevant age group completing secondary
                 education, especiallyunderservedgroups.
         0       To improve learningoutcomes of secondary students, especially at the lower
                 level.
         0       To enable the public, including local authoritiesand private sectors to manage
                 secondary educationeffectively.

3.       To achievethese objectives, the program is structured into specifically linkedsub-
component activities per specific objectives as follows:

         0       Objective 1: Increasethe proportionof the relevantage group completing
                 secondary education, especiallyunderservedgroups.
                 (indicator: achievementof targeted enrollment completion ratios by age group
                 for lower and upper secondary).

         0       Objective2: Improvelearningoutcomes of students, especiallyat lower
                 secondary level.
                 (indicator: raisededucationalattainment of students as shownby continuous
                 assessmentsand performanceon public examinations).

         0       Objective3: Enablethe public administrationto manage secondary
                 educationeffectively.
                 (indicators: authority devolved and exercisedwell at Regional, Local
                 GovernmentAuthorities (LGAs) and school levels; better centralpolicy
                 developmentandstandards settingfor cost-effective delivery of quality of
                 secondary education, and improved oversight).

4.       Under Component 1(Objective l),     financing will be made available for the construction
ofnew secondary schools andthe expansionand rehabilitation of existing secondary schools,
inter alia.



                                                 42

5.      However, since the exact locations for these new schools were not identified at the time
the SEDP was beingprepared, the Laws ofthe UnitedRepublic inTanzaniaandOperational
Policy 4.01 ofthe Bankrequiresthe Governmentof Tanzaniato prepare an Environment and
Social ManagementFramework(ESMF) which is to establishamechanismto determine and
assess future potentialenvironmental and social impactsof all programactivities to be financed
under SEDP. This will helpto set out mitigation, monitoringandinstitutional measuresto be
taken during implementationand operationofthe programactivities to eliminate adverse
environmentaland social impacts, offset them, or reduce themto acceptable levels.

6.      The Governmentwill disclosethis document incountry as a separate and stand alone
documentso that it is accessible by the generalpublic, local communities, potential project-
affectedgroups, localNGO's and all other stakeholders as well as at the World Bank Infoshop.

7. The key highlights inthis ESMF are as follows;

        0        Detailed andcomprehensiveenvironmentaland socialbaselinedata, which will
                 provide the environmentaland socialmanagementprocess with key baseline
                 information when identifying adverse impacts.The information contains data on
                 Tanzania's bio-physical environmentalfeatures such as its ecosystems, geology,
                 hydrology interms of ground and surface water resources, major and sensitive
                 wetlands, flora and fauna. On social baselines the report discusses the main
                 features of Tanzania's demographics,public healthfeatures and poverty.

8.      Table 5.1 presentsa summary ofthe requirements ofthe World Bank OP 4.01
EnvironmentalAssessment and OD 4.12 Involuntary Resettlement.

        0        The administrative, policy, legislative andregulatory framework inTanzaniafor
                 Educationinparticular andfor environmentalmanagement ingeneral is
                 presentedinchapter 6.0.

        0        Generic potential adverse environmentaland socialconcernsand impactsfrom
                 anticipatedprogramactivities with root and immediatecauses is presentedin
                 detail in Section7.0

        0        The rolesandresponsibilities of key institutions andplayers for the purposes of
                 this ESMFare discussed inChapter 8.0 andthey are;

9.      Implementationofthe SEDP will be coordinatedby the Ministry of Educationand
Culture inaccordancewith the ESDP structure.


        THE NATIONALENVIRONMENTMANAGEMENTCOUNCIL(NEMC)

10.     The NEMC is responsiblefor ensuringthat all developmentprojects andprograms in
Tanzania comply with all relevant environmental laws. This ESMF recognizesthat the NEMC
have a significant role to play inthe SEDP. This role would be to provide on the groundESMF
performancereviewdaudits both for enforcement purposes, but more importantly to reinforce
capacity for the ESMF implementation. at all levels. TheNEMC would also provide periodic
monitoring to ensure no adverse cumulative impacts from the school constructionprogramat the
national level andwill provide oversightandtechnical assistance to the Local Government
Authorities when required.


                                                 43

                                         THE REGIONS

11.      The main role ofthe Regions inthis ESMFwould be limitedto coordinatingthe planning
activities of their LocalGovernment Authorities by consolidatingthe District Secondary School
Development Plans (DSSDP's) into Regionalones (RSSDP) before they are submittedto the
SEDP for approvalfor funding.


                                         THE DISTRICTS

12.      The LocalGovernment Authorities would berequiredto reviewand clear the
environmentaland social managementprocess, requiredo f the School Management Boards
(SMB), prior to fundingthe construction program.

13.      The LocalGovernment Authorities would beresponsible for carrying out the following:
(i)ensuringthe Districts school construction programcomply with Tanzania's environmental
laws and requirements, and the World Bank's triggered Safeguard Policies, (ii)    receiving,
reviewing and commenting, requiringrevisions where necessary and clearing of School Boards
completed environmentaland social screening forms and checklists, (iii)     carrying out aregular
and intrusivemonitoringregime duringthe planning,implementation, construction, operations
and maintenance stages o fthe schools, (iv) for preparing periodic monitoring reports on the
school constructionprogram at all stages of operations andto sendthese reports on a regular basis
to the MOEC as part o f other SEDP reports, (v) to comply with (consistent with national laws)
the directives of the government, (vi) to issue directives to the School Boards consistent with
national laws on environmentalrequirements.


                                      THE SCHOOLBOARDS

14.      The School Boards will be responsible (i)for complying with all national laws regarding
the environment andwith all social/poverty guidelines, parameters andtargets set by the program,
and of all triggered World Bank Safeguards policies, (ii)  to implement their school construction
program according tokonsistent with the provisions of this ESMF, implementing,inter alia, all
appropriate mitigationmeasures identifiedintheir completed environmental and social screening
form andchecklist into the construction planning cycle, technical and engineeringdesigns and
drawings, and civil works contracts, etc., (iii) ensure that these mitigation measures are
                                                to
complied with duringconstructionand post construction (i.e. operations) stages of their activities,
by self monitoring o f their activities andby periodically reporting to the Local Government
Authorities, (iv) to maintain a budget to implement the appropriate maintenance procedures and
practices for the operationo f their school, to ensure relevant mitigation measures identifiedinthe
environmental and social screening form and checklist are implemented and sustained inthe sub
school construction program, and (v) to comply with any directives that may be issued from time
to time from the government.

15.      The Environmentaland Social Management Processcontains the followingkey steps:

Step 1:           School Boards (SB's) will screen their own development activities to identify
                  adverse environmental and social impacts using the screening form in Annex 2
                  and the checklist in Annex 3.




                                                  44

Step2:        Then the SB's will introduce into the sub projectdesignthe requiredmeasuresto
              mitigate impacts identifiedfrom use of the screening form and checklist before
              submission of the sub project design to their respective Local Government
              Authorities for reviewandsubsequentenvironmental and social clearance.

Step 3:       The Local Government Authorities will review and clear the sub projects by
              ensuring sub project designs have identified environmental and social impacts,
              mitigatedthese impacts and have monitoringplans and institutionalmeasures to
              be takenduringimplementationandoperation.

ESMFimplementationwill beintegratedintoSEDPactivities to befinancedthrough
DevelopmentGrantsat the schoolleveland monitoring,supervisionand capacity building
at regionaland centrallevels.




                                             45

                          Annex J: Economic and FinancialAnalyses


1.       Tanzania's economy today is largely market oriented and has inplace many elements
requiredfor private sector-led growth. However, it does not have an adequately qualified and
trained work force essentialfor rapid economic growth, and effective diversification o f the
production and export bases. The combinationof intermittenteconomic growth, fiscal
constraints, and inadequatesector policies and programs constrained the performance of the
education sector in the late 1980s and early 1990s. The reforms supported inprimary education
by PEDPhave liftedthe gross enrollmentrate in primary schools, which had stagnatedat around
77 percent during 1995-2000,to 100percent in2002. The secondary school gross enrollment
rate, however, is still the lowest inAfrica atjust 7 percent ofthe relevant age group.

Rationalefor public intervention

2.       There is a strong case to bemade for public intervention insecondary education in
Tanzania on both market failure as well as redistributiveor equity grounds. The first section
below outlines some ofthe private as well as social benefits of education, ingeneral, and
secondary education, inparticular. Giventhe existence o f social benefits or externalities to
secondary education, there is a role for public intervention inorder to bringthe supply o f
secondary education closer to the socially optimal amount. The second section below discusses
the current inequities insecondary education enrollment (coupled with clear private returns to a
secondary education), implyinga role for public interventionto correct these inequities.


Private and social benefits of education

3.       Investment ineducation is beneficial in a multiplicityo f ways both for individuals and
society as a whole. Educationincreases individual productivity, as measured by the well-
documented link between the level o f education and personal earnings. Onthe national level,
education plays an important role infostering economic growth. Today's rapidly growing
economies dependmore on the creation, acquisition, distribution, and use o f knowledge, and one
of the pillars o fthe knowledge-based economy is an educated and skilled populace that can create
and use knowledge. Inaddition, there is growing evidence that perhaps half(ifnot more) of
aggregate economic growth is drivenby increasesinfactor productivity rather than by factor
accumulation ineither capital or labor.

4.       Secondary education plays a particularly important role inthis regard. Inan increasingly
globalizedeconomy, developing countries may be able to attain increases infactor productivity
through technology transfer from the global "leaders". Such technology transfer can happen
through trade, foreign direct investment, and through learning across international supplier-
producer chains. However, much o fthe technology developed inthe leader countries is very skill
intensiveandtherefore "inappropriate" for developingcountries without a minimumthreshold
level of skills; Many studies have concludedthat a large pool of workers with secondary
education is indispensable to attracting imports of technologically-advanced goods and foreign
direct investment (Borensztein, De Gregorio and Lee 1998; Caselli and Coleman 2001; Xu 2000).
For example, one findingis that the bulk o f the difference incomputer penetrationbetween Latin
America and the East Asian "tigers", which have much larger computer coverage, can be
explained by differences inthe degree o ftrade with the OECD, and inthe fraction o f the
workforce with secondary school (De Ferranti et al. 2003).




                                               46

5.      Ofcourse, the benefits of educationspan a wide rangeof areas beyondeconomic
productivity. Indeed, for both menand women, one important private benefit of increased
education is its positive impact on personalhealth. Inboth developedand developingcountries, a
strong correlation exists betweenschooling and goodhealth, whether measured usingmortality
rates, morbidity rates, or self-reportedhealthstatus (Case 2001). Indeed, educationappears to
have an effect on healthindependentof income, race, or social background(OECD 2001). In
particular, for boys andgirls, educationhas beenprovento provide protection against HIV
infection (World Bank 1999). A basic educationhas a generalpreventiveimpact: it can inform
childrenandyouth, equippingthemto make decisionsconcerningtheir own lives and bringing
about long-term behavioralchange (World Bank 2002). Secondary educationplays an important
role here again: a study inZambia found a markeddecline inHIV prevalence rates in 15-19-year-
old boys and girls with a secondary to higher level education, but an increaseamongthose with
lower educationallevels (Kelly 2000).

6.      Femaleeducation, inparticular, results in a wide array of private as well as social
benefits. Thus, investments infemale educationhave a positive impact on gender equality,
women's empowerment, andtheir well-being (Malhotra et al. 2003). Furthermore,the evidence
indicatesthat relatively high levels of education-secondary or above -are consistently
positively relatedto most aspects of gender equality, pointingto a"threshold" effect of secondary
schoolingwhereby women themselves are muchmore likely to be the agents ofchange. In
addition, the positive effect offemale educationon economic output extendsto the next
generation: higher educationlevels of mothersenhance children's intellectual achievement, partly
since better-educatedmothers are better able to guide their children. Thus, inIndia, childrenof
more literate mothersstudy nearlytwo hoursmore a day than children of illiterate mothers in
similar households(World Bank 2001). Better-educatedwomen are also more likely, compared
with their peers, to delay marriageand childbearingand have fewer childrenand healthier babies.
According to one estimate, a 10 percentagepoint increase infemale primary enrollment lowers
the infant mortality rateby 4.1 deaths per 1,000 live births, anda similar rise infemale secondary
enrollment is associated with another 5.6 fewer deaths per 1,000 live births(World Bank 2001).
Inaddition, recent Demographic andHealth Surveys in49 developingcountries(including
Tanzania) show that the mortality rate of childrenunder five is highest inhouseholdswhere
mothers have no schooling, and lowestwhere mothershave some secondary schoolingor higher
(see Figure 1).




                                               47

             Figure 1: Under-5 mortality, by mother`s education level


    200

    180

    160
cn
z   140

-.-g120
s
0
    100

     80
5
8   60

     40

     20

      0

     '  East Asia and Pacific  Latin America &    Middle East & North      SouthAsia        Sub-Saharan Africa   Tanzania
                                 Caribbean               Africa

                                        No education .Primary  education USecondaryeducation or higherI

             Source: Author's calculationsbasedon 49 recentDemographicandHealthSurveys.
            Note: Regionalaverages are population-weighted.



            Inequities in secondary education enrollment

             7.       The value of secondary educationto the individual Tanzanian is clearly apparent from an
             analysis ofthe 2000/2001IntegratedLabor Force Survey. Ina sample of over 3,000 wage
             earners betweenthe ages of 18to 65 years, over halfhadcompletedprimary education, a quarter
             completedlower secondary (Form IV), and a further 5 percent completedupper secondary (Form
             VI); 33 percent were female; and23 percentresidedinrural areas. The average hourly wage for
            these wage earners amountedto approximately400 TSh, but was roughly 200 TSh for those with
             primary educationas comparedto over 700 TSh for those with secondary education, with
             sizeablerural-urbanand gender disparities (see Table 1). The size ofthe earnings differential
             betweenthose with primary andthose with secondary education, combinedwith their shares
             amongst wage earners describedabove, further highlight the scarcities inthe supply of those with
             seconPary educationthat the SEDP aims to counter.




                                                               48

(FormIV)                           (790)     (470)     (320)     (138)      (652)
Incompleteupper secondary              560       924        195       788        445
(FormV)                             (6)       (31       (3)                   (4)
Complete upper secondary               743       759        698    (21375        805
(FormVI)                           (137)     (99)      (3 8)      (20)       (117)
University                            1,405     1,502     1,021       418       1,414
                                   (114)     (91)      (23)        (1)       (113)
Overall                                404       454        302       209        462
                                , (3,017)  ,(2,022)  , (995)   , (689)   ,  (2,328)  ,




employment(1.e. 19observations). This was necessary since hoursofwork are reportedfor
the maineconomic activityonly whilewages are reportedonly as atotal.

8.       Table 2 reportsonthe returns to ayear of schoolingcontrolling for individual
characteristics such as experience(proxied by age), geographic location, and gender3. These
private returns represent, inpercentage terms, the present discountedvalue of the average stream
of earnings for an additional year of schooling. Thus, the returnsto an additional year of
schoolingamount to 16 percent; urbanresidence is associated with a 47 percent increase inwages
relative to residence inruralareas; and females earn 16percent less than males with the same
educationandcharacteristics. Table 3 compares the returns to educationby level of education
completed, again controlling for experience, geographic location, and gender. Here the private
returns represent, inpercentage terms, the present discountedvalue of the average streamof
earnings ofthose with the level of educationunder analysis minusthe average streamof earnings
for the precedinglevel. Thus, a wage earner with acompleteprimary educationearns 75 percent
more than anuneducatedwage earner; an employeewith complete lower secondary makes 163
percentmore; and one with a completeupper secondary educationearns 181percentmorethan a
salariedworker with no education. Table 3 further reportsmuchthe same findings as Table 2 on
the effects ofgeographic location and gender onreturns to education.




 Reportedreturnsare basedonMincerianregressionsand as such depictprivate returnsthat do nottake
into accountthe direct costs o feducation.


                                                49

Variable                                           Coefficient                Standard    t-statistic
                                                                               error
Years of education                                            0.160                0.0047           33.95
Age                                                           0.153                0.0085           18.01
Age squared                                                  -0.002                0.0001          -13.34
Urban                                                         0.468                0.0363           12.9;
Female                                                       -0.162                0.0327           -4.92
Constant                                                      0.290 *******        0.1448            2.92

Number of observations                                        3,017
Adjusted R-squared                                            0.542




Table 3: Extendedearnings function, wage earners aged 18-65 years
(dependent variable = In hourlywages)

                                              Standard   t-statistic
                                               error
Education levelattained:
            Incomplete primary     0.273        0.0876          3.12
             Complete primary      0.747        0.0716        10.43
    Incomplete lower secondary     1.034***     0.1134          9.12
      Complete lower secondary     1.630*       0.0758        21.49
    Incomplete upper secondary     1.785*       0.3334          5.35
      Complete upper secondary     1.810*        0.0981       18.45
                     University    2.286         0.1038       22.02
Age                                0.144         0.0085       16.94
Age squared                       -0.001         0.0001      -12.28
Urban                              0.481         0.0359        13.41
Female                            -0.189         0.0326        -5.81
Constant                           0.744******   0.1553         4.79
Number of observations             3,017
Adjusted R-squared                 0.553




                                               50

9.      Giventhe returnsto education outlined above, it is importantto understand the
distribution of education inTanzania by household welfare, gender, and geographic location, in
order to ascertain who is garneringthese returns. To this end, data from the 2000/2001
HouseholdBudget Survey were analyzed for three age groups, roughly corresponding to primary,
lower secondary, and upper secondary schooling, i.e. 7-13, 14-18, and 18-21year-olds,
respectively. Table 4 reports the findings for primary schooling: enrollment rates are lower in
rural than inurban areas, with an overall difference of approximately 15 percentagepoints; the
gender disparitybroadly favors girls inthe poorer quintiles,and boys inthe upper quintiles, and is
therefore probably related to male overage persistence in schooling. Finally, across the board,
enrollment rates in the richer quintiles are higher than in the poorer quintiles,resultinginan
overall rate for the richest quintile inMainlandTanzania that is 1.5 times the rate for the poorest
quintile, for example.



Table 4: Enrolment rate of 7-13 year-olds in primary education(percentage)

                        Urban areas                           Ruralareas                    Mainland Tanzania
Quintile      Male        Female        Total      Male         Female         Total      Male   Female   Total
Poorest           58.4          58.1       58.3        46.3            52.8          49.5   47.3     53.1    50.2
          2       60.3          67.1       64.0        57.7            58.4          58.1   58.0     59.7    58.8
          3       71.3          80.6       76.3        54.2            62.0          58.0   57.3     65.9    61.5
          4       80.3          73.6       76.7        61.2            70.0          65.6   67.0     71.2    69.1
Richest           79.5          73.3       76.4        76.7            66.9          71.9   78.1     70.1    74.2
Total             70.8          71.5       71.1        53.9            58.5          56.2   56.8     60.8    58.8




10.     The above disparities inenrollment inprimary education by geographic location, gender,
andhousehold welfare are arguably familiar from similar analyses inother developing countries.
Tables 5 and 6 present enrollment rates inlower and upper secondary schooling, respectively,
again by geographic location, gender, and household welfare. Again, male overage persistence in
schooling seems to underlie the gender disparity broadly favoring females. However, the
geographic and householdwelfare disparities are far more stark at the secondary than at the
primary level o f education. For example, inlower secondary schooling, the total urban
enrollment is on the order of 7 times the enrollment rate inrural areas; and for Mainland
Tanzania, the enrollment rate for the richest quintile is again on the order o f 7 times the
enrollment rate for the poorest quintile. Of course, the enrollment rate of 17 percent for the
richest quintileremains remarkably low. These disparities are yet more stark for upper secondary
education: the total urban enrollment is approximately 12times the total rural enrollment rate
(indeed, the rural enrollment rate is so low as to be almost negligible,renderingupper secondary
education accessibleonly to the urbanpopulation); and for Mainland Tanzania, an 18-21 year-old
belongingto the richest quintile is roughly 16times more likelyto be enrolled inupper secondary
school than a cohort member from the poorest quintile.




                                                51

Table 5: Enrollmentrate of 14-18 year-olds in Forms I-IV, by quintile(percentage)

                       Urban areas                         Rural areas                   Mainland Tanzania
Quintile      Male        Female      Total      Male        Female         Total     Male     Female   Total
Poorest            5.9          9.7        7.7        0.7             2.5         1.7    1.3         3.1   2.3
          2       10.4          14.5      12.5        1.5             1.8         1.6    2.8         4.0   3.4
          3       17.0          9.6       13.0        3.3             4.1         3.7    6.5         5.5   6.0
          4       18.4          18.9      18.6        3.1             4.7         4.0    9.2        10.4   9.9
Richest           22.4         28.3      26.2         2.6             2.3         2.4    14.0       18.0  16.5
Total             14.8          17.3      16.2        1.7             2.8         2.3    4.4         6.2   5.3




                       Urban areas                         Ruralareas                    MainlandTanzania
Quintile      Male        Female      Total      Male        Female         Total     Male     Female   Total
Poorest           0.1            1.3       0.7        0.0             0.0         0.0     0.0        0.1   0.1
          2       0.8           0.4        0.6        0.1             0.0         0.0     0.2        0.1   0.1
          3       3.4           0.2         1.5       0.5             0.5         0.5     1.3        0.4   0.7
          4        1.3           1.5        1.4       0.0             0.0         0.0     0.5        0.5   0.5
Richest           2.5            1.6        1.9       0.0             0.0         0.0     1.6        0.9   1.1
Total              1.7           1.1        1.3       0.1             0.1         0.1     0.5        0.3   0.4




11.      The above-mentioneddisparities insecondary enrollment rates raisethe questionof
affordability of secondary education. Table 7 reports on educationandmedical expenditures
(combined) basedon data from the 2000/01 HouseholdBudget Survey, showing an increase in
per capitamonthly amountsby consumptionexpenditurequintile, with the richest quintile
spendingaround 5 times the amount spent by the poorest quintile. This translates into aratio of
educationand medical expenditures to total expendituresof roughly 4-5 percentfor all quintiles.
However, inorder to assess the affordability of these expenditures, a more useful measure is the
ratio to discretionary or non-food per capitaexpenditures. This is greatest for the poorest quintile
at 22 percentand implies a greater burdenfor the poorerhouseholds. For illustrative purposes,
the last column inTable 7 demonstrates the burdenofthe government day schoolannualfee of
TSh 40,000 per student, by quintile. This fee not only constitutesa far greater burdenon poorer
households(for the poorest, on the order of 3 times the burdenfor the richest) but is arguably
unaffordableacross the board. These findings highlight the needfor alleviatingthe private
expendituresofhouseholdson secondary educationby reducing schoolfees as well as other
direct costs of education(see below).




                                               52

Quintile    Mean per capita monthly Ratio to total Ratio to non-food Ratio of TSh 40,000
            education and medical       expenditures expenditures         secondary fee to non-food
            expenditures (TSh)          (percentage) (percentage)         expenditures (percentage)


Poorest                             184             5.0              21.8                          104.7
           2                        254             4.1              18.6                             73.5
           3                        370             4.1              16.4                             53.9
           4                        509             3.9              17.7                            49.4
Richest                           1085              4.2              13.2                             32.6
Total                               455             4.3              17.7                            64.7




Financial Sustainability

12.       Primary Education. Inorder to discuss the future expansion and quality improvement for
secondary education inTanzania and the associatedcosts, projections for primary education are
necessary as this level provides the entrants into the secondary level and its financing must be
guaranteed first and foremost. The reforms of primary education initiatedin2000/2001
(including implementationof PEDP) have resulted inan increase inthe primary GER from 78
percent in2000 to over 100percent in2004. Table 8 shows enrollment and GERprojections for
primary schooling, basedon current trends in intake, repetition, and drop-out rates, as well as an
annual growth rate of 2.5 percent for 7-13 year-olds. The table demonstratesthe "wave" o f
enrolments currently making its way through the primary education system as a result of the
afore-mentioned reforms, leading to a peak intotal enrollments and GER in2007. Although all
children o f primary school age will be enrolled, enrollments fall after 2007 (until2013, when they
beginto grow again) since the wave createdby entry into primary school of overage children
duringthe periodofrapid expansion subsides, and almost all childrenenrolling inStandard Iare
at the appropriate age.

13.       A reduction inthe pupil-teacher ratio from the current 57:l to 45:l by 2010 is envisioned.
This change is more thanoffset bythe trends inprimary enrollments so that the requirednumber
o f new primary teachers (who complete one-year Certificate A courses incolleges) falls from
over 21,000 in2004 to less than 2,000 in2010 (assuming a 3 percent teacher attrition rate4),
thereby releasing capacity inthe college system for teacher training for secondary education.
Finally, Table 8 indicates the projected primary education development expenditures' for
classroom construction, basedon a cost o f 5 TSh millionsper classroom, o f which 70 percent is
publicly financed andthe remainder by communities. These expenditures are substantial until
2006, after which they fall rapidly as enrollments drop. The 2004 primary education
development expenditures are fully fundedby the ongoing PEDP, which closes by 2005. The
Poverty Reduction Support Credit planned for negotiation in2005 will address primary education
development expenditures, amongst other issues.


  Teachingforce attrition rates are assumed to take into accountteacher morbidity and mortality (e.g. as a
result o fHIV/AIDS), retirement, as well as pursuitof alternativeemployment.
  Note that development expenditures for primaryteacher training purposeswill be small in the foreseeable
future as the expansion inprimaryeducationenrollment will peak shortly and then decline, leadingto a
falling demand for new teachers.


                                                  53


14.       SecondaryEducation Enrollments. By contrast to the primary enrollment rates, analysis
o f the 2000/2001 Household Budget Survey indicates that only 5 percent o f 14-21 year-olds are
enrolled insecondary education. The most recent administrative data point to a 2003 GER of 7
percent ingovernment schools and an additional 4 percent innon-government schools. The
stated intention of the Government of Tanzania is to increase participation rates at the secondary
level so as to narrow the gap between Tanzania's GER and the average GER for Sub-Saharan
Africa (27 percent in20006). At the same time, enrollments at the secondary level cannot simply
grow at the rate o f increase o f primary graduates. Instead, the flow into government secondary
schools will continue to be regulated, as has beenthe practice inthe past, to reflect the number of
places available7. Nonetheless, the rate of expansion of secondary enrollments will be rapid:
government secondary school entrants into Form Iare to grow by 30 percent in 2004 and 20
percent annually over 2005-2008 (see Table 9). Entrants into non-government secondary schools
are projected to increaseat a lower rate of 15 percent annually over 2004-2008, giventhe high
costs to households o f non-government schools.

15.       The above-described expansion ratesresult inan increase inthe Forms I-NGERfrom 11
percent in2004 to 15 percent in2006 and 23 percent in2009, more than doubling total
enrollments inForms I-Nover the 2004-2009 period (enrollments rise from roughly 380,000 in
2004 to 896,000 in2009). The Government o f Tanzania is, however, interested inentertaining a
highgrowth scenario inwhich total enrollments inForms I-IVreach 1.9 millionby 2010, i.e.
almost double the 2010 total enrollments in the current projections. This highgrowth can be
achieved ifthe necessary institutional arrangements are put inplace and the requiredresources
mobilized. For purposes o fthis discussion, the implications o f this highgrowth scenario on
teachers and development andrecurrent expenditures, for example, will be mentioned for
purposes of comparison but are presentedinmore detail inAppendix 1.

16.       Secondary Education Teachers. Secondaryschools are staffedby Diplomaand Degree-
level teachers, the former currently trained for two years incolleges, the latter for four years
largely inthe Faculty o f Educationof Dar es SalaamUniversity. As a result, the cost for training
a Degree-level teacher averages 15-20times the cost for a Diplomateacher, and rapid expansion
of secondary education implies a diminishingshare ofDegree holders inthe teaching cadre until
2010 (see Table 10). This is further necessarygiventhe higher attrition rate exhibitedby Degree-
level teachers (estimated at 15 percent), who are more likely to find alternative employment than
Diploma teachers (with an estimated 5 percent attrition rate). An increase inthe student-teacher
ratio from the current 22:1to 30:1by 2007 is also envisioned inorder to keep the demand for
new teachers within realistic levels'. The combination o f expanded secondary enrollments,
teacher attrition, and increased student-teacherratios leads to the need for roughly 2,170 new
Diploma and 760 new Degree-level teachers in2006, for example.




'constraintson
  Source: World BankEdStats (http://www.worldbank.org/education/edstats/)
  Enrollments innon-government secondary schools are notregulatedinthis manner. The main
               expansion inthe non-governmentalsector are likelyto be acombinationo faffordability and
the fact that non-governmentschoolstend to be urbanor peri-urban, i.e. concentratedinareas ofhigher
ropulation density.
  Under the high growth scenario, the student-teacher ratio would reachan upper limit o f35:l to fhrther
reducethe necessaryrate of increaseindemand for newteachers.


                                                 55

I   -  - I    I    I

'8'      n       n
e        8
         e       8
                 e
.4i 8
f i e
.z E     .P 8
         .z e

17.     These numbersare of such magnitude that existingteacher training programs need to be
modified: Diploma training would bereorganized along the lines o f one year incollege followed
by one year mentored school practice; and Degree-leveltraining would revert to three years, also
possibly followed by one year mentored probation(Lewin and Osaki 2004). The projections on
recurrent costs below, which include the costs of teacher training, assume the above restructuring
of teacher training programs. Finally, a constraint on teacher supply may be the output of
qualified Form VI leavers, particularly since teaching is rarely a first choice for the best qualified.
The share of Form VI graduateswho would haveto opt for teacher training starts at roughly 13
percent in 2004, reaching ahigh of 27 percent in2008, so that recruitment o fteacher trainees is a
key concerng.

18.     SecondaryEducation Capital Investments and DevelopmentExpenditures. Assuming an
average class size of 40 throughout inorder to facilitate the rapid expansion", Table 11 reports on
the number ofnewclassroomsto bebuilt eachyear to absorb increasedsecondary enrollments.
In2006, for example, roughly 2,000 new classrooms(1,360 government, 640 non-government)
will be needed. These new classrooms would be built either as part o fexisting schools or innew
schools. They are currently assumedto be evenly dividedbetweenthose inexisting schools (the
most cost-effective way of creating new capacity) and those innew schools (the most effective
way of improving access to excluded populations). With this division, government would needto
build over 180new secondary schools over the period2004-2006 and close to 480 schools over
2004-2009. Significant numbers o f government secondary school classrooms would also be
refurbished,andconstruction ofteacher housing will be necessary for schools inremote rural
areas.

19.     Communities are assumedto contribute a quarter o fthe cost o f buildingthe classrooms
and schools inthe government sector. The resultingpublic portion of requiredconstruction
expenditures is projected to reach 54 TSh billions in2006 and 87 TSh billions in2009 (all values
are assumedto grow at a real rate of 5 percent annually). Additional capital requirements include
development programs for new curricula, examinations, learningmaterials, inspection, and ICT,
and are costed at 5.7 TSh billions in2006 and falling to 2.9 TSh billions in 200911. Finally, hostel
construction inconjunction with teacher training institutions will be necessaryto accommodate
the expansion inthe secondaryteaching force and is estimated at a cost of 3.1 TShbillions in
2006 and 1.4 TSh billions in2009. Thus, the public portion of development expenditures for
secondary education amounts to roughly 42 TSh billions in2004, 74 TSh billions in2006, and
106 TSh billions in2009, and is assumedto require external financing (see Table 11).




 Note that under the high growth scenario, at peak demand for newteachers as many as 43 percent o f
FormVI leaverswould needto enter teacher training, which seems unlikely giventhe alternative
opportunitiesavailable to them.
loUnder the high growth scenario, average class size is 45.
I1Laboratories, specialpurposerooms, libraries,etc. are included inthe school costing.


                                                58

                -   --1
-     I
-     I


                        as




m"    I    6


      /f.-
       y   3

       r . v )

                                                                            J




20.      Secondary Education Public Recurrent Expenditures. Table 12 demonstratesthe
substantial growth in the secondary education recurrent budget necessary in order to achieve
desiredexpansion and quality improvements, with annual growth rates over the period 2004-2015
averaging 23 percent. Teacher salaries remain the main component of the recurrent budget,
exhibiting a secular increase in absolute value throughout the projection period. However, teacher
salaries per student show a decline until2008, reflecting the efficiency gains from an increase in
the student-teacherratio to a highof30:1by 2008. Although non-salary recurrent expenditures
include some expenditure on educational materials and supplies, Table 12 includes projections for
the costs ofa newsystemofcapitation grantspaidto schoolsthat is to ensureeducation quality
improvementthrough provision of learningmaterials, curriculum development, and in-service
support. These projections are basedon a 2004 capitation grant of 2,500 TSh per month per
student for all students ingovernment schools and 1,250 TSh per month per student for 80 percent
of students in non-government schools (growing at 5 percent annually inreal terms). The
capitation grant is aimed at improvingthe quality o f education insecondary schools without the
needfor schools to raise funds towards this endfrom their students, a current practice detrimental
to the poorer students (e.g. the use of caution money or "fees for improving education", amounting
to an annual 5,000 TSh and 10,000 TSh respectively insome schools). The capitation grant
quickly captures a sizeable share o fthe secondary education recurrent budget, at 18 percent in
2006, for example.

21.      Inadditionto the capitation grants, a20,000 TShfee subsidy is envisionedfor allstudents
ingovernment schools, reducingthe current annual fee from 40,000 TShto 20,000 TShfor day
schools, and from 70,000 TSh to 50,000 TSh for boardingschools. Further targeted bursaries o f
20,000 TSh annually to the poorest students (estimated at 15 percent o fthe government schools'
secondary student population) will render their secondary education free. An additional allocation
for needy girls (at 50 percent of the total allocation for the poorest) and a subsidy to mentally or
physically disabled students at so-called disadvantaged schools (amounting to 1,250 TSh per
student per monthand reaching 15 percent of government school students) are plannedfurther.
The government schoolfee subsidy constitutes by far the largest o fthese items interms of share of
the secondaryeducation recurrent budget, amountingto 13 percent in2006 and 15 percent in2009.




                                                 60

-I

22.      Education Sector Financial Sustainability and SecondaryEducation Financing Gap.
Table 13 presentsprojectedrecurrent expendituresfor all educationsub-sectors. For primary and
secondary educationand teacher training, previously discussed expansions andlor quality
improvementsare utilized to derive recurrent expenditure projections. Administrative and adult
educationexpendituresare allowed to grow at projectedGDP growth rates. Tertiary education,
on the other hand, grows below GDP growth rates (i.e. at only 4 percentannually at constant
prices). This implies a drop intertiary education's share inthe educationrecurrent budgetfrom
17percent in2003104to 14percent in2005106 and 13 percentin2008109 (see Figure 2).
Allocations to primary educationare at 63-65 percentofthe educationrecurrent budget
throughout2003104-2008109. The share of secondary education, however, morethan doubles
during this period(from 7 to 15 percent). Nonetheless, educationsector recurrent expenditures
are arguably financially sustainable when measuredas a share of GDP or oftotal recurrent
expenditures (see Table 13). While the share of GDP would have to increase from the baseline
3.6 percent in2003104, it would stabilize in2005106 at 4.1-4.3 percent for the next 10years.
Similarly, the share of the educationsector intotal recurrent expenditureswould needto increase
from the 2003104 level of 25.6 percentto 29.3 percent in2005106 and 30.6 percentby 2008109.
Barringthese increases, there is a sizeable financing gap for secondary education(see Table 13
and Figure 3) consistingofthe resulting recurrent financing gap (calculated as the difference
betweenprojectedneeds anda secondary educationbudgetgrowing merely at the GDP growth
rate) and the requireddevelopment expenditures. This financing gap (which takes into account
secondary educationteacher training recurrent and development expenditures) amounts to close

years12.
to 270 TSh billions (equivalentto closeto 243 millionU S dollars) over the next three fiscal




l2Underthe highgrowthscenario, the secondary educationfinancing gap is on the order of 371 TSh
billions(334 millionUSdollars) over the nextthree fiscal years.


                                               62

m m d - - m - o
 m m -         E:




m W - m O d
 m N -       - 0
               E:

-0
5

Figure 2: EducationRecurrent Expenditures,by Sub-sector


                                                           .Adult Education


                                                             Secondary Teacher Training

                                                           mPrimary Teacher Training

                                                           OTertiary Education (excl.
                                                             teacher training)
                                                           0Secondary Education


                                                           W Primary Education


                                                           mAdministration & General
                                                             Education

                                     Fiscal Year




Figure 3: Secondary EducationFinancingGap


       400,000

       350,000

       300,000
   -.-e250,000                                                   +Recurrent
   0                                                                     Financing Gap
       200,000
   c                                                             -8- Development
       150,000                                                           Expenditures

                                                                         Total Financing
       100,000                                                           Gap

        50,000

             0




                                     Fiscal Year




                                                65

                                                Appendix1
                                           High Growth Scenario

1,        Under this scenario, government secondary school entrants into FormIgrow by 30,35, and40
percent in2004,2006, and 2009 respectively (see Table 14). Entrants into non-government secondary
schools increase at a lower rate of 15 percentin 2004 and 20 percent annually over 2005-201 1.

2.        These expansion rates result inan increase inthe Forms I-IVGER from 11percent in2004 to 17
percent in2006 and 37 percent in2009. Total enrollments inForms 1-IVrise from 380,000 in 2004 to 1.9
million in2010.

3.        The student-teacherratio increasesfrom 24:1in2004 to 28:1in2006 and 34:1 in2009, reaching
a higho f 35:1 in2010 (see Table 15). The combinationo f expanded secondary enrollments, teacher
attrition, and increased student-teacherratios leads to the needfor roughly 3,300 new Diploma and 980
new Degree-level teachers in2006, for example. The share o f FormVI graduateswho would haveto opt
for teacher training starts at roughly 13 percent in 2004 and reachesa high o f 44 percentin 2010.

4.        Assumingan average class size of 45 throughout inorder to facilitate this rapid expansion, Table
16 reports on the number of new classrooms to be built eachyear to absorb increased secondary
enrollments. In2006, for example, roughly 2,840 new classrooms (2,070 government, 770 non-
government) will be needed. Assuming halfthese classrooms will bebuilt innew schools, this translates
into 240 new government secondary schools over the period 2004-2006 and over 940 new schools during
2004-2009. The resultingpublic portion of requiredconstructionexpenditures is projected to reach 99
TShbillions in2006 and 327 TShbillions in2009. Overall, the public portion o fdevelopment
expenditures for secondary education (which includes government schools additional school capital and
costs for teacher training institutions) amounts to roughly 51 TSh billions in2004, 80 TSh billions in
2005, and 122 TSh billions in2006.

5.       Annual growth rates o fthe secondary education recurrent budget over the period 2004-2015
average 32 percent (see Table 17). The main items inthe secondary education recurrent budget are
teacher salaries (roughly stable at 30 percent of the budget), non-salary recurrent expenditures (25 percent
in2006 anddeclining), government schools capitationgrants (roughly stable at one fifth ofthe budget),
and government schools fee subsidies (13 percent in2006 and increasing).

6.        Secondary education recurrent expenditures capture an increasing share oftotal education
recurrent expenditures, starting at 7 percent in2003104, reaching 12percent in2005106, 19 percent in
2008109, and 44 percent in 2015116 (see Figure4). Inaddition, the education sector as a whole would
capture an increasing share o f GDP (see Table 18): 3.6,4.1,4.6, and 5.9 percent o f GDP in2003104,
2005106, 2008109, and 2015116, respectively. Perhapsthe most stark demonstration of the required
increase ingovernment commitment to education is the share of the education sector intotal recurrent
expenditures, which would needto increase from the 2003104 level o f 25.6 percent to 29.7 percent in
2005106,33.4 percent in2008109, and 42.4 in2015116. Barringthese increases, the financing gap for
secondary education (see Figure 5) amounts to close to 371 TSh billions (334 million US dollars) over the
nextthree fiscal years.




                                                    66

I             I


I             I




I   - c.ll    I

$ 1    e -

                     I -
3                          --I
-.I



~ \ o m U
w w m r
    -"
m -
-.       m"


                W   m
                N
                3   m
                    m




h        h
         d
         m
d
m

.-0m
II       .-m
         &




Figure 4: EducationRecurrent Expenditures,by Sub-sector


                                                           .Adult  Education


                                                             SecondaryTeacherTraining


                                                           W PrimaryTeacherTraining


                                                           =Tertiary Education(excl.
                                                             teacher training)
                                                           0Secondary Education


                                                           W Primary Education


                                                             Administration & General
                                                             Education

                                    Fiscal Year




Figure 5: Secondary EducationFinancingGap


    900,000
    800,000

    700,000

  -2
  u)600,000
  C                                                     +RecurrentFinancing
    500,000
    400,000                                             +Gap    Development
  v)                                                            Expenditures
    300,000                                                     Total FinancingGap
    200,000
    100,000
          0




                                  FiscalYear




                                            73

References

Borensztein,E., J. de Gregorio andJ. W. Lee. 1998. "How DoesForeign Direct Investment
Affect EconomicGrowth?, Journal of International Economics 45( 1): 115-35.

Case, Anne. 2001. "The Primacy of Education." ResearchProgram inDevelopmentStudies,
PrincetonUniversity.

Caselli, Francesco, and Andrew Coleman.2001. "Cross-Country Technology Diffusion: The
Case of Computers." American EconomicReview,Papers and Proceedings9l(2):
328-35.

D e Ferranti,David, Guillermo Perry, IndermitGill, Luis Guasch, William Maloney, Carolina
Sanchez-Paramo, andNorbert Schady. 2003. Closing the Gap in Education and Technology,The
World Bank,Washington, D.C.

Kelly, M.J. 2000. TheEncounter betweenHIV/AIDS and Education. Harare, Zimbabwe:
UNESCO, Sub-regional Office for Southern Africa.

Lewin, Keith, andKalifunja Osaki. 2004. "SEDP Position Paper: Strategiesfor IncreasedOutput
of Secondary Teachers." Ministryof Educationand Culture, UnitedRepublic of Tanzania.

Malhotra, Anju, Rohini Pande, and CarenGrown. 2003. "Impact of investments in female
educationon gender equality." Draft of August 27, 2003, International Center for Research on
Women, Washington, DC.

OECD. 2001. The Well-beingof Nations: TheRole of Human and Social Capital. Centre for
EducationalResearchand Innovation,Paris, France.

OECD and StatisticsCanada. 2000. Literacy in the Information Age: Final Report of the
International Adult Literacy Survey. Paris, France.

World Bank. 1999. Confronting AIDS: Public Priorities in a Global Epidemic. A World Bank
Policy ResearchReport. New York: Oxford University Press.

World Bank. 2001. EngenderingDevelopment: ThroughEquality in Rights, Resources, and
Voice. New York: World Bank and Oxford University Press.

World Bank. 2002. Education andHIV/AIDS: A Window of Hope. Washington, DC: World
Bank.

Xu, Bin.2000. "Multinational Enterprises,Technology Diffusion, and Host Country Productivity
Growth." Journal of DevelopmentEconomics 62(2): 477-93.




                                             74

                                                                 Annex K
                                         Tanzania at a dance                                                                           10127103

                                                                          Sub-
 POVERTYand SOCIAL                                                   Saharan          LOW-
                                                          Tanzania      Africa     income       Developmentdlamond'
 2002
 Population, mid-year (millions)                                35 2        688      2,495                       Life expectancy
 GNI percapita (Atlasmethod, US$)                               280         450        430
 GNI (Atlasmethod, US$ billions)                                 9 7        306      1,072
 Average annualgrowth, 1996-02                                                                                          T
 Population(%)
 Laborforce (a)                                                 2.4         2.4         1.9
                                                                2.6         2.5         2.3     GNI                                    Gross
                                                                                                per                                   primary
 Most recentestimate (latest year available, 1996-02)                                           capita                              nrollment
 Poverty(% of populationbelownationalpovertyline)                35
 Uban population (% of total population)                         35          33         30
 Lifeexpectancyat birth(years)                                   47          46         59                              I
 Infantmortality(per 1,000 live births)                          65         105         81
 Childmalnutlition(% of children under 5)                        31                                    Access to improvedwater source
 Access to an improvedwater source (% of population)             51          58         76
 Illiteracy(% of population age 15+)                             22          37         37
 Gross primaryenrollment (36 of school-age population)           65          66         95               -Tanzania
     Male                                                        65          92         103                    -- Low-incomeprom
     Female                                                      65          60         67

 KEY ECONOMICRATIOS and LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                     1982      1992       2001        2002      Economlcratios.
 GDP (US$billions)                                     6.2      4.6         9.3         9.4
 Gross domestic InvestmenffGDP                                 27 2         17.0       17.4
 Eworts of goods and serviceslGDP                     11.1      12.4        15.3       16.7                           Trade
 Gross domestic SavingslGDP                           13.4      -1.6         8.4       10.5
 Gross nationalsavingdGDP                             15.9      4 2         7.3        10.2
 Current account baiancelGDP                          -6.7     -23.2        -9.5       -7.4
 Interest paymentdGDP                                  0.9       1.3         1.3        0.5     Domestic                           Investment
 Total debtlGDP                                       99.9     145.1       79.6        56.4     savings
 Total debt servicelexports                           23.6     42.4        31.2         8.6
 Presentvalue of debtlGDP                                                  43.9        19.1
 Presentvalue of debtlexports                                             137.0      109.6
                                                                                                                  Indebtedness
                                        1982-92   1992-02      2001       2002     2002-06     I
 (average annualgrowth)
 GDP                                          ..      4.0        6.1         6.3        6.4
 GDP percapita                                ..       1.3       3.3         4.2        4.1                -TanzaniaLow-incomeoroun
 Exports of goods and senn'ces              6.5        6.6      -2.7         1.o        4.9




STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY
                                                    1982       1992      2001        2002     IGrowthof
(% of GDP)                                                                                                InvestmentandGDP(%)                 I
Agriculture                                          48.5      48.0       44.6        44.4
Industry                                             14.3      16.2        16.0       16.3
  Manufaduring                                        9.2       6.2         7.4         7.6
Services                                             37.2      35.8       39.2        39.3
Privateconsumption                                   73.4      60.0        79.9       77.0
Generalgovemment consumption                         13.2      19.6        11.7       12.5
importsof goodsand services                          20.4      39.4       23.9        23.6    L             -GDI            *GDP              1
                                                 1982-92   1992-02       2001        2002      Growthof exports and Imports(%)
(averageannualgrowth)                                                                            T
Agriculture                                           3.9       3.6         5.4         5.0    40
Industry                                              1.7       5.3         6.9         9.3
  Manufaduring                                       77.8       4.3         5.0         7.6    20

Services                                              6.2       3.7         5.5         6.2     0

                                                                                              -20
Privateconsumption                                    3.1       3.9       25.2          2.2
Generalgovemment consumption                          4.2       1.9      -32.6        13.6    -40

Gross domesticinvestment                                ..      0.7         5.7         6.6
Importsof goodsand services                           1.7       2.3        19.5        -3.3

Note: 2002 data are preliminary estimates,
*The diamondsshowfour keyindicators in the country (in bold) comparedwith its income-groupaverage. If data are missing, the diamondwill
   be incomplete.



                                                                    75

                                     THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
                                             MINISTRY OF FINANCE

Telegram: "Treasury", Dar Es Salaam                                            P.0.Box 91 1I.
Telephone: 11117416, Fax: 110326, Telex: 41329                                 DAR ES SALAAM
All official Communications should be addressed
to The Permanent Secretary to the Treasury and
Not individuals
Inreply please quote:

Ref. No.  ...........TYCIBMOI12...1....A. .
                    .................... '-' . .                            Sth April, 2004



                                          nzania and Uganda,
          World Bank Country Office
          DAR ES SALAAM.

          Dear Ms. O'Connor,

              RE: TANZANIA'S SECONDARY EDUCATION SUB-SECTOR POLICIES,
                                STRATEGIES AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME

          1 I am writing on behalf of the Government of the United Republic of Tanzania
               to request a credit of US $ 150 million from the International Development
               Association (IDA) in support of the Secondary Education Development
               Programme (SEDP). The proposed credit will be used to increase both the
               proportion of youth who complete secondary education and the quality of
               education provided.

          2, The Government attaches high priority to strengthening human resource
               capacity as a means of reducing poverty and promoting economic growth
               through raising the education levels of the population. This letter highlights
               the main sector constraints and the Government strategies to address them,
               consistentwith the Poverty ReductionStrategy (PRS) objectives.

               Background and Sector Issues
          3 A dynamic education sector is essential for producing a qualified and skilled
               Tanzania work force for acceleratedeconomic growth and poverty reduction.
               In this regard, education is key to raising productivity and improving living
               standards.             Tanzania, in collaboration with development partners has
               managed to accelerate enrolments at the primary level, and is in the process
               of raisingquality through provision of adequate and appropriate teaching and
                learning materials and teacher improvement. Gross Enrolment Ratio has
                increasedfrom 77.6 percent in 2002 to 105.3 percent in 2003. However,the
               education system at the secondary level in Tanzania performs far below
                requirements of meeting development needs. Overall access is amongst the
                lowest in Africa South of the Sahara      -only  10 percent Gross Enrolment Ratio
                at lower secondary and 2 percent at upper secondary. Children from the
                poorest 40 percent of households are thirteen times less likely to be enrolled
                in secondary school than are children from highest income quintile. Qualityof
                                                                                                1

  student performance is also a matter of concern. Academic performance is
  low as measured by exit examinations at the end of lower secondary; almost
  two thirds of students achieve only the lowest pass mark in the examination;
  moreover,the performanceof girls is lower than boys and contributesto weak
  participationof girls in upper secondary and post secondary education.

Secondary education occupies a strategic place for the future growth and
development of our country for the following reasons:

4 First, the growth of the modern sector of the economy depends to a large
  extent on the supply of educated secondary graduates. At present only about
  9 percent of the labour force has attended secondary education. Most of
  those in formal employment and the public sector will continue to be
  secondary school leavers, including teachers for basic education. Even
  people in the informal sector have better chance to prosper when they have
  secondary education that makes them more self-reliant and productive.

5. Second, secondary education is an essential foundation for the human
  resources required to build a competitive economy. In an era of science,
  technology and information science, secondary education develops and
   reinforces the capacity for continuous learning and updating to match
   requirementsof globalization.

6, Third, expansion of secondary education will increase the enrolment of
   children from poor families and thereby ultimately improve their productivity,
   incomes and living conditions.

7 Fourth, pressure for expansion of secondary intake is likely to mount quickly.
   The number of primary school leavers is projected to increase by 240%
   between 2005 and 2008 as a result of earlier expansion in primary education
   thus increasingthe pressureon expansion of secondary intake. The prospect
   of wider participation in secondary education will also encourage and help
   sustainthe recent acceleration in primary enrolments.

8 Fifth, secondary education has many positive externalities, such as improved
   health, reduced infant mortality and reduced fertility rates among girls, HIV
   and AIDS prevention and enhanced social participation. Quality secondary
   education for girls contributes directly to the empowerment of women,
   allowingthe economy to grow optimally.

9 Finally,the scope, quality and gender balance of tertiary and higher education
   depend on the graduates of secondary education.




                                                                               2

Strategies for Education Reform

I O . In 1995, the Government, through the Ministry of Education' and Culture
     (MOEC) issued an Education and Training Policy (ETP) that opened further
     participation of the non-government sector in the provision of education.
      Further more, ETP led to the development of a framework for the sector by
     designing the Education Sector DevelopmentProgramme (ESDP) in 1997. A
     series of master plans were prepared in specific sub-sectors, including
     primary, secondary, teacher and higher education. The master plans were
     technically linkedto each other to realizethe sectoral approach and the basis
     for developing sub-sector programme. The focus of the first phase of ESDP
     was to strengthen and improve performance of the primary education sub-
     sector. The Primary EducationDevelopmentProgramme (PEDP) launched in
     2001 has increased primary enrolment and raised quality as reflected in a
     substantial increase in the pass rate in the primary school leaving
     examination. Now that the PEDP is well underway, the next priority is
      secondary education.

11.A comprehensive Secondary Education Development Programme (SEDP)
      was prepared in December 2003 and discussed by stakeholders. The SEDP
      provides a comprehensive analysis of the critical issues in the sector and sets
      targets and an overall Plan for improving the performance of the sub-sector.
      The overall objective of the SEDP is to increase the proportion of Tanzanian
      youths who complete secondary education at the lower and upper levels with
      requisite learning achievements. This goal recognizes that it is not enough to
      enroll more children in secondary schools, but to retain them and ensure that
      they learn properly. Specifically,the aim is:

 12.First, that 50 percent of the school age group successfully completes lower
      secondary education by 2010 compared with 5-6 percent at present and 25
      percent at the upper secondary level compared with less than 2 percent at
      present. In order to accomplish this goal there is need to increase access by
      expanding enrolments at lower secondary from 329,000 students in 2003 to
      1,860,000 in 2010. At upper secondary level,total enrolments would increase
      from 26,000 in 2003 to 190, 000 by 2010. However, in view of the current
      growth of the economy, the Government will person in the short term, a
      medium growth scenario where enrolments at lower Secondary will expand
      from 329,000 students in 2003 to 1,028,889 in 2010. At upper Secondary
      enrolmentwill increase from 26,000 in 2003 to 86,799 by 2010.

 13.Second, there is need to achieve better retention of students in the system to
       acquire requisitesecondary education.

  l.Q.Third, we need to ensure that the education received by students is of high
       quality and relevantto their daily lives and work prospects.



                                                                                    3

15,Fourth,the Governmentaims at achievingbetter management and delivery of
   secondary education services through devolution of authority to regions, local
   authorities, school boards and institutions.

Secondary Education Development Programme (SEDP):

16.SEDP has three main strategic elements (i) increased access with equity; (ii)
   quality; and (iii) management reforms.

17.Access with Equity-The strategyto increaseaccess and equity involves five
   sub-programmes;

18,teachers.
   First, reducethe prevailing recurrentcost per student by making better use of
              This means:
   (a) Reducingthe number of subjects students take at the lower level;
   (b) Increasingthe averageteacher workload per week; and
   (c) Adhering to strict norms in teacher allocation to schools. The target is to
       lower teacher-pupil ratiofrom 1:22to of 1:30 in all schools by 2009.

   Second, introduce development grant to accelerate the construction of
   needed schools, classrooms, teachers houses and other a school
   infrastructure. Financial incentives will be provided for the establishment and
   expansion of community secondary schools in underserved areas.
   Communities will be expected to contribute labour for construction, while the
   Government will finance procurement of the necessary building materials,
   furniture, equipment and technical skills.

   Third, expand teacher supply to meet the needs of enrolment expansion. In
   this context it is intended to replace the current training programme with one
   that involves a shorter period of initialtraining followed by in-school mentoring
   and subsequent professional development. Thus, teaching qualificationsat
   diploma level will be obtained through a one-year residential training followed
   by one year mentored supervision in the classroom. Efforts will also be made
   to increase the pool of qualified Form 6 graduates for entry into teacher
   training. Steps will be taken to ensure recruitment of the newly trained
   teachers into the teaching profession and their retention. The Government
   will continue to improve the living conditions of teachers in Government
   Schools as an incentivefor retention.

   Fourth, secondary schooling will be made affordable to those with lower
   levels of household incomes, and socially and culturally marginalized groups.
   The direct costs borne by parents for public secondary education in terms of
   tuition fees for day scholars, textbooks, and construction costs will be
   reduced. Scholarships will be provided for children who still cannot afford to
   pay, covering up to 48,000 students from the lowest income segments of the
    population.


                                                                                   4

   Fifth, recognizing the vital role that non-government providers play in
   secondary education in Tanzania, the strategy will provide development
   grants to selected non-profit making, non-government providers catering for
   the physically challenged children.

19. Quality Improvement: Quality improvementwill address issues in areas of
    curricula and examination,textbooks, professional development of teachers
    and girls' achievementand retention.

    First, the curriculum structure will be streamlined and reduced to a
    manageable number of subjects. In addition, all subjects will be reviewedto
    make content up to date and more relevant, reformed assessment system
    and examinations will be used to improvequality.

    Second, the government will strengthen institutional coordinationof curricula
    and examination so as to synchronize curricula and examination reforms.
    The Form 2, 4 and 6 examinations will be reformed to reflect reviewed
    curricula and test competencies rather than rote learning.

    Third, SEDP seeks to create a sustainable system for ensuring good quality
    teaching learning materials in secondary schools. The Education Material
    Approval Committee (EMAC) will be strengthened. The policy on open
    private sector textbook publishingwill continue to be implemented. Schools,
    will be made responsible for the purchase of teachingnearning materials.The
    Government will introduce ring-fenced capitation grants for non-salary
    recurrent costs of secondary educationwhich will be disbursedto schools for
    use within agreed criteria. This will create sustained textbook demand which
    will stimulate a market and supply response by private publishers. Eligible
    non-government schools will receive half of the capitation grant for
    textbooks.

    Fourth, substantial effort will be made to improve the competence of
    classroom teaching by introducing continuous in-servicetraining of teachers.
    Finally, retentionand academic performanceof girls will be improvedthrough
    tailor made interventions.

20. Management Reforms

    It is intendedthat administrative and managementfunctions will be devolved
    to lower levels in accordance with the government's overall policy on
    Decentralization. The Ministry of Educationand Culture will be strengthened
    to focus on core functions of policyformulation, strategy development, setting
    standards, monitoring and evaluation, and quality control through human
    resourcecapacity building based on needs assessment and improving
    support infrastructure,RegionalEducation Officeswill'overseethe general      '


    management of secondary schools in the Regions.

      Finally, Districts, Wards, School Boards and School Heads will be
      provided with management training to undertake new responsibilities
      guided by financial and procurement manuals.

Implementation of SEDP.

2     SEDP implementationneeds to be made on severalfronts simultaneously

   First, Improvement of Access byfocusing on:
   (a) Optimum utilization of teachers, tutors and existing physicalfacilities;
   (b) Expansion of school facilities, and equitable distribution of resources in
       underserved areas;
   (c) Expansionof Form 5 and 6;
   (d) Establishing open and distance learning;
   (e) Supportto the non-government sector.

   Second, Quality Improvemententailing:
   (a) Expansionof production of diploma and degreeteachers.
   (b) Improvementof qualifications and quality of teachers and tutors;
   (c) Capitation grantsfor teaching and learning materials;
   (d) Review of curriculum for secondary and teacher educationto make it more
       relevant;
   (e) Enhancementof quality of examinations and assessment systems.

Third, Management Reforms by focusing on

       (a) Devolution of implementation and management responsibilities from
           the centre to lower levels;
       (b) Capacity building at all levels of the devolved system;
       (c) Strengthening of the inspectorate and support mechanism for quality
           assurance;
       (d) Strengthening of monitoring and evaluation and informationsystems.

22     Currently, the Government is working actively with Development Partners
       and all stakeholders to move SEDP forward. Many Bilateral donors are
       committed to the continuous support to the development of Tanzania's
       education system. With the commitment of the Government and the
       support of the Development Partners including the proposed IDA
       Secondary Education Development credit, Tanzania will be able to
       mobilizethe resources needed to successfully address sub-sector issues.
       In this context, the government is committed to increase allocation of
       resources for SEDP partly through increase of resources to the sector to
       finance Capitation and Development Grants, as well as costs related to
       the development and implementation of curricula, examinations and the
       provisionof teachers.

 23    Development grant will be allocated based on the extent the area is
       underserved. The criteria to determine the underserved areas, among
                                                                                 6

      others, are Gross Enrollment Ratio (GER); Transition Rates from Std VI1
      to Form 1 and 0' level to A level , Poverty index and gender inequity.
      Capitation grant will be allocated according to the number of students
      based on unit costs. Scholarships will mainly be granted to children with
      academic ability but whose parents cannot afford to pay school fees due
      to poverty. The governmentwill establishmechanismfor :-

      i)     Identifyingeligible students; and
      ii)    Managingthe scholarship grants

      Staffing level will be according to teaching load norms and the agreed
      Pupil-Teacher ratio projected at 303 by 2009. Capitation grants will be
      distributed at the rate of Tshs. 25,000.00 per student.

We look forward to IDA providingthe credit to facilitate partial implementation of
the programme.

                                 .Yours sincerely,




                   PERMANENT SECRETARY-TREASURY


CC'   Mrs. M.Malale
      PermanentSecretary,
      Ministry of EducationandCulture,
      DARESSALAAM.




                                                                                 7



