E971
THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
Ministry of Education And Culture
SECONDARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
(SEDP)
ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
(ESMF)
May 8, 2004
FILE COPY



TABLE OF CONTENTS
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY ................................................................i
The National Environment Management Council (NEMC) ....................   .................. iii
The Regions ....................................................... iii
The Districts ........................................................              iii
The School Boards ....................................................... iii
1. INTRODUCTION                                         .1
2. DESCRIPTION OF THE PROGRAM                                     .2
3. BASELINE DATA                                        .6
The Bio-Physical Environmental Features                         .6
The Key Social Environmental Features                          .8
Characteristics of Poverty                              .9
4. DESCRIPTION OF THE WORLD BANK'S SAFEGUARD POLICIES .11
Environmental Assessment (OP4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01) .12
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) .13
5. DESCRIPTION OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE, POLICY, LEGISLATIVE AND
REGULATORY FRAMEWORK ...............................................................     15
Administrative Structure for the Education and Training Sector .............................. 15
The School Calendar ........................................................        15
The Policy Framework for the Education and Training Sector ................................. 15
The Policy Framework for Decentralization by Devolution ...................................... 16
The Legislative and Regulatory Framework for Education and Training ................. 17
The Legislative and Regulatory Framework for Decentralization ............................. 18
Management and Administration Framework for the Environment .......................... 18
The Office of the Vice President ........................................................  18
The National Environment Management Council (NEMC) ............................... 19
Environmental Units ........................................................    19
District Environment Unit .......................................................  19
The EIA Process in Tanzania ........................................................  20
Extent of public participation .......................................................  21
Policy Framework for the Management of the Environment ..................................... 21
Legislative Framework for the Management of the Environment ............................. 22
Act Or Policy Key Elements Implementing Authority .............................................. 23
International Conventions ........................................................  25
Membership of International River Basin Commissions . .......................................... 25
6. DETERMINATION OF POTENTIAL ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL
IMPACTS ...............................................................                  26
Potential Environmental Concerns and Impacts ....................................................... 26
Generic Environmental Concerns .......................................................  26
Positive Environmental Impacts of the SEDP .................................................... 32
Potential Adverse Environmental Impacts from the SEDP ................................ 32



Potential Social Concerns and Impacts .......................................................   32
Positive Social Impacts from the SEDP .......................................................   33
Potential Adverse Social Impacts from the IRCBP ............................................ 34
7. INSTITUTIONAL ASSESSMENT AND FRAMEWORK FOR ENVIRONMENTAL
AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT ......................        ................................................ 35
Institutional Roles and Responsibilities ..............................................................   35
The Ministry of Education and the Presidents Office - Regional Administration
and Local Government ..............................................................  35
The National Environment Management Council (NEMC) ............................... 35
Local Government Authorities ..............................................................  35
The School Boards ..............................................................  36
Capacity Assessment to Perform these Roles . .................................................... 36
Training Needs ..............................................................  37
Training Needs ..............................................................  38
_   Proposed Training Program ..............................................................  38
8. ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL PLANNING, REVIEW AND CLEARING
PROCESS FOR THE SECONDARY SCHOOLS CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
FUNDED UNDER THE SEDP .......................................................................  39
Environmental and Social Management Process ....................................................... 39
9. MONITORING PLAN .45
Monitoring Roles and Responsibilities (refer to Fig. 8.1) .46
School Boards (SB's) .46
The Local Government Authorities (LGAs) .47
The National Environment Management Council (NEMC) .47
The Ministry of Education and Culture (MOEC) .48
Monitoring Plan (Table 9.1) .48
Costs for Implementing the Monitoring Plan                .51
10. STAKEHOLDER CONSULTATIONS .52
ANNEXES .......................................................................     53
Annex 1.0 World Bank Environmental and Social Safeguard Policies Summary ..... 54
Annex 2.0 Environmental And Social Screening Form ............................................. 57
Annex 3.0 Typical Checklist to Identify Impacts and Mitigation Measures of
Construction and/or Rehabilitation of Tanzania Second Education Development
Program (SEDP) ..............................................................  63
Annex 4.0 Environmental Mitigation Plan for SEDP ................................................ 65
Annex 5.0 Environmentally Sensitive Areas ( ESA's) and Ecosystems .................... 66
Annex 6.0 Environmental And Social Appraisal Form ............................................. 67



EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
1.    Education is one of the priority sectors specified in the Tanzania Development
Vision 2025 and the PRS. Within this context, the government is deepening a
comprehensive Education Sector Development Program (ESDP). The ESDP has defined
the following general priorities:
* Priority in spending on basic education;
* Improvement in equitable access to quality secondary education;
* Demand-driven and market-oriented post-secondary and higher education; and
* Institutional development to improve sector management and strengthen
implementation capacity.
2.    As part of the ESDP, the Government of Tanzania has prepared the Secondary
Education Development Program (SEDP). The Objective of the SEDP is to promote
economic and social development and reduce poverty through human resource
development at the secondary level, especially for disadvantaged groups. The specific
objectives of the SEDP are:
*  To increase the proportion of the relevant age group completing secondary
education, especially underserved groups.
* To improve learning outcomes of secondary students, especially at the lower
level.
*  To enable the public, including local authorities and private sectors to manage
secondary education effectively.
3.    To achieve these objectives, the program is structured into specifically linked sub-
component activities per specific objectives as follows:
*  Objective 1: Increase the proportion of the relevant age group completing
secondary education, especially underserved groups.
(indicator: achievement of targeted enrollment completion ratios by age group for
lower and upper secondary).
*  Objective 2: Improve learning outcomes of students, especially at lower
secondary level.
(indicator: raised educational attainment of students as shown by continuous
assessments and performance on public examinations).
* Objective 3: Enable the public administration to manage secondary
education effectively.
i



,     *
(indicators: authority devolved and exercised well at Regional, Local Government
Authorities (LGAs) and school levels; better central policy development and
standards setting for cost-effective delivery of quality of secondary education, and
improved oversight).
4.    Under Component 1 (Objective 1), financing will be made available for the
construction of new secondary schools and the expansion and rehabilitation of existing
secondary schools, inter alia.
5.    However, since the exact locations for these new schools were not identified at
the time the SEDP was being prepared, the Laws of the United Republic in Tanzania and
Operational Policy 4.01 of the Bank require the Government of Tanzania to prepare an
Environment and Social Management Framework (ESMF) which is to establish a
mechanism to determine and assess future potential environmental and social impacts of
all program activities to be financed under SEDP. This will help to set out mitigation,
monitoring and institutional measures to be taken during implementation and operation of
the program activities to eliminate adverse environmental and social impacts, offset them,
or reduce them to acceptable levels.
6.    The Government will disclose this document in country as a separate and stand
alone document so that it is accessible by the general public, local communities, potential
project-affected groups, local NGO's and all other stakeholders as well as at the World
Bank Infoshop.
7.    The key highlights in this ESMF are as follows:
* Detailed and comprehensive environmental and social baseline data which will
provide the environmental and social management process with key baseline
information when identifying adverse impacts. The information contains data on
Tanzania's bio-physical environmental features such as its ecosystems, geology,
hydrology in terms of ground and surface water resources, major and sensitive
wetlands, flora and fauna. On social baselines the report discusses the main
features of Tanzania's demographics, public health features and poverty.
* Table 5.1 presents a summary of the requirements of the World Bank OP 4.01
Environmental Assessment and OD 4.12 Involuntary Resettlement.
* The administrative, policy, legislative and regulatory framework in Tanzania for
Education in particular and for environmental management in general is presented
in chapter 6.0.
* Generic potential adverse environmental and social concerns and impacts from
anticipated program activities with root and immediate causes is presented in
detail in Section 7.0
* The roles and responsibilities of key institutions and players for the purposes of
this ESMF are discussed in 8.0.
.1.



8.    Implementation of the SEDP will be coordinated by the Ministry of Education
and Culture in accordance with the ESDP structure.
THE NATIONAL ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT COUNCIL (NEMC)
9.    The NEMC is responsible for ensuring that all development projects and
programs in Tanzania comply with all relevant environmental laws. This ESMF
recognizes that the NEMC has a significant role to play in the SEDP. This role would be
to provide on the ground ESMF performance reviews/audits both for enforcement
purposes, but more importantly to reinforce capacity for the ESMF implementation at all
levels. The NEMC would also provide periodic monitoring to ensure no adverse
cumulative impacts from the school construction program at the national level and will
provide oversight and technical assistance to the Local Government Authorities when
required.
The Regions
10.   The main role of the Regions in this ESMF would be limited to coordinating the
planning activities of their Local Government Authorities by consolidating the District
Secondary School Development Plans (DSSDP's) into Regional ones (RSSDP) before
they are submitted to the MOEC for approval for funding.
THE DISTRICTS
11.   The Local Government Authorities would be required to review and clear the
environmental and social management process, required of the School Boards, prior to
funding the construction program.
12.   The Local Government Authorities would be responsible for carrying out the
following: (i) ensuring the districts school construction program comply with Tanzania's
environmental laws and requirements, and the World Bank's triggered Safeguard Policies
(ii) receiving, reviewing and commenting, where necessary and clearing of School
Boards completed environmental and social screening forms and checklists (iii) carrying
out a regular and intrusive monitoring regime during the planning, implementation,
construction, operations and maintenance stages of the schools (iv) for preparing periodic
monitoring reports on the school construction program at all stages of operations and to
send these reports on a regular basis to the MOEC as part of other SEDP reports (v) to
comply with (consistent with national laws) the directives of the government (vi) to
issue directives to the School Boards consistent with national laws on environmental
requirements.
THE SCHOOL BOARDS
13.   The School Boards will be responsible (i) for complying with all national laws
regarding the environment and with all social/poverty guidelines, parameters and targets
set by the program, and of all triggered World Bank Safeguards policies, (ii) to
implement their school construction program consistent with the provisions of this
ESMF, implementing, inter alia, all appropriate mitigation measures identified in their
iii



completed environmental and social screening form and checklist into the construction
planning cycle, technical and engineering designs and drawings, and civil works
contracts, etc. (iv) to ensure that these mitigation measures are complied with during
construction and post construction (i.e. operations) stages of their activities, by self
monitoring of their activities and by periodically reporting to the Local Government
Authorities (v) to maintain a budget to implement the appropriate maintenance
procedures and practices for the operation of their school, to ensure relevant mitigation
measures identified in the environmental and social screening form and checklist are
implemented and sustained in the sub school construction program and (vi) to comply
with any directives that may be issued from time to time from the government.
14.   The Environmental and Social Management Process contains the following key
steps;
Step 1:     School Boards (SB's) will screen their own development activities to
identify adverse environmental and social impacts using the screening
form in Annex 2 and the checklist in Annex 3.
Step 2:     Then the SB's will introduce into the sub project design the required
measures to mitigate impacts identified from use of the screening form
and checklist before submission of the sub project design to their
respective Local Government Authorities for review and subsequent
environmental and social clearance.
Step 3:     The Local Government Authorities will review and clear the sub projects
by ensuring sub project designs have identified environmental and social
impacts, mitigated these impacts and have monitoring plans and
institutional measures to be taken during implementation and operation.
ESMF implementation will be integrated into SEDP activities to be financed through
Development Grants at the school level and monitoring, supervision and capacity
building at regional and central levels.
iv



1. INTRODUCTION
1.1   Part of the SEDP resources will be used to finance the construction of new
secondary schools and the expansion/rehabilitation of existing secondary schools, inter
alia.
1.2   However, since the exact locations for these new schools were not identified at
the time the SEDP was being prepared, the Laws of the United Republic in Tanzania and
Operational Policy 4.01 of the Bank require the Government of Tanzania to prepare an
Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) in order to establish a
mechanism to determine and assess future potential environmental and social impacts of
all program activities to be financed under SEDP. This will help to set out mitigation,
monitoring and institutional measures to be taken during implementation and operation of
the program activities to eliminate adverse environmental and social impacts, offset them,
or reduce them to acceptable levels.
1.3   Furthermore, the GoT is also required to prepare a Resettlement Policy
Framework (RPF) to address the needs of those who might be affected when a school
construction/rehabilitation causes the involuntary taking of land and other assets resulting
in: ( a) relocation or loss of shelter, (b) loss of assets or access to assets (c) loss of income
sources or means of livelihoods, whether or not the affected person must move to another
location. The RPF has been prepared as a stand alone and separate document.
1.4   The GoT is further required to disclose both documents (the ESMF and the RPF)
in-country as two separate and stand alone documents so that they are accessible by the
general public, local communities, potential project-affected groups, local NGO's and all
other stakeholders as well as at the Infoshop of the World Bank.
1.5   Since the location of the schools, which are to be decided using the results of a
school survey exercise, and requests from local communities through their Local
Government Authorities, and Regions, has not yet been decided, each location that is
subsequently identified and approved by the Local Government Authorities would be
subjected to environmental and social planning prior to approval.
1



2. DESCRIPTION OF THE PROGRAM
2.1   The Development Objective of the Secondary Education Development Program
(SEDP) is to promote economic and social development and reduce poverty through
human resource development at the secondary level, especially for disadvantaged groups.
2.2   The specific objectives of the SEDP are:
*  To increase the proportion of the relevant age group completing secondary
education, especially underserved groups.
* To improve learning outcomes of secondary students, especially at the lower
level.
*  To enable the public, including local authorities and private sectors to manage
secondary education effectively.
2.3   To achieve these objectives, the program is structured into specifically linked sub-
component activities per specific objectives as follows:
* Objective 1: Increase the proportion of the relevant age group completing
secondary education, especially underserved groups.
(indicator: achievement of targeted enrollment completion ratios by age group for
lower and upper secondary).
Sub-Obiective la: Increase enrollments.
1. Provide development grants to rehabilitate and expand existing public schools
(government schools, assisted schools and community schools), and construction
of new community schools in underserved areas as determined by school mapping
and other indicators. In this context existing underutilized training institutions
could be converted to secondary schools.
2. Provide incentives for expansion of private (non-public) schools that meet
agreed criteria.
3. Provide incentives for expansion through development and capitation grants,
indexed for disadvantaged groups, to subsidize non-salary recurrent expenditures,
textbooks and equipment.
4. Expand the output of trained secondary teachers, including as necessary an
emergency program for lower secondary teachers.
5. Provide trained teachers with incentives to work in underserved areas.
6. Expand access to secondary school equivalency programs for youth and adults
unable to take complete secondary education previously.
7. Experiment with appropriate ICT and distance learning technologies to
accommodate children in remote and underserved areas.
2



Sub-Objective Ib: Improve equitable access and output in secondary education
among geographical areas, income groups and between genders.
1. Identify underserved areas through school mapping and other indicators (to be
defined) as a basis for financial assistance.
2. Provide targeted scholarships for low-income groups through means testing,
including for females at upper secondary level where they are under-represented.
3. Develop and adopt specific anti-dropout programs (e.g. parental awareness) for
vulnerable groups (e.g. parental awareness campaigns, targeted scholarships, extra
teaching support).
Sub-Objective Ic: Reduce the cost per student on households and the public
sector by public recurrent costs per student (economizing on capital and
recurrent expenses).
1. Adhere to minimum school and class sizes to maximize use of capacity (in part,
through school mapping that will facilitate well situated sites to encourage day
schooling at lower costs).
2. Rationalize teacher deployment - increasing students per teacher and teacher
workloads.
3. Reduce the number of subjects taught in lower and upper secondary to
concentrate on core subjects.
4. Reduce the unit costs of textbooks through appropriate methods, such as
competitive selection and procurement.
Objective 2: Improve learning outcomes of students, especially at lower
secondary level.
(indicator: raised educational attainment of students as shown by continuous
assessments and performance on public examinations).
1. Increase the teaching abilities of the teacher force and improve classroom
teaching practices. Steps include:
* Improve pre-service teacher training at both diploma and graduate levels,
through a program that focuses on pedagogical effectiveness and content
mastery.
* Achieve better school-based professional development of teachers by
installing a system of recurrent in-service training for teachers, with priority
given to language, mathematics and sciences, and techniques for teaching
weak learners, continuous student assessment, promoting active participation
of learners and effective use of classroom time on task. This would include
reform of the system of school inspection to support quality assurance.
* Use appropriate types of distance teaching and ICT (CDs, videodisks, e-
learning) for teacher training and upgrading teacher qualifications.
3



2. Revise curricula, improve the design of core subjects, update the content of the
syllabuses and improve learning through active learning, practical work, problem
solving, individual projects and teamwork.
3. Improve the quality and availability of other inputs, including textbooks,
laboratories and libraries. Develop, procure, and distribute textbooks and
teaching materials.
4. Reform examinations and assessments through better design and evaluation of
tests, and better training of test developers and moderators.
5. Experiment with establishment of community e-learning centers in selected
secondary schools (e.g. sponsorship of participation in Africa's SchoolNet).
Objective 3: Enable the public administration to manage secondary
education effectively.
(indicators: authority devolved and exercised well at district and school levels;
better central policy development and standards setting for cost-effective delivery
of quality of secondary education, and improved oversight).
1. Enhance accountability of educational management to stakeholders by devolving
authority to lower levels in the system (from central to district and schools). Steps
include:
*  Adopt policy change adopted for devolution, and adapt the regulatory
framework.
*  Undertake organizational development tasks at various levels, including
oversight.
*  Design new financial management system for financial flows and devolved
budget funds.
2. Build management capacity for the new roles and functions. Steps will include:
*  Analyzing training needs of current management staff, including school
heads.
*  Designing and implementing management development programs for
headmasters and school boards at institutional level, inspectors, intermediate
and central level managers, including networking arrangements for sharing of
experiences among colleagues. Within the overall program, give priority to
training for school heads as the lead force for school improvements.
3. Develop capacity for schools and districts to prepare secondary education
development plans.
4. Design and implementation of performance-based contracts for school
headmasters with accompanying reward structure.
4



5. Strengthen EMIS and monitoring and evaluation capacities in MOEC, particularly
on costs, expenditures and key indicators.
5



3. BASELINE DATA
THE BIO-PHYSICAL ENVIRONMENTAL FEATURES
3.1   The United Republic of Tanzania lies between 29°30'E and 40°30'E, and 1°00'S
and 1 1148'S. It is a land of contrasts, being the home of Africa's highest mountain
(Kilimanjaro, at 5,895 m and its lowest point (the floor of Lake Tanganyika, which is
1,470 m deep). Located on the east coast of Africa, it covers an area of approximately
945,000 km , of which the Zanzibar Islands cover 2,400 km2. The islands of Mafia,
Pemba and Zanzibar are included in this area. Of this area 61,495 km2 is covered by the
inland waters of the Great Lakes (Victoria, Malawi and Tanganyika). The country is
bordered by Uganda to the north for 396km, Rwanda and Burundi to the north-west for
217km and 451km respectively, the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) to the west
for 459km (a water border on lake Tanganyika), Zambia and Malawi to the south-west
for about 338km and 475km respectively , Mozambique to the south for 756km, and
Kenya to the northeast for 769km. The Indian Ocean, whose shores are characterized by
coral reefs and small islands, lies to the east. The continental shelf within the 200-m
depth contour varies from 4-60 km from the shore.
3.2   Tanzania experiences a variety of climatic conditions, ranging from the alpine
deserts on the top slopes of Mount Kilimanjaro that are permanently covered by snow, to
the tropical coastal areas that are under the influence of two monsoon winds. The north-
east monsoon wind which blows southwards from December to March brings the hottest
weather, while the southeast monsoon winds which blow northwards from March to
September bring intermittent rains. The main rainy season on the coast is from March to
May (the 'long rains') with a second season between October and December (the 'short
rains'). Mean annual rainfall varies from 400 mm in the central regions to over 2,500 mm
in the highlands and the western side of Lake Victoria. Mean annual temperatures are
influenced by altitude, ranging from 21 °C in high mountain areas to 29 °C at sea level.
3.3   Except for the coastal belt and islands, most of the country is part of the Central
African Plateau (1,000-1,500 m above sea level) characterized by gently sloping plains
and plateaux, broken by scattered hills and low-lying wetlands. The Central African
Plateau is deeply incised by two arms of the Rift Valley: the eastern arm, which includes
Lakes Natron and Manyara, and the deeper western arm, which contains Lake
Tanganyika. Both arms of the Rift converge in the south of the country near the northern
end of Lake Nyasa( Malawi).
3.4   There are seven agro-ecological zones of Tanzania based on climate, physical
geography, soils, vegetation, land use and tsetse fly occurrence, which are the main
physical factors that influence opportunities and constraints for crop and livestock
production.
6



3.5   Tanzania shares three major lakes (Malawi, Tanganyika and Victoria) with other
countries in the region. Other lakes in the country include Burigi, Eyasi, Magadi,
Masoko, Manyara, Natron and Rukwa.
3.6   Tanzania also has many permanent and seasonal rivers. Main rivers include the
Pangani, Rufiji, Ruvu and Ruvuma.
3.7   Tanzania's wetlands cover about 10% of the country. They are classified as
marine and coastal wetlands, inland wetland systems, rivers and inland flood plains, and
artificial wetlands. The marine and coastal wetlands include the mangrove estuary
swamps, coral reefs, seaweed and grasses, and intertidal mudflats. The inland wetlands
include the Rift Valley lakes (Balangida, Eyasi, Manyara, Natron, Nyasa, Rukwa, and
Tanganyika), some depression swamps (Bahi and Wambere) and Lake Victoria. The
shores of the Rift Valley lakes provide a habitat for birds, while Lake Natron serves as
the largest flamingo breeding ground in Africa. The soda lakes (Eyasi, Manyara, Natron
and Ngorongoro) are their feeding grounds. The waters of these lakes and the adjacent
land are often inhabited by wildlife, which is a major tourist attraction in Tanzania.
3.8   Some swamps are important breeding sites for fish. Lake Tanganyika is home to
about 217 endemic fish species, while Lake Malawi has the most diverse fish species
population (over 600 species). Both lakes are world-famous for their diversity of
aquarium fish. Lake Tanganyika is important nationally for sardine, while Lake Victoria
has a naturally rich and diverse indigenous fish fauna (178-208 species). However, the
introduction of Nile perch has led to the disappearance of several indigenous species.
3.9   The flora of Tanzania is extremely diverse, with over 12,700 plant species - a
figure comprising more than one-third of the total plant species in Africa (UNEP 1998).
This high diversity of plants is not evenly distributed throughout the country, they are
found in six specific ecological zones, namely -
* Moist Forest Mosaic;
* Coastal Forests and Thickets;
* Afromontane;
* Acacia-Savannah Grassland;
* Acacia-Commiphora Thornbush, and
* Brachystegia-Julbernardia-Savannah Woodland.
3.10  Proportionately, Tanzania has a much bigger land surface area devoted to
resource conservation (29%) than most countries. The hierarchical protected-area system
consists of national parks (12), game reserves (28), the Ngorongoro Conservation Area
(1), and game-controlled areas (38), comprising a total of 240,000 km2. In addition to the
wildlife-protected areas, there are 540 forest reserves covering 132,000 km2, equivalent
to 15% of the total woodland and forest area in Tanzania. There is also the Mafia Island
Marine Park.
3.11  Amphibians show high diversity and wide distribution, with high endemism in
coastal forests and in the mountain forests of the Eastern Arc Mountains. Tanzania has
7



293 reptile species, which have a wide distribution range and are not greatly threatened
by habitat change. The number of bird species found in Tanzania is 1,065. Of these, 25
are endemic, and all but 3 species are limited to forest habitats. Some 302 species of
terrestrial mammals occur in Tanzania. The keystone species of critical importance
include chimpanzee, colobus and mangabey monkeys, elephant, and a dwindling
population of black rhinoceros. The larger carnivores include lion, leopard, cheetah and
the African wild dog. There are over 30 antelope species, and the giraffe populations are
the most numerous in Africa. Tanzania also has a rich menagerie of small mammal
species, including bats (97species), shrews (32 species) and rodents (100 species).
3.12  Of the 302 species of terrestrial mammals, 13 species (4%) and 5 subspecies are
endemic to Tanzania and Kenya, and one subspecies is endemic to Tanzania and Uganda.
Tanzania also has high numbers and a great species diversity of millipedes, terrestrial
molluscs and butterflies. The marine environment has more than 7,805 invertebrate
species, while about 789 species of freshwater invertebrates (mostly aquatic insects) are
known in Tanzania.
THE KEY SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FEATURES
3.13  According to the latest estimates, the population of Tanzania is estimated at 36
million people with a 1.72% growth rate and is made up of mostly around 130 Bantu
tribes.
3.14  Despite its potential and rich resource endowment, Tanzania is one of the poorest
countries in the world with a per capita GNP of about US$240 in 1999. The economy
depends heavily on agriculture, which accounts for about half of GDP, provides 85% of
exports, and employs about 80% of the work force. Official estimates suggest that over
half of its 36 million population is poor and 36% is very poor. Poverty is essentially a
rural phenomenon, with almost 61% of the rural population is poor compared to 39% of
the urban population. Income distribution is uneven. In the 1998 rural survey the lowest
quintile accounted for only 7% of mean expenditures.
3.15  Agriculture is the primary economic activity for the 90% of the population living
in the rural areas. The severe degradation of land, forests and water resources that support
agriculture has become an obstacle to the revival of the rural economy.
3.16  The health status in Tanzania needs to be improved. Life expectancy at birth is 47
years (decline due to AIDS) compared to 50 years average in SSA , and infant mortality
of 85 per 1000 live births compared to 92 for SSA. The incidence of HIV/AIDS is high,
with 10.0% of the population aged between 15-49, seropositive. In the 1990's HIV
infection rates increased significantly among this group and was higher among women.
Infection rates are four times higher among young girls compared to boys. Water and
sanitation services are deficient, with access to improved water source estimated to be
about 49% of population. Communicable diseases (HIV/AIDS, persistent malaria, ARI2
' SSA - Sub-Saharan Africa
2 ARI - Acute Respiratory Infection
8



and diarrhea), malnutrition and poor quality health care have been major factors in poor
survival indicators.
3.17  The illiteracy rate( % of population age 15+) is 25%. The Gross primary
enrollment ( % of school-age population) is 67% for men and 66% for women.
3.18  The age structure is as follows:
* 0-14 years: 44.3% ( male 7,988,898; female 7,938,979)
* 15-64 years: 53.1% ( male 9,429,959; female 9,634,102)
* 65 years and over; 2.6% ( male 405,803, female 524,713)
Median age: total: 17.5years, male: 17.2 years and female: 17.7 years
In Tanzania, there are two official languages, Swahili and English.
CHARACTERISTICS OF POVERTY
3.19  Based on the results of the in-country consultations with local communities, local
and central governments and civil society members, during the preparation of this ESMF,
the following characteristics of poverty were derived:
Who are the Poor?
* Rural households.
* Female headed households, other households with less than two adult-members,
elderly and handicapped persons.
* Large households.
* Urban households.
The groups are not mutually exclusive.
Why are they poor?
* Rural Households
o Low agricultural productivity, declining soil fertility and environmental
degradation.
o Lack of access to land, land fragmentation, insecurity of land tenure.
o Lack of access to markets, absence of rural commercial activity and
alternative income earning opportunities.
o Poor quality education, lack of access to education, high cost of education.
o Poor health services and health standards and rise in hiv/aids incidence,
impacting negatively on productivity.
o Poor nutritional intake.
o Lack of access to low cost capital or micro-credit or micro-grants.
O  Lack of access to affordable and sustainable household energy sources.
o Vulnerability.
* Female-headed households
o Shortage of household labor.
9



o Declining soil fertility.
o Many women have to take care of unemployed/unemployable husbands,
dependant parents, dependent orphans.
O Low education attainment, poor access to land, paid employment and
credit.
o Poor social services, e.g. Water, health, education etc.
Urban Poor
o Rapid increase in urban population.
o No employment opportunities particularly among poorly educated young
people.
o Poor basic social services and infrastructure.
O Lack of housing.
O Lack of land.
O High food prices due to low agricultural productivity, high transport costs
and restrictions on petty trade.
* Where are the poor?
o Poverty   continues  to  be  essentially  a  rural  phenomenon.
10



4. DESCRIPTION OF THE WORLD BANK'S
SAFEGUARD POLICIES
4.1   This ESMF has been designed so that all investments under the SEDP will
comply with all the Environmental laws of the United Republic of Tanzania and the
Environmental and Social Safeguard Policies of the World Bank . In this chapter, the
Bank's safeguards policies and their applicability is discussed and in the subsequent
chapter those of the URT are presented.
4.2   The World Bank Safeguard Policies are;
*    Environmental Assessment (OP4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)
*    Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)
*    Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)
*    Pest Management (OP 4.09)
*    Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)
*    Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)
*    Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)
*    Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)
*    Projects on International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)
*    Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)
4.3   In preparing this ESMF, a consideration of the type of future investments planned
vis-a-vis the baseline data presented in Chapter 4 against the requirements of the Bank
Safeguard policies, has led to the determination that only the following Bank policies are
likely to apply.
*    OP 4.01 Environmental Assessment
*    OP 4.12 Involuntary Resettlement
4.4   Notwithstanding, since the exact location of the investments (schools) was not
known at the time of preparation of the SEDP, and since the geographic coverage is
expected to be country wide, other bank policies may apply and not all policies selected
above may apply simultaneously.
4.5   Therefore, a complete description of the bank safeguards and their triggers for
applicability can be found on the World Bank's official web site www.worldbank.org and
summarized in Annex 2.0, to be used as part of the Environmental and Social
Management process presented in chapter 9. of this ESMF.
4.6    The provisions of both OP 4.01 and OP 4.12 apply to all components under the
program, whether or not they are directly funded in whole or in part by the Bank.
11



Therefore, even though part of the school construction program under the SEDP may be
financed with resources from other donors (non World Bank Group), government funds
or other sources within this program, the EA process and the RPF remain mandatory for
the implementation of these activities, even though they may not be financed by the
Bank.
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (OP4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)
4.7   This policy requires environmental assessment (EA) of projects proposed for
Bank financing to help ensure that they are environmentally sound and sustainable, and
thus to improve decision making. The EA is a process whose breadth, depth, and type of
analysis depend on the nature, scale, and potential environmental impact of the program
investments/activities under the SEDP. The EA process takes into account the natural
environment (air, water, and land); human health and safety; social aspects (involuntary
resettlement, indigenous peoples, and cultural property) and trans-boundary and global
environmental aspects.
4.8   The environmental and social impacts of the SEDP will come from the secondary
school  construction  program/activities  of  the  schools  and  any  other
construction/rehabilitation type activities that the SEDP will be financing. However,
since the location of these schools will not be identified before appraisal of the project,
the EA process calls for the GoT to prepare an Environmental and Social Management
Framework (ESMF) report which will establish a mechanism to determine and assess
future potential environmental and social impacts of the construction activities under the
proposed SEDP, and then to set out mitigation, monitoring and institutional measures to
be taken during implementation and operation of the school construction program, to
eliminate adverse environmental and social impacts, offset them, or reduce them to
acceptable levels.
4.9   OP 4.01 further requires that the ESMF report must be disclosed as a separate and
stand alone document by the Government of Tanzania and the World Bank as a condition
for bank Appraisal of the SEDP. The disclosure should be both in Tanzania where it can
be accessed by the general public and local communities and at the Infoshop of the World
Bank and the date for disclosure must precede the date for appraisal of the program.
4.10  The policy further calls for the SEDP as a whole to be environmentally screened
to determine the extent and type of the EA process. The SEDP has thus been screened
and assigned an EA Category B. This category of projects is defined as follows.
Category B projects are likely to have potential adverse environmental
impacts on human populations or environmentally important areas -
including wetlands, forests, grasslands, and other natural habitats - and are
less adverse than those of category A projects. These impacts are site
specific, few if any of them are irreversible, and in most cases mitigation
measures can be designed more readily than for category A projects. The
EA process for category B projects examines the potential negative and
positive environmental impacts and recommends any measures needed to
12



prevent, minimize, mitigate, or compensate for adverse impacts and
improve environmental performance.
4.11  Therefore, this ESMF sets out to establish the EA process to be undertaken for
implementation of project activities in the proposed SEDP when they are being identified
and implemented.
4.12  This process requires the School Management Board to use the screening form
and checklist contained in Annexes 3.0 and 4.0 respectively, to identify potential adverse
impacts of their s¢hool construction program and thereby determine the corresponding
mitigation measures to incorporate into their planned activities. Section 9.0 sets the
relevant process and requirements for environmental and social management.
INVOLUNTARY RESETTLEMENT (OP/BP 4.12)
4.13  Significant efforts are to be made in the design and screening stages of the
secondary schools construction program financed under the SEDP, to avoid impacts on
people, land, propqrty, including peoples access to natural and other economic resources,
as far as possible. Notwithstanding, land acquisition, compensation and resettlement of
people seem inevitable for some selected school sites. This social issue is of crucial
concern to the Government of Tanzania and the Bank, as its impact on poverty, if left
unmitigated, is negative, immediate and widespread. Thus, OP 4.12 will be triggered in
those cases. Thus a Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) has been prepared by the
government and approved by the Bank in compliance with OP 4.12. The RPF sets the
guidelines for the Resettlement and Compensation Plans (RAPs) that would have to be
prepared when any program investment triggers this policy. The RAPs would be prepared
by the School Boards and would have to be submitted to their respective District
Environmental Coordinator for approval. The RAPs would also have to be approved by
the Bank as a condition for that particular school construction to be financed.
4.14  This policy would be triggered when a program activity, in this case a school
construction/rehabilitation causes the involuntary taking of land and other assets resulting
in: (a) relocation or loss of shelter, (b) loss of assets or access to assets (c) loss of income
sources or means qf livelihood, whether or not the affected persons must move to another
location.
4.15  The World Bank Safeguard policy OP 4.12, in most cases, is not triggered
because people are being affected by physical displacement. It is triggered because the
program activity causes land acquisition, whereby a physical piece of land is needed and
people may be affccted because they are cultivating on that land, they may have buildings
on the land, they maybe using the land for water and grazing of animals or they may
otherwise access the land economically, spiritually or any other way which may not be
possible during and after the school construction program is implemented. Therefore,
people are in most cases compensated for their loss (of land, property or access) either in
kind or in cash of which the former is preferred.
13



4.16  The resettlement policy applies to all displaced persons regardless of the total
number affected, the severity of the impact and whether or not they have legal title to the
land. Particular attention should be paid to the needs of vulnerable groups among those
displaced. The policy also requires that the implementation of the resettlement plans are a
pre-requisite for the implementation/start of the construction to ensure that displacement
or restriction of access does not occur before necessary measures for resettlement and
compensation are in place. For chosen sites involving land acquisition, it is further
required that these measures include provision of compensation and of other assistance
required for relo ation, prior to displacement, and preparation and provision of
resettlement sites with adequate facilities, where required. In particular, the taking of land
and related assets may take place only after compensation has been paid, and where
applicable, resettle ent sites, new homes , related infrastructure and moving allowances
have been provided to displaced persons. For program activities requiring relocation or
loss of shelter, the policy further requires that measures to assist the displaced persons are
implemented in ac ordance with the project resettlement plans of action. The policy aims
to have the displaced persons perceive the process to be fair and transparent.
4.17  Where ther.e is a conflict between the Laws of Tanzania and the Bank OP4. 12, the
latter must take pr cedence if the Bank is to fund this project.
4.18  Finally, O 4.12 also requires the RPF to be disclosed both in Tanzania and at the
infoshop of the Bank before appraisal.
14



5.    DESCR PTION OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE, POLICY,
LEGISL TIVE AND REGULATORY FRAMEWORK
ADMINISTRA IVE STRUCTURE FOR THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR
5.1   The United Republic of Tanzania is made of mainland Tanzania and the Indian
Ocean islands of Zanzibar. Under the constitution Zanzibar enjoys a certain degree of
autonomy under the union, for governance of certain sectors, such as education.
* The SEI P will only operate in mainland Tanzania.
*  Admini tratively, the URT is divided into Regions, Districts, Divisions,
Wards and Villages. The Village being the smallest administrative area and is
closest to the communities.
*  The Miiiistry of Education and Culture (MoEC) has overall responsibility for
the Mar agement and Administration of Education and Training in mainland
Tanzani a.
*  In purst ance of its mandate, the MoEC has divided the 21 regions in mainland
Tanzania into eight zones (zones 1 to 8).
*  The Per manent Secretary is the executive responsible for overall management
of educ ation in the MOEC. The Chief Education Officer is the Technical
Head.
*  The Te zhnical Head specifically for Secondary Education is the Director of
Secondary Education (DSE) who is assisted by an Assistant Director of
Second ary Education.
* The administrative head in the regions is the Regional Education Officer
(RE ) and for the Districts, it is the District Education Officer (DEO).
THE SCHOOL CALENDAR
*  1st Term: 3rd M leek January to 1st Week June
*  2nd Term: 1st X Teek July to Ist Week December
THE POLI Y FRAMEWORK FOR THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR
5.2   In 1995, tle Ministry of Education and Culture prepared an Education and
Training Policy th; t emphasized liberalizing the education sector in step with the rest of
the economy and increasing the accountability of service providers to clients. The
Education Sector Country Status Report, Education Sector PER and MTEF have
identified the critic al constraints on the provision and further development of education
as well as the bro der education sector issues. Furthermore, with the overall objective of
producing more and better qualified graduates to support the development efforts of
Tanzania with much strengthened labor force, the Government's sector policies are being
15



refined and finalize d based on extensive consultations with technical working groups
comprising all stake holders.
5.3   Education is one of the priority sectors specified in the Government of Tanzania's
Vision 2025, TAS and PRSP. Within this context, the government is deepening a
comprehensive Edi ication Sector Development Program (ESDP). Close collaboration
with all stakehold rs characterizes the process. The ESDP has defined the following
general priorities:
*  Priority in s ending on basic education;
*  Improveme tin equitable access to quality secondary education;
*  Demand-dri ven and market-oriented post-secondary and higher education; and
* Institutional development to improve sector management and strengthen
implementa ion capacity.
5.4   The primary education sub-sector has been the focus of the development plan for
the first phase of t he ESDP not only because of its essential role in providing a solid
foundation for the development of other sub-sectors, but also because it absorbs nearly
two-thirds of the p iblic resources allocated to the education sector. The government of
Tanzania started the implementation  of a comprehensive  Primary  Education
Development Plan PEDP) in school year 2002. PEDP is a program with the objectives of
improving educatic n quality, expanding school access, and increasing school retention at
the primary level.
5.5   During pro ,essing of the PEDP the government deferred work on a Secondary
Education Master lan (SEMP) and an earlier rationalization project for post primary
education and train ng. With the PEDP now underway, the Government has committed to
put more effort and resources into the further development of post-primary education and
training. The seco d stage of the comprehensive ESDP therefore centers on general
secondary educatio , and hence the SEDP.
THE POL CY FRAMEWORK FOR DECENTRALIZATION BY DEVOLUTION
5.6   In 1998, th Prime Ministers office decided to make changes in the legislation
which will enable the government to: (a) proceed with the implementation of the local
government reforn1n according to the government's visions and objectives for a
strengthened local government system; (b) co-ordinate and give direction to the work on
sector reforms so lhat they are consistent with objectives for the civil service and local
govermnent refor ; and (c) to fulfill government commitments.
5.7   This policy paper on Local Government Reform is based on recommendations
from the National onference on a shared vision for local government in Tanzania, May
1996; the local ( overnment Reform Agenda of November 1996; discussions and
recommendations with the Association of Local Authorities in Tanzania (ALAT),
representatives fro  local authorities, sector ministries and other central government
organs in various f r fora.
5.8   The Tanza nia local government system is based on political devolution and
decentralization of functions and finances within the framework of a unitary state. Local
16



governments will be holistic, i.e. multi-sectoral, government units with a legal status
(body corporate) operating on the basis of discretionary, but general powers under the
legal framework c onstituted by the national legislation. Local governments have the
responsibility for social development and public provision within their jurisdiction,
facilitation of maii]itenance of law and order and issues of national importance such as
education, health, water, roads and agriculture. Local governments have constituted
unitary governance systems all over the country based on elected councils and
committees and a irofessional administration.
5.9   Decentralization of government thus includes four main policy areas;
A.    Political decentralization is a devolution of powers and the setting of the rules
for coui cils and committees, etc.
B.    Financi d decentralization is based on a definition of the principles of financial
discreti nary powers of local councils, i.e powers to levy local taxes and the
obligati n of central government to supply local governments with adequate
uncond tional grants and other forms of grants.
C.    Admini trative decentralization involves de-linking local authority staff from
their re ;pective ministries and procedures for establishment of a local payroll.
Local governments will thus have and recruit their own personnel, making
them a countable to their local councils.
D.    Change   central-local relations: The role of central government vis-a- vis
local c uncils will be changed into a system of inter-governmental relations
with ce ntral government having the over-riding powers within the framework
of the constitution. Line ministries will change their role and functions into
becomi g, (i) policy making bodies, (ii) supportive and capacity building
bodies, (iii) monitoring and quality assurance bodies within the local
govern nent legislation framework, and (iv) regulatory bodies ( legal control
and auc it).
5.10  The Minister responsible for local government will co-ordinate central-local
relations and in p, irticular all initiatives from sectoral ministries on matters relating to
local government.
THE LEGIS LATIVE AND REGULATORY FRAMEWORK FOR EDUCATION AND
TRAINING
5.11  The princi pal legislation is the National Education Act No. 25, 1978. An
amendment act, E, ucation (Amendment) Act, 1995 also exists. The National Education
Act, 1978 makes provision for the following:
*  Central Ad inistration of National Schools
* Local Administration of National Schools
* Duties and Powers of the Minister
* Establishment and Registration of Schools
* Managemerit and Control of Schools
* Provisions relating to Teachers
* Appeals
17



*  General Pro isions
THE LEGISLA IVE AND REGULATORY FRAMEWORK FOR DECENTRALIZATION
5.12  The principal legislation for decentralization by devolution are the following;
* The Local GCovernment ( District Authorities) Act, No. 7 of 1982
* The Local C ovemment ( Urban Authorities) Act, No. 8 of 1982
* The Local C overnment Finances Act, No. 9 of 1982
* The Local C overnment Negotiating Machinery Act, No. 11 of 1982
* The Local C ovenmment Services Act, No. 10 of 1982
* The Urban j uthorities (Rating) Act, No. 2 of 1983
* The Local Authorities Elections Act, No. 4 of 1979
*  The Local Covernment Authorities (Decoration of Building) Act, No. 9 of 1968
*  The Region L Administration Act, No. 19 of 1997
MANAGEMEN!r AND ADMINISTRATION FRAMEWORK FOR THE ENVIRONMENT
5.13  With regar Is to the management of the bio-physical environment throughout
Tanzania, the overC 1 responsibility lies with the Office of the Vice President. There is
also a cross-sectorsl technical committee composed of members from  various sectors .
The members of th¶ Technical Review Committee (TRC) are:
* The Ministr y responsible for Environment (Vice President's Office)
* Ministry res ponsible for forestry, fisheries, wildlife and tourism
* Ministry res ponsible for Urban and Rural Planning
* Ministry res ponsible for Agriculture
* Ministry reE ponsible for Water
* Ministry re, ponsible for Works and Communication
* Ministry re, ponsible for Industry and Trade
* Institute of Resource Assessment - University of Dar es Salaam
* National Er vironment Management Council (NEMC)
* NEMC is the secretariat to the TRC.
The Office of the Vice President
5.14  The vision 9f the Ministry of Environment of the Office of the Vice President is"
to attain sustainabl.e human development, eradication of poverty, security and equitable
use of resources or a sustainable basis to meet the basic needs of the present and future
generations withou It degrading the environment or risking health or safety and also
maintain the union between the mainland Tanzania and Zanzibar".
18



5.15  The mission of the Vice-President's office is "to formulate policies and strategies
on poverty eradicat on, protection of environment and non-governmental organizations as
well as co-ordinate Ill issues pertaining to the mainland Tanzania and Zanzibar".
5.16  The Office of the Vice President (VP's office) is the ministry responsible for
policy, planning an implementation oversight on issues relating to the Environment in
Tanzania. The VP' office is therefore responsible for overall policy guidance and advice
on the development of strategic environmental vision, including formulation, analysis and
appraisal of broad environmental policy, as well as formulation and review of broad
environmental goal,, in conformity with such vision. The VP's office provides a basis for
a broad political 1 gitimacy for the administration of strategic policy decisions on a
routine and continu us basis for coordinated environmental management.
The National Envlronment Management Council (NEMC)
5.17  The Nation'l Environment Management Council (NEMC) is a semi autonomous
body answerably to the Minister in-charge of environment in the Vice President's Office.
5.18  NEMC has an advisory role in the VP's office and is responsible for enforcing
pollution control ind performs the technical arbitration role in the undertaking of
Environmental Imp act Assessment.
5.19  NEMC has prepared a comprehensive EIA procedure and guidelines dated March
2002.
Environmental U its
5.20  Environme Ital units at sectoral and district level are the collaborating partners in
the EIA process. The linkages between NEMC and the sectoral and district
environmental units are legally binding to ensure clear lines of command to facilitate
effective implemenltation. The roles and responsibilities of these units shall be the
following:
5.21  Sectoral Environmental Units
*  with assist ce from NEMC to develop sectoral guidelines within the framework
of the natio al EIA guidelines;
*  to issues E A registration forms to proponents and provide relevant information
on policies and other administrative requirements; and
*  to assist the general EIA process administration at sectoral level.
District Environ ent Unit
*  To issue E A registration forms to proponents and provide relevant information
on policy, 1 gal and other administrative requirements at the district level;
* To co-ordir ate EIA process at district level; and
* To link and liaise with the ENMC on all undertakings within the district.
5.22  The compo 3ition of the District Environmental Unit:
19



* District Pla iaing Officer - as coordinator of the planning process.
*  District N tural Resources Officer - manages the development of natural
resources/f restry, wildlife, bee keeping, fisheries etc).
* District Ag ricultural and Livestock Development Officer - responsible for land-
use and ma lagement.
* District Wa ter Engineer.
*  District He lth Officer.
*  Co-opted members ( depending on nature of project).
THE EIA PROCESS IN TANZANIA
5.23  The EIA p ocess in Tanzania is presented in the "General Environmental Impact
Assessment Guide ines and Procedure", prepared by NEMC (revised March 2002), which
contains five volun es as follows:
* Volume 1: rhe main document that elaborates the proposed EIA procedure.
* Volume 2: Screening and scoping guidelines.
* Volume 3: Guidelines on report-writing.
* Volume 4: Guidelines for EIA review and monitoring.
* Volume 5: A checklist of environmental characteristics (i.e physical, ecological,
land use, cl ltural and socio-economic characteristics).
5.24  The EIA pr ocedure involves the following:
* Registering a project: The proponent is required to register the project with the
NEMC.
* Screening: The project is classified to determine the level at which the
environmei tal assessment should be carried out.
*  Conducting an EIA: This involves the three main stages of the EIA process
(scoping, preparing terms of reference and preparing an environmental impact
statement). It is at this stage that the decision is made whether to conduct the EIA
or not.
* Reviewing the EIA: A Technical Review Committee established by the NEMC
reviews the EIA and decides whether the EIA is acceptable or not.
* Issuing the relevant permits: If the EIA is approved, the NEMC issues the
necessary onvironmental permit that confirms the EIA has been satisfactorily
completed nd the project may proceed.
*  Decision-r aking: A decision is made as to whether a proposal is approved or not;
a record of decision explains how environmental issues were taken into
considerati n.
* Monitoring project implementation: The proponent prepares and executes an
appropriate monitoring program (i.e. an environmental management program).
20



* Auditing the completed project: The NEMC undertakes periodic and independent
audits of th project. Depending on its findings, it will issue an Environmental
Auditing Rc port.
* Decommiss foning the project upon its completion: A decommissioning report is
prepared at he end of the project life. This report outlines the
restoration/ ehabilitation activities to be carried out by the proponent and is
lodged with the NEMC .
EXTENT OF PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
5.25  Public parti ipation is required during the scoping stages and while fulfilling the
terms of reference for the impact assessment of the EIA process. The proponent is
responsible for ide ntifying interested and affected parties and ensuring that all parties
concerned are gi- en adequate opportunity to participate in the process. A public
information program is initiated, and public notices are issued during the scoping and
EIA stages.
5.26  Whenever a strong public concern over the proposed project is indicated and
impacts are exten ive and far-reaching, the NEMC is required to organize a public
hearing. The results of the public hearing should be taken into account when a decision is
taken whether or n t a permit is to be issued.
POLICY F RAMEWORK FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF THE ENVIRONMENT
5.27  Tanzania p lblished its National Environmental Policy (NEP) in December 1997
and the National Conservation Strategy for Sustainable Development, the National
Environmental Ac on Plan (NEAP) and specific sectoral policies such as those on land,
mining, energy, w ter, agriculture, population and fisheries. The NEP recognizes the EIA
process as a mea Is of ensuring that natural resources are soundly managed, and of
avoiding exploitati n in ways that would cause irreparable damage and social costs.
5.28  The NEP s eeks to provide the framework for making the fundamental changes
that are needed in order to incorporate environmental considerations into the mainstream
of decision makin g. The NEP seeks to provide guidance and planning strategies in
determining how actions should be prioritized, and provides for the monitoring and
regular review of policies, plans and programs. It further provides for sectoral and cross-
sectoral policy an lysis, so that compatibility among sectors and interest groups can be
achieved and the synergies between them exploited. The overall objectives of the NEP
are, therefore, the f llowing:
* To ensure t he sustainability, security and equitable use of resources in meeting the
basic needs of present and future generations without degrading the environment
or risking h ealth and safety.
* To prevent and control the degradation of land, water, vegetation, and air, which
constitute o ur life support systems.
*  To conse e and enhance our natural and man-made heritage, including the
biological diversity of Tanzania's unique ecosystems.
21



. To improve the condition and productivity of degraded areas, as well as rural and
urban settlements, in order that all Tanzanians may live in safe, healthy,
productive arnd aesthetically pleasing surroundings.
* To raise pul lic awareness and understanding of the essential links between the
environmen, and development, and to promote individual and community
participatior. in environmental action.
* To promote international cooperation on the environment agenda, and expand
participatiorv and contribution to relevant bilateral, sub regional, regional, and
global orga izations and programs, including the implementation of treaties.
LEGISLATIVE FRAMEWORK FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF THE ENVIRONMENT
5.29  Under Article 27 of the Constitution, the public is called upon to ensure that the
natural resources of the country are managed properly:
(1) Every person is obliged to safeguard and protect the natural resources of the
United Republic, State property and all property jointly owned by the people
(2) All perscons shall by law be required to safeguard State and communal
property, to combat allforms of misappropriation and wastage and to run the
economy of the nation assiduously, with the attitude ofpeople who are masters of
the fate of their nation.
5.30  Tanzania h as completed a draft framework legislation on environmental
management whicl . is due to be tabled for its first reading in the 2004 parliamentary
session.
5.31  Table 5.1 ;hows the various policies and laws that relate to environmental
management.
22



Table 5.1: Exist ng Key Policies And Laws Relating To Environmental Management
Ac Or Policy Key Elements Implementing Authority
Act                       Key Elements              Implementing Authority
National Environmenta          The Act provides for the      National Environmental
Management Council ( 'EMC)    establishment of the NEMC, as  Management Council
Act, No. 19 of 1983           well as all functions and other
matters related and incidental to
its establishment.
Wildlife Conservation  ct,     The Act protects wildlife and  Ministry of Tourism Natural
No. 12 of 1974, as ame ded     vegetation by restricting the  Resources and Tourism
utilization of wildlife to license-
holders. The use of sensitive
wildlife habitats is restricted
during certain times of the year or
for specified periods.
Fisheries Act, No. 6 of 1970  The Act limits annual catches.  Division of Fisheries,
Specific regulations were     Ministry of Natural Resources
Fisheries Act No. 22 0 f 2003  introduced in 1973 and 1982,  and Tourism
putting limitations on methods of
fish harvesting, including
outlawing of dynamiting and
poisoning.
Water Utilization and Control  The Act establishes temporary  Ministry of Water and Livestock
Act, No. 42 of 1974            standards for public use, as well  Development
as effluent discharge standards.
Urban Water Supply            The Act gives the National Urban  National Urban Water Authority,
Act, No. 7 of 1981            Water Authority powers to      Ministry of Water and Livestock
monitor and control surface water  Development
and groundwater pollution and
specifies punitive measures for
violators of this act.
Mining Act, No. 17 of 1980, as  The Act sets out government  Ministry of Energy and Minerals
amended                       policy on all forms of mining and
is supported by various
regulations covering claims,
prospecting rights, mining rights
and royalties. Mining license
applicants are required to submit
plans for environmental
protection. Each industry is
required to establish realistic
resource recovery standards and
to adhere to them. Mining plans
are required to be presented
before operations begin.
Forestry Policy of 199        The revised Policy continues to  Division of Forestry,
recognize the important role of  Ministry of Natural Resources
forests in the maintenance of the  and Tourism
environment, the provision of
forestry products and the
protection of watersheds and
biodiversity.
Land Act, No. 4 of 1999       Private Group Property is given  Ministry of Lands and Human
either through Granted Rights in  Settlement
General and Reserved Land
(Land Act, Section 19) or through
Customary Rights in Village
23



Act                       Key Elements             Implementing Authority
Lands (Village Land Act, Section
22). Provision is also made for
holding land by joint occupancy
or occupancy in common
(Land Act, Part XIII).
Village Land Act, No. of 1999  The Act requires each village to  Ministry of Lands and Human
identify and register all     Settlement
communal land, and obtain the
approval of all members of the
village for identification and
registration (Village Assembly,
Section 13). A Register of
Communal Land (Section 13(6))
is to be maintained by each
Village Land Council, and land
cannot be allocated to
individuals, families, or groups
for private ownership (Section
12(1 )(a)).
Local (District and Ur an)    Local Authorities are empowered  Local Authorities
Authorities Act, No. 7 f 1982  to make by-laws regarding the
protection of soil, agriculture,
water supplies and other natural
resources. The Act contains
provisions to protect human
health and regulate pollution
problems.
Merchant Shipping Ac of 1967  Atmospheric pollution is
addressed only minimally in
Tanzanian legislation. The Act
prohibits the emission of dark
smoke from ships for more than
five minutes in any hour within
the limits of a port.
Town and Country Pla ining    The Ordinance was intended to  National Land Use Planning
Ordinance,                    establish a land-use planning  Commission
scheme for designated areas. The
National Land Use Planning
Commission was established to
advise Government on land
conservation and development.
Public Health, Sewera e and   The Ordinance prohibits the    Ministry of Health and Social
Drainage Ordinance,           discharge of certain substances  Welfare
Chapter 336                    into sewers. Violation of the
Ordinance is an offence, and
penalties may be imposed on
offenders.
24



INTERNATIONAL CONVENTIONS
5.32 Tanzania is a party to many international agreements on Biodiversity, Climate
Change, Desertific ation, Endangered Species, Ozone layer protection, Marine Life
Conservation, etc. xamples are:
* Basel Con ention on the Control of Transboundary Movements of Hazardous
Wastes and their Disposal (1989)
* Convention Concerning the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural
Heritage, P ris (1972)
* Developme: t, Production and Stockpiling of Bacteriological ( Biological) and
Toxin Wea ons, and their Destruction, London (1972)
* Convention on Biological Diversity (1992)
* Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and
Flora (CITE S) (1973)
* Convention on the Ban of the Import into Africa and the Control of
Transbound ary Movement and Management of Hazardous Wastes Within Africa,
Bamako,M ali (1991)
* UN Conve ltion to Combat Desertification in Countries Experiencing Serious
Drought an /or Desertification particularly in Africa (1994)
* Lusaka Ag eement on Co-operative Enforcement Operations Directed at illegal
Trade in W ld Fauna and Flora (1994)
* Montreal P otocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer (1987)
* Phyto-sanit ry Convention for Africa, Kinshasa (1967)
* UN Conve tion on the Law of the Sea (1982)
*  UN Frame; ork Convention on Climate Change (1992)
* Vienna Cor vention for the Protection of the Ozone Layer.
MEMB ERSHIP OF INTERNATIONAL RIVER BASIN COMMISSIONS.
Tanzania is a n ember of the Nile Basin Commission
25



6. DETERN INATION OF POTENTIAL ENVIRONMENTAL
AND SOCIAL IMPACTS
PO ENTIAL ENVIRONMENTAL CONCERNS AND IMPACTS
Generic Environmen al Concerns
6.1      The   National Environment Policy           (NEP)    identifies   the   following    as  the   critical
environmental problen s facing Tanzania today:
*   Land Degradat on
*   Lack of accessi ble, good quality water for both urban and rural inhabitants
*   Environmental Pollution, e.g Water Contamination
*   Loss of Biodiv rsity, Habitat and Wetlands
*   Deterioration o IAquatic Systems
*   Deforestation
6.2      The Tables 6.1 to 6.7, presents the root and immediate causes for these environmental
problems and discusse s the impacts and their severity, providing the background against which
any potential adverse impacts on the environment from the activities of the SEDP can be
determined and analyz .d.
Table 6.1
Land Degradation: From s il erosion, soil exhaustion and overgrazing. A problem throughout Tanzania.
Particularly around the steep hills in Mwanza, Mara, and Kagera region; lakeshores
Immediate Cause s                   Root Causes                      Impacts                Severity
*   Massive continued loss of      *    Population pressure and    *   Loss of top soil and      HIGH
vegetative cover due to            poverty leading to              reduction of soil fertility
deforestation and loss o other     unsustainable land use          leading to decrease in
land cover, deterioratio i of      practices.                      agricultural production
catchment buffer zones         *   Topography (uneven relief,      and food security.
*   Inappropriate agricultu al          high stream flow velocities)  *  Reduction of vegetative
practices leading to dec reased    and rainfall patterns (floods,  cover and loss of habitats
soil quality and erosion such as   droughts, climate               and biodiversity.
use of marginal lands,             variability)                *   Water quality degradation
overgrazing and free gr wing.  *   Lack of land use policies       from high sediment loads,
*   Lack of soil and water              and improper land use          siltation of shallow lakes,
conservation measures ed/or        management; weak                wetlands, reservoirs, and
abandonment and poor               extension service on soil       valley bottoms and other
maintenance of anti-erc sion       conservation often              low lying lands
works.                             connected with prevalent        downstream.
*   Bush fires and slash an I bum      land tenure system.         *   Degradation of river beds
practices.                     *   High livestock density          and river bank erosion;
*   Lack of awareness of land-      desertification and wind
water interaction               erosion (northern arid
*   Lack of systematic              regions), sheet and rill
implementation of EIA for       erosion and gully
infrastructure projects due to  formation (after heavy
lack of financial and human     rainfall) in highlands.
resources.                 *    Landslides and flooding
leading to destruction of
infrastructure ( houses,
means of communication,
communal facilities, etc.)
26



Table 6.2
River Bank and Lakeshot e Degradation. For e.g. at River estuaries into lakes.
*   Poor land use and agricu ural  *   Lack of or insufficient    *   Destruction of vegetative  MODERATE
practices such as dry se  n        national land use plans, laws  cover especially lake shore
cultivation near banks an          and regulations, and/or        buffer zones.
destruction of vegetative over     enforcement of existing    *   Erosion, landslides, and
to increase arable land ar a; high  laws.                         downstream sedimentation
animal density.                *   Population pressure and        leading to change in river
*   Drop in water levels and drying    rapid growth of urban          course.
up of waterways.                   centers.                   *   Adverse effects on
*   Increased urban develop nent   *   Expansion of farm lands and    riverine aquatic life and
and construction and ind strial    inadequate agricultural        lake ecosystems.
activities near river bank ;       practices near river banks
poorly planned tourism c nters.    and shores, including
overgrazing.
* Land subsistence; relief and
morphological structure of
soil.
*   Climatic variability and
conditions; seasonal floods
and intermittent increase in
lake levels.
Table 6.3
Minin: For instance, Mara, Mwanza, parts of Shinyanga, and Kagera regions
Immediate Causes                   Root Causes                      Impacts                Severity
*   Use of toxic chemicals a d    *   Inadequate policy guidance,  *  Water and air pollution.  HIGH in
lack of containment and          lack of or insufficient     *   Soil degradation and     certain
treatment facilities (esp.        safeguards ( EIA, anti-        erosion of sites and      locations
mercury use in gold min ng).      pollution/environmental        adjacent river banks;
*   Lack of adequate site             legislation.                   deforestation and
rehabilitation.               *   No regulation/enforcement      landslides leading to river
*   Inadequate mining pract ces.      of private mining              siltation.
*   High demand for const iction      entrepreneurs.             *   Adverse impact on flora
materials and indiscrimi late  *  Lack of (government)           and fauna.
clearing of vegetation.           planning and oversight
27



Table 6.4
Water Contamination: Poll ition. Point source pollution localized around urban/growth centers. Non point sources
generally are a regional proble n mostly from agricultural sources.
Immediate Causes                   Root Causes                  Impacts             Severity
*   Discharge of run-off of u treated  .  Weak policies, laws and  *  Degradation of    MODERATE
water from urban and ind strial   regulations for environmental  water quality,
sources containing dissol ed      protections ( e.g. EIA);       rendering water
nutrients, industrial pollut nts,  insufficient enforcement and  unsuitable for
agricultural chemicals/ferl ilizers;  monitoring especially in   domestic,
lack of recycling of waste matter;  respect to industrial facilities;  agricultural,
uncontrolled dumping of waste.    low budgetary provision for    industrial and other
   Non-point source pollutio i from  enforcement of existing        uses.
agriculture due to improp r and   regulations, lack of sufficient  *  Adverse impacts on
high application rates of a gro-  human resources.               water dependent
chemicals.                     .  Point Sources: Inadequate      flora and fauna, loss
*   Degradation of vegetative cover   funding of investments, high   of habitats and bio-
especially wetlands, in ba ins    capital costs, high operation  diversity, nutrient
which could act as filters.       and maintenance costs,          discharges leading
inadequate containment and     to increased
treatment of wastes and lack   eutrophication. .
of sanitary facilities.    .   Pollution of lakes
.   Non-point sources:             and tributaries,
Unsustainable land use         resulting in
practices in combination with  contamination of
lack of security of land       drinking water.
tenure.                    *   Lack of adequate
.   Inadequate zoning              liquid and solid
regulations and/or             waste disposal
enforcement; inadequate        systems and
environmental and land use     accumulation of
planning.                      refuse.
*   Low environmental          .   Decrease in
awareness and sense of value   environmental
or environmental protection.   quality,
disappearance of
natural habitats and
proliferation of
I    water hyacinth.
28



Table 6.5
Deforestation:
Immediate Causes                 Root Causes                   Impacts            Severity
.   Land use conversion d e to  *  Poverty and population   .   Decreasing             HIGH
increasing need for ara le      pressure leading to         vegetation/forest cover;
land and grazing areas;         unsustainable pressure on   loss of density and
burning practices for la d      resources; absence of       diversity.
clearing and shifting           alternative livelihoods
cultivation.                    and weak capacity to    *   Deterioration of
increase unit agricultural  watershed: high run-off
*   Uncontrolled logging f r       production.                  associated with
fuelwood and charcoal                                       increased erosion
production for              *   Insufficient energy         leading to loss of fertile
domestic/household en -rgy      alternatives to fuelwood.   soils and sedimentation
consumption, construc ion                                   and siltation
material and local indu try  *  Insufficient awareness      downstream.
fuel needs.                     and knowledge of
sustainable land use     *  Energy crisis associated
*   Unsustainable and inef icient  practices and effects of     with price increases due
resource use (e.g.              deforestation.              to decreased availability
overgrazing, extensive                                      of fuelwood and
cultivation on steep hil    .   Land tenure system          charcoal.
slopes and uncontrolle         leading to allocation and
logging).                       use of marginal lands and  *  Large scale habitat
lack of incentives for      destruction and loss of
*   Lack of local                  sustainable land use         wildlife in terms of
planting/replanting.            practices.                  numbers and
biodiversity;
*   Human migration and         .   Drought and overall arid    progressive
resettlement due to             climate and topography.     disappearance of
increasing numbers of                                       National Parks.
returnees and other wa
affected groups, encro ching                            *   Variability in climate
into forested areas.                                        and rainfall patterns.
29



Table 6.7
Water Contamination: Sal itation Aspects
.   Lack of water supply s stems  .  Lack of environmental   .   Pollution of drinking  SEVERE
and/or other reliable dr nking  regulations and laws,        water sources
water source; drinking  ater   monitoring and enforcement    (ground and surface
contamination with fec l       and general waste             water) and high
matter leading to spread of    management strategies.        dissolved nutrient
pathogens.                                                   loads resulting in
Rapid growth of urban         increasing
.   Lack of or insufficient        centers and lack of financial  eutrophication and
sewerage or alternative        resource base to build        spread of infectious
sanitation systems ;lea s and  needed water supply and       diseases ( diarrhea,
insufficient maintenanc e of   sanitation infrastructure,    malaria, bilharzias,
existing facilities; lack of   combined with lack of         dysentery, and
urban storm water sewe rs and  planning for urban            intestinal worms).
solid waste disposal fac ilities.  expansion and required
infrastructure.           .   Risks to public health
*   Insufficient sanitation End                                  due to poor sanitation
hygiene training in        .   High capital costs for        conditions, especially
conjunction with wides pread   investments; high operation   during rainy season
poor sanitary condition s.     and maintenance costs.        and floods.
.   Increased breeding gro nd  .   Previous low priority given  .  Increased  absence
for mosquitoes in wate weed    to sanitation by government   from  work due to
infested areas and irrig ition  and agencies, lack of        sickness; increase in
canals.                        awareness of connection       malnutrition    and
between sanitation and safe   death rates especially
drinking water; need for      among     vulnerable
better hygiene education.     groups such as small
children,       the
*   Poverty and poor health       displaced  and  the
condition of large parts of   elderly.
the population.
30



Table 6.7
Loss of Biodiversitv and Habitats.
Immediate Causes                             Root Causes                          Impacts               Severity
Species loss and decline of ecosyste vs and  *  Population pressure and poverty    Species loss and decline of     SEVERE
unique habitats.                                combined with high reliance on     ecosystems and unique
.    Poaching and illegal trade in N aluable    primary natural resources and      habitats.
species as well as intensive and            income from agriculture.          *    Disappearance of unique
unsustainable resource use an, land    *    Low financial and staff capacity in    animal and plant species,
management, such as deforest ition,         management of protected areas and      especially endemic ones;
wetlands conversion, expansion of           associated lack of control and         decline of species
agriculture (crops and livesto k farming,   monitoring; poor enforcement of        diversity.
overfishing, uncontrolled burr ing and     laws protecting gazeted forests and  *  Decrease in numbers of
forest fires).                              game sanctuaries; lack of financial    large mammals with
.    Lack of altemative income so rces          resources for development and           negative impact on
especially in areas or resettlen ent.      implementation of effective and         tourism and associated
Loss of agrodiversity.                          relevant programs.                      decrease in revenue.
*    Expansion of hybrid/high yiel ing crop  *  Weak agricultural extension services.  .  Decrease in forest cover
and livestock varieties leadinE to decrease  *  Lack of awareness of biodiversity  constituting decrease in
of genetic diversity of domest c/national   concems and benefits from              food, fuel timber and
species.                                    conservation.                          shelter.
.    Introduction of exotic species         *   Lack of regulations to prevent     Loss of agrodiversity.
introduction of exotic species.    .   Loss of genetic base
*    Inadequate and unregulated land use    (cattle breeds, crops,
practices; insufficient integrated      vegetables/fruits); loss of
programs for people living in           benefits from local
protected areas.                        variety qualities
(tolerance productivity,
resilience); dependency
on exotic seeds and
breeds/imported
varieties.
Wetlands Degradation; e.g. Simi u River, Lake Victoria Shores, banks of Kagera River/swamps
*    Reclamation of wetlands to e pand      .   Lack of wetland protection and     .    Decrease and            SEVERE
agricultural production.                    management regulations and             degradation of wetland
*    Deforestation, erosion and se imentation.  measures and/or lack of                 areas ( reclamation,
*    Overuse of natural resources               implementation .                        siltation, flood damage;
(overfishing/hunting/over-             *    Poverty and population pressures;      water weed infestation)
grazing,farming practices)                  shortage of land; inadequate land use  *  Decreased benefits from
*    Pollution from industrial, agr cultural and  policies                              functioning wetlands,
domestic sources.                      *    Lack of awareness of wetlands          e.g. less groundwater re-
function and value, cultural habits.   charge, decreased
buffering of floods, loss
of filter function to
absorb and degrade
pollutants and associated
decrease in water
quality; decreasing
ability to act as sediment
trap; destruction of
habitats and loss of
biodiversity.
31



Positive Environment a1 Impacts of the SEDP
6.3   Overall, the SE DP is likely to have a positive impact on the environment in Tanzania, in
the short, medium and ong term, for the following reasons;
*  The implement tion of this ESMF will increase in Tanzania the practice of subjecting
development p ojects (especially education projects) to an environmental management
process, in the prevailing situation where a national environmental policy and regulatory
framework are weakly enforced. The ESMF offers the opportunity to identify potential
program impac s, mitigate them verifiably through monitoring while building capacity
for environme ntal management within institutions, local governments and local
communities.
*  The ESMF off rs the opportunity to mainstream into the secondary education school
curriculum, E  ironmental Education. To support this initiative, the SIDA ( Sweden
International  evelopment Agency) has developed an Environmental Education
Handbook for he Education Sector. This handbook is available from the office of the
Senior Progra  Officer for the Education and Social Sector, in Embassy of Sweden in
Tanzania. Cont Ct details are www.swedem-dar.com or hans.person(g,sida.se
* The SEDP will significantly increase the enrolment rate at the secondary education level
by increasing the number of classroom/places in the public, private, and
community/rel gious/NGO schools system throughout the country, thereby significantly
meeting the ov rwhelming demand for secondary education in Tanzania.
*  The SEDP wil pose no direct risks to biodiversity, natural habitats and wetlands, as it
will not fund a tivities in protected areas, national parks or wetlands.
Potential Adverse En vironmental Impacts from the SEDP
*  Poor planning esulting in poor choice of location of schools, that ultimately lead to land
degradation an soil erosion, water (surface and ground) contamination, degradation of
natural habitats and wetland ecosystems.
*  During constr ction - poor performance of civil works contractors ( and their
supervisors) le ding to unsuccessful incorporation of incorporated mitigation measures.
*  Poor impleme tation of maintenance plan during operational phases of the public service
infrastructure/s hool financed under this project, due to lack of funds, negligence of staff
or failure in the monitoring this stage.
Potential Social Con erns and Impacts
6.4   The main soci l issues in Tanzania today are:
*  Acute Poverts - poverty is wide spread in Tanzania. Despite its potential and rich
resource endo ment, Tanzania is one of the poorest countries in the world with a per
capita GNP3 of about US$240 in 1999. Official estimates suggest that over half of its
3 1million pop lation is poor and 36% is very poor.
3World Bank Source
32



* The Tragedy f HIV/AIDS - Life expectancy in Tanzania has declined to 48years as
result of the ai s epidemic. HIV/AIDS affects both education coverage and quality. It
dampens the de mand for education as affected households have fewer resources to spend
on education e ther because of reduced income due to morbidity of income earners or
diversion of sc rce resources for health care. Children in these households are often taken
out of school tc care for ill parents or have to work to make up for lost household income,
and an increasi ng number are becoming orphans. At the same time, the epidemic affects
the supply of e lucational services at all levels through increased mortality, morbidity and
absenteeism an ong teachers and education personnel.
*  The Crisis in Education - An exceedingly small proportion of the Tanzanian age group
completes seco ndary education. At most 5% of the age group competes lower secondary
and 1.5% com .letes upper secondary. As a result, less than 5% of the labor force has
obtained secor dary education. The main cause is restricted initial access and low
retention. Onl y about one in four or five primary school completers proceeds to lower
secondary educ ation in Tanzania.
Low coverage of secondary education reflects constraints on supply and demand for
secondary sch ol places.
The pressure to expand secondary school places is likely to rise rapidly in the coming
years as an in creasing number of students complete their primary school education,
especially witl the introduction of free primary education that has raised the gross
enrollment rate in primary education to 100% in 2002 compared to 77% in 2000.
*  Gender Issues - Women are often poorer than men, own less land and livestock and
have fewer ye irs of schooling. There is roughly gender equality in access to primary
schools, thoug i imbalances exist in completion rates and access to secondary schools.
Gender imbala nces are rooted and sustained by traditional and cultural values. In 1990,
the Governmer t established the Ministry of Women Affairs and Children with a view to
promote gender equality. A gender committee has been created to ensure that sectoral
investments respond to the priority needs of both men and women. The new land
legislation has represented an encouraging step towards securing the right of women to
own, dispose o fand inherit land4.
Positive Social Impa ts from the SEDP.
6.5   Overall, the SE DP is likely to have a positive impact on the social issues in Tanzania, in
the short, medium and long term , for the following reasons;
*  The SEDP un er the three overall objectives of the program will address the following
five main issues:
(a) Los access and completion of secondary education.
(b) Ine luity of access and throughput among geographical areas, income groups
and between genders.
(c) High per student cost on households and the public sector in secondary
edu -ation.
(d) Lov; quality of secondary education in terms of learning outcomes.
4 See the Resettlement Pol iy Framework for this project for more information on land regulation.
33



(e) Ineff ctive organization and management of delivery of secondary education.
*  The SEDP in th first phase will , instead of channeling additional resources through the
same/normal ce tral organizational structures and procedures, will change incentives (i.e.
normative finan ing of capitation grants) and accountabilities for results ( i.e. devolution
of authority to I wer levels). This will ensure a participatory process in planning and will
raise incomes at lower levels.
* Through increas e enrollment in secondary education, additional opportunities for public
health awarenes s and education for protection and prevention against HIV/AIDS will be
available for sec ondary school going age among boys and girls. It is this age group that is
particularly vul erable to this epidemic.
Potential Adverse Soc al Impacts from the IRCBP
6.6   Adverse social mpacts are likely to arise from the following:
*  No participator process involving local communities in the preparation of their District
and Regional S condary Schools Development Plans by their Local Governments.
.  Exclusion of ulnerable groups from participating in and benefiting from project
activities, i.e., from barriers to access to/ enrollment in secondary schools due to
stigmatization, harmful cultural practices, acute poverty among vulnerable groups,
discrimination, lack of participation in the planning process etc.
*  Land acquisitio s/use resulting in involuntary resettlement from impacts on people, land,
property, inclu ing access to natural and other economic resources.
6.7   The environme tal and social screening form and checklist contained in Annex 2.0 and
Annex 3.0 are specifi ally designed to ensure that adverse social impacts from SEDP activities
are identified and capt ired in the planning stages and there-in effectively mitigated.
6.8   Both environm ntal and social mitigation measures would be verifiable monitored during
the various stages of t e program cycle.
34



7. INSTIT UTIONAL ASSESSMENT AND FRAMEWORK
FOR ENVIf ONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT
INSTITUTIONAL ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES
7.1   The main nstitutions with key responsibilities for environmental and social
management are:
The Ministry of E lucation and the Presidents Office - Regional Administration and
Local Governmen
7.2   The VPO i in charge of environmental policy formulation and monitoring of
implementation. T e VPO will provide instructions and guidance on environmental
management and i nplementation to Local Government Authorities regarding all aspects
of the SEDP.
The National Env ronment Management Council (NEMC)
7.3   The NEMC is responsible for ensuring that development programs comply with
all relevant environ mental laws and regulations.
7.4   This ESMF recognizes that the NEMC have a significant role to play in the
SEDP. This role w uld be to provide (i) on the ground ESMF performance reviews/audits
both for enforceme nt purposes, but more importantly to reinforce capacity building and
to keep the SB's and the Local Government Authorities cognizant of their ESMF
responsibilities. The NEMC would also provide periodic monitoring to ensure no adverse
cumulative impact from the school construction program at the national level. NEMC
will also provide o versight and technical assistance to the Local Government Authorities
when required.
Local Governmen t Authorities
7.5   Local Gov erment Authorities will be required to review  and clear the
environmental and social management process, required of the School t Boards (SB),
prior to funding the construction program.
7.6   The Local Government Authorities would be responsible for carrying out the
following: (i) en uring the school construction program comply with Tanzania's
environmental law, and requirements, and that of the World Bank's triggered Safeguards
Policies, (ii) for receiving, reviewing and commenting, requiring revisions where
necessary and cle ring of School Boards completed environmental and social screening
forms and checkli ts (iii) carrying out a regular and intrusive monitoring regime during
the planning, imp ementation, construction, operations and maintenance stages of the
schools (iii) for pr paring periodic monitoring reports on the District school construction
35



program at all stag s of operations and to send these reports on a regular basis to the
MoEC. (v) to com ly with (consistent with national laws) the directives of NEMC and
MOEC, (vi) to iss e directives to the School Boards consistent with national laws on
environmental requ rements.
The School Board
7.7   The School t Boards will be responsible; (i) for complying with all national laws
regarding the envir nment and with all social/poverty guidelines, parameters and targets
set by the project, nd of all triggered World Bank Safeguards policies, (ii) to implement
their school const ction program according to/consistent with the provisions of this
ESMF, implementi g, inter alia, all appropriate mitigation measures identified in their
completed enviro  ental and social screening form and checklist into the construction
planning cycle, t chnical and engineering designs and drawings, and civil works
contracts, etc. (iv) to ensure that these mitigation measures are complied with during
construction and  ost construction (i.e. operations ) stages of their activities, by self
monitoring of th ir activities and by periodically reporting to Local Government
Authorities and, ( ) to maintain an adequate budget to implement the appropriate
maintenance proce ures and practices for the operation of their school, to ensure relevant
mitigation measur s identified in the environmental and social screening form and
checklist are impl mented and sustained in the school sub projects and (vi) to comply
with any directives that may be issued from time to time from the MoEC, NEMC and the
Local Government Authoritis.
Capacity Assessm ent to Perform these Roles.
7.8   The SEDP   ill finance all necessary capacity building activities at various levels
for the ESMF imp mentation and monitoring in collaboration with the NEMC.
7.9   Local Gov rnment Authorities will provide technical assistance to the School
Boards, to enable hem to perform the duties assigned to them in this ESMF. The Local
Government Auth rities and School Boards will also be assisted by service providers in
situations where t ere is no in-house capacity to perform these roles.
36



Fie 8.1: Flow Chart of Institutional Roles and Responsibilities
(  Management ,ouncil 
\N      (NM
SEDP
MOEC
PO-RALG
\       ~~Boards
-           (SB)
MONITORING    Reporting
p ~~. ~-.-.--.--.----
37



TRAINING NEEDS
Proposed Training Program
Duration
Environmental an Social Management process                            3 days
* Review of Environmental and Social Management Process.
* Review of Standard school designs.
* Use of Scre ning form and Checklist to determine adverse impacts
* From sub p oject activities.
* How to mee sure cumulative adverse impacts.
* Design of a propriate mitigation measures.
* How to review and clear the school design packages.
*  The import nce of public consultations in the ESMF process.
* How to mo litor mitigation measures.
* How to em bed the Environmental and Social Management process into the civil
works.
* Contract.
Environmental al d Social policies, procedures and guidelines         2 days
* Review an' discussion of Tanzania's national environmental policies, procedures,
and legislat on.
* Review anc discussion of the Bank's safeguards policies.
* Strategies f )r consultation, participation and social inclusion.
Selected topics on environmental protection                            lday
* Land use, 1 nd degradation and soil erosion in the local community area.
* Safe manaE ement of waste disposal and implications on public health.
*  Environme ntal protection of Water resources.
* Disaster Pr paredness for floods and Droughts.
Training Cost Es imates
7.10 The Train ng program is to be implemented by the National Environment
Management Cou icil (NEMC) in collaboration with MOEC. The costs estimates and
training modalities will be prepared by NEMC and MOEC.
38



8. EN IRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL PLANNING,
REVIE'W AND CLEARING PROCESS FOR THE
SECONDA RY SCHOOLS CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
FUNDED UNDER THE SEDP
EN VIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT PROCESS
(Summarized in Figs 9.1 and 9.2)
8.1   The section below will illustrate specific steps involved in the environmental and
social assessment rocess leading towards clearance and approval of the EA process for
the program activit es anticipated to have adverse environmental and social impacts. The
steps incorporate gaidelines from both the National Environment Management Council
(NEMC) and the B orld Bank OP 4.01.
8.2   The constru ction of schools will be based on existing/new standard architectural
school designs th t are presently being used/or newly prepared by the MoEC The
Construction of Sc lools will be managed by the School Boards of the secondary schools.
The construction of the schools will be done by certified contractors appointed by the
School Boards
(a) This pr )cess can only start after approval5 for funding under the SEDP has
been gi en by the MOEC to build a secondary school in a particular area.
(b) For a n w school, the SB will be established/elected/appointed as required by
Local Government Authorities bye-laws and MoEC guidelines.
(c) The SE will work with district engineers who will assist them with carrying
out their responsibilities under this ESMF.
(d) The SE will acquire suitable land and secure legal title to it, consistent with
Tanzan an Law and the Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF). The
followi g siting conditions should be considered when choosing/identify
land;
* The site should normally not be within an Environmentally Sensitive Area
(ES A)6
* The site should ideally be located within 500meters of a settlement area.
* The re should be a sustainable source of potable water within lkm of the
site
s The decision on whe e a secondary school is to be built will be made by the Regions and Districts.
6 ESA - are defined in Annex 6
39
l



*  The site should be at least 20,000m2 in size or large enough to
acco nmodate the building schedule as specified by MOEC.
. The site owners and/or users if any are consulted and are invited to
parti ipate in the activities of the local community regarding the school.
* The School Board must be able to secure legal title to the land.
* The uter boundaries of the site should be clearly marked and the length
of the sides should be measured in meters.
* There should not be any natural or manmade features on the site that could
mak construction difficult or that could pose danger to building structures
or h imans such as bedrock, gullies, water pipes, swamps, floodplains and
rock falls.
* The e should not be any natural or man made features within 100 meters
of th e site that could pose danger to pupils once the school is established,
e.g. very steep cliffs, electricity pylons, etc.
* The site must conform to and be consistent with the local development
plan for that area/district.
* The site should not lead to either the physical displacement of people, loss
of t heir shelter, loss of assets, loss of income sources or means of
live ihood, or their loss, denial or restriction of access to economic
reso rces. If it does impact any one of these, chose another site. If this is
not possible then OP 4.12 is triggered and those affected must be
com pensated, consistent with the provisions of this RPF.
(e) Once s cured land has been acquired, the SMB assisted by their service
provider will screen the standard school designs to identify adverse
enviro mental and social impacts on their chosen land site by using the
screeni ig form in Annex 3.0 and the environmental and social checklist in
Annex 4.0.
(f) Once tl ese impacts are identified the various mitigation measures would also
be iden ified from use of the completed screening form and checklist. The SB
assistec by their service provider will modify various aspects of the standard
design o incorporate the required mitigation measures.
(g) The SE assisted by their service provider will re-screen the modified designs
using t le previously completed screening form and checklist to ensure that all
impact have been adequately identified and mitigated.
(h) Additi nally, for situations where this screening process has identified that
OP 4. 2 is triggered, then the provisions of the Resettlement Policy
Frame vork would apply. This would require that the SB chose another site
that do s not trigger OP 4.12. If this is not possible, then the site that triggers
OP 4.12 is maintained and a resettlement and compensation plan (RAP) is
prepare d, consistent with the provisions of the disclosed RPF.
40



(i) Throug out this screening process the SB would be assisted by their service
provide s.
(j) Once th SB is satisfied that the modified designs are now environmentally
and socially compliant, they would now submit their modified designs which
must be accompanied by the site location plan, completed screening form,
checklist, environment management plan (EMP) and where applicable the
RAP, to the Council for review and clearance.
(k) The Lo al Government Authorities using the appraisal form in Annex 7.0 will
review  he submitted modified design to ensure that all environmental and
social ir pacts have been identified and successfully mitigated based on use of
the scre ning form and checklist. If the screening form has any "Yes" entries,
or evid ntly unjustified "No" entries, the application would need to be
adequat ly explained and demonstrate from the modified design that the issue
has bee managed to avoid unacceptable adverse effects/impacts. If this is the
case th n the Local Government Authorities will give a conditional approval
for fun Is to be released to the SB for construction to begin based on the
followi ig conditions;
*   ompliance with the requirements of the Environment Act, NEMC
equirements and the World Bank Policy OP4.01.
he complete implementation of the Resettlement and Compensation
Plan prepared consistent with the RPF where OP 4.12 has been
triggered.
Trhe Construction Contract Documents ( i.e. the works and materials
pecifications, drawings, bills of quantities, contract conditions , etc.)
are made consistent with the modified designs. This ensures that the
nvironmental and social management process is embedded into the
ivil works contracts/processes.
Application for approval includes a Maintenance Plan.
rhat a local service provider assist the SMB to supervise the
onstruction process.
* MB design proposals must contain as part of their application an
_nvironmental Management Plan (EMP): that will consist of a set of
nonitoring measures to be taken during the construction and operation
f the school to ensure that mitigation measures identified in the
nodified standard designs are built as designed and remain functional
n the post construction stage (i.e. when the school is being used). The
EMP should also include the actions needed to implement these
neasures, including  the  following  features: (i) Monitoring:
nvironmental and social monitoring during the construction and
)perational phase of the school, in order to measure the success of the
itigation measures. Specifically: (a) The need for on site construction
upervision, (b) periodic inspection of facilities post construction
tage (i.e when the school is operational) to ensure that schools
41



iaintenance plan is being implemented, e.g. the site has regular,
u ninterrupted water supply, toilets are working, waste material is
disposed of as required, etc. and that regular maintenance
( nalfunctions/faults are repaired in a timely manner) is occurring.
(1) If the L cal Government Authorities find that the submitted modified design
is not c nsistent with the requirements of the screening form and checklist,
then the SB would be requested to make additional modifications and/or
chose ol her sites until it is consistent whereby clearance would then be given
as per ( ) above.
(m) Any pr posed design that does not comply with the requirements of the
Environ ment regulations, NEMC requirements and the World Bank Policy
OP 4.0  on Environmental Assessment will not be cleared for approval/
constru tion.
8.3   The proces is designed to ensure that the environmental and social assessment
process is part of a d conducted during the planning stages with full participation of the
local community, t ereby ensuring that project activities are environmentally and socially
sustainable.
Figure 8.1: Summary of Key Roles in the Environmental and Social Review Process:
42



Fig 8.2: Key stages of sub project as it applies to Environmental and Social Management
only. Other key stages of the sub project cycle omitted for claritv                     -
STEP 1:                                         STEP 2                                                         STEP 3
Project Start-Up               Capacity Building and Training at Local Govemment                         District Educational Planning
Implementation          p*     Authority level for review, clearance of school design     In consultation with and active participation of local communities,
details/packages  and  on    environmental/social           the Local Government Authorities  consistent with their
monitoring as per proposed training program in Section  * 0   decentralization mandate, education for all policies,  local
8 of this ESMF.                                             planning laws. national education policy, school mapping
exercise, critical needs, etc. prepares a District Secondary
School Development Plan (DSSDP), containing inter alia,
request for funding of secondary schools in their districts. There
will be as many DSSDP's as there are districts.
STEP 6
The Regional Education Officers Wil then verify, validate,
rationalize and consolidate the DSSDP's of all the districts in their                  _________
region Into a Regional Secondary Schools Development Plan
(RSSDP). The RSSDP's will then be approved by the appropriate                     STEP 5                                      STEP 4
regional govemment in line with their decentralization by devolution   The District approved DSSDP is             The DSSDP is then submitted to the
polices currenuy underway in Tanzania. Since there are 21 regions     then sent to their respectve Regions 4      respective  District Councils for
there-will be 21 RSSDPS                                           for consolidaton,                           approval.
STEP 9
Prioritization of DSSDP's
STEP 7                                                                    Once approval is given, the SEDP will make the block grants to
STEP 8                           the Local Authorities . The Districts will further prioritize their
DSSDP, and choose which schools to build and at what locations.
The region approved RSSDP's           The MOEC will approve SEDP funding for         This further prioritization process will be based on size of
are then sent to MOEC    for S-----councils based on the RSSDP.          *   -*      budget/block grant approved by the SEDP viz-a-viz the size of the
approval and funding from SEDP.                                                      budget of the plan, , variability of demand across district, staffing
availability, etc... Districts Capacity to implement, Districts critical
needs, social inclusion policies, poverty and other criteria, etc.
| GotoSlep 10



I|From Step9   |
STEP 11 -
Environmental and Social Mansoement Proess Beains
sTEP o                                                  For approved schools, the SB's prepare schools package
based on customized standard designs, including engineering
At locations where new schools         0                         designs, civil works contracts etc. During this stage, the SB
are  to   be   builtc Local                                      use the environmental and social screening form and checklist
Goverment        Authorities                                     to identify adverse impacts and then to identify and incorporate
Govensurnmesntcfooimourd (S                                      corresponding mitigation measures and initiate contracting
consistent with tenderng rules.  is correspon s os ps a
to (m) in Section 9.0 of this ESMF.
STEP 14                                              STEP 13
Implementation                                          STEP 12
Environmental and Social Manaaement                  Only after clearance of SB  design
Process Continues                           package is funding released by Local  *   *     Environrnental and Social Management Process Continues
Continued   Environmental   and    Social  4     -      Govemment Authorities to  SB's. SB's           SB's submits school design package to Local Government
Management (including monitoring) as schools            tender for civil works contractors and         Authorities for review and clearance.
are constructed, through day-to-day operations          construction starts.
and also at maintenance stages, as detailed in
this ESMF.



9. MONITORING PLAN
9.1   The objecti, e for monitoring is two fold.
1) to alert project authorities and to provide timely information about the
effectiveness of the Environmental and Social Management process outlined in
the ESMF n such a manner that changes can be made as required to ensure
continuous mprovement to the process.
2) to make a final evaluation in order to determine whether the mitigation
measures d signed into the District School Construction program/activities have
been succes sful in such a way that the pre- program environmental and social
condition h s been restored, improved upon or worst than before and to determine
what furthe] mitigation measures may be required.
9.2   A number cf indicators would be used in order to determine the status of affected
people and their environment (land being used compared to before, how many
classroom/school places available compared to before, are marginalized groups being
included etc). Ther fore, the projects Environmental and Social Management process will
set two major socic -economic goals by which to evaluate its success:
* Has the pre -project environmental state of natural resources, bio-diversity and
flora and fa na, been maintained or improved upon at school sites, and
* The effectiveness of the ESMF technical assistance, review, approval and
monitoring process.
9.3   In order to assess whether these goals are met, the Districts will indicate
parameters to be monitored, institute monitoring milestones and provide resources
necessary to carry out the monitoring activities.
9.4   The follow ng are some pertinent parameters and verifiable indicators to be used
to measure the ES  F process, mitigation plans and performance;
* Number of Local Government Authorities staff who have successfully received
ESMF trai ing
* Number of School t Boards using the screening form and checklist.
*  Efficiency of Schools maintenance and operating performance .
* How many completed newly built/ rehabilitated schools are in good working
condition o ne year, two, three years after completion.
*  How manv District's/Schools have implemented an effective and working
facilities m intenance program.
45



*  Are the w ter, drainage and sewage facilities in working and acceptable
condition, 6 months, one year, two years and three years after completion.
*  Out of the number of poor and vulnerable people/groups identified in each
District in t e Social Assessment Studies, how many of them are;(i) targeted for
provision of access to school, ii) at what rate are they being enrolled and (iii) how
many have access to secondary school places at the end of Year 1, Year 2 Year 3,
Year 4 etc. i the project cycle.
*  What techn ques are the District's employing to ensure vulnerable groups are
consulted a d are benefiting from  project activities.  Are these techniques
working.
*  At what fr quency and rate are the Districts monitoring the activities of the
School t Bo rds at all stages.
How many Districts are up to date with their periodic monitoring reports.
Is NEMC r ceiving the periodic monitoring reports of the Districts and what are
the main co icerns of the NEMC at this stage.
Is the MOE ^ receiving and compiling the periodic reports of the Districts and is it
forwarding t to the NEMC?
9.5    Other indic Ltors can be developed based on the results of the social assessment.
MONIT RING ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES7 (REFER TO FIG. 8.1)
School Boards (S 's)
9.6   It is plann d that the environmental and social impacts and their designed
mitigation   mea ures     are   to    be    monitored    during    implementation
(construction/reha ilitation works) and operation (including maintenance) stages of the
school constructior program. The roles and responsibilities for monitoring impacts and
mitigation measure s will be as follows; the SB's assisted by their service providers, will
monitor the envir nmental and social impacts and mitigation measures of their own
school constructior activities as contained in their completed screening forms, checklist
and all other doc ments in their individual application 8 The SB's will monitor and
evaluate the envi nmental and social impacts of their school construction and the
mitigation measure designed, regularly and as frequently as specified in their application
and will maintain uitable records to be made available to their respective District. The
SB's will monitor he impacts and mitigation measures during all phases of their school
construction exec tion cycle, i.e., from planning stage to construction, operations and
maintenance stage . The SB's will also be responsible for monitoring the environmental
and social impacts and mitigation measures resulting from the action of their contractors,
sub contractors, tr nsporters, suppliers and all other third parties in the course of their
7 Capacity building ne ds to achieve and sustain this have been addressed in Section 8
8 Application refers o the complete set of school construction documents including the completed
screening forms, chec list, ESMP, technical designs, drawings, civil works contracts, etc.
46



duties. Further, the B's would also be responsible for monitoring the environmental and
social impacts and mitigation measures of their school construction activities at other
locations beyond t eir project sites, at end user locations such as on nearby wetlands,
game parks etc.
9.7   Therefore, herever environmental and social impacts are or can be attributed to
their school const ction activities the appropriate mitigation measures will apply
consistent with th ESMF, and the SB's would be responsible for monitoring and
evaluating the sam  The SB's will prepare and submit periodic monitoring reports to
their respective Dis ricts.
The Local Govern ment Authorities (LGAs)
9.8   The LGAs    ill play the leading role of monitoring the activities of the SB's in
their District. The LGAs will carry out this role by ensuring that the SB's environmental
and social manage nent plan (ESMP) contained in the cleared project application/design
package is being i nplemented as specified therein. That is to say that the LGAs will
monitor the SB's monitoring procedures and reports on a regular basis, perhaps quarterly.
They will rely on a bottom up feed back system to them from the SB's by going through
their monitoring eports and making regular site visits to inspect and verify for
themselves the na ure and extent of the impacts and the success or lack off, of the
mitigation measure .
9.9   The LGAs will prepare consolidated periodic monitoring reports for submission
to the Region and MOEC.
The National Env ronment Management Council (NEMC)
9.10 The NEMC will do on the ground ESMF performance reviews/audits both for
enforcement purpo es and to reinforce the training and to keep the SB's and the LGAs
cognizant of their responsibilities. The NEMC's will carry out this role by reviewing in
each District; (i) t e completed screening form and application package prepared by the
SB's as they are su mitted to their LGAs, (ii) the appraisal form completed by the LGAs
and the clearance 4lecision contained therein (iii) a visit to the school construction site
during constructior to ensure construction activities going on as contained in EMP and
civil works contra t and after construction completion to ensure school maintenance
program is being in plemented as designed.
9.11  In addition o on the ground environmental reviews and implementing the training
program, the role (If the NEMC will be monitoring as detailed in Section 8.0. They will
perform this role by reviewing periodic reports from the Districts, prepare consolidated
periodic monitorin reports and make spot/unannounced site inspections at the District
level. The NEMC vill report its findings to the MOEC and the Districts.
47



The Ministry of Es ucation and Culture (MOEC)
9.12 The MOEC will monitor the activities of the Districts and the roles of the NEMC
by reviewing the consolidated periodic monitoring reports of the NEMC and by
conducting periodic technical audits of the Districts.
9.13  In conclusi n therefore, the system for monitoring functions on a bottom up
approach, on the o e hand, in terms of placing monitoring responsibilities on the School
Boards (SB's) and local communities who are then supervised and monitored by their
LGAs who in turn re accountable to the MOEC and the NEMC. On the other hand, this
system is made fur ctional by the transfer of appropriate technology, capacity building
through training (m stly through learning by doing) and technical assistance and, budget
support in the top lown direction. This system for monitoring is thus strengthened and
sustainable and sho ild yield successful results overall.
Monitoring Plan ( rable 9.1)
9.14  This monito ing plan consists of a set of mitigation, monitoring and institutional
measures to be taken during implementation/construction and operations of the
participating Distri ct's school construction activities, to eliminate adverse environmental
and social impacts offset them, or reduce them to acceptable levels. The plan also
includes actions ne ded to implement these measures. The monitoring plan specifies the
monitoring measur s to be carried out with linkages to the potential adverse impacts that
would have been id ntified through a process contained in Section 9.0, by:
1. Schedul ng and coordinating monitoring tasks.
2. Evaluati ng mitigation effectiveness.
3. Identifying where applicable, corrective management practices.
4. Ensuring that monitoring findings are suitably evaluated and incorporated into
future management decisions.
48



I 
- ~ ~



Table 9.1: Monitoring Plan
Potential Social and     Mitigation Measures          Monitoring            Phase/Stage          Responsibility             Costs
Environmental                                        Measures
Negative Impacts
I.Deforestation       Fully implement the ESMF,   Periodic  monitoring  On going throughout   1. Participating School  Refer to Table 10.2
2. Land Degradation,  RPF, use screening form and  and  evaluation  of the life of the district  Boards (SMB)9.
including soil elosioii  cliecklist in Ainiex 3.0 aud  vetifialde  indicatoLs  secoldaty sciool Nub  2. Respective
3. Water              4.0), addressing specific   for    all   impacts  projects and project  Districts'0
Contamination.        mitigation measures such as  identified in the sub  and beyond thereby  3.MoEC"
4.Disturbance of     training and capacity building  project  ESMP  and  ensuring the         4. NEMC'2
Natural Habitats and  to use modem and appropriate  examples of which are  institutional      5. The SB's and the
Wildlife.             technologies for design and  contained  in  this  arrangements are      Councils will be
5.Degradation of     implementation of district   Section above.        sustainable beyond the  assisted by service
Wetlands              secondary school sub projects,                    life of the program.  providers and will
6. Social Exclusion   efficiency use, environmental                                           receive training.
7. Loss of land, impact  restoration, regular and
on livelihoods, loss of  suitable maintenance of
assets, loss of access to  infrastructure/equipment/plant,
natural resources.    etc.
(see Section 7 of
ESMF. for complete
lists)
9The SB's monitoring role is detailed in Section 10.1.1
10 The LGAs monitoring role is detailed in Section 10.1.2
" The MOEC's monitoring role is detailed in Section 10.1.4
12 The NEMC's monitoring role is detailed in Section 10.1.3
50



Costs for Impleme kting the Monitoring Plan
9.15 The Minist ^y of Education and Culture (MOEC) will be responsible for
implementing the monitoring plan. The School t Boards will be responsible for recruiting
their own service p roviders that would work with them. Budget for implementation and
monitoring includir g capacity building will be borrowed from previous NEMC and will
be integrated in SE P.
51



10. STAKEHOLDER CONSULTATIONS
10.1  The purpose of consultations is to seek the participation of the Tanzanian people
in national develo ment. This is a centerp-iece strategy of the Government in the
decentralization by devolution process in Tanzania, in general, thereby ensuring good
governance, but raore particularly to introduce transparency, accountability and
sustainability into t e SEDP. Ultimately, this process would build social capital in the
communities and nhance the opportunity for equal access to and benefit from the
planned expansion f access to secondary education.
10.2  The key sta e holders in this process are:
* The local c  munities in the participating Districts;
* The School oards, The Local Government Authorities, and The Regions;
* The Gove    ent;
* Local NGO and the Civil Society Associations; and
* Local and I Lternational Donor Agencies.
10.3  The SEDP depends on the meaningful participation of all stakeholders for
success. Opportu ities for effective consultation and participation of the ESMF
formulation and im lementation include the following:
* During pre aration of the Environmental and Social Management Framework
(ESMF) a d the Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF), the Government
consulted t e key ministries and Agencies involved in Education and environment
matters at t e central and district levels. Development Partners, NGOs and Civil
Society Ass ciations and local communities were also consulted.
* The ESMF and RPF will be disclosed in Tanzania and at the World Bank's
infoshop.
10.4  Consultatio 1s will continue during the entire SEDP implementation, particularly
in the following as ects:
* Dur ng capacity building activities. Care will be taken so that members of
loca communities are selected using participatory methods ensuring social
exc usion of some groups does not occur.
*  At ach level of planning, the communities and School Boards will have
an pportunity to participate. Monitoring indicators will be prepared by
the Local Government Authorities and the regions to ensure that
co munities are participating and that no social group is left out.
* Dur ng the implementation of the construction program.
52



ANNEXES
53



ANNEX 1.0
WORLD    ANK ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL SAFEGUARD POLICIES
SUMMARY
* Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01). Outlines Bank policy and procedure for the
environmental assessment of Bank lending operations. The Bank undertakes
environmental sreening of each proposed project to determine the appropriate extent
and type of EA process. This environmental screening process will apply to all sub-
projects to be funded by SEDP.
* Natural Habita ts (OP 4.04). The conservation of natural habitats, like other measures
that protect an  enhance the environment, is essential for long-term sustainable
development.  The Bank does not support projects involving the significant
conversion of  tural habitats unless there are no feasible alternatives for the project
and its siting, a d comprehensive analysis demonstrates that overall benefits from the
project substa tially outweigh the environmental costs. If the environmental
assessment ind cates that a project would significantly convert or degrade natural
habitats, the p oject includes mitigation measures acceptable to the Bank. Such
mitigation mea ures include, as appropriate, minimizing habitat loss (e.g. strategic
habitat retentio and post-development restoration) and establishing and maintaining
an ecologically similar protected area. The Bank accepts other forms of mitigation
measures only when they are technically justified. Should the sub-project-specific
EAs indicate t at natural habitats might be affected negatively by the proposed sub-
project activiti s, such sub-projects will not be funded under the SEDP.
* Pest Manage ent (OP      4.09). The  policy  supports safe, affective, and
environmentall sound pest management. It promotes the use of biological and
environmental control methods. An assessment is made of the capacity of the
country's reg latory framework and institutions to promote and support safe,
effective, and nvironmentally sound pest management. This policy will most likely
not apply to S DP.
* Involuntary R settlement (OP 4.12). This policy covers direct economic and social
impacts that b h result from Bank-assisted investment projects, and are caused by (a)
the involunta taking of land resulting in (i) relocation or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of
assets or acce s to assets, or (iii) loss of income sources or means of livelihood,
whether or not the affected persons must move to another location; or (b) the
involuntary re triction of access to legally designated parks and protected areas
resulting in ad erse impacts on the livelihoods of the displaced persons. This policy is
triggered by th SEDP and therefore the Government has prepared and disclosed the
required Reset lement Policy Framework (RPF).
* Indigenous P oples (OD 4.20). This directive provides guidance to ensure that
indigenous pe ples benefit from development projects, and to avoid or mitigate
adverse effect of Bank-financed development projects on indigenous peoples.
Measures to a dress issues pertaining to indigenous peoples must be based on the
54



informed partici pation of the indigenous people themselves. Sub-projects that would
have negative in ipacts on indigenous people will not be funded under SEDP .
* Forests (OP 4. 36). This policy applies to the following types of Bank-financed
investment proj .cts: (a) projects that have or may have impacts on the health and
quality of fores s; (b) projects that affect the rights and welfare of people and their
level of depend nce upon or interaction with forests; and (c) projects that aim to bring
about changes n the management, protection, or utilization of natural forests or
plantations, wh ther they are publicly, privately, or communally owned. The Bank
does not financ projects that, in its opinion, would involve significant conversion or
degradation of ritical forest areas or related critical habitats. If a project involves the
significant con  rsion or degradation of natural forests or related natural habitats that
the Bank dete  ines are not critical, and the Bank determines that there are no
feasible altem tives to the project and its siting, and comprehensive analysis
demonstrates t at overall benefits from the project substantially outweigh the
environmental osts, the Bank may finance the project provided that it incorporates
appropriate mit gation measures. Sub-projects that are likely to have negative impacts
on forests will ot be funded under SEDP.
*  Cultural Prop  ty (OPN 11.03). The term "cultural property" includes sites having
archeological  rehistoric), paleontological, historical, religious, and unique natural
values. The B nk's general policy regarding cultural property is to assist in their
preservation, a d to seek to avoid their elimination. Specifically, the Bank (i)
normally declil es to finance projects that will significantly damage non-replicable
cultural propert , and will assist only those projects that are sited or designed so as to
prevent such  amage; and (ii) will assist in the protection and enhancement of
cultural proper ies encountered in Bank-financed projects, rather than leaving that
protection to hance. The management of cultural property of a country is the
responsibility of the government. The government's attention should be drawn
specifically to what is known about the cultural property aspects of the proposed
project site an  appropriate agencies, NGOs, or university departments should be
consulted; if th re are any questions concerning cultural property in the area, a brief
reconnaissance survey should be undertaken in the field by a specialist. SEDP will
not fund sub-p ojects that will have negative impacts on cultural property.
* Safety of Da s (OP 4.37). For the life of any dam, the owner is responsible for
ensuring that a propriate measures are taken and sufficient resources provided for the
safety to the d  , irrespective of its funding sources or construction status. The Bank
distinguishes b tween small and large dams. Small dams are normally less than 15 m
in height; this ategory includes, for example, farm ponds, local silt retention dams,
and low emba    ent tanks. For small dams, generic dam safety measures designed
by qualified e  ineers are usually adequate. This policy will most likely not apply to
SEDP.
*  Projects on   ternational Waterways (O 7.50). The Bank recognizes that the
cooperation a d good will of riparians is essential for the efficient utilization and
protection of nternational waterways and attaches great importance to riparians
making approi riate agreements or arrangement for the entire waterway or any part
55



thereof Project that trigger this policy  include hydroelectric, irrigation, flood
control, navigat on, drainage, water and sewerage, industrial, and similar projects that
involve the use or potential pollution of international waterways. This policy most
likely will not a ply to the SEDP.
Disputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60). Project in disputed areas may occur the Bank and
its member coui tries as well as between the borrower and one or more neighbouring
countries. Any dispute over an area in which a proposed project is located requires
formal procedu res at the earliest possible stage. The Bank attempts to acquire
assurance that it may proceed with a project in a disputed area if the governments
concerned agree that, pending the settlement of the dispute, the project proposed can
go forward wit out prejudice to the claims of the country having a dispute. This
policy is not e pected to be triggered by sub-projects. This policy is unlikely to be
triggered by su -projects to be funded by SEDP.
56



ANNEX 2.0
ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL SCREENING FORM
The Environmental and Social Screening Form (ESSF) has been designed to assist in the
evaluation of desi n proposals for the new secondary school  construction and
rehabilitation prog am. The form is designed to place information in the hands of
implementers and reviewers (i.e. the School Management Boards and District
Environmental Coo dinators) so that impacts and their mitigation measures, if any, can be
identified and/or tha t requirements for further environmental analysis be determined.
The ESSF contai ns information that will allow reviewers to determine the
characterization of 1 he prevailing local bio-physical and social environment with the aim
to assess the potent al project impacts on it. The ESSF will also identify potential socio-
economic impacts that will require mitigation measures and or resettlement and
compensation.
Name of Village/T wn/Area in which School is to be Built:
Name of Contact P rson on School Board:
Name of District w] iere school is to be built:
Name of Approvin Authority ( District environmental Coordinator):
Name, job title, an contact details for the person who is responsible for filling out this
form.
Name:
Job Title:
Telephone number:
Fax number:
E-Mail address:
Date:
Signature:
57



1. Brief School/ Project Description
Please provide info ation on the number of students who will attend the school, the
range of their ages, nd the standards they will be in, in the following year. Also provide
area of acquired lan and approximate size of total building floor areas.
2. The Natural En ironment
(a) Describe the Ian formation, topography, vegetation in/adjacent to the Project area
(b) Estimate and in icate where vegetation might need to be cleared
(c) Are there any e vironmentally sensitive areas or threatened species (specify below)
that could be adver ely affected by the project?
(i) Intact n tural forests Yes  No_
(ii) Riveri e forest Yes  No_
(iii) Wetla ds (lakes, rivers, seasonally inundated areas) Yes  No_
(iv) How  r is the nearest Wetlands((lakes, rivers, seasonally inundated areas)?
km
(v) Habita s of endangered species for which protection is required under
Tanzania 1w and/or international agreements. Yes  No_
(d) Protected areas
Does the sub proj ct area (or components of the project) occur within/adjacent to any
protected areas des gnated by government (national park, national reserve, world heritage
site etc.)
Yes       No     _
If the project is ou side of, but close to, any protected area, is it likely to adversely affect
the ecology within the protected area areas (e.g., interference with the migration routes of
mammals or birds)
Yes       No     _
(vi) Others (descri e). Yes  No_
If "Yes", to any o e of the above, tick the following boxes as appropriate:
0 The Environmen al Management Plan (EMP) included in this school application
contains measures o suitably address these impacts adequately.
O The Architectura I and Engineering drawings, included in this school application
contains measures o suitably address these impacts adequately.
ClThe Proposed ci il works contract included in this school application contains
measures to suitab y address these impacts adequately.
58



3. Rivers and Lak s Ecology
Is there a possibilit - that, due to construction and operation of the project, the river and
lake ecology will be adversely affected? Attention should be paid to water quality and
quantity; the nature productivity and use of aquatic habitats, and variations of these over
time.
Yes      No
If "Yes", tick the f llowing boxes as appropriate:
O The Environment 1l Management Plan (EMP) included in this school application
contains measures tD suitably address these impacts adequately.
O The Architectural and Engineering drawings, included in this school application
contains measures t suitably address these impacts adequately.
O The Proposed civ 1 works contract included in this school application contains
measures to suitabl address these impacts adequately.
4. Geology and So Is
Based upon visual nspection or available literature, are there areas of possible geologic
or soil instability (e osion prone, landslide prone, subsidence-prone)?
Yes      No
Based upon visual nspection or available literature, are there areas that have risks of
large scale increas in soil salinity?
Yes      No
If "Yes", to any o e of the above, tick the following boxes as appropriate:
O The Environmen al Management Plan (EMP) included in this school application
contains measures o suitably address these impacts adequately.
O The Architectura and Engineering drawings, included in this school application
contains measures lo suitably address these impacts adequately.
O The Proposed ci il works contract included in this school application contains
measures to suitab  address these impacts adequately.
5. Landscape/aest etics
Is there a possibil y that the school will adversely affect the aesthetic attractiveness of
the local landscape.
Yes      No
If "Yes", tick the Following boxes as appropriate:
O The Environme al Management Plan (EMP) included in this school application
contains measures o suitably address these impacts adequately.
O]The Architectur 1 and Engineering drawings, included in this school application
contains measures o suitably address these impacts adequately.
O The Proposed ci il works contract included in this school application contains
measures to suitab y address these impacts adequately.
59



6. Historical, archa eological or cultural heritage site.
Based on available sources, consultation with local authorities, local knowledge and/or
observations, could the school alter any historical, archaeological or cultural heritage site
or require excavatio near same?
Yes      No      _
If "Yes", tick the f Ilowing boxes as appropriate:
O The Environment 1 Management Plan (EMP) included in this school application
contains measures t suitably address these impacts adequately.
O The Architectural and Engineering drawings, included in this school application
contains measures t) suitably address these impacts adequately.
[ The Proposed civ 1 works contract included in this school application contains
measures to suitabl address these impacts adequately.
7. Resettlement an /or Land Acquisition
Will involuntary re ettlement, land acquisition, or loss, denial or restriction of access to
land and other eco  mic resources be caused by project implementation?
Yes       No
If "Yes" Involunt ary Resettlement OP 4.12 is triggered. Please refer to RPF for
appropriate mitigat on measures to be taken.
8. Loss of Crops, ruit Trees and Household Infrastructure
Will the project res ut in the permanent or temporary loss of crops, fruit trees and
household infra-st cture (such as granaries, outside toilets and kitchens, etc)?
Yes   No_
If "Yes", tick the iollowing boxes as appropriate:
E1 The Environmen al Management Plan (EMP) included in this school application
contains measures o suitably address these impacts adequately.
1 The Architectura and Engineering drawings, included in this school application
contains measures o suitably address these impacts adequately.
C The Proposed ci il works contract included in this school application contains
measures to suitabl address these impacts adequately.
9. Noise pollutio during Construction and Operations.
Will the operating oise level exceed the allowable noise limits?
Yes_No_
60



If "Yes", tick the f Ilowing boxes as appropriate:
[ The Environment l Management Plan (EMP) included in this school application
contains measures t suitably address these impacts adequately.
Cl The Architectural nd Engineering drawings, included in this school application
contains measures t suitably address these impacts adequately.
] The Proposed civi works contract included in this school application contains
measures to suitabl address these impacts adequately.
11. Solid or Liquid Wastes.
Will the project ge nerate solid or liquid wastes?
Yes      No_
If "Yes", tick the f llowing boxes as appropriate:
DThe Environment 1 Management Plan (EMP) included in this school application
contains measures t suitably address these impacts adequately.
l The Architectural and Engineering drawings, included in this school application
contains measures t suitably address these impacts adequately.
F The Proposed civ 1 works contract included in this school application contains
measures to suitabl address these impacts adequately.
12. Public Consul ation
Has public consul ation and participation been sought?
Yes      No
If "Yes", describe riefly the measures taken to this effect.
CERTIFICATIO
We certify that w  have thoroughly examined all the potential adverse effects of this
secondary school pplication. To the best of our knowledge, the proposed secondary
school as describ d in the application and appended design reports (e.g. EMP, RAP,
completed screenil ig form, proposed civil works contract, etc. ), if any, will be adequate
to avoid or minimi e all adverse environmental and social impacts.
Representative of chool Board (signature):
......................  .........  .....................................
Service Provider ( ignature):
......................   ..... ......................................
Date: ...........   .......................
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Desk Appraisal b Local Government Authorities
61



The Secondary Sc ool Application can be considered for approval. The application is
complete, all signifi ant environmental or social issues are resolved, and no further
subproject planning is required.
A field appraisal i required.
Note: A field appra sal must be carried out if the school application:
*     Needs to      quire land, or an individual or community's access to land or
available re ources is affected or changed, or any individual or family is
displaced
*     Encroach s onto an important natural habitat, restricts access to resources
within that    rea, or may affect ecologically sensitive ecosystems (e.g. rivers,
streams, wei lands)
*     Involves, c r results in: a) diversion or use of surface waters; b) construction
and/or reha 5 ilitation of latrines, septic or sewage systems; c) production of waste
(e.g. slaughi erhouse waste, medical waste, etc); d) new or rebuilt drainage
systems; or 9) reservoirs or water points.
The following issue s need to be clarified at the school site:
.......................   ........ ................................................................................
.......................   ........  ................................................................................
.......................   ........  ................................................................................
A Field Appraisal teport will be completed and added to the school application file.
Name of Local Go) rermient Authority Director (print):
.......................  ..........  ..............................
Signature:
......I.................  ........ ..............
Date:
.........................................
62



ANNEX 3.0 TYPICAL CHECKLIST TO IDENTIFY IMPACTS AND MITIGATION MEASURES OF CONSTRUCTION AND/OR REHABILITATION
OF TANZANIA SECOND EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (SEDP)
Environmental and
Social Components                                     Impacts                                           Mitigation Measures
Physical Environment                                                                  Refer to Annex 2.0 for summary of safeguard policies
Soils                    * Erosion of lands down slope from borrow areas.            Construction in dry season; protection of soil surfaces
* Landslides and slips.                                      during construr; e-vcgetiun ui phys
* Contamination from waste materials, e.g. cement and  paints,  stabilization of erodable surfaces. Land restoration
engine oils, etc.                                             measures.
* Excavating borrow pits for aggregate materials (sand and stone) for  Adequate protection from livestock entry by fencing the site
concrete.                                                     perimeters.
* Cutting of stone for use on fa9ades.                      Control and daily cleaning at construction sites,
Provision of adequate waste disposal services.
Proper disposal of chemicals and other hazardous
materials.
Dust control by water, appropriate design and siting, restrict
construction to certain times.
Appropriate and suitable storage of building materials on
site.
Water Resources           * Creation of stagnant water pools                          Special attention to drainage; prevention of erosion;
- Increased sediments into streams                            consideration of alternative alignments; retention ponds;
- Clogging of drainage works                                  proper disposal of oil and other hazardous materials
e Decline in water quality                                  Siting of Latrines at safe distances from wells and using
* Increase in runoff and flooding conditions                  closed systems for sewage drainage.
* Introduction of hazardous wastes
* Contamination of Wells
Air Quality               - Dust during construction                                  Dust control by water or other means.
- Poor air circulation/quality in classrooms.               Ensure designs incorporate large windows covered by long
overhanging roofs. Position windows for natural cross
ventilation. Use appropriate roofing materials with
suitable insulation.
Acoustic Environment      * Noise disturbance                                         Restrict construction to certain hours
Bio-physical Environment                                                               Refer to Annex 2.0 for summary of safeguard policies.
63



Environmental and
Social Components                                      Impacts                                           Mitigation Measures
Natural Habitats          * Disturbance of natural habitats                            Consideration of alternative alignments or sites (especially
* Disturbance to protected areas                              for new schools)
Fauna and Flora           * Disruption or destruction of wildlife                      Minimize loss of natural vegetation during construction;
* Threats to rare and endangered species                      alternative sites; various special measures for sensitive
species
Social Environment                                                                       Refer to Annex 3.0 for summary of safeguard policies.
Aesthetics and Landscape  * Marred landscapes                                          Restoration of vegetation; cleanup of construction sites
* Debris
Historical/Cultural Sites  -Degradation of sites                                       Alternative alignments and/or sites
* Disturbance to structures                                  Special measures to protect cultural heritage sites
Human Health              * Transport of hazardous substances                          Regulation of transport of materials
* Traffic accidents                                          Safety designs (signage)
* Pedestrian accidents                                       Ensure availability of clean potable water for use in latrines,
* Personal hygiene of students and teachers.                  canteens and for drinking.
Use of appropriate building materials. No asbestos etc.
Human Communities         * Involuntary resettlement                                   Prepare Resettlement and Compensation Plans consistent
* Loss of crops, buildings, property, or economic livelihood  with disclosed RPF as per OP 4.12
64



ANNEX 4.0
ENVIRONMENTAL MITIGATION PLAN FOR SEDP
Project          Mitigati n          Implementing       Monitoring         Timing        Costs
Activities       Mensur s            Agencies           Responsibility
Construction  of Environ nental and  School             District           Ongoing       Included   in
schools          social sc eening    Management         Environmental                    program
Public             Boards              Coordinator        TBD
consulta ions/     School     Boards, MOEC                             Included    in
sensitiz ion       District      and                                   sub-projects
Regional                              TBD
Prepare RAPs as    Governments         District
necessa            School     Boards  Environmental       Ongoing      Included    in
(SB's)             Coordinator                      program
Environ ental      SMB's     /service  District           Ongoing
guidelin s    for  providers          Environmental                    Included    in
contract rs                            Coordinator.                    contract
Regular            SB
mainten nce    of                                                      Included    in
water  points  &                                                       program.
latrines, solid waste                                                  See Table
disposal,,  school                                                     10.2
buildin s,
compo   d, etc.
Training of                          NEMC               MOEC               TBD           TBD
(District
Environment
Coordinators
/service
providers)
__ _ _ __ _ _ ___ _ _ __ _ _ __ _   _ __ _ _ __ _ _ _ Total Costs  TBD
65



ANNEX 5.03
ENVIRON ENTALLY SENSITIVE AREAS ( ESA'S) AND ECOSYSTEMS
1.   Areas pron    to natural disasters (geological hazards, floods, rain storms,
earthquakes, landslides, volcanic activity, etc.)
2.   Wetlands: ( lood plains. Swamps, lakes, rivers, etc.) water bodies.
3.   Areas susce tible to erosion e.g. (a) hilly areas with critical slopes and (b)
unprotected  r bare lands.
4.   Areas of im  ortance to threatened cultural groups.
5.   Areas with r re/endangered/or threatened plants and animals.
6.   Areas of uni ue socio-cultural, historic archaeological, scientific, tourist areas.
7.   Polluted are s.
8.   Area subjec to desertification and bush fires.
9.   Coastal are s and Marine ecosystems., such as coral reefs, Islands, lagoons and
estuaries, c ntinental shelves, beach fronts and inter tidal zones.
10.  Areas decl ed as, national parks, water shed reserves, forest reserves, wildlife
reserves an  sanctuaries, sacred areas wildlife corridors and hot spring areas.
11. Mountaino s areas, water catchment areas and recharge areas of aquifers.
12.  Areas classi ied as prime agricultural lands or range lands.
13.  Green belts or public open spaces in urban areas.
14.  Burial sites nd graves.
13 Culled from Appen ix 10 of Vol. 1, Tanzania Environmental Impact Assessment Procedure and
Guidelines (rev. Marc 2002).
66



ANNEX 6.0
NVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL APPRAISAL FORM
The Environmental nd Social Appraisal Form (ESAF) has been designed to assist in the
evaluation of desi n proposals for the new secondary school  construction and
rehabilitation progr m. The form is designed to place information in the hands of the
Local Government Authority MOEC and the NEMC so that school applications for
environmental and, ocial clearance can be reviewed and cleared.
The ESAF conta ns information that will allow reviewers to determine the
characterization of he prevailing local bio-physical and social environment with the aim
to assess the potent al project impacts on it. The ESAF will also identify potential socio-
economic impacts that will require mitigation measures and or resettlement and
compensation.
School Application Number:....................
Part 1: Identification
1.    School Na e:
2.    School Loc tion:
3.    Reason for ield Appraisal: Summarize the issues from the ESMF Checklist that
determined the needfor a Field Appraisal.
4.    Date(s) of ield Appraisal:
5.    Field Appr isal Officer and Address:
6.    Service Pro vider Representative and Address:
7.    School Bo d Representative and Address:
Part 2: Description of the School Application
8.    School Ap lication Details: Provide details that are not adequately presented in
the secondary sch ol application. If needed to clarify school application details, attach
sketches of the su project component(s) in relation to the community and to existing
facilities
Part 3: Environmental and Social Issues
9. Will the project
*  Need to ac uire land? Yes . ..... .......
* Affect an i idividual or the community's access to land or available resources?
Yes .      o.
67



Displace or esult in the involuntary resettlement of an individual or family?
Yes.     N 
If "Yes", tick one Of the following boxes:
El The Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) included in the subproject application is adequate.
No further action re 4uired.
[1The RAP incluc ed in the subproject application must be improved before the
application can be c nsidered further.
G-1A RAP must be prepared and approved before the application can be considered
further.
10. Will the project
*  Encroach or to an important natural habitat? Yes ...... No.
* Negatively E ffect ecologically sensitive ecosystems? Yes ... No.
If "Yes", tick one (of the following boxes:
[HThe Environmen al Management Plan (EMP) included in the school application is
adequate. No furthe action required.
LlThe EMP includ d in the school application must be improved before the application
can be considered f irther.
[]An EMP must be prepared and approved before the application can be considered
further.
11. Will this projec involve or result in:
* Diversion o use of surface waters?
* Constructioil and/or rehabilitation of latrines, septic or sewage systems?
* . Production of waste (e.g. slaughterhouse waste, medical waste, etc.)?
* New or rebt ilt irrigation or drainage systems?
If "Yes", tick one f the following boxes:
E The application d scribes suitable measures for managing the potential adverse
environmental effe ts of these activities. No further action required.
[I The application d Des not describe suitable measures for managing the potential adverse
environmental effe ts of these activities. An Environmental Management Plan must be
prepared and appro ed before the application is considered further.
12. Are there any o her environmental or social issues that have not been adequately
addressed?
If "Yes", summari ze them:
68



and tick one of the following boxes:
u      Before it is donsidered further, the application needs to be amended to include
suitable
measures for addres sing these environmental or social issues.
D     .An Enviror nental Management Plan needs to be prepared and approved before
the application is ccnsidered further.
Part 4: Field Appraisal Decision
C The school appli ation can be considered for approval.
Based on a site visil and consultations with both interested and affected parties, the field
appraisal determine d that the community and its proposed secondary school application
adequately address environmental and/or social issues as required by the SEDP's ESMF
and meets the reqt irements of Environment Act, in Tanzania, NEMC and the World
Bank OP4.01
] Further subproj ct preparation work is required before the application can be
considered furthei.
The field appraisal ias identified environmental and/or social issues that have not been
adequately addres, ed. The following work needs to be undertaken before further
consideration of the application:
All required docut nentation such as an amended application, EMP, RAP, Screening
Forms, draft Civil works contracts, etc., will be added to the school application package
before it is conside ed further.
Name of Local GoN ernment Authority designated staff
.......................   .........I..........................................
Signature:
....................... .. ...........................
Date: ...........
69



70



