Documcnt of
The World Bank
FOR OFCAL USE ONLY
Report No. 10444
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1157-PAK)
MARCH 26, 1992
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. 10444-PAK Type: (PCR)
PANTON, M./ X31680 / T9 032/ OEDDI
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department III
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and  may be used bv recipiei s only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCIES
Pakistan Rupee (Rs)
United States Dollar (US$)
Swiss Franc (SF)
Special Drawing Right (SDR)
ANNUAL AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
iff.    1       1983        198 5    1986    1987    1988        98-9   1990
US$t . - Rs   9.900   11.847   13.117  14.046   15.928   16.648   17.399   18.003  20.541   21.707
US$ 1. - SF   1.964   2.030   2.099   2.350   2.457   1.7s9   1.491   1.463   1.636   1.389
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I metric ton (tonnes) - 1,000 kg
ABBREVIATIONS
ERR                Internal Economic Rate of Return
GOP                Government of Pakistan
MFAC               Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Cooperative
NWFP               North West Frontier Province
OBH                Open Bulkhead
PARC               Pakistan Agricultural Research Council
PASSCO             Pakistan Agricultural Storage and Services Corporation
PCR                Project Completion Report
PFD                Provincial Food Department
PMCC               Project Management and Coordination Committee
RECP               Rice Export Corporation of Pakistan
SAR                Staff Appraisal Report
SDC                Swiss Development Corporation
FISCAL YEAR
July I to June 30



FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Ofke of ir.ctar-Cuewai
Opeatiom tEahatkn
March 26, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Pakistan -
Grain Storage Proiect (Credit 1157-PAR)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Pakistan - Grain Storage Project (Credit 1157-PAR)" prepared
by the FAO/CP mission and finalized by the South Asia Regional Office with Part
II of the report contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has been
made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance   I
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1157-PAK)
CONTENTS
PREFACE    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .
EVALUATION SUMMARY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .iii
PARTI   .1....  .            .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .   . .
1. Project Identity . . . . . .  .                . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
2. Background . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
3. Project Objectives and Description .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   2
4.  Project Design and Organization  ....  .                   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  3
5.  Project Implementation   ....  .                .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .     .  4
6. Project Results . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   5
7.   Project Sustainability   ....  .               .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .     .  9
8.   Bank Performance   ....  .             .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  9
9.  Borrower Performance   ....  .                .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    11
10. Project Relationship   ....  .                .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    13
11. Consulting Services  ....  .               .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .    13
12. Project Documentation and Data   ....  .                   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    13
PART    II    .    .    .     .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  15
PART III.. ......................  17
1. Related Bank Credits ........ . ...........    17
2.   Project Timetable  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    18
3.   Credit Disbursements   ....  .              .  .  .     . ......  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   19
4.   Project Implementation   ....  .               .  .  .     . ......  .      .  .  .  .  .  .    .    20
5.   Project Cost and Financing   ....  .                .  .     . .....  .     .  .  .  .  .  .     .    21
A.  Project Cost  ....  .            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    21
B. Project Financing   ....  .              .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    21
6.   Project Results  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   22
A. Direct Benefits .22
B.   Economic Impact  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    23
C. Financial Impact .24
D.   Studies  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    24
7.   Status of Covenants  ....  .              .  .  .  .     . ......  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    25
8.   Use of Bank Resources  ....  .               .  .  .  .     . .....  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .    27
A.   Staff Inputs   ....  .            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    27
B. Missions .27
C. Costs .28
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance    |
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Wor;d Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
CREDIT 1157-PAK
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Grain Storage Project
in Pakistan costing a total of US$68.0 million and for which Credit 1157-PAK in
the amount of SDR 26.1 million (in 1981, US$32.0 million equivalent) was approved
on May 26, 1981. The credit was closed on December 31, 1989, four years behind
schedule. The project was co-financed by the Government of Switzerland through
the Swiss Development Corporation (SDC) with a grant of SF 15.0 million (in 1981,
US$7.7 million equivalent).   Neither the credit nor the grant were fully
disbursed; first SDR 7.0 million and eventually an unspent balance of about
SDR 3.,8 million out of the Credit and about SF 1.66 million out of the grant
were cancelled.  The last disbursement from the Credit was in October 1988 and
from the grant in April 1991.
This PCR was prepared in accordance with the guidelines issued in June
1989. Parts I and III were initially prepared by an FAO/CP mission and further
reviewed and finalized by the Bank. It is based, inter alia, on a visit to
Pakistan in April/May 1991; the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR); the Credit and
Project Agreements; supervision reports; correspondence between the Bank, SDC and
the Borrower; and internal Bank memoranda. It was further reviewed and finalized
by the Bank.



- iii -
EAISETAN
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
CREDIT 1157-PAK
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Oblectives
1.      The main objectives of the project were to assist Government of Pakistan
(GOP) in the implementation of its foodgrain policy by providing additional grain
storage facilities to Rice Export Corporation of Pakistan (RECP), Pakistan
Agricultural Storage and Services Corporation (PASSCO) and Provincial Food
Departments (PFDs); improving the operational efficiency of the last two, and
strengthening the relevant sections in MFAC. In brief this inferred attaining
of a relatively short-term aim (construction of godowns to avoid losses due to
open storage) and a relatively complex and long-term objective (strengthening of
the institutional capacities particularly MFAC, i.e. improving planning and
-oordination in storage of foodgrain). All this was to be achieved through the
co-struction of 500,000 tonnes of godowns for wheat and 40,000 tonnes for rice
v-'-age;  provision of storage equipment;  technical assittance; and research,
ti, llng and studies.
lmglementation Experience
2.      Although the construction component of the project was carried out rather
successfu.ly it was completed one year later than as planned at appraisal. This
was mainly due to ielays in disbursements of funds by the Ministry of Finance to
PASSCO and RECP which were responsible for the actual construction program. Had
it not been for the drive and resources of PASSCO and RECP, the implementation
of the component vould have taken much more time.  Pakistan Agricultural Research
Council's (PARC) program of research and training was also delayed for the same
reasons. The problems of the project implementation also perhaps emerged due to
an ambiguity in the SAR regarding the Storage Cell. While the Cell, in addition
to managing and coordinating actual project activities, was established to
develop, plan and put in place a grain storage policy and strategy system within
MFAC, it was seen by the GOP as a project execution unit. Thus, the role of the
Cell and the long-term benefits that were to result from its establishment were
not properly understood.
3.      During implementation several pilot trials were undertaken for mechanical
loading of hexbins as well as godowns. Unfortunately each trial was carried out
over too short a period and the conclusions can therefore be considered as
indicative only. However, one of these pilot trials, which was proposed only
during project implementation and concerned bulk handling and storage in Open
Bulk Heads (OBHs), was carried out over a longer period and considered so
successful that the project undertook to finance (from savings that occurred
mainly because of favorable foreign exchange rate movements) the construction of
another 150,000 tonnes of OBH and the provision of some bulk handling equipment.
This OBH component was dovetailed into a USAID project that covered technical
assistance mainly for experimenting with loading and offloading of wheat in bulk,



- iv -
from farmers to mills through OBH. To do this effectively, the project had to
be extended twice for one year.
Results
4.      Although the project had in all to be extended for five years to enable
completion of the pilot OBH program, it ought to be classified as a successful
project in terms of achievement of physical targets. The construction of the
540,000 tonnes godowns were completed within an acceptable time frame.   The
project godowns have been integrated into the system and are fully used. The ex-
post ERRs estimated for the wheat godown models are almost similar to the ones
estimated in the SAR. For the overall wheat component the re-estimated ERR is
25X, while the ERR in the SAR for tk' r-e component was estimated at 26%. The
ERR for the overall project coul.' -vt   estimated due to unavailability of data
on RECP's operations.
5.      That part of the project that was less successful, but A4d not affect the
ERR, concerned the institutional strengthening component t.. -g others the
Storage Cell) which for a large part waS not properly unders-.       The training
and studies were carried out, but without any follow-up on   . -     -raining was
discontinued after project completion and the studies which wtre zst-!.buted to
the PFDs have so far not been acted upon.
Sustainability
6.      Sustainability of the effective use of the project godowns will dep -{.
mainly on two factors:   (i) formulation and implementation by GOP ox' a
satisfactory maintenance and repairs program for the godowns;   and  (ii)
continuation of or follow-up on warehouse training and studies concerning
avoidance of wheat losses through effective warehouse management, undertaken
under the project.  Without these, the long-term sustainability of the project
would be in jeopardy.
Findings and Lessons Learned
7.      The project design was well conceived and, except for the part on the
role of the Storage Cell, clear and understandable. Main lessons learned are
that the Bank should in future:   (i) examine beforehand whether the action
proposed to be taken to substitute for non-compliance of a covenant would fully
serve the desired purpose (see para 8.6); (ii) spell out clearly and give more
prominence at appraisal to the "software" component of a -reject, particularly
when this component is intended to have a sustainable im   t on the sector and
even though it may be far less costly than the "hardware" component (see para
8.7);   (iii) ensure a prior commitment of the Government  to sustain the
institutional capability developed after the expiry of the project period (aee
para 8.8); (iv) assess the social and legal framework in which the project is to
be executed before incorporating under the project proposals which a priori would
have little meaning (see para 8.9). A lesson of experience for GOP is that it
should in future clearly understand a project's short and long-term objectives
as well as its financial implications, and also the need for a total commitment
to its successful undertaking (see para 9.8).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
CREDIT 1157-PAK
PART I
1. Project Identity
Project Name         :        Grain Storage Project
Credit No.                    1157-PAK
RVP Unit             :        EMENA
Country              :        Pakistan
Sector               :        Agriculture
Sub-sector           :        Food Grain Storage
2. Background
2.1    Pakistan's foodgrain production, mainly wheat and rice, accounted for
about 55% of the total cropped area and 36% of the sector's value added in
1980. Wheat, which constituted the major portion of the Pakistani diet,
covered 65% of the total foodgrain area and contributed about 70% to the total
foodgrain production. It is mainly grown under irrigation in the wheat surplus
areas, Punjab and northern Sind. The deficit wheat areas, NWFP and
Baluchistan, where only some rainfed wheat is grown, obtain their needs from
Punjab and Sind and from imports. Although Pakistan's wheat production
increased over ti'e last ten years it is still dependent on imports (on average
about 0.7 million tonnes per year) to meet the national demand. The Pakistan
Agricultural Storage and Services Corporation (PASSCO) has been in charge of
procuring (at Government fixed prices) and storing wheat in the warehouses it
has constructed in the surplus areas and reselling it (at Government fixed
prices) mainly to the Provincial Food Departments (PFDs) of the deficit areas.
The imported wheat is sold directly from the port by Federal Government to
Provincial Governments.
2.2     GOP's wheat policy has been to increase production mainly through
price incentives. As the GOP has applied a "no-loss" policy, decrease of
post-harvest losses (due to poor operational warehouse management and the
practice of open storage) was an issue not seriously addressed, even though
GOP on several occasions had tc stop wheat procurement since it considered
rick of losses due to further open storage too large. The discontinuation of
this procurement caused farmgate prices to drop, production to slow down and
Government's foodgrain policy to fall into disrepute.
2.3     Rice, Pakistan's second most important crop in 1980, was in contrast
to wheat, a major foreign exchange earner (over 1/3 of 1980's production was
exported), covering about 19% of the foodgrain area and contributing about 20%
to the country's foodgrain production. Like wheat, rice was mainly produced
in Punjab and Sind (95% of total production of 1980) and its production was to
increase also through price incentives (fixed by Government). With the
intention to fully exploit the rice export potential, GOP established the Rice



-2-
Export Corporation of Pakistan (RECP) in 1974 and granted it a rice export
monopoly. At the time of appraisal (1980) RECP had seven rice mills in Punjab
which could not be fully utilized due to lack of storage facilities on the
spot. Also, increaso in rice pr_duction through producer price incentives
would have lead to increased storage losses and to an adverse effect on the
potential of foreign exchange earnings.
2.4     The Gra!n Storage Project therefore intended to support the GOP
foodgrain (wheat and rice) policies by providing project inputs which were to
better the warehouse operational management for wheat and provide the
necessary warehouse facilities to decrease the wheat and rice storage losses.
This would avoid any possible discontinuation of wheat procurement and
consequent disillusionment of wheat producers.
3. Prolect Obiectives and DescriRtion
3.1     The main objectives of the project were to assist GOP in the
implementation of its foodgrain policy by providing additional grain storage
facilities to RECP, PASSCO and PFDs; improving the operational efficiency of
the last two; and strengthening the relevant sections in MFAC. Through these
actions the project intended to enable these institutions to: (i) meet their
foodgrain procurement, distribution and export requirements more effectively;
(ii) reduce their quantitative and qualitative storage losses; and (iii)
improve their planning and coordination in storage of foodgrain (including
construction, multifarious grain testing, storage quality control, grain
transportation and multi-purpose storage utilization).
3.2     The project was designed and formulated in 1979-80, immediately
following the poor 1977/78 wheat crop which was 8.5% below production of the
previous year, which made it necessary for GOP to import 2.1 million tons of
wheat. GOP at that time was giving serious consideration to the establishment
of a strategic food security reserve that would be adequate to make up for
production shortfalls. The size of the reserve was established as the
production shortfall of two consecutive poor wheat crops. In addition, the
size of the reserve was to be expanded by the thousands of Afghan refugees who
were moving across the border into Pakistan and whose numbers were expected to
increase dramatically. Foodgrain policy in Pakistan at that time had the
objective of increasing food grain production by providing price incentives to
producers; ensuring t. 'table distribution and consumption by providing food
grains at reasonable prices and stabilizing consumer prices. Against this
background of a food deficit and an uncertain production and political
environment, the project appears to have been designed to build additional
public sector storage to cater to the needs for a strategic food security
reserve and the equitable distribution of subsidized food to the consumer.
3.3     Technical issues such as the appropriate storage design and location
were given due consideration in project formulation. However, wider issues
such as the role of the private sector in storage, the budgetary costs of the
consumer subsidy on wheat, the cost to government of storage and transport of
wheat and issues of producer pricing and subsidies and its impact on
production were considered to be outside the scope of the project. It is,
however, clear that these issues were clearly recognized by the Bank at the
time of project preparation as the Grain Storage and Processing Study provided
for under the project had the objective of examining alternative government



3
policies regarding; (i) grain procurement and pricing; and (ii) private sector
Involvement in grain marketing and processing and credit provisions for the
privAte trade. Although the studies were undertaken, GOP did not take any
action on the recommendations (para 6.8). Given the more prersing needs and
priorities of GOP at that time, which was to establish a strategic food
security reserve, the project emphasis was on providing ths additional storage
required in the public sector.
3.4     The project comprised construction of 500,000 tonnes of bagged grain
storage facilities in the four provinces and 40,000 tonnes of rice storage
facilities at the RECP mills in Punjab. Further project inputs concerned grain
testing and quality control equipment;  mechanical grain handling facilities
for pilot trials;  funds for research, extension aiid training;  technical
assistance for carrying out studies; and funds for study tours and
undertaking a study in further storage and processing requirements.
3.5     The overall responsibility for project execution was to rest with
NFAC. To facilitate coordination of project activities a Project Management
and Coordination Committee (PMCC) was to be set up comprising all institutions
involved in the project. In MFAC a Storage Cell was to be established to be
staffed with four administrative professionals and two technical staff (one
for transport and another for quality control) were to be engaged. The Cell
was the principal project execution unit and was to "be responsible for
project matters as well as for the preparation of recommendations on future
storage construction programs, storage maintenance, multi-purpose storage
utilization, grain storage management and grain handling methods".  The Cell
was basically to be the administrative/executive arm of PMOC; its head was to
be PMCC's secretary. Although the Storage Cell was to coordinate the
construction program, procure the equipment, and direct the pilot trials the
actual design and construction of the wheat and rice storage facilities were
to be carried out by PASSCO and RECP respectively. The Pakistan Agricultural
Research Council (PARC) was to look after the grain storage, research and
extension programs including training.
3.6     Total project cost was US$68.0 million for which an IDA Credit of
SDR 26.1 million (in 1981 equivalent to US$32.0 million) and a grant from the
Swiss Government through SDC of SF 15.0 million (in 1981 equivalent to US$7.7
million) were approved. Project duration was planned for four years, but was
extended five times by a one-year period and although all intended project
expenditures were aetually carried out only about half of the credit and abou'
90% of the grant wer:' disbursed due to savings resulting from exchange rate
variations and lower ^onstruction costs. The balance of credit of about SDR
10.98 million and grant of about SF 1.66 million, were cancelled.
4. Project Design and Organization
4.1     Constraints of the grain storage sector were well identified and
project approach and dimension appropriately planned. Although project design
and organization were also well conceived, they were not properly understood
by GOP largely due to ambiguity in the SAR regarding the role of the Storage
Cell. The project was designed and organized with an immediate as well as a
long-terim aim in mind. Only the immediate aim of the project was clearly
understood i.e. construction of warehouses to support GOP's overall foodgrain
policy and reduce food grain losses mainly due to open storage. The long-term



-4-
aim of strengthening relevant institutional capacity of MFAC was essentially
the more important part of the project in spite of its relstively low cost
(about 10% of project cost). This was to be achieved mainly through the
establishment of the Storage Cell, which was to undertake effective planning
and coordination of multi-purpose grain storage in the country in addition to
its activities mentioned above (see para 3.3). Had the SAR given the
estublishment of the Storage Cell perhaps more prominence, by treating it as a
separate project Zeature or component, and had the Storage Cell been staffed
with technical rather than with administrative personnel and had relevant
technical assistance been provided to the Cell, its value may have been fully
comprehended, the long-term aim of its establishment obtained and the benefits
t  accrue might have been much more rather than just satisfactory.
:P. .roie. t Implementation
5.1     Storage Cell.  The establishment of the Storage Cell was not only
crucial to the project implementation but also to the overall development of
the food grain storage sub-sector. The Cell was intended to manage and
coordinate project activities whici' it did, but in addition to serve some
long-term objectives (future strategy for storage construction, maintenance,
multi-purpose storage utilization, grain storage management and grain handling
methods) which it did not. Although the Cell was created at the beginning of
the project, recruitment of staff including its Head was not completed until
1984, one year before the project waS originally due to terminate anL after
some 50% of the construction program had already been completed. As a result
the effectiveness of the Cell was seriously undermined even in providing the
intended project management support.
5.2     Disbursement of funds by the Ministry of Finance to the agencies
concerned with the execution of the various project components suffered from
continual delays. Funding for PASSCO was provided through a "Project Revolving
Fwi.d"IL, initially set-up with Rs 50 million. Into this fund six-monthly
deposits were to be made to cover the costs of PASSCO's agreed work schedule
for the next six months. On several occasions this fund was exhausted, due to
inadequate provision or delays in effecting the transfers, causing the
construction program to slow down. Subsequently PASSCO made some funds
available and increased the six supervisory staff resources originally
allocated to its construction program to eight to regain lost time and to
achieve construction deadlines. RECP, which was to receive the project funds
from the Kinistry of Finance through MFAC, had to finance its entire
construction program from its own resources and did not receive payment until
some three years after it was completed. PARC's program, which was to receive
project funds through a similar arrangement, was slow in getting started, also
basically due to payment delays, which eventually resulted in the project
being extended by one year so that PARC could complete its training and wheat
loss assessment programs. Although several supervision missions took this
issue up with Ministry of Finance and MFAC it was never satisfactorily
resolved and remained a problem throughout the life of the project.
5.3     PFDs were required to make available suitable premises for the
establishment of grain testing laboratories to be equipped by the project.
I./ A misnomer; should have appropriately been "Project Replenishment Fund".



-5-
Although all the equipment was provided, iaboral;ories were not made available
in Sind (3) and NWFP (1). In Baluchistan the laboratory was set up and
equipped but has, so far, not been used, while in Punjab the equipment was
provided to an existing laboratory. Other grain testing and quality control
equipment designa,ed for use in both existing and newly constructed godowns
has not been distributed as intended by the PFDs and little if any is in
regular use.
5.4     Pilot Projects were intended to test alternative methods of
mechanically loading hexbins and mechanical bag handling in godownsa This was
subsequently expanded to include mechanical bulk loading of house type
gG4owns. At the request of NFAC/PASSCO the scope of the pilot project
component was expanded in early 1984 to enable the construction of three
experimental open bulkheads (OBH) for trials of hulk handling and storage of
wheat. Following the promising results obtained, permission was again sought,
and given in late 1984, for the purchase of a limited quantity o'f bulk
transport and handling equipment to extend the trials to bulk collection from
procurement points to the OBHs and for bulk delivery to mills. This led
eventually to the successful construction of an additional 150,000 tonnes of
OBH under the project and financed by the savings obtained mainly through
favorable foreign exchange rates.
6. Proiect Results
6.1     Warehouse Construction.  The storage capacity built (500,000 tonnes
for wheat and 40,000 tonnes for rice) was intended to cover 47% of the
additional 1.07 million tonnes of the wheat storage project'.d needs by 1985/86
and 48% of the additional 84,000 tonnes of paddy/rice storage immediate (in
1980) needs as estimated in the SAR. Some 80% of the projected wheat storage
was concentrated in the main procurement areas, with the remainder in the
deficit areas of NWFP and Baluchistan. Projected rice storage was located at
existing RECP mills in Punjab. With some minor exceptions, the construction
has been undertaken in accordance with the program set ,ut in the SAR, and
completed only one year later than estimated in the SAR, mainly due to delays
in disbursement of funds by the Ministry of Finance. The quality of the
construction is generally good and most godowns have been in regular use since
completion. Monthly stocks of wheat held by the PFDs continue to exceed the
available storage capacity for several months each year implying a continuance
of the open storage practice when needed; in Punjab this averages some 5-6
months. This suggests that the godowns built under the project are well
utilized. The mission estimated, on the basis of data obtained in Punjab and
NWPP, that utilization rate would be about 80% over a five-month period.
6.2     Reduction of Storage Losses.  An inferred objective of the project was
to reduce the level of losses incurred due to: (i) poor operational management
and (ii) open storage. As Government policy has not recognized the existence
of storage and handling losses in their records (the "no loss" system),
reliable estimates of the achieved reduction of losses resulting from the
project cannot be made. It is also not possible to determine the utilization
of each godown built under the project as they are operationally fully
integrated into the overall storage network.
6.3     The EAR assumed that over a six-month period losses would be 1.25-
1.50% in quantity terms for godowns and 3.50-3.75% for storage in the open.



- 6 -
The storage facilities to be built under the project were to diminish these
losses to a maximum of 0.75%. Based on these assumptions and improved
handling/storage management, the SAR estimated that the project would cause a
reduction in wheat losses of some 28,000 tonnes per year. Subsequent surveys
undertaken by PARC IL imply that the actual level of losses in the godowns
would be some 3.5X over a five-month period, and not 1,25-1.5% over a six-
month period as assumed in the SAR. The study does not provide estimates of
losses for open storage nor for different types of storage. However, informed
opinion suggests that losses for grain stored in the open are some 2.5-3.0
times larger than those for godown storage, thus signifying that such losses
would be equivalent to 8.5-10.5%. Based on these estimates and the mission's
estimate of the project's wheat godowns capacity use of 80% ovar a five-month
period (see para 6.1), the reduction in storage losses brought about by the
project would be 21,000-28,000 tonnes per year.2> Although computed on a
different basis it happens that this estimate is more or less in line with the
one made in the SAR. Nevertheless the mission wishes to stress that this
estimate is a mere guesstimate and should therefore be used prudently.
6.'     Throughput of the RECP mills has increased substantially since the
construction of the mill storage facilities (see Table below). It is not
clear however, whether these increases are a direct result of the availability
of storage or of other factors such as improved procurement prices or
increased use of a higher yielding Basmati variety. Also the increased
quantities of paddy procured by the rice mills are still in excess of the
storage capacity constructed with the result that substantial quantities of
paddy still have to be stored in the open. However, finished rice can now be
held in the godowns until such time as shipment to Karachi can be arranged,
reducing the likelihood of losses and quality deterioration. RECP, which is
also forced to adopt the "no loss" system, uas unable to provide any
information concerning losses. Unlike for wheat, no loss assessment study was
undertaken for paddy/rice. Estimates of reduction in rice/paddy storage losses
brought about by the project can therefore not be made. However, the standard
of warehouse management currently practiced by RECP is so inadequate that any
reduction in losses, thanks to the storage now available, is expected to be
marginal (see para 6.10).
]/   Losses in Public Sector Storage in Pakistan, PARC 1986.
.2/   (0.8 x 500,000 x 0.052) - (0.8 x 500,000 x 0.07).



-7 -
Paddy Procurement by Rice Mills
(tonnes)
84/85   85/86    86/87    87/88    88/89    89/90    90/91
Dhaunkal     33,561  12,799   30,564   25,670   30,672   25,547   25,978
Eminabad      2,275   4,269    8,309      9,661   10,653    9,752   10,128
Siranwali     3,722   4,000    9,125      9,506   11,240   10,201    9,899
Sheikupura    4,138   5,397    9,243    10,516   11,710    9,509    9,995
Faizabad      2,052   4,628    8,071   10,353   10,151    9,156   10,027
Mubarakpur    2,473   3,273    8,531   10,026   11,763    9,002    9,718
Hafizabad     4,092   8.754    9.763   10,841   11.117   10.287   10.466
Total     52,313  43,120   83,606   86,573   97,306   83,450   86,211
Source: RECP.
6.5    Mechanized Loading Trials of Hexbins.  While the trials showed the
practicality of mechanized loading operations, the period for which they were
run, one week, was too short to make a full assessment and it is disappointing
to find that the equipment has not been used by the Punjab FD since its
handover in 1986. Nevertheless the results, which should be considered as
indicative only, are interesting: mechanized wheat loading trials on the
hexbins in Khanewal demonstrated that the bins could be loaded satisfactorily
using mechanical means and at a lower cost than the current practice of manual
loading (see table below).
Indicative Results of Mechanization Trials on Hexbins
Operating Cost
(Rs/tonne)
Manual handling (present system)            18.85
Pneumatic conveyor                         19.45
Elevator and augers                        12.14
Elevator and barrow                        14.00
Pneumatic conveyor and augers              17.08
Source: PASSCO.
6.6     Open Bulkheads. The construction of OBHs initially for pilot trials
and, following their success, the expansion to full-scale trials (150,000
tons) was a significant change to the scope of the project demonstrating for
the first time the practicality of bulk handling from farmer through storage
to the mills. OBHs are substantially cheaper to construct than traditional
godowns (Rs *q' per tonne compared with Rs 620 per tonne), and have been shown
to be suitable under Pakistani conditions with the grain remaining in good
condition for periods of up to six months. Initial responses from both farmers
and millers have been promising.



6.7     The dovetailing of the full-scale bulk handling operation with a
technical assistance project supported by USAID is proving tc be highly
successful in the development of practical operational methods and for the
promotion of the system. During the 1991 procurement season it is planned to
liandle some 60,000 tonnes of wheat through the OBHs. If this operation is
successful, it is to be expected that the bulk handling of wheat would be
exsanded in the future and result in lower marketing costs to farmers, lower
handling and storage costs to the PFDs and lower handling costs to the
millers.
6.8     Studies.  Four studies undertaken under the auspices of the project,
were completed and the reports distributed by the Storage Cell to the PFDs.
None of the PFDs seemed to be aware of these reports and, so far as could be
discerned, no fcllow-up discussion nor action has been taken. The Storage
Cell claimed that the studies have made the Government more aware of the
importance of the grain storage/logistics sub-sector and have assisted with
the development of future policy. However, there is little evidence to support
this claim. The Grain Quality, Grain Testing and Quality Control study should
have provided an operational manual for distribution to procurement and
storage staff; this manual was never prepared.
6.9     Storage Management and Quality Control.  PARC established six research
laboratories&L which conducted the grain loss study and the godown training
program. A total of 1,050 staff from the PFDs and PASSCO received one week of
training by six staff from PARC, who were trained overseas under the project
and employed in the research laboratories. This has reportedly led to
improvements in general warehouse management, but, due to the "no loss" system
which discourages the use of quality meas.rement, has not had the intended
impact on improving quality control during procurement or storage. On
completion of the project five of the PARC trained staff had to be released as
Government did not have the resources to finance their posts in the research
laboratories.
6.10    Surprisingly the project did not make provision for training RECP
storage staff in warehouse management and quality control. The general
standard of storage management at the RECP mill godowns visited was e::tremely
inadequate with apparently little or no management interest in raising
standards. Losses incurred at these sites can therefore be expected to be
unacceptably high (see para 6.4).
6.11    Financial and Economical Benefits.  Although RECP's actual benefits
under the project could not be estimated (see Part III 6-C), they most
certainly will be significantly lower than the ones estimated in the SAR.
There are two reasons for this: (i) the RECP warehouse management has been
/ Food Grain Transport Economics and Logistics, Grain Quality Testing and Grain
Quality Control, Food Grain Storage and Processing, Losses in Public Sector
Storage in Pakistan.
Z/ National Agricultural Research Center, Islamabad; Tropical Agricultural
Research Institute, Karachi; Agriculture University, Peshawar; Agriculture
University, Faisalabad; Agriculture University, Hyderabad; Agricultural
Research Institute, Quetta.



-9-
far below than what is required; and (ii) the savings to be derived by RECP,
as estimated in the SAR, were over-optimistic to the extent that they could
not even be achieved under a relatively effective level of warehouse
management. The internal economic rate of return for the entire project could
not be re-estimated due to lack of RECP data (see above), while the re-
estimated ERR of the wheat storage component, which covered more than 90% of
the total project cost, was similar to the one estimated in the SAR i.e. 25%
(SAR: 26X). The ERRs estimated for each individual model o. godowns, at the
time of the PCR, show that they are almost similar to the ones estimated in
SAR except that the larger godowns have a slightly less favorable ERR than
that estimated at appraisal, particularly for Model D (see Part III 6-B). The
savings to be derived through a reduction in the warehouse operating cost for
the larger godowns were somewhat overestimated at appraisal.
7. Project Sustainability
7.1     Since the long-term aim of the project has not really been achieved
the sustainability of the project should be considered only in relation to the
short-term aim, the construction of the godowns. Although most project
godowns are well utilized they are poorly maintained and hardly repa!.red.
GOP's repairs and maintenance program has beeni an unresolvable issue
throughout the project. Only after USAID financed a godown rehabilitation
program (which was to cover repair and maintenance) was the issue no longer
taken up by the Bank supervision mission. Nevertheless the USAID project will
be terminated this year and there are no visible signs of change in GOP's
attitude towards maintenance and repairs, since it apparently considers such
expenses a last priority. Sustainability of the effective use of the project
godowns will depend on two factors: (i) formulation and implementation by GOP
of a satisfactory maintenance and repairs program for the godowns; and (ii)
continuation of or follow-up on training and studies concerning avoidance of
wheat losses through effective warehouse management, undertaken under the
project (paras. 6.8 and 6.9). Without these, the long-term sustainability of
the project would be in jeopardy.
8. Bank Performance
8.1     Storage Cell. The creation of a Storage Cell to manage the project and
to provide a focal point for coordinating anw developing future storage and
logistics strategies, should have considerably strengthened MFAC. However, the
intended roles of the Cell, particularly oith respect to development and
coordination aspects (long-term aim) although inferred, were not clearly
specified nor given the needed prominence in the SAR. The result has been that
the Cell's activities have concentrated essentially on project management
which, for other reasons, was not too strong either (see para 5.1). The
Storage Cell should also have been staffed with technical rather than
administrative personnel. Moreover the Cell should have been provided with
technical assistance since little know-how on the grain storage sub-sector has
been available in Pakistan, particularly at the time of appraisal. This was
the only weakness in the SAR, which otherwise was an excellent document.
8.2     Rice Godown Design.  Significantly different designs were adopted by
the Bank for the rice and wheat godowns with the rice godowns being inherently
more expensive both at appraisal and on completion (see table below). While
the rice godowns needed to be somewhat higher than those for wheat to allow



- 10 -
for the higher paddy stacks, this would not account   r the large difference
in cost. Also, given the operational weaknesses of ..e design of the rice
godowns (para 9.4), it is not clear why the Bank during implementation agread
to select the more expensive design.
Compnarative Cost of Wheat and Rice Godowns
Cost per tonne capacity (Rs)
Wheat             Rice
Appraisal                   860              1,050
Actual /a                   741              1,186
_a Source: PASSCO and RECP.
8.3     SuRervision Missions.  Throughout the life of the project the standard
of Bank supervision was high with problem areas clearly identified and
corrective follow-up action suggested to Government which, however, was not
necessarily followed through. A typical example of such a case has been the
relentless insistence of the supervision mission on the compliance of the
covenant regarding the repairs and maintenance backlog of the godowns.
Unfortunately the Bank removed this pressure once it became clear that USAID
Intended to take this up under a godown rehabilitation project. The USAID
project has not solved the issue but rather delayed its solution.
8.4    Flexibility was shown with respect to recommending adjustments to the
scope of the project to meet changing circumstances. Of particular relevance
were the recommendations to support bulk handling trials and subsequently the
construction of OBHs which necessitated several extensions to the life of the
project. The decision taken by the Bank to dovetail the trials of the OBHs
(which had been limited only to mechanized loading of bagged grain), with the
development of the continuous bulk handling system (from farmer through
storage to mill) being undertaken with USAID assistance was opportune and
sound.
8.5     RECP Storage.  As RECP was able to finance the total construction
costs for the 40,000 tonnes of storage capacity built in Punjab from its own
resources, the Bank's rationale for the inclusion of this component in the
project would in retrospect appear questionable. While training of warehouse
staff in storage management and quality control was included under the project
for the PFDs and PASSCO, no provision was made for training RECP staff. With
the exceptionally low standards of storage management seen in RECP godowns,
this need should have been identified at appraisal. RECP needs were
apparently more software rather than hardware oriented.
8.6     Lessons Learned.  Recognizing the underlying specific and important
reasons for which covenants are included in the project documents, the Bank
should examine beforehand whether the action to be substituted for non-
compliance of a covenant, is actually realistic and would serve the desired
purposes. Regarding this specific covenant on repai-s and maintenance the
Bank could have instead put in a component for repairs and maintenance to
remove the backlog. This may have been a better solution, but whether



- 11 -
sustainability in that case would have improved is still questionable (para
7.1).
8.7     While the concept of establishing a Storage Cell in the MFAC was
sound, its failure to achieve its intended role resulted from ambiguity in the
SAR. With hindsight the responsibilities and role of the Cell should have
been more clearly spelled out and given more prominence in the SAR. Further,
as the technical capabilities of government staff (particularly with respect
to analytical work in the sub-sector) have been limited to the extreme,
technical assistance should have been provided to develop the Cell's role and
train its staff. In future, institutional weaknesses should be considered
more seriously as, once strengthened, the institlntions can have a much more
sustainable impact on the sector.
8.8     The Bank supported the establishment of a training capability in PARC
for warehouse management and quality control. On termination of the project
Government was unable, or unwilling, to make the necessary resources available
to sustain this capability. As a result almost all the PARC trainers who were
trained overseas have been lost. Although it was presumably intended that
there would be a continuing need to provide training to warehouse staff, the
Bank did not require Government to make the necessary provisions for
sustainability. In future the Bank should require a prior comnitment from
Government to sustain the institutional capability developed after expiry of
the project period.
8.9     To improve grain storage management in the country the project
provided a substantial amount of weighing and quality control equipment. While
the regular use of this equipment would enable better standards to be
achieved, there was a lack of appreciation of the difficulties in bringing
about the necessary operational and attitude changes, e.g. discontinuation of
the "no loss" system, as well as greater control over undesirable practices.
As a result virtually none of the equipment has been used. In designing future
projects the Bank should assess the social framework in which the project is
to be executed, before incorporating under the project proposals which a
priori would have little meaning.
9. Borrower Performance
9.1     Project Execution.  While the construction or "hardware" component of
the project though with some delay was completed satisfactorily and with
relatively few problems, the "software" components have not achieved the
expected impact, and although the SAR was not fully explicit on this (role of
Storage Cell), Government should have realized the shortcomings in the grain
storage sector. Government inertia was mainly to blame for this, although its
lack of awareness of the importance of having an effective storage management
and logistics system in place could also have been the reason. Besides, the
delays in borrower's disbursements of funds to the project entities were
undoubtedly due to inertia and lack of full commitment to establish efficient
procedures. Had it not been for the drive of and the resources put in by
PASSCO and RECP the construction program would have suffered serious delays
and the project would most probably have become a problem project.
9.2     Godown Construction.  Construction by PASSCO and RECP was generally of
a good standard. However, problems have arisen with the godowns built by



- 12 -
PASSCO in Baluchistan where the quality of construction was markedly below
that in other parts of the country. The main ptoblem lies with the roof
expansion joint in the middle of the 2200 tonne module godowns which have been
designed to withstand seismic conditions. Water seepage through the joint some
4-5 years after construction, due either to a design weakness in the severe
climatic conditions or to the generally lower standard of construction
prevailing in the area,1L is causing damage to the fabric of the building and
leading to operational problems. Inadequate quality of construction is also
evidenced in the gaps which bave developed between the dividing wall and the
supporting columns, where a "mastic" seal should have been uised, and water
seepage through the base of the side walls due to water lying on the external
loading platform.
9.3     The original design of the PASSCO godowns called for three sets of
double steel doors on each side of each 1,100 ton module. Due to problems of
sealing.the doors during fumigation the design was modified, with the approval
of the Bank, at an early stage to a single door, 4'-0"x 7'-4". This size of
door is proving to be rather too narrow for ease of bag handling operations
and for mechanization, either for bags or for on-floor bulk storage. The
design of the godowns would have been improved if internal screen doors had
been included in the design to prevent birds entering the buildings and to
improve security when godowns are being ventilated.
9.4     While construction of the paddy/rice godowns built by RECP is to a
satisfactory standard the approved design has had several operational
weaknesses. Ventilation of the godowns is generally poor, due in part to
inadequate windows at roof level and the ineffectiveness of the shuttered
windows in the walls for providing cross flows of air when grain is stacked in
the godown. It is also difficult to seal these shuttered windows
satisfactorily for fumigation operations. The design did not call for any
roof insulation with the result that high temperatures are reached inside the
godowns during the summer months,
9.5     In siting the godowns on the rice mill sites, insufficient attention
was given to simplifying the movement of grain into and out of the godowns to
and from the paddy driers and rice mills. As a result movements have required
excessive manual operations and any future move towards mechanized handling
rendered more difficult.
9.6     Godown Repairs and Maintenance.  The regular maintenance and repairs
of godowns continues to be a problem. Assurances were given at the time of
loan negotiation that adequate budgetary provision would be made by the
Provincial Governments to cover godown repair and maintenance, but this has
not been done. Although the Bank has insisted continuously on Borrower's
compliance to the covenant concerned, it was not complied with. This thorny
issue was really never resolved. The Bank finally considered the covenant
complied with after USAID provided the funds for a rehabilitation program of
PASSCO has now developed a modified design for the expansion joint which
has been adopted for the godown rehabilitation project being undertaken
under a USAID project for older godowns.



- 13 -
godowns. Although the Bank accepted this a; a compliance, it should most
certainly not be considered within the spirit of the agreement.
9.7     Storage Management and Quality Control Training. There has been an
ongoing need to provide regular training to warehouse staff in storage
management and quality control since standards are to be raised to an
acceptable level and losses reduced. Although six people were trained as
instructors under the project, only one person could be retained after project
closure due to lack of government resources. The much needed training program
has now been discontinued.
9.8     Lessons Learned.  The principal lesson to be learned by the Borrower
is of a totally different nature than any of those to be learned by the Bank.
Before undertaking the responsibility of project implementation the Borrower
should clearly understand the project's short as well as long-term objectives
as well as its financial implications, and also the need for a total
commitment to its successful undertaking. Throughout the project's
implementation the Borrower has shown some inertia to tackle problems and were
it not for the drive and resources of RECP and PASSCO, the project's outcome
would have been far less favorable.
10. Project Relationship
10.1    Project relationship concerned those of the Borrower and the Bank, the
Borrower and SDC and SDC and the Bank. The Borrower/SDC as well as the
Borrower/Bank relationships were excellent, although the results of these
relationships were not as one would have expected. Again this was mainly due
to the Borrower's inertia. The SDC/Bank's relationship was generally sound
except that on some occasions SDC was not informed on time of certain events
in which it wanted to participate. Otherwise the relationship was excellent.
When SDC foresaw that not all of its grant would be utilized by the end of the
project, it proposed to fund more than merely part of the construction
component, as originally agreed.  The Bank readily consented.  All project
funds disbursed since 1988 were therefore debited to SDC's grant only.
11. Consulting Services
11.1    With the lack of technical resources and expertise within MFAC the
consulting services provided under the project were essential for the
undertaking of the studies and for providing training to PARC. For the studies
a combination of international and local consultancy firms was used which has
helped develop local consulting capabilities.
12. Proiect Documentation and Data
1.      The SAR provided a useful framewcrk for the Bank as well as for the
Borrower during implementation, except where the institutional strengthening
was concerned. The legal agreements were also clearly understood and
followed, with the exception of the covenant on repairs and maintenance.
2.      PCR data were not readily available.  Except for the Punjab FD all
other PFDs promised to gather and provide the data requested, but never
followed through. Likewise the Storage Cell which was supposed to be the
administrative/executive arm of PMCC had few data readily available.



- 15 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
The information contained in Part III of the PCR is correct and the
analysis contained in Part 1 is substantially objective. However, our views
are as follows:
The PARC component of the project made a significanr contribution in not
only determining loss causing agents but the loss was also quantified. The
Survey Report of 1984-85 provides information on :.osses in various types of
storage for different periods of ti.   The report does not contain information
on losses in open storage.
The supervision missions discussed the philosophy that could lead to
larger scale trials (150,000 tons) after results from initial small pilot
trials have been collected. This approach was suggested by the Bank despite
the fact that additional funds in the form of savings from the project were
available for such large scale expansion of open bulk storage. This has not
been mentioned in the PCR.
The Grain Storage Study undertaken under the project indicated a future
gap in storage requirements. The government request to build additional
storage facilities to fill this gap out of savings from this project was not
acceded to by the Bank.
Except for the above comments, the Banks performance has been correctly
and adequately depicted in the PCR and the guidelines for the future
realistically outlined. The Borrower's performance has also been adequately
depicted and lessons learnt adequately identified in the PCR.
The co-financier in this case was the Swiss Government. The Swiss
Government representatives in Pakistan effectively participated during
supervision missions and both the World Bank and the Swiss Embassy in Pakistan
remained accessible and open for discussions and consultations during the
entire project period.



- 17 -
PART III
1. Related Bank Credits
Credit/Loan Title  Purpose                               Approval   Status               Comments
1. Salinity         To increase agricultural             12 June    Most of the works  The Government
Control and         productivity of about 1.27 miLlion 1977          are completed       should take over
Reclamation         acres in Bahawalpur Civil Division               (85%)               the completed
Project-VI (Cr.    of PunJab by (a) lowering the                                         drainage works and
754-PAK)            ground water table and providing                                     provide adequate
safe disposal of saline ground                                       0&M funds on a
water, and (b) providing increased                                   continuing basis.
water supplies.
2. Salinity         To (a) increase agricultural         23 January Expected project
Control and         production on about 123,000 acres  1979          completion of
Recltnation         of the project area, (b) provide a               December 1991.
Project MARDAN      more reliable and equitable water
(Cr. 877-PAK)      supply, and (c) strengthen the
Provincial irrigation Department's
capability for efficient 0&M of
the irrigation system.
3. Baluchistan      To (a) increase agricultural         1982        Expected project
Minor Irrigation   production, (b) improve the                       completion of
& Agricultural      institutional capacity of                        1992.
Development         Irrigation and Agricultural
Project (Cr.        Development, and (c) introduce
1243-PAK)           appropriate forms of local
participation in project cycles.
4. Fourth           To (a) increase agricultural         31 May      Except for the      WAPDA s',ould take
Drainage Project   productivity of about 295,000 ac   1983           sub-surface drain  actions to speed-
(Cr. 1375-PAK)      in Faisalabad Division of Punjab                 installation which up the completion
and (b) strengthen the capability                has been slower    of the unfinished
of WAPDA and Punjab's Departments                than targetted      sub-surface works.
of Irrigation and Agriculture.                   (only 25% of
pipeline work
completed), the
project is
progressing at a
satisfactory rate
and expected
completion date of
December 1991.
5. Left Bank        To increase agricultural             1985        Expected
Outfall Drain - I production in the left bank of                     completion date of
(Cr. 1532-PAK)      river Indus in Sind by providing                 1993
surface and sub-surface drainage
relief to about 578,000 ha and
392,000 ha respectively.
6. Baluchistan      To (a) strengthen and reorganize   13            Expected            The Goverrwnent (a)
Agricultural        the extension service, and (b)       December   completion date of to provide
Extension and       widespread adoption of proven        1984        31 December 1991.  adequate project
Adaptive Research  improved farming system in four                                       revenue budget,
Project (Cr.        districts of Baluchistan province.                                   and (b) to reduce
1533-PAK)                                                                                high turn-over of
trained project
staff.



- is -
7. On-Farm Uater   To increase agricultural              6 June      Physical progress  Government to (a)
Management II       production through (a) effective   1985          ahead of targets   inmprove quality of
Project (Cr.        use of Irrigation water, and (b)                 and expected        civil works in
1603-PAK)          adoption oi improved on-farm water                completion date of renovating water
management practices by farmers.                 31 December 1991.  courses, (b)
establish on-farm
water management
revolving funds in
each province
using the cost
recovery from
renovated water
courses.
Credit/Loan Title  Purpose                               Approval   Status               Comments
8. Punjab and       To achieve sustainable increases   24            Except civil works Construction of
Sind Agricultural  in agricultural production by         February   where progress is  civil works should
Extension II (AG   completing the introduction of the 1987           very slow, the      be accelerated.
Extension IV)       T&V extension system throughout                  project is making
Project (Cr.        the provinces of Punjab and Sind.                good progress in
1762-PAK)                                                            Punjab.  In Sind,
the progress is
unsatisfactory.
Expected
completion date of
31 December 1992.
9. Second           To (a) increase agriculturaL         29 March
Irrigation         production by providing a more        1988
Systems             reliable and equitable water
Rehabilitation      supply, (b) reduce crop losses,
(Cr. 1888-PAK)     and (c) strengthen the Provincial
Irrigation Department's
capabilities for O&M.
2. Project Timetable
Item                           Date Planned              Date Revised              Actual Date
Identification                                           -                         April 1980
Preparation                    June 1980                 -                         June 1980
Appraisal                      October 1980              -                         October/November 1980
Credit Negotiations            April 6, 1981             -                         April 22, 1981
Board Approval I/              May 26, 1981              -                         June 2, 1981
Credit S_nature V             -                         -                         October 21, 1981
Credit Effectiveness           January 19. 1982          -                         March 15. 1982
Credit Closing                 December 31, 1985         Dec. 1986, '87, '88,    December 31. 1989
89,
Credit Completion              June 30. 1985             June 1986, '87. '88,    June 30, 1990
'89, *9C.
L/ Switzerland/Govt. of Pakistan Agreement on Financial Cooperation, September 30, 1981.
/ Letter of Understanding Co-financing, Switzerland/World Bank, November 17, 1981.



- 19 -
Comments:   The first one-year extension (to 1986) of the project was granted to enable PARC to
complete its training and wheat loss assessment programs which were delayed due to delays
in disbursement by GOP. The second one-year extension (to 1987) was granted to enable
PARC to undertake an expanded training program for warehouse staff and PASSCO to
continue with bulk handling trials and complete the weighbridges which were delayed due to
shipment delays. The next three one-year extensions were granted basically due to the
inability of GOP to timely proceed with the necessary approval of constructing 150,000 tonnes
of OBH storage; delays in construction of the OBHs and in the delivery of equipment; and
dovetailing this OBH component to a USAID bulk grain handling program which started cnd
1990.
Before preparation an issue raised was whether bulk storage should be introduced in
Pakistan. After long defiberation it was decided not to, for the following reasons. Bulk
storage would entail: i) a 50% higher construction cost than for bag storage and ii) far-
reaching modifications in the transport system would be required to permit bulk movement of
grain. GOP agreed, but suggested that at least a pilot trial in bulk storage should be included
and at preparation the pilot project idea was accepted provided a suitable scheme could be
identified during appraisal. However, at appraisal stage the pilot scheme was eliminated from
the project since it was considered premature under Pakistan conditions due to high capilal
outlays required and an expected high degree of labor displacement.
Lack of storage maintenance was raised as an issue throughout the project cycle and a
relevant covenant was included in the Credit Agreement, but to no avail.
3. Credit Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
IDA in USS'000          1982       1983       1984      1985       1986      1987       1988     1989    1990
Appraisal estimate       3,000     12,890    24,260    31,540    32,000    32,000    32,000   32,000  32,000
Actual                      0       1,480       4,550   10,891    13,906    15,703    15,816   15,889  15,889
Actual as S of estimate      0      11.48      18.76     34.53      43.46     49.07    49.43    49.65   49.651/
SDC in SF '000
Appraisal estimate &'   1,000       4,500       8,500   13,000    15,000    15,000    15,000   15,000  15,000
Actual                   1,159      2,489       4,520    9,554       9,968    9,968    10,153   11,839   13,3443/
Actual as Z of estimate  115.90     55.31       53.18    73.49       66.45    66.45      67.69    78.93    88.96
1/ The undisbursed balance of about US$16.11 million (SDR 10.98 million) was cancelled
Z/ Appraisal was based on calendar years: here it is assumed that the calendar year 1981 is equal to the Bank's fiscal ye
1982, etc.
I/ Equal to US$5.5 million when based on the exchange rates at the time of each disbursement; the unspent balance was
cancelled.



- 20 -
4. Prolect IMglemontation
;0tY Indicatora
Unit.               Appraisal         Revised            Actual
Itmn                                                                  Estimate          Estimate
Wheat Storages
Land Aoquiuition                                000 mt              500               -                  500
Award of Contract                               000 mt              SOO               -                  500
Construction completed                          000 mt              500               -                  500
Paddy/Rioe Storages
Award of Contraot                               000 mt              40                40                 40
Construction completed                          000 mt              40                40                 40
Equipment Procurement
Warehouse, Quality Control and
Laboratories                                      Re Million          22                36                 36
Researob and Extension                          Rs Million          2                   1                 1
Mechanical Grain Handling                       Rs Million          6                  8                  8
Pilot Project- OBH                             Rs Million           -                  7.870              7,870
Vehicles (PARC)
Cars                                            No.                 12                66                 66
Motorcycles                                     No.                 19                16                 16
Technical Assistance                              man-months          54                69                 69
Training
Local training- storage                         No.                 1,000             1,050              1,050
Overseas study tours                            No,                 7                 22                 22
Foreign training- research                      No.                 9                  6                  6
MUc Fellowships                                 No.                 35                35                 35
Consultant Studies                                No.                 3                  3                  3
Additional Staff- PIU
Chief Engineer                                  No.                 1                   1                 1
Deputy Geniral Managers                         No.                 2                  2                  2
Executive Engineers                             No.                 9                  9                  9
Assistant Engineers                             No.                 17                14                 14
Sub-engineers                                   No.                 32                25                 25
Draftsmen/tracers                               No.                 5                  4                  4
Accounts Officer                                No.                 1                   1                 1
AOccuntant                                      No.                 13                 8                  8
PARC Coordination Unit
Coordinator                                     No.                 1                   1                 1
Field Officer                                   No.                 1                  1                  1
Office Manager                                  No.                 1                  1                  1
Accountant                                      No.                 1                   1                 1
MFAC
Director Storage Cell                           No.                 1                   1                 1
Section/Accounts Officers                       No.                 3                 22                 22
Technical Officers                              No.                 2                 11                 11
Research Officer                                No.                 -                  11                11



- 21 -
5.   Project  Cost  and Financing
A. Project Cost 1/
(US$ million)
Appraisal   PCR
Estimate 2/ Estimate
Local       Fore jn      Total        Local        ioreian      Total
Wheat storage facilities       47.1         12.3         59.4         32.1         0.3          32.4
Paddy/rice storage facilities 4.1           1.3          5.4          3.1          -            3,1
Pilot projects                 0.3          0.4          0.7          0.3          0.2          0.5
Open bulk head project         -            -            -            2 6          1.0          3.6
Grain storage research and
extension                      0.6          0.1          0.7          0.2          0.1          0.3
Technical assistance,
training and study             0.9          0.8          1.7          -            0.2          0.2
TOTAL                          53 0         15.0         68,0         38.3         1840,1
1/ Discrepancies due to rounding.
^/ Including all contingencies.
B. Project Financing
(US$ million)
Source                       AD-raisal Estimate                  PCR Estimate
IDA                          32.0  (47%)                         15.9  (39.7%)
SDC                          7.7  (11%)                          5.5  (13.7%)
Domestic                     28.3  (42%)                         18.7  (46.6%)
Total                        68.0  (100%)                        40.1  (100%)
Comments: Less funds were required since the Pakistan Rupee devalued sharply during the
project period (from Rs 9.90 per US$1, at appraisal 1981, to R, 21.83 per US$1
in 1990) and the foreign exchange expenditures were minimal.



- 22 -
6. Pro1ect Results
A. Direct Benefits
Indicators                               Apnraisal Estimate                       PCR Estimate
1. Reduced Grain Storage Losses          26,000 tonnes wheat per year             21.000-28,000 tonnes per year
2,500 tonnes paddy per year            Not possible to estimate on
the information available /
2. Reduced Handling Losses                2,000 tonnes wheat per yea.:            Included in 1 above
100 tonnes paddy per year            Not possible to estimate on
the information available
3.  Savings in Operational and           US$2.0 million per year                 Operational savings are
Transport Expenditure                                                        estimated to be some
US$250,000 per year 21
Y Reduced wheat storage and handling losses are based on estimates made in Section 6 of Part 1 (see para 6.3).
RECP was unable to provide any information on the reduction of storage losses due to the project.
/ Operational savings were based on an estimated average reduction of Rs 12 per tonne storage
capacity. Savings on transport costs attributable to the project are not available in the PFDs.



- 23 -
B. Economic Impact
Economic Rate of Return
Godowns           Appraisal Estimate PCR Estimate
Model A              250 MT            26                                   25
1,100 MT           36                                    36
9,900 MT           31                                    Not built under the project
Model B            1,100 MT            24                                   26
3,300 MT           23                                    25
22,000 MT           24                                    18
Model C            1,100 MT            24                                   23
4,400 MT           24                                    21
17,600 MT           25                                    17
Model D            1,100 MT            30                                   26
4,400 MT           30                                    22
9,900 MT           32                                    18
Wheat Storage    26                   25
Component
Comnents
The wheat storages constructed are grouped into four models. Model A and B are applicable to project storage
which were constructed at existing storage locations; models C and D are for new storage locations. ERRs were
calculated for each of these models on the same basis as at appraisal.
The economic rate of return estimated for the models were based on data provided by PASSCO, the Punjab Food
Department, and the mission's estimate on the possible savings of losses, which is based on PARC's report "Losses
in Public Sector Storage in Pakistan, PARC 1986". GOP could not provide the mission with any estimate on losses
saved, due to the 'no-loss" policy.
The economic rate of return of the wheat storage component is about the same as the one estimated at appraisal.
This was due to lower construction costs, higher import parity price for wheat, but significantly lower savings in
operating costs than were estimated in the SAR. All other data have been assumed similar to those in the SM.
.he SAR estimated al5o the economic rate of return for the pilot projects that were to be carried out for
several seasons. In actuality, they were in operation for a period not longer than a week each. No ex-post
estimates of the economic rate of return was therefore made.
The overall economic rate of return of the project could not be estimated due to a severe lack of data from
RECP. The data that was provided by RECP were too unrealistic to be used for any possible interpolation (see
comments under Section C).



- 24 -
C. Financial Impact
Financial Rate of Return
Entity                               Aporaisal Estimate                    PCR Estimate
RECP                                 37X                                   n.a. see comments
CooMents
No PCR estimate could be made since:   i) RECP was unable to provide realistic operating costs for the project
(it is difficult to separate the operating costs of the godowns from those of the rice mills; no fumigation and
maintenance have been carried out and the cost of these were therefore considered to be zero by RECP); (ii) due to
the "no-loss" system, RECP was unable to provide the mission with any reliable storage and handling losses
(however, from visits to the godown, the mission believes that the savings have been marginal because of poor
warehouse management).
Two factors may also be of interest to note: (i) RECP constructed the entire operation out of its own
resources and only in the third year of operation received the total amount from the Ministry of Finance but it had
to repay 50 inmediately to coincide with the repayment period planned in the SAR (11 years); (ii) the savings
projected by the SAR were over-optimistic even if a relatively effective level of warehouse management would have
been applied.
D. Studies
Studies                              Purpose as Deri"ned at Appraisal       Status          Impact of Study
1. Grain Storage and Processing      Estimate future storage and processing    Completed    Report available. Minimal awarcness.
needs                                                 No action taken. Rcportedly used for
refercnce by Storage Cell.
2. Grain Quality, Grain Testing and  Develop practical grading standards for    Completed   Report available, but did not includc
Quality Control                    wheat and rice                                         operational manual. Minimal
awarcness. No action takcn.
3. Foodgeain, Transport, Economics   Develop plans for improving foodgrain  Completed       Report available. Minimal awarcncss.
and Logistics                      transport operations.                                  No action taken.
4. Losses in Public Sectc, Storage in  To evaluate storage losses           Completed       Rcport availablc. Minimal awarcncss.
Pakistan                                                                                  No action taken.



7. Status of CDvenanis
Document                                Section                  OriginaL Date            Descriotion of Covenant                   Status
Devetopment Credit Agreement (DCA)   4.01 (c)                                             Subsidiary Loan Agreement                 Complied with.
*                                      4.02 (a)                                           GOP to establish and maintain a           Complied with; PNCC has regular
Project Management and Coordination    meetings.
Committee (PMCC).
a                                      4.02 (b) (i)                                      GOP to establish a storage cell in         Crmplied with.
MINFAC Food Wing.
*                                      4.02(b) (ii)              12/31/81                MINFAC to employ Head of Storage           Complied with in 1984. However, no
Cell/Grain Quality and Grain Transport grain transport technical officers
and technician officers.                  were employed.
u                                      4.03(a)                                            PARC to establish program coordination Complied with.
unit.
a                                      4.03 (b)                                           PARC to prepare grain storage research Complied with.
and related extension training
program.
a                                      4.03 (c)                 3/31/82                   PARC to arrange for foreign training.   Complied with. Six research officers    I
trained.                                 N)
a                                      4.03 (d)                 3/31/82                   GOP to arrange overseas study tours.   Complied with. 22 officials from
MINFAC, PFDs, PASSCO, RECP, and PARC
travelled overseas.
a                                      4.04 (a)                  1/31/82                  PARC to employ consultants.               Complied with. Consultants appointed
September. 1983.
a                                      4.04(b)                   1/31/82                 NINFAC to employ consultants for grain Complied with. Studies completed mid-
transport.                                1986.
n                                      4.04 (c)                 3/31/82                  MINFAC to employ consultants for Grain Complied with. Consultants finalized
Storage needs and Food Processing         study mid-1987.
Study.
DCA                                    4.07                      3/31/82                  MINFAC to prepare report on resutts of Not complied with.
studies on grain transportation and
grain inspection; provide IDA
recommendations to improve grain
transport, inspection and quatity.
n                                      4.08 (a)                 7/31/81                 CGOP to prepare annual program for          Complied with.
b,heat storage construction.
4.08 Cb?                                          rOP to consult annually with IDA on    Complied with in 198a and 1985.
timing and extent of foodgrain storage
programs.
U                                      4.09                     8/31/82                  GOP to acquire land for construction   Complied with.
of 500,000 tons wheat storages.
U                                      4.11 (a)                                          GOP to furnish annual project              Not complied with.
evaluation reports to IDA and GO
Switzerland.



co                                    5.02                                             GOP to supply IDA audit reports six    Comptied with.
months after end of FY.
5.03 (a)                                        GOP shalt cause Provinces to             Not cc Aied witb.
effectively repair and maintain their
grain storages.
5.03 tb)                                        GOP to survey grain storage to           Complied with.
estimate repair and maintenance
requirements, and prepare a phased
repair program satisfactory to IDA by
12/31/85.
5.04 (a)                                        HINFAC to establish a revolving fund.  Complied with.
5.04 Cb)                                        HINFAC to make initial deposit into    Complied with.
revolving fund.
PASSCO Project Agreement              2.01 (b) ti)                                     PASSCO to establish Project              Complied with.
Implementation Unit (PIU).
U                                     2.01 (b) (ii)                                    PASSCO to employ in PIU a chief          Complied with.
engineer and two Deputy-General
Managers.
u                                     2.02                     1/31/82                 PASSCO to employ an engineering          Complied with.
consultant.
2.03 (b)                                        PASSCO to inctude provisions for         Complied with.
training in contracts for weigh
bridges/grain cleaners.
U                                     4.01                                             PASSCO to submit audited reports to    Complied with.
IDA by six months after e'd of FY.
RECP Project Agreement                2.02                                             RECP to employ consultants.              Complied with.
U                                     4.01                                             RECP to submit audited reports to IDA  Complied with. Audit Report for FY86
by six months after end of FY.          received. No report required for later
years as no operations.



8  Use of Bank Resourms
A. Staff Innuts (In Staff Weeks)
StaSe of Pro;ect CYcle                         Planned                        Revised                        Final                           Ccoments
Through AppraisaL                                                                                            85.3
Appraisal through Board Approval                                                                             64.6
Board Approval through Effectiveness                                                                         9.5
Supervision                                                                                                  133.9
B. Missions
StaLe                   Month/Year                No. of Persons             Days in Field             Soecialization            Performance Rating        Type of Problems
Identification          Harch 1980                3                          12                       Co/CEJE
Preparation             June 1980                  5                         22                        Co/CE/AE/GSS/AI
Appraisal               Oct/Nov 1980              5                          19                        Co/CE/AE/GSS/AI
Supervision 1           October 1981               2                         10                        FA/AI                     1
Supervision 2           Septeiber 1982             2                         9                         FA/AE                     I
Supervision 3           April/May 1983             2                         10                        FA/AI                     1                         -4_
Supervision 4           February 1984              1                         13                        Al                        2
Supervision 5           October 1984              2                          10                        E/AI                      2                         F/M
Supervision 6           may 1985                   1                         6                         A                         2                         F/H
Supervision 7            Feb/March 1986            2                         26                        A/FA                      2                         F/H
Supervision 8           Sep/Oct 1986               2                         15                        E/A                       2                         F/M
Supervision 9           April/May 1987            2                          9                         FAWA                      2                         F/M
Supervision 10           June/July 1988            2                         12                        E/AI                      2                         F/M
Supervision 11           Feb/March 1989            1                         13                        E                         2                         F/M
Supervision 12          March/April 1990           2                         3                         E/A                       2                         F/M
A = Agronomist; Al = Agric. Industries Specialist; AE   Agric. Economist; Co   Commodity Specialist; CE   Civil Engineer; E = Economist; FA   Financial Analyst;
GSS = Grain Storage Specialist.



C. Costs
Stage of Proiect CYcle                   Total USS Cost of Staff Inputs                Average USS Cost of HQ Activities           Average USSl Cost of Field
per Mission Member                         Activities cer Mission Member
Through appraisal
DATA NOT AVAILABLE
Appraisal through Board Approval
Board Approval through Effectiveness
Supervision
OD



