Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE (ONLY              L      C
Report No. P-3064-PAK
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
May 12, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =      Pakistan Rupee (Rs)
Rs 9.90           =     US$1.00
Rs 1.00          =      US$0.101
Rs 1 million      =     US$101,000
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATONS AND ACRONYMS
ADBP      -    Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan
CDWP      -    Central Development Working Party
ECNEC     -    Executive Committee of the National Economic Council
GOP       -    Government of Pakistan
MFAC      -    Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Cooperatives  -
NLC       -    National Logistic Cell
NWFP      -    North West Frontier Province
PARC      -    Pakistan Agricultural Research Council
PASSCO    -    Pakistan Agricultural Storage and Services Corporation
PMCC      -    Project Management and Coordination Committee
RECP      -    Rice Export Corporation of Pakistan
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                  Islamic Republic of Pakistan.
Amount:                    SDR 26.1 million (US$32 million equivalent)
Terms:                     Standard.
Project Description:       The proposed project would assist the Government in
the implementation of its foodgrain policy by provid-
ing additional storage facilities and improving the
operational efficiency of the Provincial Food Depart-
ments, Pakistan Agricultural Storage and Services
Corporation (PASSCO) and Rice Export Corporation of
Pakistan (RECP), so that these institutions can meet
foodgrain procurement, distribution and export require-
ments more effectively and reduce quantitative and
qualitative storage losses and storage operating
costs. In addition, the project would aim at streng-
thening grain storage research and extension. The
Credit would finance: (i) construction of 500,000 MT
of bagged wheat storage facilities; (ii) construction
of 40,000 MT rice/paddy storage facilities; (iii)
provision of warehousing, grain testing and quality
control equipment for storage facilities and grain
procurement centers and for six grain testing labora-
tories to be established under the project; (iv) pilot
facilities for mechanical grain handling; (v) streng-
thening of Pakistan Agricultural Research Council
(PARC), universities and agricultural research insti-
tutes for carrying out grain storage research and
developing extension training programs; (vi) technical
assistance, staff training and study tours in the
above fields; and (vii) a study on further storage
requirements and grain processing needs. The project
faces no special risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Relending Terms:                Total proceeds of the Swiss contribution and a
portion of the proposed Credit would be made
available by the Government to the Ministry of
Food, Agriculture and Cooperatives (US$36.2
million) and the balance of the proposed Credit
would be onlent to RECP (US$3.5 million) at 11%
interest, repayable over a period of up to 12
years, including 2 years grace, with the
Government bearing the foreign exchange risk.
Estimated Cost:                 Items                         Local   Foreign  Total
------US$ million-----
Wheat storage facilities
and equipment                33.0      9.3    42.3
Rice/paddy storage
facilities                    2.9     1.0      3.9
Pilot projects                  0.2      0.3     0.5
Grain storage research
and extension                 0.4      0.1     0.5
Technical assistance
and training                  0.4     0.5      0.9
Study                           0.2      0.1     0.3
Base cost                      37.1    11.3    48.4
Physical contingencies          3.6     1.1      4.7
Price contingencies            12.3     2.6    14.9
Total Project Cost             53.0    15.0    68.0
Less local duties and
taxes                         3.1      -       3.1
Total project cost net
of duties and taxes          49.9    15.0    64.9
Financing Plan:                 --------------------US$ million------------------
IDA                            18.6    13.4    32.0
Swiss Government                6.1      1.6     7.7
Federal Government             25.8       -     25.8
Provincial Governments          1.0      -       1.0
RECP                            1.5       -      1.5
53.0    15.0    68.0
Rate of Return:                 About 28%.
Estimated Disbursements:        IDA FY                 FY82  FY83  FY84  FY85  FY86
----------US$ million-------
Annual                3.0    9.9  11.4   7.2   0.5
Cumulative            3.0   12.9  24.3  31.5  32.0
Staff Appraisal Report:         Pakistan Grain Storage Project, May 11, 1981,
Report No. 3360-PAK.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan for SDR 26.1 million (US$32
million equivalent) on standard IDA terms, to help finance a grain storage
project. The Swiss Government is providing a non-reimbursable contribution
of Swiss Fr. 15.0 million (about US$ 7.7 million equivalent) for the project.
These proceeds would be partly made available by the Government to the Ministry
of Food, Agriculture and Cooperatives (US$36.2 million) and partly onlent to
the Rice Export Corporation of Pakistan (RECP) (US$3.5 million) at 11% interest,
repayable over a period of up to 12 years including two years' grace, with the
Government bearing the foreign exchange risk.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The most recent economic report "Pakistan:  Economic Developments
and Prospects" (No. 3328-PAK, dated April 10, 1981) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on April 20, 1981.
3.        The past three to four years have witnessed a significant economic
recovery in Pakistan. GDP growth during FY78, FY79 and FY80 averaged over
6% p.a. This growth has been accompanied by a recovery in agricultural and
industrial production well above the rate of population growth, currently
averaging 3% p.a., and by a rapid growth in exports. Exports increased in
real terms by 11% in FY78, 20% in FY79, and 22% during FY80. Value added in
agriculture rose by 6% in FY80 following increases of 4.2% in FY79 and 2.5% in
FY78, and in industry by 8.1% in FY80 following 9.2% growth in FY78 and 4.2%
in FY79. This performance contrasts markedly with the economic stagnation of
the early and mid-1970s, when the growth of GDP averaged only 3-4% and goods
production 1.1% p.a., and export growth was negligible.
4.        The prospects for continuing economic improvements during the cur-
rent year--FY81--appear to be promising. Overall GDP is expected to grow by
about 5%, with continued increases in agricultural and industrial production
and in exports. Following a number of favorable recent developments, includ-
ing an Extended Fund Facility arrangement with the IMF, a short-term debt
rescheduling arrahgement with bilateral creditors of the Pakistan Consortium
and improved external aid inflows, both the budget and the balance of payments
are under reasonable control and the short-term economic outlook has consider-
ably improved.
5.        The recovery in the economy since 1977 has been aided by several
factors, including favorable weather, improved foreign demand for Pakistan's
exports and higher domestic demand associated with better crops, rising rural
incomes and workers' remittances from the Middle East. Various policy changes
introduced by the Government have also contributed significantly to the recovery.



- 2 -
6.        In recent years the Government has taken a number of initiatives
to improve agricultural production. Particular attention has been given to
improving farmer incentives and input supplies. Support prices for all major
crops have been raised so that they are now closer to world prices; and
efforts have been made to improve the fertilizer distribution system by
expanding the marketing network and by ensuring adequate supplies and timely
delivery of fertilizer imports. Steps have been taken to reduce the fertilizer
subsidy (which has been creating budgetary problems) and by separating it from
the development budget for agriculture in order to protect allocations for
other priority agricultural projects and programs. An Agricultural Pricing
Commission has been recently set up to make recommendations on appropriate
changes in crop support and input prices on a consistent and timely basis.
7.        In addition, the Government has begun to address the deep-seated
problems affecting productivity at the farm level. A start has been made in
improving extension services through the adoption of the so-called training
and visit system. Preliminary reforms have been initiated to the agricultural
research system in line with the findings of a recent USAID/World Bank study.
The Government has also formulated and begun to implement a new agricultural
policy based on the main recommendations of a recently completed UNDP study on
irrigated agriculture, which emphasizes the need to improve the efficiency of
the water delivery system through the rehabilitation of distributaries and
better scheduling of water deliveries to the farmer; and to expand the role
of the private sector, for example, through the promotion of private tubewell
development in sweet groundwater areas. Other programs--in pesticides, seeds,
agricultural credit and farm power--have also been strengthened. These
initiatives are still at an early stage and a breakthrough from the problems
of low productivity at the farm level is yet to take place.
8.        Major changes have been made during the past three years in Govern-
ment policies in the industrial sector. The policies pursued in the early and
mid-1970s of extensive nationalizations, tight restrictions on the private
sector, and rapid expansion of the public sector to spearhead industrial
investment and growth have been gradually reversed. Most agricultural proces-
sing and some industrial units have been denationalized; constitutional
safeguards have been provided to private industry against further arbitrary
government acquisitions; and the areas open to the private sector have been
widened. A wide range of incentives including tax holidays, excise and import
duty concessions, concessionary credit and income tax provisions, and direct
cash rebates have been granted to encourage private investment and exports.
These have been supplemented by a partial liberalization of imports which will
improve the availability of inputs. The investment sanctioning procedure has
been streamlined. These measures have led to an improvement in private sector
confidence and to a sharp increase in proposals for relatively smaller-scale
private investment projects; there is also evidence of increased interest by
investors in larger projects, especially in cement, chemicals and fertilizer
subsectors.
9.        At the same time, the Government has embarked on the difficult and
inevitably long process of reforming the public sector, which has been plagued
by low efficiency and profits. Major studies have been completed of the
management and organization of the public sector, and the performance of indi-
vidual enterprises. In accordance with the recommendations of these studies,



- 3 -
the Board of Industrial Management (BIM) has been abolished, the number of
sector holding corporations has been reduced, and boards of directors have
been established which have helped to increase autonomy at the enterprise
level. Some public sector units which have little prospect of improved
financial performance have been closed down. These measures, together with
additions to capacity and steps to retain skilled technical personnel through
salary adjustments, for example in the fertilizer subsector, have helped to
increase production and capacity utilization substantially in the public
industrial sector. In addition to the denationalizations mentioned earlier,
further public disinvestment is being considered on a case-by-case basis.
10.       The higher level of economic activity during the past three years
and the Government's efforts to raise existing tax rates, introduce new taxes
and reduce tax evasion have helped to improve public revenues. Nevertheless,
the budget remained under strain as expenditures rose as rapidly as revenues.
The Government's policies of encouraging production and exports through
subsidized inputs and export rebates, and the political and social constraints
to making substantial price adjustments on a number of items of mass consump-
tion, inflated subsidies. Rising debt service, following the expiration at
the end of FY78 of the four-year debt relief arrangement with member countries
of the Pakistan Consortium, and increased defense spending contributed to the
growth in non-development expenditures. In addition, commitments under the
ongoing public investment program and higher subsidies for agriculture led to
further increases in development spending between FY77 and FY79. Despite the
increased revenues, the overall budget deficit remained around 8% of GNP and
the bank-financed deficit around 3-4% of GNP.
11.       The budgetary situation improved significantly during FY80.  Govern-
ment revenues, following increases of 21% in FY78 and 16% in FY79, rose by a
further 25% in FY80 as a result of the continued growth of the economy, tax
and tariff increases announced in the FY80 budget, and intensified efforts to
improve tax collections. Although political developments outside Pakistan's
borders led to unplanned expenditures, tight restraints were maintained on
total spending; the growth of public expenditures was limited to 12%. Both
development and administrative expenditures were cut back, while subsidies
other than those on farm inputs were held to the previous year's level in
nominal terms. These restraints on expenditures, continued revenue growth and
some improvement in surpluses generated by public sector agencies helped to
increase the availability of non-inflationary domestic resources. The overall
budget deficit declined from 8.4% of GNP in FY79 to 5.9% in FY80; and domestic
bank borrowing from 4.1% of GNP to 2.5%. This improvement is likely to be
maintained during FY81. The overall budget deficit is expected to be around
4.2% of GNP in FY81 and the bank-financed budget deficit around 1.2%, both
well below the ratios attained in FY80.
12.       Pakistan's export performance has improved considerably in recent
years. Rapidly rising workers' remittances from abroad, from US$578 million
in FY77 to over US$1.7 billion in FY80, have also greatly assisted in the
external position. These increases have, however, been offset by a rapid
increase in the value of imports, mainly POL, fertilizer, edible oil and
capital goods. The current account deficit was US$1,150 million or 4% of
GNP in FY80, compared to US$1,050 million or nearly 7% of GNP in FY77 in



- 4 -
current prices. The financing of these deficits had presented considerable
difficulties to the Government during the past few years, since program-type
assistance from OPEC countries (which was substantial in the mid-1970s) as
well as net aid flows from Consortium sources declined through FY79. However,
a strong upsurge of remittances during FY80, a marginal increase in net
long-term capital inflows and substantial extraordinary receipts from OPEC
countries (including a US$200 million loan from Saudi Arabia for the Zakat
(Islamic welfare) Fund and US$220 million in deposits with the State Bank of
Pakistan) eased the external financing problem in the second half of FY80
and helped to build up foreign exchange reserves to about US$750 million at
the end of FY80, the equivalent of six weeks' imports.
13.       The slight improvement in the balance of payments situation during
FY80 has been followed by a number of favorable developments during FY81.
These have included the conclusion of an Extended Fund Facility arrangement
with the International Monetary Fund in November 1980; a positive response
from aid donors to the country's improved economic performance resulting
in increased aid commitments and inflows; an agreement with bilateral credi-
tors in the Pakistan Consortium for rescheduling of debt service payments
on official concessional debt falling due over an 18-month period beginning
mid-January 1981; continued good performance of major crops and exports;
and a further surge in remittances, which are expected to exceed US$2 billion
this fiscal year. These developments have substantially altered the balance
of payments outlook for FY81. While the current account deficit is expected
to widen sharply to about US$1.6 billion as a result of the recent liberali-
zation of the import regime, the additional support available from the IMF
and other sources is expected to limit the financing gap to about US$189
million, a level which could be financed from reserves.
14.       The recent favorable developments represent modest, though welcome,
steps towards the solution of a set of problems which are essentially struc-
tural and long-term in nature. Notwithstanding these improvements, further
wide ranging measures to address the basic issues which are limiting economic
growth in the longer term are necessary if Pakistan is to sustain its recently
improved economic performance over the present decade and bring about a modest
improvement in the living standards of its population. These issues include
the farm-level factors affecting low productivity in agriculture; the struc-
ture and competitiveness of the industrial sector; the need to improve per-
formance of public sector enterprises; the factors lying behind continued
rapid growth in population; the need to redirect social service expenditures;
and the problems of resource mobilization.
15.       Agriculture remains the economy's mainstay, accounting directly for
roughly a third of GDP, employing about 60% of the labor force and, directly
or indirectly, providing nearly two thirds of total exports. Despite recent
improvements in output and yields, a number of fundamental factors continue to
limit agricultural productivity at levels well below the potential implied by
the resources and technologies already available. Generally, output growth
has not been commensurate with the substantial increases in available inputs,
especially water and fertilizer. While considerable potential still exists
for the additional use of fertilizer and other inputs, it appears essential to
give greater priority to evolving complementary policies and programs which



would have a direct impact on yields at the farm level. The importance of
increasing farm productivity is now more widely recognized in the Government
and a beginning has been made in addressing this problem. Nevertheless,
support for programs to strengthen research, extension, water management and
other programs in the agricultural and water sectors needs to be intensified,
while fertilizer subsidies must be further reduced, accompanied by necessary
adjustments in output and consumer prices.
16.       Industry contributes about 15% of GDP and during much of the 1950s
and 1960s provided a major stimulus to growth. Growth rates in manufacturing
production, though recently better, remain well below those attained in the
1960s. The textile industry, in particular, which accounts for nearly 40%
of value added in large-scale industry, has suffered from problems of ineffi-
ciency, excess capacity and a lack of competitiveness in foreign markets,
while manufacturing growth has been generally affected by the inadequate
performance of public sector enterprises. Although there have been some
recent improvements in the output and profitability of public enterprises,
these improvements need to be carried further through appropriate reforms to
remove distortions in pricing, improve performance criteria and incentives to
managers and to further rationalize the sector. To assist and further encour-
age the recovery in private investment which now seems to be taking place and
to maintain the increased momentum in the industrial sector will require,
among other things, an adequate supply of local and foreign financing both
for investments and current inputs and the more rapid provision of necessary
utilities and other infrastructure requirements. At the same time, it is
necessary to ensure that the Government's incentive system supports those
industries in which Pakistan has a comparative advantage; more analysis
is needed to determine levels of effective protection for formulating an
appropriate industrial development strategy for the 1980s. The recovery
in industry also needs to be reinforced by improvements in labor-management
relations and by further measures to rehabilitate the textile industry
and generally to increase exports.
17.       The Government's effort to deal with the energy situation by adjust-
ing domestic oil prices, and by encouraging the substitution of other energy
forms and the exploration and development of domestic oil resources, have met
with some success. Growth of petroleum consumption has been restrained by
the development of hydro electricity and natural gas resources as well as by
petroleum price adjustments. At the same time, activity in the oil sector has
been stepped up, in some instances through joint ventures with foreign private
companies. Nevertheless, due to a variety of technical, geological and other
reasons, progress on exploration of new fields as well as the development of
existing fields, has been slow; and the benefits of Pakistan's considerable
potential in the oil and gas sector is yet to be realized. A number of issues
relating to such matters as energy planning, pricing and organization will
need to be addressed in order to realize this potential.
18.       While it is clearly vital to sustain rapid growth in the commodity-
producing sectors, it is also neceasary to contain the rapid growth in popula-
tion, currently running at about 3% p.a., which has seriously handicapped the
country's ability to improve living standards. Family planning programs have
so far had little effect and there have been few changes in the socio-economic



- 6 -
environment of a type that usually accompany declines in fertility. Rapid
population growth places severe burdens on Government resources simply to
maintain education and health programs at their current inadequate standards.
However, without higher literacy rates, improved health facilities and a
reduction in child mortality, it is doubtful that population growth rates can
be much reduced. Expenditures on social services remain comparatively low and
undue emphasis has been given to higher education and urban health facilities.
High priority needs to be given not only to increased allocations for family
planning and social service expenditure but also to its redirection to serve
the wider interests of the population and the economy. While the substantial
migration from Pakistan to the Middle East over the past few years has to some
extent relieved the pressures resulting from rapid population growth, this
clearly cannot be relied upon to provide an answer to the situation in the
long run. The Government has recently shown more awareness of this problem;
a new population program has been adopted and is in the initial stages of
implementation.
19.       Policies that face the longer term issues in both the productive
and the social sectors will take time to have an appreciable effect and will
have to be implemented in the context of continued domestic and external
resource constraints. To improve the budget and the balance of payments, a
fundamental improvement is required in the overall savings levels in the eco-
nomy, particularly in public savings. Although national savings at around
12% of GNP are substantially above the levels of the early and mid-1970s,
there has been little further improvement over the past few years. The con-
tinuation of the Government's recent efforts to restrain public spending and
encourage private investment will help to reduce present imbalances between
investment and savings flows, while increased opportunities for private
investment should attract resources from less productive uses. At the same
time, an increase in savings inevitably calls for restraining private con-
sumption through appropriate price adjustments and selective duty increases on
non-essential imports. While the Government has made several price increases
in the recent past, further adjustments will directly reduce the budgetary
burden of subsidies. Continued restraints on development spending and mea-
sures to further improve revenues through improvements in tax administration
and tax and rate increases (for example, property taxes, domestic water rates
and irrigation water charges) are also needed.
20.       Increased agricultural production of major crops (particularly rice
and cotton) will help directly to sustain export growth. Efforts are also
necessary to stimulate the output of minor crops, for example, pulses, pota-
toes, onions and fruits, for which markets exist in neighboring countries.
In addition, substantial scope exists for increasing Pakistan's exports of
manufactured goods such as textiles and engineering products, as well as of a
wide range of goods produced by the small-scale industries sector. Increased
domestic output of wheat, edible oil, sugar, mineral fuels and fertilizar
would help to moderate import growth considerably.
21.       External public debt outstanding at the end of FY80, excluding the
undisbursed pipeline, amounted to about US$8.7 billion, of which US$5 billion
was owed to bilateral members of the Pakistan Consortium, US$1.3 billion to
OPEC, US$1.5 billion to multilateral agencies, and the balance to other



- 7 -
bilateral and private lenders. Following the termination of the multi-year
debt relief agreement in FY78, debt service including short-term interest
payments rose sharply to about US$500 million in FY79 and US$600 million in
FY80. Debt service payments in FY81 and FY82 are presently projected at about
US$700 million and US$740 million, respectively, after taking into account the
effects of the recent short-term debt rescheduling agreement with bilateral
members of the Pakistan Consortium. As a proportion of exports, non-factor
service receipts and workers' remittances, debt service was about 13% in FY80.
Pakistan's debt to the Bank and IDA at the end of FY80 was about 13% of its
external public indebtedness. The share of the Bank Group in debt service
is now about 9%.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
22.       The cumulative total of Bank/IDA commitments to Pakistan (exclusive
of loans and credits or portions thereof which were disbursed in the former
East Pakistan) now amounts to approximately US$2 billion. During its long
association with Pakistan, the Bank Group has been involved in almost all
sectors of the economy. This has included its involvement with other donors,
over a 20-year period, in the major program of works to develop the water
resources of the Indus Basin. Through FY80, 38% of total Bank/IDA commitments
to Pakistan were for public utility services, 30% for agriculture, 31% for
industry (of which 9% was for industrial imports) and 2% for education.
Lending for public utility services has included loans and credits for rail-
ways, electric power, gas pipelines, ports, highways, telecommunications and
water supply.
23.       Lending operations in Pakistan have three main objectives:  first,
to support the directly productive sectors of the economy; secondly, to support
the expansion of, and to improve the institutions which are responsible for,
the principal public services supporting economic growth; and thirdly, to meet
basic needs in the areas of rural and urban development. In pursuit of these
objectives, the Bank Group has placed special emphasis on lending for agricul-
ture, which is the mainstay of the Pakistan economy. Projects in this sector
are aimed at augmenting the supply of essential inputs, principally irrigation
water, fertilizer, seeds and credit; strengthening research, extension and
other agricultural supporting services; improving water management; reclaiming
land by controlling salinity and waterlogging; and providing essential facili-
ties including tubewells, livestock development and dairy processing. An
important purpose of this lending is to assist the Government's program to
increase the productivity of available land and water resources in the Indus
Basin through quick-yielding investments, as recommended recently in a UNDP-
financed study for which the Bank was Executing Agency.
24.       In industry, most lending for the private sector has been through
the DFCs, principally through eleven loans/credits amounting to US$270 million
for the Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation (PICIC). Direct
lending for industry has been limited to three large fertilizer plants. Proj-
ects are envisaged for further increasing domestic fertilizer capacity, as well
as for small-scale industry. IFC has made investments in 13 Pakistan enter-
prises for a total of US$70.2 million, of which US$60.7 million was by way of



- 8 -
loans and US$9.5 million by equity participations (these are shown in Annex
II). About US$35.9 million remains outstanding. The enterprises assisted
by IFC include three in the field of pulp and paper products, two in textiles
and one each in cement, steel, fertilizers, food processing, plastics, wood
processing and petrochemicals. IFC is also a shareholder in PICIC.
25.       The focus of Bank Group lending for transport and communications
has shifted increasingly towards assisting Pakistan to better utilize existing
capacity by improving the efficiency of operations and strengthening the insti-
tutions responsible for these services, especially the Karachi Port Trust,
Pakistan Railways, Telephone and Telegraph Department, and Federal and Provin-
cial highway agencies. In the power sector, the Bank Group has assisted the
Karachi Electric Supply Corporation (KESC) and the Water and Power Development
Authority (WAPDA) with four and three projects respectively; the sector has
also been assisted by the construction under the Indus Basin Development
Program of Mangla and Tarbela dams.
26.       In the oil and gas sector, the two Sui gas transmission companies
have been assisted with five projects, while IDA has recently financed a pet-
roleum development project and begun to play an important role in strengthen-
ing the Oil and Gas Development Corporation. These efforts are assisting in
the efficient development and utilization of Pakistan's domestic energy
resources. In the field of urban development, Bank Group missions have worked
with the municipal planning authorities of Karachi and Lahore, Pakistan's major
cities, and following UNDP and IDA-financed technical assistance efforts, a
project is now under preparation for Lahore. A second water supply project
in Lahore is currently under implementation. Five IDA credits for education,
totaling US$62.5 million, have assisted in upgrading primary, post-secondary
and higher technical and agricultural education, middle-level training of
primary teachers and agricultural extension agents.
27.       Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits
as of March 31, 1981, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. Credit
and loan disbursements have been generally satisfactory. Some projects
have experienced initial delays due to government procedures for project
approval, which are now being strengthened, and to slowness in appointment
of consultants. The Government has recently increased the rates charged by
some public utilities to improve their financial position. Rapid turnover of
managerial and technical staff, in part due to migration to the Middle East,
and budgetary constraints have been problems in the case of some projects.
28.       A number of further projects for Bank Group financing are currently
under appraisal or being prepared in Pakistan. These include projects for
oil and gas development, water management and irrigation and flood rehabili-
tation. Pakistan continues to have domestic resource constraints for the
reasons set out in Part I. To assist the Government to finance agricultural
and other high-priority projects which have a low foreign exchange component,
financing of some local expenditures in specific cases, as in the one now
proposed, is justified. In addition to lending, economic and sector work
provides the basis for a continuing dialogue between the Bank Group and the
Government of Pakistan on development strategy, and for the coordination of
external assistance within the Pakistan Consortium.



- 9 -
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL AND FOODGRAIN SECTOR
A. The Agricultural Sector
Background
29.       The total area of Pakistan is 79 million ha, of which only about
19 million ha. are cultivable because of a mostly arid climate. Of this area
about 6 million ha. are cropped under rainfed ("barani") farming conditions
and 13 million ha. are irrigated through a 64,000 km network of canals and
about 179,000 tubewells, fed mainly by the Indus River system, the largest
integrated irrigation system in the world. Consequently, irrigated areas
account for 90% of all farm output. About 70% of farmers cultivate holdings
of less than 5.0 ha. and 40% of holdings are less than 3.0 ha; these small
farms cover only 12% of the cropped area. Sixty percent of farmers rent all
or part of their land, mostly on a share-cropping basis.
30.       The agricultural sector dominates Pakistan's economy, accounting
for about 30% of GDP, providing employment to about 55% of the labor force
and generating about 70% of Pakistan's exports, principally cotton and rice.
Arable crops provide 69% and livestock 28% of agricultural GDP; the remainder
comes from fisheries and forestry.
31.       Among Pakistan's four provinces, Punjab is agriculturally the most
productive; it has the largest share of cultivated (11.2 million ha.) and
irrigated land (9.6 million ha.) and traditionally produces a surplus, espe-
cially in foodgrains, for the other parts of the country as well as for
exports. Sind Province is nearly self-sufficient in foodgrains, while North
West Frontier and Baluchistan Provinces, where less than 20% and 4%, respec-
tively, of the land is cultivated, are deficit areas.
Recent Developments
32.       During the period FY70-77, the growth of agricultural production
averaged below 2% per year and remained below the 3% population growth rate.
This slowdown was due to a combination of adverse factors, chief among them
being several years of bad weather, inadequate price incentives, poor water
management, pest and disease problems and inadequate agricultural support
services including credit, research and extension. However, during the last
three years, growth performance has been encouraging with value-added in
agriculture increasing by 2.5% in FY78, 4.2% in FY79 and about 6.0% in FY80.
Reasonably good cotton crops in two of the last three years, a recovery in
wheat in FY79 following a rust attack in the previous year, and consistently
good rice harvests have contributed to this growth in agricultural output.
While the higher output has been partly due to more favorable weather, the
recent policy initiatives taken by the Government (see paragraph 6) are also
beginning to show results.



- 10 -
33.       The recent growth in agricultural output reflects in part the
effects of continued acreage expansion, particularly in rice and wheat, and
improvement in yields. The acreage under rice increased by 15% between FY77
and FY79 and under wheat by 5% over the same period.  Per hectare yields in
wheat and rice in FY79 were 3% and 4% higher, respectively, over FY77 levels.
These good harvests have had a favorable impact on the balance of payments.
In FY80-81, wheat imports have been substantially reduced and foodgrain self-
sufficiency by FY83, a major goal of agricultural policy, seems well within
reach. Since any substantial further increase in cultivated areas is unlikely
in the short term, sustained growth in agricultural output must come primarily
from increased yields. This will depend inter alia on increasing the avail-
ability and efficient use of water, drainage, fertilizer and other inputs,
setting farm gate prices at levels which encourage production, and improving
the technology of agricultural production.
34.       Bank staff have been working with the Government for some time to
develop a detailed program of reform in the agricultural and water sectors,
and the Government has revised its strategy to focus more sharply on raising
productivity at the farm level. A "Revised Action Program for Agriculture
and Water Development," the outcome of a three-year study financed by UNDP,
for which the Bank was Executing Agency, was completed in mid-1979. The study
has highlighted the past deficiencies in government agricultural policies and
proposed a revised strategy designed, within the context of continuing resource
constraints, to release existing resources for higher priority purposes and
generating new resources through quick-yielding investments. The recommenda-
tions of the UNDP study can be grouped into three major categories: (a)
adjustment of pricing and subsidy policies, to reflect real resource costs
more accurately; (b) management policies to enable the transfer of responsi-
bility to the private sector for appropriate operations and facilities now in
the public sector's domain; and (c) revised investment policies to facilitate
quick returns and complement the major irrigation facilities already provided,
rather than create new infrastructural facilities or extend the irrigated
area. The report emphasizes water management, extension services, agricultural
research, seed certification, animal husbandry and the provision of appropriate
rural infrastructure.
35.       The Government has accepted the principal conclusions of the UNDP
study and initial steps have been taken to implement some of its major
recommendations, including improved institutional coordination between irriga-
tion and agriculture and increased emphasis on improving water management,
extension, credit, research and seed supply. A start has also been made in
reducing input subsidies, notably on fertilizer and pesticides, and adjusting
support prices to maintain farmer incentives. Under the Fertilizer Imports
Credit (1066-PAK) signed in October 1980, the Government has agreed to continue
this policy with the aim of eliminating the fertilizer subsidy by 1985. An
Agricultural Prices Commission is being established to carry out pricing
reviews and to recommend appropriate adjustments.



- 11 -
B. The Foodgrain Sector
Production
36.       Foodgrain production accounts for 55% of total cropped area and
36% of the value-added in the agricultural sector. The major foodgrains are
wheat, rice and maize followed by jowar (sorghum), bajra (millet) and barley.
Cereals, especially wheat, constitute the major portion of the Pakistan diet.
Production of wheat, which is Pakistan's main crop cultivated on almost 65%
of the total area under foodgrains, reached 10.8 million MT in FY80 and is
concentrated in Punjab and northern Sind, mostly under irrigated conditions.
Rice is Pakistan's second most important crop and a major foreign exchange
earner; rice exports have averaged about 20% of total exports over the last
three years. Punjab and Sind contribute almost 95% of total rice production,
which has averaged some 3.2 million MT during the last two years. Maize,
barley, jowar and bajra have together contributed annually 1.5 million MT to
foodgrain production. As indicated above (paragraph 33), recent foodgrain
production trends have been encouraging, although yields are still consider-
ably below their potential and lower than in areas with similar agro-climatic
conditions.
Consumption, Exports and Imports
37.       Cereal consumption is estimated to constitute some 60-70% of the
population's caloric intake. Overall, Pakistan is self-sufficient in food-
grains; but while there is a surplus of rice, wheat output is barely adequate
to meet consumption requirements. Consequently, Pakistan is importing wheat
and exporting rice. Substitution of rice for wheat to satisfy consumption
needs, while possible, would not be economical; rice is exported at about
twice the price of imported wheat. The Government determines the needs of the
wheat ration system and imports sufficient supplies to supplement the amounts
procured domestically. Wheat imports have recently averaged about 1 million
MT annually, but this year only 500,000 MT would be imported, mainly to
increase buffer stocks and establish a food security reserve. Rice exports
are the second most important source of foreign exchange earnings, after
cotton exports, constituting about US$341 million in FY79. In FY81, rice
exports are anticipated to approach 1.1 million MT, increasing five-fold from
less than 200,000 MT in FY71.
Marketing
38.       The wheat and rice surplus entering the commercial market is about
40-45% of total production. Due to the shortage of storage facilities and
need for cash, most farmers sell their produce shortly after harvest, when
prices are usually lowest. Open market prices for wheat are sometimes nearly
50% higher towards the end of the crop year than at harvest time.
39.       Most small farmers sell their wheat in village markets to foodgrain
merchants (arthis), who are often also money lenders. The arthis sell the
grain either to wholesalers or millers, at open market prices, or to the
Provincial Food Departments or the Pakistan Agricultural Storage and Services



- 12 -
Corporation (PASSCO) at government procurement prices. Large farmers generally
sell directly to the Food Departments or PASSCO, which purchase altogether
55-65% of marketed wheat, or about 3 million MT in 1980. The marketing of
paddy and rice is tightly controlled by the Provincial Governments of Punjab
and Sind, where paddy may be procured only by authorized rice dealers and
millers, PASSCO and the Rice Export Corporation of Pakistan (RECP). All
milled rice for export is sold to RECP while the private sector markets rice
(and minor foodgrains) domestically.
40.       Five million MT of wheat are transported every year to urban and
food deficit areas, and more than 1 million MT of rice to Karachi, mainly by
truck and train. Most large farmers do their own transport but small farmers
generally rely on arthis. Imported wheat is transported from Karachi to
consumption centers and rice from procurement points to RECP storage in
Karachi by train and trucks of the National Logistic Cell (NLC), a Government
agency, which undertakes mainly the transport of foodgrains and fertilizer.
Storage
41.       On-farm storage is mainly for grain needed for family consumption,
local barter and seed. Many of the larger farmers store wheat for sale at
better open market prices. While larger amounts of grain are stored in farm
houses, house-type godowns or in outdoor and indoor bins, small quantities
are stored in wooden boxes or containers made of woven plant material
plastered with mud. The condition of farm level storage is generally adequate
for storing wheat up to about three months, but significant grain losses
occur during longer periods, mostly due to the farmers' unfamiliarity with
appropriate on-farm storage technology and poorly constructed and maintained
stores.
42.       Off-farm storage is maintained by arthis, wholesalers and millers;
Provincial Food Departments, PASSCO and RECP; and cooperatives. Grain is
mostly stored in bags. Arthis and wholesalers store the grain mainly in
houses and small house-type godowns, but generally not for more than 10 days,
and therefore pay little attention to introducing sound foodgrain storage
practices. Mill storage, also generally in house-type structures holding
from two to four weeks' supply, is of poor quality; because of the quick grain
turnover, millers see no need for good storage or for systematic quality
control. Storage losses at all points are significant, especially
relative to the short time periods in question.
43.       Provincial Food Departments presently own storage warehouses with
a total capacity of 1.9 million MT, while storage of 450,000 MT is being
constructed or planned. PASSCO owns warehouses of 303,000 MT and has a
further 52,000 MT under construction or in its program. Provincial Food
Departments and PASSCO are renting storage facilities (about 300,000 MT at
the end of July 1980), which are generally of sub-standard quality. Owned
facilities are of various designs and generally suitable for long-term food-
grain storage but are being poorly maintained. Owned as well as rented public
storage capacity is inadequate for current wheat storage needs. During the
1980 monsoon rains, 600,000 MT of wheat were stored in the open. Quantitative
and qualitative wheat storage losses which fluctuate with the seasons are
estimated to vary between 1.75% and 10% for indoor and outdoor storage,
respectively, over a 12-month period.



- 13 -
44.       RECP owns rice export storage of almost 690,000 MT near Karachi,
with about 150,000 MT under construction, and 75,000 MT planned. These
facilities appear adequate to accommodate annual rice exports of 1.5 million
MT through FY83. RECP also operates eight rice mills of which seven are in
Punjab and with a total storage capacity of about 39,000 MT, which is inade-
quate. Consequently, paddy is often stored in the open before milling and
rice is also sometimes stored outdoors while awaiting transport to Karachi.
Quantitative and qualitative losses of paddy stored outdoors are estimated
at 6.75% and 8.75%, respectively, over a 12-month period.
45.       The Government is considering the establishment of a food security
reserve, adequate to make up for production shortfalls of two consecutive
poor wheat crops, estimated at 2 million MT. As a first step, the Govern-
ment will construct 300,000 MT storage capacity for this purpose.
C. Government Foodgrain Policies and Practices
Policy Objectives
46.       The Government's foodgrain policy aims at increasing foodgrain pro-
duction; ensuring equitable distribution by making foodgrains available at
reasonable prices in food deficit and urban areas; stabilizing consumer prices;
and promoting foodgrain exports. Major responsibility for determining policy
in the sector rests with the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Cooperatives,
but the Ministry consults with the Provincial Governments as well as with other
Federal agencies such as the Finance and Planning Divisions before making any
important decisions. Responsibility for executing policy decisions rests
mainly with the Federal Directorate-General of Food, the Provincial Food
Departments, PASSCO and RECP.
Foodgrain Price Policy
47.       The Government's price policy for foodgrains aims at assuring
relatively stable consumer prices while providing adequate incentives to
producers. At the same time, the Government intends to make progressive
adjustments to agricultural producer prices to bring them generally in line
with long-term international prices; allowing for processing and other costs,
producer prices have been moved closer to world levels over the past several
years. The Government operates a ration system under which wheat flour is
distributed to consumers in urban centers and food deficit areas at subsidized
prices (paragraph 50). Production incentives offered by the Government are
mainly in the form of procurement prices which are fixed annually for wheat,
rice and paddy. During the last three years, the Government has placed increas-
ing emphasis on maintaining foodgrain procurement prices at levels adequate to
motivate farmers to increase production and have generally timed such pricing
decisions with a view to maximizing their impact.
48.       In the case of wheat, the procurement price is also a support price.
The Provincial Food Department and PASSCO have a dual responsibility of pro-
curing domestic wheat required for public sector distribution and ensuring



- 14 -
that producers receive incentive prices. For example, in order to support
farmgate prices, the Government procured 200,000 MT of wheat above its procure-
ment target in 1977.  Similarly, in 1980 the target of 2.75 million MT was
achieved by end-June and procurement continued but had to be stopped in
early-September, due to the shortage of suitable storage facilities, and to
minimize increasing losses associated with outdoor storage. Consequently,
farmgate prices dropped below the support price. Additional storage facilities
are therefore essential to enable the Government to implement its price and
procurement policies and assure the farmer an attractive farmgate price for
wheat.
49.        Unlike wheat, most marketed rice must be sold to the Government.
The Government sets rice procurement prices at a level which, after allowing
for trading, milling and transportation margins, is intended to enable traders
and millers to pay the farmer a satisfactory incentive price for paddy.
Foodgrain Distribution Policy
50.       The Government operates a rationing system for wheat and sugar.
Under the wheat ration system, which is known as the Partial Provisioning
System, the Government distributes whole wheat flour (atta) at subsidized
prices to ration card holders in urban centers and rural food deficit areas.
Following the bad wheat harvest in 1978, ration atta distribution reached
2.4 million MT and the subsidy was around Rs 2.5 billion in 1978/79, almost
4.5% of total government expenditures in that year. However, with better
crops and increases in issue prices, the subsidy has been substantially
reduced to an estimated Rs 1.4 billion in 1980/81. The Government is follow-
ing a policy aimed at gradual atta price increases in an effort to narrow
the gap between open market and issue prices, with a view to reducing
the demand for ration atta and thereby further lowering the subsidy bill.
To stabilize consumer prices, the Government also releases wheat supplies
to the millers for open market distribution; these operations amounted to
285,000 MT in 1978/79.
The Institutions
51.       The Federal Directorate-General of Food is responsible for the
importation of wheat. The Provincial Food Departments are responsible for the
operation of the public sector wheat and atta distribution system; together
with PASSCO, they are responsible also for the domestic procurement of wheat
to supply the system, provide price support to farmers and procure rice for
export by RECP. The Provincial Food Departments of Punjab and Sind and PASSCO
procure almost all public sector wheat and rice in those Provinces; less than
20,000 MT of wheat and a small amount of rice are procured annually in NWFP and
Baluchistan.
52.       PASSCO's major activity is the procurement of wheat mainly in Punjab
to supply the Food Department of NWFP and Azad Kashmir and the northern areas.
Starting in 1974, PASSCO has increased its wheat procurement to 576,000 MT in
1979 and over 700,000 MT in 1980. PASSCO also procures paddy in Punjab and
Sind, reaching 224,000 MT in 1979. PASSCO has constructed its own storage
since 1976 to meet its needs, completing 303,000 MT at 30 locations, mainly in
Punjab, and with 52,000 MT under construction or in prospect. PASSCO's
operations overall have been profitable.



- 15 -
53.       In 1974, the Government established RECP to which it granted a rice
export monopoly. RECP procures most of its rice through the Provincial Food
Departments of Punjab and Sind and also from PASSCO and operates a procurement
center near Karachi. RECP also procures paddy which it mills at its eight rice
mills. The rice is stored in RECP's export storage facilities near Karachi of
almost 690,000 MT. Additional capacity of 150,000 MT is under construction and
75,000 MT is planned. Rice exports managed by RECP, which are highly profit-
able, have grown from 426,000 MT in 1975 to an estimated 1.1 million MT in
1980; in 1979, RECP earned over Rs 1 billion before taxes.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
54.       In 1976, after a bumper wheat crop in Pakistan demonstrated a lack
of suitable storage facilities, USAID financed a study of grain storage by
a team from Kansas State University. Based on the team's recommendations
the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) engaged consultants to
prepare a master plan for developing grain storage and handling in Pakistan.
At the request of the Government, IDA missions, commencing in March 1980,
reviewed public sector grain storage needs and assisted in preparing the
proposed project. The project was appraised in October/November 1980.
Negotiations took place in Washington, D.C. during April 14-22, 1981. The
Pakistan delegation was led by Mr. Sami Qureshi, Secretary, Ministry of Food,
Agriculture and Cooperatives. A report entitled Pakistan - Staff Appraisal
Report: Grain Storage Project (Report No. 3360-PAK dated May 11, 1981) is
being circulated to the Executive Directors. A supplementary data sheet is
attached as Annex III.
Project Objectives
55.       As a result of the Government's programs to expand foodgrain
production, supported by producer incentive prices, and make foodgrains
available at reasonable prices in both urban and food deficit areas, wheat
procurement in the public sector has increased rapidly during recent years.
Existing foodgrain storage capacity in the public sector has become increas-
ingly inadequate and is straining the Government's ability to maintain its
commitment to procuring all available wheat, and delaying the introduction
of a food security reserve. The private sector does not have the required
storage capacity, lacks the resources to maintain sizable grain inventories,
and is hesitant to assume the storage risk. The Government is now encouraging
greater private sector participation in the grain trade and the project would
include a study which would address private sector storage needs and possible
Government policy measures for increasing the involvement of the private trade
in grain transport and distribution. While a larger role for the private
sector in the provision of storage capacity could be envisaged over the
longer-term, it is evident in the prevailing circumstances that the bulk of
storage requirements must be provided by the Government for the foreseeable
future. Additional storage capacity is, therefore, required beyond the
capacity being provided under the ongoing storage construction programs.



- 16 -
56.       The major objective of this first-phase project is to assist in the
implementation of the Government's foodgrain policy by providing additional
storage facilities and improving the operational efficiency of public sector
entities so that they can meet foodgrain procurement, distribution and export
requirements more effectively and reduce both quantitative and qualitative
storage losses. In addition, the project would aim at strengthening grain
storage research and extension by providing information necessary for further
development of the post-harvest system.
Project Description
57.       The project would consist of:  (i) construction of 500,000 MT of
bagged grain storage facilities mainly for the storage of wheat by the four
Provincial Food Departments and PASSCO; (ii) construction of 40,000 MT grain
storage for RECP at seven rice mills in Punjab; (iii) provision of warehousing,
grain testing and quality control equipment for storage facilities and grain
procurement centers and for six grain testing laboratories which would be
established under the project; (iv) pilot facilities for mechanical grain
handling; (v) strengthening of Pakistan Agricultural Research Council (PARC),
universities and agricultural research institutes for carrying out grain
storage research and developing extension training programs in grain storage
technology; (vi) technical assistance in grain transportation economics and
logistics; grain procurement, grading and testing, and storage quality control;
the design of systems for mechanical grain handling; and in grain storage
research and extension; (vii) training and study tours for officers of the
Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Cooperatives, the Food Departments, PASSCO
and RECP; and for officials of PARC, universities and agricultural research
institutes; and (viii) a study of further storage requirements (especially
on farms, at village level and in the private sector) and of grain processing
needs.
Detailed Project Features
58.       Storage Construction.  The project would cover about 47% of addi-
tional wheat storage needs in the public sector by 1985/86, projected at
1.1 million MT for an average crop. The project is intended to assist in
meeting urgent additional storage requirements over the next 3-4 years; a
second project could be considered to meet subsequent projected storage
needs if this project is implemented satisfactorily. A larger additional
public sector storage construction program at this stage would over-tax
available financial resources as well as local implementation capacity and
may jeopardize economic utilization of the project facilities. Accordingly,
the Government has agreed that the Association would be consulted annually on
the timing and extent of the foodgrain storage construction program (Section
4.08 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Almost 80% of project
storage would be located in wheat procurement areas. The project would also
provide rice and paddy storage facilities at seven rice mills totaling 40,000
MT or about 48% of additional storage needs, and would include grain testing
at six laboratories and quality control equipment. The project would also
provide grain testing and warehousing equipment for existing storage facilities
and procurement centers, which lack them. Conventional bag storage ware-
house designs, proven suitable in Pakistan conditions, would be adopted for
both wheat and rice/paddy.



- 17 -
59.       Mechanization, Research and Extension.  A pilot scheme to improve
the utilization of bin storage and large size bag storage facilities through
semi-mechanical and pneumatic grain handling systems would be located at
20 sites in 3 provinces. Research in Pakistan on insect pests and control of
fungal damage has not yet led to developing improved storage procedures and
structures. The project would enable additional research to be carried out
leading towards the formulation of optimal storage designs and a comprehensive
strategy for storage loss prevention, especially in relation to on-farm and
village level storage, where losses seem high. The project would also focus
on the development of extension training programs to disseminate research
information.
60.       Storage Maintenance.  The maintenance of storage facilities operated
by the Provincial Food Departments has been inadequate, mainly due to insuffi-
cient funds, with resulting damage to and loss of grain. The Government is
carrying out a comprehensive survey to determine necessary repair and main-
tenance requirements to its existing grain storage facilities, which will be
completed by October 31, 1981. Thereafter, the Government would prepare a
phased repair program, satisfactory to the Association, and carry it out by
December 31, 1985 (Section 5.03(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
In addition, annual budgetary provision for regular repair and maintenance
work would be increased to allow the introduction of effective programs which
would meet regular repair and maintenance needs of both existing and project
storage facilities. The Government has agreed that the Provincial Governments
would make adequate and timely budgetary provision, at a level satisfactory
to the Association, for the operation, maintenance and repair of storage
and ancillary facilities (Section 5.03(a) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
61.       Technical Assistance and Training. The transport of wheat has
become an increasingly complex and costly task (e.g. in NWFP, 16% and 20% of
the procurement price for domestic and imported wheat, respectively) due to
insufficient planning and information, and problems of transport coordination
and inadequate facilities at more than 1,000 procurement and 400 storage
centers. The project would assist the Federal Food Ministry in developing a
plan to improve foodgrain transport operations. Wheat quality testing and
weighing practices do not always comply with Government directives. Only a
limited number of bags are weighed and sampled and quality of grain is visually
inspected. Inspection problems have given rise to a number of malpractices,
such as adulteration of wheat with dust and other foreign matters as high as
5%. The project would include consultant assistance to the Ministry to
analyze current practices and problems, and train staff to help improve wheat
procurement and inspection procedures through better grain testing and quality
control. Consultant assistance would also be provided in mechanized grain
handling systems, and for research and extension programs.
62.       The project would include staff training by institutes in Pakistan
in grain handling, storage, transport and quality control, overseas study
tours to examine such systems in other countries and overseas training in
grain storage technology and in effectively undertaking grain storage research



- 18 -
and extension. Also, the project would provide for studies of further grain
storage, especially at the farm and village levels, and food processing
needs, focussing on milling and grain drying, leading to the preparation of
further programs and projects. The study recommendation would be prepared
within the framework of alternative government policies.
Organization and Implementation
63.       Overall responsibility for project implementation would rest with
the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Cooperatives (MFAC). A Project Manage-
ment and Coordination Committee (PMCC) would be established under the chair-
manship of the Secretary, MFAC and comprising representatives of MFAC, the
Ministries of Finance and Commerce, the Planning Division, the Provincial Food
Departments, PARC, PASSCO, RECP, Pakistan Railways and the National Logistic
Cell. The Committee would be responsible for effective project implementation
and for ensuring coordination among all public sector agencies concerned in
the sector. Establishment of PMCC with composition and responsibilities
satisfactory to the Association would be a condition of credit effectiveness
(Sections 4.02(a) and 7.01(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
A Storage Cell would be established by December 31, 1981 in the Food Wing of
MFAC which would be responsible for the administration of project technical
assistance, training and studies, maintaining accounts, preparing progress
reports and recommendations on future storage construction programs, storage
maintenance, management and handling methods and multi-purpose storage
utilization (Section 4.02(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
64.       Execution of the program for constructing storage facilities,
procurement of equipment for the Provincial Food Departments and PASSCO and
implementation of the pilot projects would be under the direction of the Food
Wing of MFAC. The Food Wing of MFAC would engage PASSCO to design the storage
facilities and mechanical grain handling systems, for arranging and supervising
construction and for procuring and installing equipment. The outline of a
draft agreement which would specify the responsibilities of the participating
agencies was discussed and agreed during negotiations. Completion of such an
agreement between MFAC, the Provincial Food Departments and PASSCO, which is
satisfactory to the Association, would be a condition of credit effectiveness
(Section 7.01(c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The establishment
of a Project Implementation Unit by PASSCO to carry out its responsibilities
under the project and engagement of a Chief Engineer (General Manager) and two
Deputy General Managers, all suitably qualified and experienced, would also be
conditions of credit effectiveness (Section 7.01(d) and (e) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). A tender evaluation committee, which would
include officials of MFAC, PASSCO and the Provincial Food Departments would
award civil works and equipment procurement contracts. Land acquisition would
be the responsibility of the respective Food Department to which MFAC would
transfer the project storage facilities as construction is completed.
65.       Construction of rice/paddy storage facilities would be the respon-
sibility of RECP. PARC would administer and coordinate the grain storage
research and extension training components to be carried out under a coordi-
nated program by agricultural research institutions and universities. Prep-
aration of such a program and establishment by PARC of a Program Coordination
Unit for this purpose in a form satisfactory to the Association would be



- 19 -
conditions of disbursement against research and extension expenditures (para
4(b) of Schedule I to the draft Development Credit Agreement).  Improvements
in grain transportation, grain quality inspection and control would be the
responsibility of the Food Wing of MFAC. Reports detailing current practices
and problems and specifying actions to be taken by the Government in the
above areas would be made available to the Association for comment by March
31, 1983, together with the Government's recommendations for improvement
(Section 4.07 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
66.       The project would be implemented over a four-year period, following
an agreed implementation schedule. NFAC, PASSCO and the four Provincial Food
Departments would agree each year on annual programs for project wheat storage
construction, which would be carried out simultaneously in all four Provinces.
The Government has agreed that such programs would be established each year
by July 31 with the Association's approval, beginning July 31, 1981 (Section
4.08(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The Provincial Food
Departments already own land adequate to permit a first year storage construc-
tion program of 100,000 MT capacity. For subsequent years, the Government has
agreed that land for additional 200,000 MT storage capacity will be acquired
by August 31, 1982 and 1983, respectively (Section 4.09 of the draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement).
Monitoring and Evaluationi
67.       PMCC would monitor project implementation on the basis of detailed
implementation plans which would be prepared for their respective components
by the Food Wing of MFAC, PASSCO, PARC and RECP. While routine monitoring
would be conducted by the management of these institutions, PMCC would also
review major implementation and coordination problems and assist in solving
them to avoid unnecessary cost or slippage. Evaluation of the project by
the Implementation and Progress Section of the Government's Planning Division
would concentrate on operating efficiency of project institutions, including
storage utilization; storage losses; turnover and age of stocks; procurement
arrangements; quality control at procurement, during storage and at distribu-
tion; cost of storage operations; and transportation cost. Evaluation would
also address organizational, managerial, financial and staff development
aspects of the project and the usefulness and impact of the project grain
storage research and extension components. The Implementation and Progress
Section would report at least annually to PMCC and the Association on the
implementation and impact of the project and would also prepare a Project
Completion Report and furnish the report to the Association not later than
six months after the Closing Date of the proposed Credit (Section 4.11 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
Project Cost, Financing and Relending
68.       Total project costs, excluding US$3.1 million of duties and taxes,
are estimated at US$64.9 million equivalent, of which about $15.0 million is
foreign exchange. The proposed Credit of SDRs 26.1 million (US$32 million
equivalent as of the date of negotiations) together with a Swiss Government
contribution of Swiss Fr. 15.0 million (about US$7.7 million) would finance
all the foreign exchange costs and about 47% of the local costs, or about 61%
of total costs net of duties and taxes.



- 20 -
69.       Total proceeds of the Swiss contribution, which would be non-
reimbursable, and a portion (US$28.5 million) of the proposed Credit would be
made available by the Government to the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and
Cooperatives (US$36.2 million) and the balance of the proposed Credit would be
onlent to RECP (US$3.5 million) at 11% interest, repayable over a period up to
12 years including two years' grace, with the Government bearing the foreign
exchange risk. The execution of a subsidiary loan agreement, between the
Government and RECP, satisfactory to the Association, would be a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed Credit (Section 7.01(a) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). In order to facilitate early construction of the rice/paddy
storage facilities for which detailed designs are being completed, retroactive
financing of up to US$1 million is recommended for costs incurred by RECP
after January 1, 1981 (Schedule I, para 4(a) to the draft Development Credit
Agreement). Of the funds made available to the Ministry of Food, Agriculture
and Cooperatives, about US$34.3 million would be used by PASSCO. MFAC would
establish a revolving fund which would be utilized by PASSCO to make payments
for project expenditures. The Government would replenish the fund every six
months. The establishment of the revolving fund with an initial deposit of
US$5 million equivalent would be a condition of credit effectiveness (Sections
5.04 and 7.01(g) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The balance of
local costs would be financed by the Government (US$25.8 million equivalent),
the Provincial Governments (US$1.0 million equivalent) and RECP (US$1.5
million equivalent). Project approval by the Executive Committee of the
National Economic Council (ECNEC), a Cabinet sub-committee, would be a condi-
tion of credit effectiveness (Section 7.01(h) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
Procurement
70.       Equipment and vehicles would be mostly procured following inter-
national competitive bidding procedures. Items expected to cost less than
US$100,000 singly if they do not lend themselves to bulking or in bulk if they
do, would be procured under local competitive bidding procedures, which are
satisfactory. Minor items costing less than US$10,000 each, for which bulking
into contracts of at least US$10,000 would not be feasible, would be procured
by prudent shopping up to a total of US$300,000.
71.       Contracts for civil works would be let under local competitive
bidding procedures, which are satisfactory to the Association. International
competitive bidding would not be suitable because, although the aggregate
cost is large, construction work will be at 131 locations scattered through-
out Pakistan, the contracts would vary in size, adequate bulking to make it
attractive to foreign bidders would not be practical, and the domestic con-
tracting industry is very competitive. To the extent practical, tenders
would be in packages of several contracts. Bids would be entertained for one
contract, a combination of contracts or for the whole package. Engineering
consultant services would be engaged by RECP on terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Association (Section 2.02 of the draft RECP Project Agreement).
PASSCO would also employ by January 31, 1982, an engineering consultant
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment would
be satisfactory to the Association (Section 2.02 of the draft PASSCO Project
Agreement). See also para 64 above.



- 21 -
Disbursement
72.       Disbursements under the proposed Credit and Swiss contribution
would cover: (i) 75% and 60% of civil works expenditures for rice/paddy
storage and wheat storage complexes, respectively; (ii) 100% of foreign
expenditures for directly imported equipment and vehicles or 60% of local
expenditures for locally procured items; (iii) 60% of the staff cost of
PARC's Coordination Unit during project implementation; and (iv) 100% of
expenditures for technical assistance, training and studies.
Benefits and Risks
73.       The main benefits of the proposed project would be the improvement
in procurement and storage operations of the concerned institutions and
assistance in effective implementation of the Government's foodgrain policy,
the reduction in grain handling and storage losses and savings in operating
costs. Reduction in annual foodgrain handling and storage losses is together
estimated at about 28,000 MT of wheat and some 2,600 MT of paddy, valued at
US$7.9 million equivalent. Annual savings in operating costs, including
transportation expenditures, are estimated at about US$2.0 million equivalent.
The proposed project would also enable the Government to expand grain procure-
ment operations and implement its foodgrain price support policy more effec-
tively, thereby improving farmgate prices and encouraging increased foodgrain
production. Project institutional support and technical assistance are expected
to improve planning and coordination and more efficient management of operations
in the sector.
74.       Less costly and more efficient public food distribution through
project improvements would contribute to greater foodgrain availability to low
income consumers at reasonable prices. During the construction period, the
project would provide employment totalling about 2,975 man-years of skilled
labor and 5,550 man-years of unskilled labor. At full development, the proj-
ect would offer permanent job opportunities to about 680 storage personnel.
75.       The economic rate of return (ERR) for the entire project has been
estimated at about 28%; with 26% and 43% for the wheat storage and rice/paddy
storage components, respectively. The project would remain viable even if
benefits lagged by one full year, since ERR for wheat storage would be reduced
to about 22% and that for rice/paddy storage to about 32%.
76.       The project would have no adverse environmental effects.  In view
of the precautions taken in designing the project, including the adoption of
proven storage designs, institutional strengthening, quality control and
improved storage maintenance, the project is not believed to be subject to any
special risk.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
77.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Islamic Republic
of Pakistan and the Association, the draft Project Agreements between the
Association and the Pakistan Agricultural Storage and Services Corporation and



- 22 -
the Rice Export Corporation of Pakistan and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section I(d) of the Articles of Agreement, are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
78.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.  Additional conditions of credit effectiveness are:
(i) execution of the subsidiary loan agreement between GOP and
RECP (paragraph 69);
(ii) establishment of PMCC with composition and responsibilities
satisfactory to the Association (paragraph 63);
(iii) signing of a contract between MFAC, PASSCO and Provincial
Food Departments, detailing their implementation responsi-
bilities (paragraph 64);
(iv) establishment of a project implementation unit in PASSCO and
engagement of a Chief Engineer and two Deputy General Managers
by PASSCO (paragraph 64);
(v) establishment of a project revolving fund and provision of
an initial deposit in it (paragraph 69);
(vi) approval of the project by the Executive Committee of the
National Economic Council (ECNEC), a Cabinet sub-committee
(paragraph 69); and
(vii) fulfillment of the conditions of effectiveness of the
Swiss contribution.
79.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
80.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 12, 1981



- 23 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
PAKISTAN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. EM.)                  PAKISTAN                             - HOST RECENT ESTIHATE 
TOTAL            803.9                                  MOST RECENT          LOA INCOME          MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      253.0              1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       ASIA & PACIFIC       ASIA 6 PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA CUSs)                   60.0        130.0     270.0              212.4              1114.7
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       61.0yO      98. O_n   172.0              166.0               842.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)      45.9        60.4       77.3
URBAN POPULATION (PPRCENT OF TOTAL) 22.1         24.9       27.4               20.8                39.1
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      139.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        332.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2150
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        57.0        75.0      96.0               193.2               376.1
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    201.0        249.0     305.0              409.6               2350.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          43.8        46.3      46.5               42.0                 40.4
15-64 YRS.                          51.8        50.5      50.6               55.0                 56.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    4.4         3.2       2.9                3.0                  3.4
POPULATION GREWTI RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2. 3        2.8       3. 1               2.2                  2.4
URBAN                               5.0         4.0       4.4                 3.9                 4.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    48.0          47.0      45.0               37.4                 28.7
CRUDE DEATH EATE (PER THOUSAND)      23.0        18.0      15.0                14.6                 7.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.2         3. 7      3.3                 2.6                 1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..      1908.1   2085.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..            ..       6.0               15.6                 39.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          89.0        102.0      99.0              101.4                116.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIRE24ENTS)                  83.0         97.0      99.0               92.4                108.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          55.0         60.0      63.0               49.8                 60.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       22.0         20.0      20.0               12.0                 18.8
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      27.0        21.0      17.0               17.9                  5.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    44.0         49.0      52.0               50.8                 63.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          135.0/c        ..         ..                 ..                 52.8
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         21.0      29.0               30.2                 42.4
URBAN                               ..          ..       60.0               66.0                 62.1
RURAL                               ..          ..       17.0               20.0                 29.7
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         3.0       6.0                17.7                52.8
URBAN                                ..        12.0      21.0                71.3                71. 1
RURAL                               ..          ..         ..                 ..                 42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         11000.0/d    4310.O/e  3780.Oe            6322.7               4120.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         ..       8440. Ote 10040. O/e         9459.0               2213.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           2070.0       1870.0    2020.0              1758.4               819.4
URBAN    ,                       370.0        500.0     570.0
RURAL                          22850.0      12390.0   12360.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAi BED            ..          ..        ..                  ..                28.8
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.4         5.3
URBAN                               5.6         5.5
RURAL                               5.4         5.2
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               3. 1        2. 8/f
URBAN                               3. 1        2. 7
RURAL                               3.1         2.8
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..         17.9/f
URBAN                               ..         54.4
RURAL                               ..          4.9



- 24 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
PAKISTAN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PAKISTAN                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGNTE  AVr5AGES
-  HOST RECENT
MDST RCENT           LOW INCQIE          MIDDLE INCER
1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE tb       ASIA & PACIFIC       ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                30.0        44.0      51.0               80.9                98.6
MALE                 46.0        62.0      69.0               94. 3               99.2
FEMALE               13.0        24.0      32.0               66.7                97.7
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                11.0        14.0      17.0               26.6                55.5
MALE                 18.0        22.0      25.0               34.8                60.7
FEMALE                3.0         6.0       8.0               18.2                49.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OF SECONDARY)  1.0          1.5       1.5                9.9                13.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           39.0        41.0      42.0               41.1                34.6
SECONDARY                         24.0        20.0      19.0               20.5                28.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       15. OA      20.0      21.0               40.9                85.8
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         1.0         3.0       2.8                1.8                 9.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         6. 0       18.0      16.0               25.8               118.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..         1.6       4.8                2.4                39.4
NEWSPAPRR ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  7.0          ..       5. 0              13.4                  .
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.8         3. Of/     ..                 ..                 4.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    14447.6     17364.1  21270.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   8.7         9.3      10.0               29.4                36.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             60.8        58.9      58.0               70.5                51.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                17.9        18.7      19.0               11.6                21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               31.5        28.7      27.9               37.9                39.1
MALE                                55.2        50.4      48.6               51.3                48.5
FEYALE                               5.7         5.5       5.7               23.7                29.6
ECONCIIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.5         1. 7      1.8                1.2                 1. 1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   20.3/i      17.8      17.3
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  45. 3/i     41.8      41.5
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6. 4/i      8.0       8.4
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.5J4      20.2      20.6
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCG(E
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..        68.0    176.0               107.8
RURAL                               ..        47.0    122.0                86.5               192.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCCME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                .        34.0      88.0
RURAL                               *-        22.0      58.0                 ..               182.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..        42.0      32.0               46.2
RURAL                               ..        43.0      29.0               51.7                33.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted aritlhetic means.  Coverae of countries
anong the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 snd 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
Lc  1962-65;  Ld Includes Bangladesh;  /e Registered, not all practicing in the country;  Lf 1973;
Is 1960-62;  Lh 1972; /i  1963-64.
Most recent estimate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are ea of April, 1980.
October, 1980



- 25 -
ANNEX I
DEFINITIONS OF_DOCiUi IN10,CTPRS
Notes:  Although the daa           ..ru  tram  sources gEneal uge1dthe mas  authoritative and reliable,it should also be noted that they may  at he itata-
natonll  cmprale be-. run to the  oc  pt4  eadried Idetintosad co-rpte used by diffrncuersinolctgthda.Tedter,ns-
-.lee   tfol1t  detcibc ordece uf esittude  indi-trn trends, and rhar-trteei  cetain majot  aif et..ne be tweet  .ostnis.
The,eecc   gro-pan -I  1) tIe oe c....try group tt the subject ctutny and (2)  arauntry grap aith s.-eh., high-raeaeiom   hn   h    sar   ea
lesof    yoftessoic   caas hhu   at   arta  odca-.Sic  teatrae  fconresso    b  tedietos deead  as-                                                      the taailbilty of
of roe todicarot ai o tlrr             Ptseoull the cruorry aod coO.  trance groopab.,-,
far ." crotn -ascurr, nttaooboit.                uin a-j-    itv  i                     --lin; 177  arn. mal   sodtremae grade tnrs,   drcitra   tons.  a   ass.biinstyaf
f-iTCDItTI   cabrh-rvs   asuoco   tcesr te--l  e-rg  (opati                                    rarel. are not N.ldd       ua   eptl.hwve.iaaehat                             eia
dava.                                                                         Un~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fl-;17   .t. -.itd  feagelo  medital fa ptte-. -o  seIettea  psdp... i a atpi
5~~~ - ,N  p.t                    P,i_, ~~~~frm  ositls divided by the nthe  nfbeds.
diferut  efotian  aguhororactafafechropaoblit  o  dta                                     OOIN
am7 gcn0 olo  1h,070   n    7  dots.79veeane Dice of guoIuhod pte-ta  per hoserd) -P  tiai..  srbs.Pi   ad sel
Pnnnlarao to y Ar ,l-lcetppuaiernenuaar   ae   niN                                      o "  itheir salt mas       hadro`lde   a  or may ens.bli -t     he,j tar fdd i
rono  pnplatto byago  od tn an_thirt.oro oyad  erliyree.th  hIee                                   phyOr  raIsII ra  purposesp,        iig  ,jjpjy    td
tog li repeciacya   birh lure aIn'dlo  cot        da pegr-ptaI  Income          he  n  prtu  perroan.  .Ia all purban, and tura  ercepi bd c         thvesti dsa
feobroutryis  hinneugoe  ou  ofthre cte  oeboatootof  nnolit        Cuenional-9 doefligadithl f,lentriciFtyi  ttivtiag quater. as peeneneeg
POUATINd fANiD  rreodrT fI1c5 o)rln  uraa                                                     of- total,d n HO, Pndirure1 dwllng   repectivelyd,         -pt
Diurtonry erolotOoc    Ion 0cc ipoay phpaattarprere1isnodgraTb sinc
of 0000oloe   OrsalT  ooac.i - kIr  soaroJcary papaarti  tOt  onar0lun of nil8 Agss at th p.imeep leve  as.i pestaga  of d eapshtie
I           1l6t bat beerd _raohr.. ie                                                      IIdot scoo H.  thotl,  Pal   sad  emal  hoCldputed em above  sendr
FaRU1tlic lnnsi-'hedocat.anreqotreoa  leost  fotar  off oppeeved primar liisatrectia
Per sqiI. In.    -      20 Cri-or .ppaltla  per ul-c  kior.rd (11             19c80nu   ofdpenhin  gecral v..        rstiAnbad, or teco  esnag-      - nenntb.ina1.fe  paih
Pnr on. An. vgrcanltoaa0 luad - fanpated an aboor for egrccalterol blcodl eubrludedural.  AV_.g
ooly.                                                               Vocational enrollmentd (ferl sa  ntlig seesadarn . p--tVnnoa  -tatitetiose
pepouaIonstar   t  INOD-hi   1Nh-1D  and          P19'l-._                  ..79.1~ crepning ler                  ctIa,
Ersista   rah  Datt 1eI .percent)  - ura  t- aas  groa   rates- of -tly aeba  Fos           het lltrao  rote (cement) -1            -1 liteae  dls  al q tot readsad tnise
lino  on1N0-d,     f lh-70  - und  090O.tas ao pe bcnnag  at totaD ada.ltippaitisa ege ti lbya                                                         sd  ve
pop ltrrn   loA,  1970h an  h97  dotca.          d                                   iotth tgm -t'noI.
thd,eahDr  ie   honn)-    tnh dab   errnnndoEidya                                        DaUCAT      Cas(ertIsdONnaisl-Faagrcasopis    oo
pouaion_      00   90   o   90dt,rn   eto   estonegtpeos    nldseblse,Iana   a
lines    Pl ..r.sco  tae-oaag   tanhnc":    fl dugl      ili  reman willibent I              iiay  ei
_iIyrts   neI'_   Dieya   vtgrtu_gi   Nh,07,ad197                                      racss  ognrlpblcprfea    of..   .t1 poulnia     -mlda  as1-
tt are   ee ip _,ro aIe hrop                                                        geo-sea--i-ahII  ppen n-lousta ad  p    -p   1yti; esladas s loesd t.  nece6va1
fItAD, 011-0020             I-05'-hd                                                         Ne-a..-nrarp..erti.  .I  Circulaion(e  thoena   apethn   finhias t.he. avrseet- a
prdatic   i" alhodcindrt. Faurionids  rdadfedad                                         lcn          devoted-.  R primaily-a reprdid gase   sas          ..s is  . dsidrad
Is on. calnda Mdyea.h..        -ooilscre   rmr   nd  (a-    suiarcse-o b  "da Ily. i tqit.  tppear..at fest  f--our Chess a week,                                   tIt 
teaoreecudd. Agrgi   routo1o0nhsotyl  baed--tckn Ifnp-                                               d-   dro  th   ar* tlda   aeei t                e..h     ti.  drveis tisasts
ret capita suasly of pulotOr... llteoofof2resu1rey.nta)o- gospoted-fro
energ.equiaj.leto P  net tur        .,..dnoplie   ailbly isf otp  e  capit                    _amir r d
pe   ay    vilhnuuptv  opiV oes...nstln    mprsles                                     TtataorFre  tneed)      cnetalyatrepr-t,itlda
I.,sehnld 19v60  ; 19 90i-hd 9711970  anP77daa.fn_tgm  pencenttafeof  otl lbo  force    -D  1t71  sad..ti  dsn.ldI
atine fpnn150t 60 of    60n 70lcdb11 0 aen 7nRu  pe n-nl ooteo.    hes  stnd                anilyseceo nd.astotl  maple,i sad faal -eo  feed  -r
erAs B- aRe loner  tha ..a.e  Af ...irn  of riatoi  pro trIo .otd7  oren  of
Wol Iod  avy 19,, 9701-0.  97  sdt  197NSUdata.
Fand carinaR troei(p- rl t   (mmd au-     end n-ha P- Pro Oem  apip -idy- fodd-               oesn  tote   fth   eaais                 .sdbgtm   red-              e   eh
rIced teom; aesaa 96p0         nernga    per9ay;lNh-0S   190 ad 170  ats                  -caemi .tinseeIdeu   thatin ht mania of  -esaiaa nae b15 sad. h.S-sad ava
ag -goo   -ipers,-na pildee ito thin aegrop;taest  deeipio  moo-dp.~.i,)-AItp.   f- i-.f                                                                                 d
tresdr   ervdto  lotef ai-y-            --g1. -d7fg and190, 779data   -dCea 1977tiID
lFea.   etnoa   1b  pss      vng  sobe  nt yearn of.b   ofi  rsIni ba                            peeet, rihst2  pereent,i  P pthrect 20  psrplst. ad peelacdh  pari
oF  ag  prtoua nd.      Dive fblrtl_-ta.of-r i                                                 _tetrma id Ahnlt  Fder' Ii- om.    evi.g.a   spt)-orssd  oe 
say -uh  neo  fro  prtele  hoeoe-Ipig    a  sntr   gels..5.tit-t1 teblaiv Pavsrhvletod pfpletva (PiN oa   eaIts  - ...                                     sdcu.
perpeNDNageTIN o   h  rrsetv   ruaic. Ds    ne   repbi                                          ua   telrive.. povrt Y ocee h..      t    oatt-thir  ofTVW aveag  pee efpits
Inud ral  an  Ntodpoor  rtnoedsat,mardtierp00 tor-raStenteahousgsay I
conldreanbengolbi  rnrunalenoeo  o  tatInne. Onrualaros      pesoalDocanofthoaaty.Trsalevl sterve_teecbPtta
dIspdaof - Ferhv Ihaes tof     ibel  oap.ec   i  .tiv   ppia-ta.  iceade                                                  omscadIr               aafvss
ptpirieS end  hatlr ioosllarona



- 26 -
ANMEX I
ECONOHIC DEVELOPIEIT DATA
GWSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1979/80                                                                      ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (2. conatant Price.)
US$ billion       X                                        1969/70-1974/75     1975/76-1979/80    179/80
GNP at market Prices                      25.05         100.0                                            3.5                 6.1              7.8
Gross Domstic Investment                   4.16          16.6                                          -5.5                  4.8              2.2
Gross National Sa-ing                      3.04           12.1                                         -2.1                  8.9              8.3
Current Account  l ance                   -1.16           -4.6
Resource Gap                              -2.77         -11.1                                           6.7                  3.5           -17.2
OUPUT, LAO1R FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1979/  '-&
Value Added               Labor Porce             V.A. Per Worker
0S$ million      S          Million      I          US$ nillion      I
Agriculture                      6,694          31          12.8        54             523          58
Industry                         5,280          25           4.3        18           1.228         137
Servics                          9,299          44           6.6        28           1.409         157
Total/Avwrag                  21,273         100          23.7       100             898         100
aoumnmrr nFIANCz
General Government                                         Central Government
(Rn  billion)            2 of GDP                          (Rrbion)                  2 of GDP
1979 80        1979/80     1975/76-1979/80                1979/80         1979/80     1975/76-1979/80
Current Receipts                           39.4           17.0             15.9                       30.1           13.0              12.1
Current Expenditurs                        39.5           17.0             16.7                       29.8            12.8             12.2
Current Surplus/Deficit                    -0.1            0.O             -0.8                        0.3            0.2              -0.1
Capital Expenditures                       24.8           10.7             10.4                       21.6            9.3               8.8
External Assistance (not)                  12.6            5.4              5.2                       12.6            5.4               5.2
=MY, CUNDIT AND PkICES
1974/75     1975/76     1976/77     1977/78     1978/79     1979180/b
Msy sod Quasi Money                                   33.1'       41.6        51.7        63.6        76.4         91.1
Sank Credit to Public Sector (net)                    17.7        22.9        29.5        34.4        43.2        48.8
Bank Credit to Private Sector (gross)                 19.7        23.1        30.1        35.7        42.7         50.6
money and Quai )oney  s 2 of GDP                      31.6        34.3        38.1        40.6        43.0         43.3
Wbolesale Price Index (1969/70 - 100)                211.3       229.4       255.3       271.4       289.7        316.7
Annual Percentage Cbng in:
Wholeale Price Index                                  23.6         8.6        11.3         6.3         6.7          9.3
ank Credit to Public Sector (net)                     21.2        29.4        28.8        16.6        25.6         13.0
lnk Credit to Private Sector (gross)                  26.3        17.3        30.3        18.6        19.6         18.5
/a Labor force date are official figures of the Ministry of Finance and Planning. Serione underenumration ny exist, especially of women.
/b Provisionl.
Not epplicable.
April 1981



- 27 -
ANNEX I
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                 (USS million)                                        MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1976/77-1979/80)
1976/77      1977/78     1978/79      1979/80/a                                                  USS million       7
Exports of Goods, NFS                                 1,404       1,651        2,107        2.964                    Ua. Cotton                          135.4          8.5
Imports of Goods, NFS                                2,877        3,297        4.485        5,727                   Cotton Yarn                          157.0          9.8
Resource Gap (deficit - -)                          -1,473       -1,646       -2,378       -2,763                    Cotton Cloth                        199.1         12.4
Rice                                313.3         19.6
Interest Payments                                     -172         -183         -261         -285                   All Other Commodities                795.6         49.7
Workers' Remittances                                    578       1,166        1,395        1.743                      Total                           1,600.4        100.0
Other Factor Payments (net)                              15           62         134          154
Net Transfer.
Balance on Current Account                          -1,052         -601       -1.110       -1,151                                EXTE2NAL DEBT, JUNE 30. 1980
Direct Foreign Investment                                                                                                                                         US  million
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbutremeots                                        961          841          813        1.420                   Public Debt, Including Guaranteed               11,209.9
Amortization                                        -175         -122         -235         -310                   Non-guaranteed PrIv-te Debt /f
Sub Total                                            786          719          578       1,110                      Total Outstanding and Disbursed              11,209.9
Transactions with IMF/b                                 44           41          -14           78
Other Items n.e.i./c                                     24         163          238          325                              DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1979/80/
Increase io Reserves (-)                               198         -322          308         -362
US$ Million
Gross Reserves (year end)/d                            372          694          386          748
Net Reserves (yoer  and)/e                            -146          150          -92          340                   Public Debt. Including Guaranteed                 12.7
Official Gold (year and; million)                      1.6          1.7          1.8          1.8                   Non-guaranteed Private Debt
Total                                          12.7
Fuel and Related Materials
Petroleum Imports                                      413          497          611        1.237                       I3RD/IDA LENDING (JINM  1979) (million US$)
Petroleum  Exports                                      27           63           56          178
IBR,        IDA
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                                    Outstanding and Disbursed                   330.9        788.7
Undisbursed                                 60.7       -444.1
Through May 11, 1972       May 11, 1972 - February 15. 1973        Since February 15, 1973                          Outstanding. Including Undisbursed          391.6      1,232.8
USS - Re 4.7619                      US$ - 11.00                    US$ - 9.90
Re  - USSOZ2100                      Rs  - 0.0909                   Re  - 0.1010
/a Government estimate.
/b Including Trust Fnd.
/c Including net short-term borrowing and errors and omissions.
/_ Foreign exchange and SDR holdings of the State Rank.
/e Excluding use of IMF credit.
If Private debt is negligible.
Ratio of debt service to exports of goods, non-factor semvices and workers' remittances; not including short-cerm  or IMF charges.
Not av-ilable.
April 1981



(Revised 5/4/81)                      - 28 -                        ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1981)
US$ million
Loan or                                                     Amount (less cancellation)
Credit                                                                             Undis-
Number   Year  Borrower         Purpose                       Bank   TW    IDA  bursed
Seventy-eight loans and credits fully disbursed /a           611.2         581.3
422       1973  Pakistan  Karachi Port III                    --            18.0   0.1
492      1974  Pakistan  Karachi Port IV                      --            16.0   1.3
1107     1975  SNGPL       Gas Pipeline IV                    53.0           --    1.7
546      1975  Pakistan  Industrial Development (NDFC)   --                 30.0   1.4
1208T    1976  Pakistan  Power Transmission                   --   35.0      --    5.5
620      1976  Pakistan  Seed                                 --            23.0   8.8
1326     1976  PICIC       Industrial Development             25.0           --    1.2
630      1976  Pakistan  Lahore Water II                      --            26.6   9.2
648      1976  Pakistan  Irrigation and Drainage              --            14.0   7.6
1366T    1977  Pakistan  Livestock                            --   10.0      --    9.8
1372/684 1977  Pakistan  Railways                             35.0          25.0  25.1
678      1977  Pakistan  Education                            --            15.0  10.5
751      1977  Pakistan  Hill Farming                         --             3.0   2.0
754      1978  Pakistan  SCARP-VI                             --            70.0  69.2
755      1978  Pakistan  Hazara Forestry                      --             1.7   1.5
771      1978  Pakistan  Tarbela II                           --            35.0   2.2
813      1978  Pakistan  Punjab Extension                     --            12.5  10.4
846      1978  Pakistan  Fauji Fertilizer                     --            55.0  17.0
867      1979  Pakistan  Toot Oil & Gas Development           --            30.0  16.6
877       1979  Pakistan  Salinity Control & Reclamation  --                60.0  59.2
892       1979  Pakistan  Primary Education                   --            10.0   9.1
922      1979  Pakistan  Sind Agricultural Extension /b  --                 (9.0) (9.0)
957      1979  Pakistan  Fourth Agricultural Dev. Bank   --                 30.0  27.3
968      1980  Pakistan  Third WAPDA Power                    --            45.0  42.0
974      1980  Pakistan  Third Highway                        --            50.0  46.8
1019     1980  Pakistan  PICIC Industrial Development    --                 40.0  40.0
1066     1981  Pakistan  Fertilizer Imports /d                --           (50.0)(49.9)
Total                                                        724.2 45.0 1,191.1
of which has been repaid                                   403.5  --    --
Total now outstanding                                        320.7 45.0 1,191.1
Amount sold                                         23.9
of which has been repaid                          22.3       1.6  --      --
Total now held by Bank and IDA /c                            319.1 45.0 1,191.1
Total undisbursed                                             26.4 15.3   383.8 425.5
/a   Excludes the disbursed portion of loans and credits wholly or partly for proj-
ects in the former East Pakistan which have now been taken over by Bangladesh.
/b   Not included in totals:  Credit number 922-PAK is not yet effective.
/c   Prior to exchange adjustments.
/d   This Credit and Credits 109-PAK (Fifth Education-Vocational Training)
for $25 million and 113-PAK (Small Industries) for $30 million, which
were signed April 24, 1981, are not included in above totals.



(Revised 5/4/81)                     - 29 -                        ANNEX II
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (March 31, 1981) 1/
Fiscal                                               Amount   In US$   Million
Year      Obligor             Type of Business       Loan    Equity    Total
1958     Steel Corp of           Rolled Steel         0.63       -        0.63
Pakistan Ltd.          Products
1959     Adamjee Industries    Textiles               0.75       -        0.75
Ltd.
1962-    Gharibwal Cement        Cement               5.25      0.42      5.67
1965     Industries Ltd.
1963-    PICIC                  Development            -        0.52      0.52
1969-                           Financing
1975
1965     Crescent Jute           Textiles             1.84      0.11      1.95
Products
1965-    Packages Ltd.           Paper Products       4.43      0.84      5.27
1980
1967     Pakistan Paper
1976     Corp. Ltd.              Paper                5.38      2.02      7.40
1969     Dawood Hercules         Fertilizers          1.00      2.92      3.92
Chemicals Ltd.
1969     Karnaphuli Paper        Pulp and Paper       5.60      0.63      6.23
Mills Ltd.
1979     Milkpak Limited       Food & Food            2.40      0.40      2.80
Processing
1979     Pakistan Oilfields   Chemicals &
Limited and Attock   Petrochemicals
Refinery Ltd.                              29.00      1.62      30.62
1980     Fauji Foundation      Woven Polypropy-
lene bags             1.78        -       1.78
1980     Premier Board
Mills Limited         Particle Board         2.70       -        2.70
Total Gross Commitments                    60.76      9.48      70.24
Less: Cancellations, Terminations
Repayments and Sales                33.25      1.01     34.26
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC          27.51      8.47      35.98
Undisbursed (including participants)        17.72     0.37      18.09
1/   An IFC investment of US$3.35 million (a loan of US$3.15 million and an
equity subscription of US$200,000 equivalent) in Habib Arkady Ltd. for
a fructose syrup factory, was approved on April 30, 1981 and is not
included above.



-30 -                         ANNEX II
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit No. 771       Tarbela Dam:  US$35 Million Credit of March 10, 1978;
Effective Date: April 4, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
This credit, together with other additional contributions arranged
in 1978, is intended to help finance the repairs and additional works required
to complete the project. In September 1973, the Indus River was diverted
through tunnels on schedule to enable the final stage--the construction of
the closure section of the dam--to be undertaken. By end-June 1974, the
main embankment had been completed to full height, and the first impoundment
began on schedule in July 1974. In early August, difficulties were encoun-
tered in the operation of the tunnel gates and damage to one of the tunnels
necessitated the emptying of the reservoir and repair of the tunnels and
outlet structure. Agreement was reached with the parties of the Indus Basin
and Tarbela Development Funds whereby special contributions were made by a
number of parties, including IDA (Credit 581-PAK), to help with the cost of
repairs and additional remedial works. The stilling basins suffered further
damage in August 1975 and again in April 1976. Stilling Basin 3 has now been
repaired and has operated satisfactorily. Work to construct a flip-bucket
at the outlet of Tunnel No. 4 is scheduled to begin in 1981 and will be
completed in 1983. Serious erosion in the plunge pool below the service
spillway during 1977 necessitated additional protection works. Final protec-
tion work in the service spillway plunge pool and in the downstream channel
were completed in June 1980.  Final protection work in the auxiliary plunge
pool will be completed in June 1982. Increased attention is being given to
developing the O&M program and resources to insure the long term performance
and safety of the Tarbela Project. Since 1975, irrigation requirements from
the dam have generally been met. Power generation by the first four units
began in 1977.
Loan No. 1372        Tenth Railway:  US$35 Million Loan and US$25 Million
and              Credit of March 8, 1977; Effective Date:  May 9, 1977;
Credit No. 684       Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project is proceeding satisfactorily. Spare parts for diesel
locomotives have been fully ordered. The telecommunications and signaling
scheme is making good progress. Procurement has been completed and the total
proceeds of the Loan/Credit have been committed.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



(Revised 5/4/81)
- 31 -                       ANNEX II
Credit No. 422       Third Karachi Port:  US$18 Million Credit of July 19,
1973; Effective Date: December 14, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
Credit No. 492       Fourth Karachi Port:  US$16 Million Credit of July 8,
1974; Effective Date: September 18, 1974; Closing
Date:  December 31, 1981
The Third Karachi Port Project is almost completed and all the
Credit funds are committed and most of Credit has been disbursed. The Fourth
Karachi Port Project is almost complete and as of March 31, 1981, IDA had dis-
bursed US$14.7 million. The partial adoption of a new tariff structure has
improved KPT's financial position.
Loan No. 1326        Development Finance Company - PICIC:  US$25 Million
Loan of September 14, 1976; Effective Date:
Y-T'2veuber ?Q, 1976; Closing Date:  December 31, 1981
This loan has been fally committed and as of March 31, 1981, dis-
bursements amounted to US$23.8 million.
Credit No. 546       National Development Finance Corporation (NDFC):
US$30 Million Credit of May 15, 1975: Effective
Date July 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The Credit has been fully committed and US$28.6 million had been
disbursed as of March 31, 1981. The Closing Date, originally September 30,
1979, has been postponed to December 31, 1981.
Loan No. 1107        Fourth Sui Northern Gas:  US$60 Million Loan of
May 15, 1975; Effective Date: July 5, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
Project activities are on schedule. US$1.7 million remain undis-
bursed and had earlier been retained to install gas dehydration facilities at
Meyal oil field. These facilities are now being provided by the owner of the
field in conjunction with an LPG plant.  The Borrower has,therefore,now been
authorized to apply these undisbursed funds to increase the capacity of the
Islamabad/Rawalpindi distribution system where extensive load shedding was
experienced during the last winter months due to demand increases.
Credit No. 620       Seed Project:  US$23 Million Credit of March 29, 1976;
Effective Date: November 29, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
Project implementation remains behind schedule, with the most impor-
tant delays being with the construction and equipping of the three seed pro-
cessing plants due to disputes between contractors, consultants, and equipment
suppliers and the Punjab Seed Corporation. There have been signs of improve-
ment in the quality of pre-basic seed supplied by the research institutes,
though there is still a problem with wheat seed in Sind. It is likely that
project completion and credit closing dates will need to be further extended.



-32 -                        ANNEX II
Credit No. 630       Second Lahore Water Supply, Sewerage and Drainage
Project US$26.6 Million Credit of June 8, 1976; Effective
Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
All the works have been contracted after some design delay and
retenderings. Construction is about 2-1/2 years behind schedule. The engi-
neering consulting service financed by UNDP has been strengthened and extended
to cover the prolonged project period. Technical assistance provided by ODA
(UK) for engineering and financial management, leak detection and training
has been reorganized to better meet the needs of the project. Financial
results are poor despite an interim tariff increase effective October 1980.
There continues to be a need for a definitive long-range tariff policy.
Loan No. 1208-T      Second WAPDA Power:  US$50 Million Third Window Loan
of February 19, 1976; Effective Date: April 30, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Construction of the 336-mile transmission line between Faisalabad
(formerly Lyallpur) and Guddu and installation of associated equipment has
been completed. The closing date, originally December 31, 1980, has been
extended to June 30, 1981, to accommodate payment of retention money.
Credit No. 648       Khairpur-II Tile Drainage and Irrigated Farming Development
Project: US$14 Million Credit of July 22, 1976;
Effective Date: March 14, 1977; Closing Date: July 31,
1982
Overall progress is currently about two years behind schedule. Work
on canal remodeling, surveys, and extension services are proceeding satisfac-
torily. Initial break-in period of tile and collector drain construction has
been completed enabling better estimations of costs and implementation schedule.
Experience obtained during this period indicates that project costs could be
significantly higher than appraisal estimates and completion may be delayed by
3-4 years. IDA has begun a dialogue with GOP officials regarding possible
revisions to project scope and implementation schedule with a view to contain
cost overruns and limit completion delays.
Credit No. 678      Third Education:  US$15 Million Credit of February 18,
1977; Effective Date: July 6, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project is making good progress. All project studies are near
completion. Nearly 100% of civil works contracts have been awarded and about
75% have been completed. Tendering for about 75% of the project equipment is
in progress and the balance is expected to be tendered shortly. Technical
assistance specialist services are now being provided satisfactorily and about
90% of the fellowships have been used or committed.



-33 -                         ANNEX II
Loan No. 1366-T    Punjab Livestock:  US$10 Million Loan of February 18,
1977; Effective Date: August 3, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The Government and the Bank have discussed the possible restructur-
ing of the project and GOP has established a committee of senior officials to
further review this matter. The invitation to tender for the rehabilitation
of the Lahore Milk Plant (LMP) is ready to be issued; however, the Government
has been requested to complete its review before tenders are called for the
LMP.
Credit No. 751       Hill Farming Technical Development:  US$3 Million
Credit of December 1, 1977; Effective Date: March 7,
1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1981
This project is generally proceeding satisfactorily. All key
staff are in post and pilot programs for food crop trials, vegetables, apples,
forestry and livestock are operating close to schedule. Preparation of the
proposed follow-up project has begun.
Credit No. 754       SCARP-VI:  US$70 Million Credit of January 19, 1978;
Effective Date: December 28, 1978; Closing Date:
November 30, 1986
The project is about two years behind schedule. No significant
progress yet in implementation, due principally to serious delay in formal GOP
approval of project. To accommodate GOP resource constraints, the project
scope and cost have been reduced, with IDA assistance, which facilitated GOP
approval in February 1981. IDA is currently awaiting the receipt of necessary
documentation of this approval.
Credit No. 755       Hazara Forestry:  US$1.7 Million Credit of January 29,
1978; Effective Date: July 14, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
There has been some progress in different project activities, but
implementation is significantly behind schedule. The silviculturist has not
been recruited in spite of UNDP financial assistance. Forest inventory, with
the technical assistance of FAO, is underway and results are expected to be
available in early Fall. A consulting firm will present a new proposal for
the verification and interpretation of the inventory data in order to identify
the scope of the follow-up industrial feasibility study.



- 34 -                       ANNEX II
Credit No. 813       Punjab Extension and Agricultural Development:  US$12.5
Million Credit of June 6, 1978; Effective Date:
September 12, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Project approval which was delayed by GOP for about 18 months has
since been granted. Implementation is behind schedule, but lately, there
has been tangible progress in staff recruitment, building site acquisition
and construction. There have been delays in obtaining the required con-
sultants' services.
Credit No. 846       Fauji Fertilizer:  US$55 Million Credit of September 14,
1978; Effective Date: December 19, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Engineering and procurement are practically completed and con-
struction is well advanced. The marketing program is being implemented
satisfactorily.
Credit No. 867       Toot Oil and Gas Development:  US$30 Million Credit of
January 12, 1979; Effective Date: April 25, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Project implementation is about eight months behind schedule mainly
due to technical difficulties in drilling and slow procurement. However, with
the availability of better equipment, materials and services, there has been
a recent improvement in well drilling. A new drilling management contractor
started work in April 1980. Two CIDA experts arrived in Pakistan in June
1980 to assist in project implementation. A firm to provide project coor-
dination services under CIDA financing started work in August 1980. Training
of OGDC personnel under the drilling management contract began in February
1981. An ODA-financed management study of OGDC is expected to start in April
1981.
Credit No. 877       Salinity Control and Reclamation Project (SCARP) Mardan:
US$60 Million Credit of February 7, 1979; Effective
Date: October 16, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1986
The project is about one year behind schedule. No significant
progress yet in implementation, due principally to serious delay in formal
GOP approval of project. To accommodate GOP resource constraints, the
project scope and cost have been reduced, with IDA assistance, which facil-
itated GOP approval in February 1981. IDA is currently awaiting the receipt
of necessary documentation of this approval that will enable a presentation
to IDA management on the restructured project.



(Revised 5/4/81)
- 35 -                       ANNEX II
Credit No. 892      Primary Education:  US$10 Million Credit of April 18,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Good progress has been made with the evaluation component of this
project after an initially slow start due to the renegotiation of the con-
sultancy contract. Overseas fellowships have been completed. Civil works,
furniture and equipment are about six months behind schedule. Some redesign
of the evaluation program, especially in Baluchistan, may be needed due to
remoteness and absence of adequate field staff.
Credit No. 957       Fourth Agricultural Development Bank:  US$30 Million Credit
of December 7, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
This Credit became effective June 5, 1980. Although the agriculture
engineer training component is yet to start and project consultants are yet to
be hired, overall progress has been satisfactory.
Credit No. 968       Third WAPDA Power:  US$45 Million Credit of January 10,
1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project is at an early stage, with work being done in procurement,
land acquisition and initial construction of substations.
Credit No. 922       Sind Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research Project:
US$9 Million Credit of June 12, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
This Credit is not yet effective.
Credit No. 974       Third Highway:  US$50 Million Credit of April 9, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Delays in credit effectiveness and contractor's inability to plan
their work effectively have delayed construction and will call for a revision
of contract timing to bring required outputs in line with the contractor's
abilities.
Credit No. 1019      PICIC Industrial Development:  US$40 Million Credit of
May 30, 1980; Closing Date: March 31, 1984
This Credit became effective October 29, 1980 and US$1.5 million has
been committed.
Credit No. 1066      Fertilizer Imports Credit:  US$50 Million Credit of
October 17, 1980; Closing Date: March 31, 1982
This Credit became effective December 1, 1980.



(Revised 4/27/81)
- 36 -                       ANNEX II
Credit No. 1109    Fifth Education (Vocational Training):  US$25 Million
Credit of April 24, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This Credit is not yet effective.
Credit No. 1113    Small Industries:  US$30 Million Credit of April 24, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
This Credit is not yet effective.



- 37 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
PAKISTAN
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:          Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:
Two years.
(b) The agency which prepared the project:
Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Cooperatives.
(c) Date of first presentation to IDA and date of
first mission to consider the project:
March 1980.
(d) Departure of appraisal mission:
October 15, 1980.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:
April 22, 1981.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:
About September 5, 1981.
Section II:         Special IDA Implementation Actions
None.
Section III:        Special Conditions
Conditions of Effectiveness:
(i) establishment of PMCC with composition
and responsibilities satisfactory to
the Association (paragraph 63);
(ii) signing of an agreement between MFAC, PASSCO
and Provincial Food Departments, detailing
their implementation responsibilities
(paragraph 64);



- 38 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(iii)   establishment of a Project Implementation Unit by
PASSCO, and engagement of a Chief Engineer and two
Deputy General Managers (paragraph 64);
(iv)   establishment of a project revolving fund and
provision of an initial deposit in it (paragraph
69);
(v)   completion of a subsidiary loan agreement between
the Government and RECP, satisfactory to the
Association (paragraph 69);
(vi)   approval of the project by the Executive Committee
of the National Economic Council (ECNEC), a Cabinet
sub-committee (paragraph 69); and
(vii)   fulfillment of the conditions of effectiveness
of the Swiss contribution.
Disbursement Condition:
(i)   before disbursing storage research and extension
training program expenditures, preparation of such
a program and establishment of a Coordination Unit
by PARC with composition and responsibilities
satisfactory to the Association (paragraph 65).
Other Conditions:
(i)   the Government to consult with the Association
annually on grain storage construction programs
(paragraph 58);
(ii)   the Government to complete a survey by October 31,
1981 and ensure that unattended repairs to existing
storage facilities are completed by December 31,
1985 under a phased program satisfactory to the
Association (paragraph 60);
(iii)   the Government to cause Provincial Governments to
make adequate and timely budgetary provision for
regular storage repair and maintenance at a level
satisfactory to the Association (paragraph 60);
(iv)   MFAC to provide copies of annual project storage
construction programs to the Association for its
approval by July 31 each year (paragraph 66); and
(v)   Provincial Food Departments to acquire land for
200,000 MT storage capacity by each August 31,
1982 and 1983 (paragraph 66).



