Document of
The World Bank   FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.3.360-PAK
PAKISTAN
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
May 11, 1981
Agriculture D Division
South Asia Projects Department
This document has; a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =      Pakistan Rupee (Rs)
Rs 9.90           =     US$1.00
Rs 1.00           =     US$0.101
Rs 1 million      =     US101,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg)                                  =    2.2 pounds
1 maund (md)                =  37.3 kg           =   82.3 pounds
1 metric ton (MT)           =  1,000 kg          =    0.98 long tons
1 millimeter (mm)                                =    0.39 inches (in)
1 meter (m)       2         =  3.29 feet (ft)   =    1.09 yards
1 square meter (m )                              =    1.19 square yards
1 kilometer (km)       2                         =    0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km )                2        =    0.386 square miles
1 hectare (ha)  3           =  10,000 m          =    2.47 acres
1 cubic meter (m )                               =   35.31 cubic feet
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADBP      -   Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan
ECNEC     -   Executive Committee of the National Economic Council
GOP       -   Government of Pakistan
MFAC      -   Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Cooperatives
NESPAK    -   National Engineering Services (Pakistan)
NLC       -   National Logistic Cell
NWFP      -   North West Frontier Province
Pak PWD   -   Pakistan Public Works Department
PARC      -   Pakistan Agricultural Research Council
PASSCO    -   Pakistan Agricultural Storage and Services Corporation
PIU       -   Project Implementation Unit
PMCC      -   Project Management and Coordination Committee
RECP      -   Rice Export Corporation of Pakistan
GLOSSARY
Arthi    -    Foodgrain merchant
Atta     -    Whole wheat flour
Bajra    -    Millet
Godown   -    House-type storage facility
Jowar    -    Sorghum
Rabi     -    Winter season
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    PROJECT  BACKGROUND  .........................................                                  1
II.    THE AGRICULTUJRAL AND FOODGRAIN  SECTORS  .....................                                 1
A.   The Agricultural  Sector  ................................                                1
B.   The  Foodgrain  Sector  ...................................                               2
Production  Characteristics  .........................                             2
Consumption,  Exports,  Imports  ......................                            4
Marketing  ..........................................                              5
Transport  ..........................................                              6
Grain Storage  Resources  and Losses  .................                            7
C.   Government  Foodgrain  Policies  and Practices  ....                      ........      10
Policy Objectives  and Responsibilities  ....                      .........      10
Foodgrain  Price  Policy  .............................                           10
Foodgrain Distribution  Policy  ......................                            12
Foodgrain Export  Policy  ............................                            13
Food  Security  Policy  ...............................                           13
III.      INSTITUTIONS  ...............................................                                13
A.   Federal  Directorate General  of Food  ....................                             13
B.   Provincial  Food Departments  ............................                              14
Organlization  and Management  ........................                           14
Operations  .........................................                             14
C. Pakistan Agricultural Storage and Services Corporation
(PASSCO)  .............................................                              17
Background  .........................................                             17
Major  Operations  ...................................                            17
D.   Rice  Export  Corporation  of Pakistan  (RECP)  ....  .. ......                         19
IV.    THE PROJECT  ................................................                                  19
Project  Concept  and Objectives  .............................                               19
Major  Features  .............................................                                20
Project  Area, Storage  Needs  and Project  Storage  Provisions..                             21
Detailed  Features  ..........................................                                23
Project  Cost  Estimates  ......................................                              30
Financing  ..................................................                                 31
Procurement  ................................................                                 32
Disbursement  ...............................................                                 33
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. I1ts contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Table of Contents (Continued)                                       Page No.
V.   MANAGEMENT AND ORGANIZATION . ....................... . . . . . . . .  34
General .*..*......  **.O. 00..0........ ...........................  34
Project Management and Coordination         ........................    35
Project Implementation ......... .   .............. . . . . ...........    35
Storage Maintenance .        .............. ..... *............    38
Accounts and Audits ..................................           38
Project Monitoring and Evaluation         ..........................    39
VI.   FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS .        .....     ..........  ...........    39
VII.   ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION         ........................    40
Benefits ........................................    40
Beneficiaries .. .........  41
Economic Rates of Return ... ................................    41
Sensitivity Analysis and Project Risks        .....................    42
VIII.  AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS   ...............    43
ANNEXES
1.  Foodgrain Sector - Statistical Data
2.   Storage Resources
3.   Project Institutions
4.   Storage Requirements and Project Proposals
5.   Specifications and Civil Works Cost
6.   Project Cost
7.   Grain Storage Research and Extension Proposals
8.   Disbursement Schedule
9.   Organization and Management
10.   Financial and Economic Analyses
11.   Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
CHARTS
Design for 1,100 Metric Ton Godown                        22457
Implementation Schedule                                   22540
Proposed Organization Chart for the Food Wing of the
Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Cooperatives          22541
MAPS
Location of Existing and Proposed Public Sector Grain
Storage in NWFP                                         15571
Location of Existing and Proposed Public Sector Grain
Storage in Baluchistan                                  15572
Location of Estisting andL ?Toposed 2'Pbl-ic Sector GrainT
Storage in Sind                                         15573
Location of Existing and Proposed Public Sector Grain
Storage in Punjab                                       15574



PAKISTAN
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. PROJECT BACKGROUND
1.01      In 1976., after Pakistan had harvested a bumper wheat crop, a study
on grain storage was carried out by a team from Kansas State University under
the direction of IJSAID. Based on the team's recommendations the Canadian
International Development Agency, with the assistance of Carr & Donald and
Associates, ConsuLting Engineers, prepared a plan for developing the grain
storage and handling sub-sector. The plan, submitted to GOP in January 1980,
provided valuable background information, but did not identify specific grain
storage projects.
1.02      At the request of GOP, an IDA mission visited Pakistan in March 1980
to review with GOP public sector storage needs and the possible scope and
content of a Bank Group assisted project. This mission was followed in June
by an IDA preparation mission which submitted its preparation report in
October 1980.
1.03      This report is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission
comprising Messrs. W. Schwermer, B. Ophuis, M. Usman (IDA), U. Acasio and
T.O. Thatcher (Consultants), which visited Pakistan in October/November 1980.
II. THE AGRICULTURAL AND FOODGRAIN SECTORS
A. The Agricultural Sector
2.01      The Islamic Republic of Pakistan has a population of about 81.5
million and covers a total land area of some 79 million (M) ha. Because of
the arid climate, only about 19 M ha are cultivable; of these 13 M ha are
irrigated, mainly within the Indus River System, the largest single irrigation
system in the worLd. Among Pakistan's four provinces, Punjab is agriculturally
the most productive, and has the largest share of cultivated (11.2 M ha) and
irrigated (9.6 M ha) land and traditionally produces a surplus, especially in
foodgrains, for the other parts of the country and for exports. Sind, with
about 5.5 M ha of cultivated and 3.2 M ha of irrigated land, ranks second
in agricultural production and is nearly self-sufficient in foodgrains.
The North West Frontier Province (NWFP) and Baluchistan, covered mainly
by mountains and arid lands, are food deficit areas. In NWFP, cultivated
area is less than 20% of the Province's surface area, while in Baluchistan,
only 4% of the land is cultivated. In both NWFP and Baluchistan, more than
60% of cultivated land is rainfed.
2.02      Agriculture is the most important sector in the Pakistan economy,
providing employment to about 55% of the labor force, accounting for about
30% of GNP and producing nearly 70% of Pakistan's export earnings, principally



- 2 -
from cotton and rice. Crops provide 69% and livestock 28% of agricultural
GDP; the remainder comes from fisheries and forestry. Performance of the
agricultural sector has varied over the last two decades. While agricultural
growth averaged almost 6% per year during the 1960's, reflecting mainly the
introduction of high yielding varieties of rice and wheat, growth rates during
the first seven years of the 1970's declined to 1.5% per annum, failing to
keep pace with the population growth of about 3%. In the last three years,
agriculture has staged a recovery, with value added increasing by 2.5% in
FY78, 4.2% in FY79 and about 6.0% in FY80. With very good summer crops
already harvested, the outlook for FY81 is again promising. The encouraging
performance in recent years is due in part to favorable weather conditions,
but it also reflects a number of initiatives taken by the Government. In
particular, the Government has been giving increased attention to improving
farmer incentives and input supplies. Support prices for all major crops have
been raised; steps have been taken to ensure adequate and timely delivery of
fertilizers; institutional credit to agriculture has been increased; and
irrigation water availability has been improved.
2.03      However, although Government policies have contributed to output
growth, agricultural yields are still well below achievable levels, and a
number of factors responsible for the low productivity at the farm level
persist. A start in removing some of the constraints has been made by intro-
ducing programs to improve extension services. 1/ The Government has also
initiated reforms in agricultural research 2/ and has developed programs for
improving on-farm water management. 3/  Furthermore it has recognized the
need for redefining priorities in its agricultural development program and is
shifting the emphasis from subsidies and long-gestation projects to programs
designed to improve cropping practices, water conservation and maintenance of
the existing infrastructure that will generate benefits quickly. This revised
strategy and the continued importance given to price incentives, credit and
improvements in input supply will have a positive impact on agricultural
production.
B. The Foodgrain Sector
Production Characteristics
2.04      Foodgrain production is the most important activity in the agri-
cultural sector, accounting for 55% of the total cropped area and 36% of the
sector's value added. Cereals, especially wheat, constitute the major portion
of the Pakistan diet, and rice exports have averaged about 20% of Pakistan's
merchandise exports over the last three years. The major foodgrains are
1/   Punjab Extension and Agricultural Development Project, Credit 813-PAK;
and Sind Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research Project, Credit
922-PAK.
2/   Agricultural Research Project; appraised in September/October 1980.
3/   On Farm Water Management Project; appraised in November/December 1980.



wheat, rice and maize, followed by jowar (sorghum), bajra (millet) and barley.
(Details on production, cultivated area and yields are in Annex 1, Table 1).
During the period 1965-79 foodgrain production has grown annually by about
5.1%. Much of the increased production is attributable to the expansion in
cultivated area (averaging 1.8% per year) and improvements in yields, mainly
of wheat. Wheat is Pakistan's main crop, cultivated on almost 65% of the
total area under foodgrains. Production, which reached almost 10.8 million MT
during the 1979/80 crop year, is concentrated in Punjab (accounting for more
than 70% of total wheat output) and northern Sind. Wheat is grown in the rabi
(winter) season mostly under irrigation but in NWFP, Baluchistan, and parts of
Punjab rainfed wheat cultivation is important. From 1970/71 to 1979/80, the
area under wheat expanded at about 2.1% per year, and yields increased at an
average rate of 3.9% from 1.08 to 1.53 MT/ha. The yield increase is mainly
due to more extensive use of chemical fertilizers and improvements in water
availability, and to the wider use of rust resistant HYV. Chemical fertilizer
use in foodgrain production more than tripled from 283,000 nutrient tons in
1970/71 to 879,000 nutrient tons in 1978/79, and water availability for
irrigation increased from about 70 million acre-feet to some 81 million
acre-feet during tlhe same period. Fertilizer sales declined temporarily
foLlowing the Government's 50% increase in fertilizer prices in February 1980
but subsequently rose resulting in fertilizer demand in 1980 growing only at
about 4% compared with an average of 16% in recent years. With GOP's substan-
tial increase in support prices for foodgrains (para 2.30) and the improved
availability of production credit, it is anticipated that fertilizer sales
will expand again..
2.05      Rice is Pakistan's second most important crop and a major foreign
exchange earner. Largely as a cash crop, it is grown in about 19% of the
cropped area. Punjab and Sind account for about 95% of the total rice
production, which has increased since 1970/71 (when 2.2 million MT were
produced) at an annual rate of 5.6% and averaged some 3.2 million MT during
the last two years. The increase in production has been achieved mainly
through extending the area under rice, from 1.5 M to 2 M ha; average yields
have grown by only 0.6% annually since 1970/71. Rice produced in Pakistan is
primarily of IRRI varieties and Basmati. Over the last ten years, the relative
importance of Basmnati has grown, mainly as a result of attractive Government
procurement prices, and the share of Basmati in the cultivated rice area has
risen from 22% in 1970/71 to 33% in 1979/80. (Details on wheat and rice
production, area and yields by Province are in Annex 1, Table 2).
2.06      Maize, barley, jowar and bajra have contributed a combined total of
about 1.5 million MT to foodgrain production each year during the last decade.
These crops have declined in relative importance and currently account for
less than 10% of total foodgrain output. Maize, which constitutes about half
of the production of foodgrains other than wheat and rice, and barley have
shown increases in area and yields over the last ten years, while for bajra
and jowar, both area and yields declined during this period. (Details are in
Annex 1, Table 1).



-4-
2.07      Overall, foodgrain production trends in recent years have been
encouraging. But yields are still considerably below their potential and
much lower than in other areas with similar agro-climatic conditions. In the
Indian Punjab for instance, the average wheat yield was about 2.5 MT/ha in
1978/79 compared with 1.52 MT/ha in the Pakistan Punjab for the same year.
Consumption, Exports, Imports
2.08      Cereal consumption is currently estimated to constitute some 60%
to 70% of the population's caloric intake, with wheat forming the staple
of the Pakistan diet and providing about 60% to 65% of the protein intake.
(The food balance sheet shows that in 1977/78 per capita availability of
protein was 59.8 grams per day against the per capita requirement of 42.3
grams per day. A large proportion of the population, however, appear to have
a very low level of protein intake.) Annual per capita consumption of total
foodgrains has risen from some 150 kg in 1969/70 to about 163 kg in 1978/79.
2.09      Overall, Pakistan is self-sufficient in foodgrains; but wheat
output even in recent high production years has been barely adequate to meet
local consumption requirements. However, there is a surplus of rice, and as
a result, Pakistan is importing wheat and exporting rice. The physical
substitution of rice for wheat to satisfy consumption needs, while possible,
would not be economical. The average export price of Pakistan rice in 1979
was US$355 per MT f.o.b. Karachi, while the average cost of imported wheat
c.i.f. Karachi was less than US$180 per MT.
2.10      Importation of wheat is the exclusive responsibility of the Federal
Government. Import needs are determined by GOP in accordance with the require-
ments of the Government's wheat ration system (paras 2.34 through 2.36) rather
than on the basis of the overall gap between internal demand for wheat and
indigenous production. However, since the amount of wheat which the Government
is able to procure domestically for the ration program generally reflects the
country's wheat supply situation, wheat imports are closely linked to the
total supply gap. For example, in 1976/77, after a bumper wheat crop, domestic
wheat procurement by the Government of 2.3 million MT exceeded procurement
targets, and GOP imported only about 500,000 MT of wheat; but two years later,
subsequent to the severe rust attack suffered by the 1977/78 wheat crop, the
Government could procure domestically only about 1.1 million MT and had to
import more than 2.1 million MT to meet the needs of the wheat ration system.
Wheat imports have been averaging about I million MT per year during the last
decade, fluctuating between 269,000 MT in 1970/71 and 2,112,000 MT in 1978/79
(US$354 million). During the current year, GOP intends to import 500,000 MT
but, as in the previous year, most of the imports would be used to increase
public sector carry over stocks and to establish a food security reserve
(para 2.39). (Details on annual wheat imports are in Annex 1, Table 3).
2.11      Rice exports are the second most important source of foreign exchange
earnings, after cotton exports, constituting about US$341 million in 1978/79.
Rice exports increased more than five-foLd from lea%  thazn 1QQ,QY   WT i
1970/71 to slightly more than 1 million MT in 1978/79.  This year's rice
exports are anticipated to approach 1.1 million MT. In 1978/79, about 80% of
rice exports was IRRI varieties which have a larger export market than Basmati



- 5 -
which is limited mainly to the Middle East. However, 32% of export earnings
was contributed by Basmati as the international price for Basmati is about
double the price for IRRI. (Details on annual rice exports are in Annex 1,
Table 3).
Marketing
2.12      The marketable foodgrain surplus varies with farm size and is dif-
ferent for different foodgrains. Except for local barter trade, the quantity
of foodgrains entering commercial marketing channels from farms with up to
three acres appears to be negligible. By constrast, farms with landholdings
in excess of 50 acres market more than 50% of their production. For wheat and
rice, marketable surplus is estimated at about 40% to 45% of total production,
while for other foodgrains, less than 30% of production enters commercial
marketing channels.
2.13      The majority of farmers sell their surplus foodgrains immediately
after harvest. Although prices are usually lowest during that time, because
of the need for cash, grain quality control problems in on-farm storage (para
2.21) and a lack of storage facilities, most farmers are unable to hold stocks
over an extended period. Farmers storing grain for later sale, release their
produce gradually in the open market where prices normally increase between
harvests. In the case of wheat, for example, wholesale prices in the open
market during the last two years have been up to 46% higher towards the end
of the crop year than at the time of harvest. Thus the open market prices
provide incentives to the farmer for storing grain. Government grain procure-
ment prices, as in other South Asian countries, remain fixed throughout the
year (Annex 1, Table 4).
2.14      In the case of wheat, most small farmers sell their produce in
village markets which are dominated by foodgrain merchants (arthis) who often
are also money lenders, advancing farmers cash against future grain. The
arthis then sell the grain either to wholesalers or millers who buy at prevail-
ing open market prices, or to Provincial Food Departments or the Pakistan
Agricultural Storage and Services Corporation (PASSCO) which procure wheat at
GOP procurement prices (paras 2.30 and 2.31). Large farmers generally sell to
the Food Departments or PASSCO directly. While complete data are not available,
it appears that about 40% to 50% of total public sector wheat procurement comes
directly from farmers. The public sector share in the marketing of domestic-
ally produced wheat fluctuates, increasing in years of high production and
declining in years with poor harvests. In normal production years, about 55%
to 65% of the marketed wheat is bought by the public sector. In 1980, wheat
procurement by the Provincial Food Departments and PASSCO reached 2.95 million
MT, more than 27% of production of some 10.8 million MT.
2.15      Government wheat is mostly milled into atta (whole wheat flour)
which is sold at concessionary prices through the ration system in urban
centers and food deficit areas (paras 2.34 through 2.36). In addition,
Government wheat is used for release onto the open market to stabilize open
market wheat and flour prices. Wheat procured by the private sector is milled
into flour of grades higher than atta and sold in the open market which runs
parallel with the public sector distribution system.



-6 -
2.16      Marketing of paddy and rice is tightly controlled by the Governments
of the two major paddy growing Provinces, Punjab and Sind, where paddy may be
procured only by Government-authorized rice dealers and millers, PASSCO and
the Rice Export Corporation of Pakistan (RECP). In Punjab, movement of paddy
and rice is restricted, and the authorized dealers and millers and PASSCO must
sell all milled rice for export to RECP, excluding only 10% of Basmati and 25%
of other varieties which may be marketed domestically. In Sind, there are no
intraprovincial movement restrictions, but the authorized traders and millers
are obligated to sell to RECP specified rice quantities which are agreed upon
annually with the Government on the basis of district-wise Government procure-
ment targets. Marketing of the rice retained for sale in the domestic markets
is in the hands of the private sector. The private sector handles also the
marketing of foodgrains other than wheat and rice.
Transport
2.17      Of the major foodgrains, almost five million MT of wheat are moved
yearly from the farm to urban food deficit areas, and more than one million MT
of rice are transported annually to Karachi for export. Transportation of
foodgrains from the farm to local markets and to Food Department and PASSCO
procurement centers is mainly by tractor and truck. Transportation by donkey,
bullock or camel cart is also common. Many of the large farmers have their
own transport equipment, but small farmers often rely on arthis who frequently
procure the foodgrains on the farm and arrange transportation. This initial
movement of foodgrains is handled entirely by the private sector except for
a small quantity procured and transported by PASSCO from the farm to the
Corporation's storage facilities.
2.18      Movement of foodgrains to wholesale markets and to mills by merchants
and millers is handled mostly by truck. Food Departments and RECP use a
combination of truck and train transport depending on distance, train avail-
ability and cost. Provincial Food Departments and PASSCO impose a heavy load
on the transportation system immediately after the wheat harvest (from May
through July) when about 90% of public sector wheat procurement takes place
and the procured wheat needs to be transported to covered storage before the
arrival of the monsoon. The demand on the system is high especially because
existing storage facilities are not ideally distributed between wheat procure-
ment and distribution areas. Storage in consumption centers is generally
adequate, but there is a lack of storage in the procurement districts,
so that a very large proportion of the procured wheat needs to be moved
immediately after procurement to distant distribution centers. The require-
ments for long distance wheat movement in the months from May through July
exceed the transportation capacity which the Pakistan Railways can make
available for this purpose, and, as a result, the Food Departments have to
resort to less economical transport by truck which is arranged either through
private operators or the National Logistic Cell (NLC) which has its own fleet
of road vehicles.
2.19      Imported wheat is transported from Karachi to consumption centers
by train and NLC trucks.  The same transportation means are used for moving
rice from procurement centers to RECP storage in Karachi. Wheat imports have
been moderate during the last two years and have been accommodated without



undue strain on the transportation network.  In 1978/79, however, when more
than 2.1 million ]AT of wheat had to be imported, transportation capacity of
the Railways proved inadequate, leading to the establishment of NLC which now
commands some 1,000 trucks.
Grain Storage Resources and Losses
2.20      On-farm foodgrain storage is mainly for grain needed for family
consumption, locaL bartering and seed. A number of medium and large farmers
store grain, mostly wheat, also for sale in the open market when prices are
more attractive than at harvest. Complete data are not available, but it
appears that most of the wheat in the private marketing system is stored on
farms. For storing small quantities of grain, containers made of woven plant
material plastered with mud, and wooden boxes are common. Larger amounts of
grain are stored usually in separate rooms in the farm house or in outdoor or
indoor bins constructed of mud and straw or of brick. Large farmers store
grain sometimes also in house-type storage structures (godowns).
2.21      In general, the condition of farm level storage appears adequate
for storing wheat up to about three months. For longer storage, however,
grain losses have been reported to be significant. The main reasons for the
losses seem to be most farmers' unfamiliarity with appropriate on-farm storage
technology, and poorly constructed and maintained stores. These problems in
turn are at least in part the result of inadequate attention given so far in
Pakistan to grain storage research and extension (para 4.16).
2.22      Off-farm foodgrain storage is maintained by arthis, wholesalers
and millers; Provincial Food Departments, PASSCO and RECP; and to a limited
extent, cooperatives. Grain is stored mostly in bags, but shortage of bags
or storage space sometimes dictates storage in bulk. Arthis and wholesalers
do not generally store foodgrain for more than ten days and pay little atten-
tion to the quality of storage facilities or proper quality control practices.
They store the grain mainly in rooms in houses and small house-type godowns
made of mud plastered brick or rock wall, with storage capacities of up to 200
MT. Storage owned by flour and rice millers is mostly for operational stocks.
The stores, which are generally house-type structures, can hold from two to
four weeks supply of grain, and are usually an integral part of the mill.
Mill storage is often of poor quality offering insufficient protection against
moisture and pests. However, because of the quick grain turnover, millers
do not appear to perceive a need for good storage or for systematic quality
control. Fumigation is attempted only in extreme cases; birds and rodents
often have easy access to the grain; and dunnage is used only occasionally.
Storage losses at: arthi, wholesaler and miller levels have not been studied
but are thought to be significant especially relative to the short time grain
is usually stored at these levels.
2.23      The Provincial Food Departments presently own storage warehouses,
bin storage and silos at almost 400 locations with a total capacity of
1,900,000 MT. Most of the storage is in Punjab (1,167,000 MT) followed by
Sind (502,000 MT), NWFP (159,000 MT) and Baluchistan (72,000 MT). In addition,
storage of 450,000 MT is being constructed or planned under approved programs,
and GOP plans to construct a further 300,000 MT storage for food security



- 8 -
purposes. (Details by district are in Annex 2, Tables 1 through 4). PASSC0
owns storage warehouses of 303,000 MT capacity, mainly in Punjab (271,000 MT),
and has 52,000 MT under construction or included in the current year's con-
struction program. Provincial Food Departments and PASSCO are also renting
storage facilities (about 300,000 MT at the end of July 1980); however, these
facilities are generally of substandard quality and usually have not been
constructed for grain storage purposes.
2.24      Existing storage facilities owned by Provincial Food Departments and
PASSCO are of various designs. Predominant is the house-type godown for bag
storage. Capacities of individual godowns range from about 500 MT to 16,000 MT.
Most common are the sizes of 500 MT and 1,000 MT. Recently a new design for
bag storage, the "Binishell", has been introduced in Pakistan. The "Binishell"
is a dome-shaped reinforced concrete structure with a storage capacity of
about 1,500 MT. The Provincial Food Departments own also bin storage units
of concrete/brick construction and a 42,000 MT grain silo where grain is
stored in bulk. Bin storage facilities are no longer constructed because of
their high construction cost and the high labor requirements for loading and
emptying the bins (para 4.14). Storage buildings owned by the Provincial Food
Departments and PASSCO are generally suitable for long-term foodgrain storage,
but a number of facilities visited by the mission were not adequately bird
and rodent-proof, and difficult to ventilate or seal for fumigation. Several
godowns also have structural cracks, floors which are not level, and outside
platforms sloping towards the godown letting water into the storage, deficien-
cies which are all due to defective design and poor construction workmanship.
Maintenance of the storage facilities is generally not satisfactory (para
5.12) and, as a consequence, many roofs are leaking, and effective fumigation
and ventilation of the stores is often impossible.
2.25      Existing owned and rented storage capacity of the Provincial Food
Departments and PASSCO is inadequate for storing the volume of wheat that they
are now required to handle. At the end of June 1980, when the first monsoon
rains arrived, about 600,000 MT of wheat were stored in the open despite
considerable efforts by the Food Departments and PASSCO in renting private
sector storage space and requisitioning public buildings, including schools.
When several hundred thousand tons of Government procured wheat had to be
stored outside in a similar situation in 1976/77 an estimated 40,000 MT was
damaged during the monsoon and rendered unfit for human consumption.
2.26      Data on storage losses are incomplete and of doubtful accuracy.
The Food Departments do not permit weight discrepancies to occur from the
time wheat is received at a store to the time it is distributed. Since losses
are not accounted for, malpractices are employed to make up any weight loss.
Based on sample surveys, mission observations and discussions with storage
personnel and research staff of agricultural universities, the mission has
estimated that quantitative and qualitative losses for wheat under existing
Food Department storage conditions are as follows:



- 9 -
Storage Period      Warehouses       Silos/Bins      Plinths/Platforms
(in months)      quan.   qual.   quan.   qual.       quan.   qual.
3 (in monsoon)    0.75    0.25    0.25        -        2.00    1.25
3 (dry season)    0.50       -      0.25      -        1.75    0.50
6 (incl. monsoon) 1.50    0.50    0.75    0.25         3.75    1.75
6 (dry season)    1.25    0.25    0.75        -        3.50    1.00
12           3.00    1.00    1.50    0.25        7.25    2.75
With the facilities proposed under this project and improved storage quality
control and maintenance, total storage losses should not exceed 0.75% after
six months and 1.5% after one year.
2.27      The Rice Export Corporation of Pakistan (RECP) owns near Karachi
rice export storage for bagged rice of almost 690,000 MT; about 150,000 MT
are under construction and plans for constructing another 75,000 MT are being
finalized with GOP. By mid-1981, RECP would thus have a storage capacity of
some 915,000 MT which appears adequate to accomodate annual rice exports of
1.5 million MT projected for the end of the Fifth Five Year Plan in 1982/83.
2.28      In the Punjab rice procurement area, RECP operates seven rice mills
which have a combined storage capacity of about 39,000 MT comprising 10,000 MT
for the storage of bagged rice and about 29,000 MT for paddy in bulk. The
existing capacity does not meet RECP's storage requirements in the procurement
area. Paddy is often stored in the open before milling, and rice also some-
times needs to be stored outside while awaiting shipment to export storage.
In addition, rice milling equipment is underutilized at times to avoid open
storage of rice. On the basis of mission observations and RECP estimates,
storage losses at the mills have been estimated by the mission for relevant
storage periods as follows:
Storage Period     Warehouses           Bins        Plinths/Platforms
(in months)      quan.   qual.   quan.   qual.       quan.   qual.
…__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ %…__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
RICE
1 (in monsoon)          0.15      -       N/A     N/A       0.60    1.00
1 (dry season)          0.15      -       N/A     N/A       0.50    0.50
PADDY
3 (dry season)          0.35    0.10    0.20    0.05        1.50    1.50
6 (dry season)          0.75    0.25    0.50    0.10        3.25    3.50
12                      1.50    0.50    1.00    0.25        6.75    8.75
With the storage proposed under this project total storage losses for rice
should not exceed 0.125% per month, and storage losses for paddy should be
less than 0.75% and 1.5% after six and twelve months, respectively.



- 10 -
C. Government Foodgrain Policies and Practices
Policy Objectives and Responsibilities
2.29      Foodgrain policy in Pakistan has the following main objectives:
(a)  to increase foodgrain production by providing price
incentives to producers;
(b)  to ensure equitable distribution by making foodgrains
available at reasonable prices in food deficit and
urban areas;
(c)  to stabilize consumer prices; and
(d)  to promote foodgrain exports.
Food policy is both a Federal and a Provincial Government subject. The
Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Cooperatives at the Center plays the
major role in determining policy, but the Ministry consults the Provincial
Governments before any major decision. Responsibility for executing policy
decisions rests mainly with the Federal Directorate General of Food, the
four Provincial Food Departments, Pakistan Agricultural Storage and Services
Corporation (PASSCO) and the Rice Export Corporation of Pakistan (RECP).
Foodgrain Price Policy
2.30      The Government's price policy for foodgrains is dictated by the
twin objectives of assuring low and stable consumer prices while providing
incentives to producers adequate to encourage production. To achieve the
former objective the Government is operating a ration system (paras 2.34
through 2.36) under which wheat flour is distributed to consumers in urban
centers and food deficit rural areas at subsidized prices. Production incen-
tives offered by GOP are mainly in the form of procurement prices which are
fixed annually for wheat, rice and paddy. To maximize the impact of the
procurement prices on producer decisions, the Government announces the prices
before the respective growing season. The announcement of the new wheat price
for this year's crop was somewhat delayed, but since a price similar to the
one fixed now by GOP had already been expected, this does not appear to have
affected wheat sowings. Procurement prices through the mid 1970's were
generally inadequate to motivate farmers, but the situation has since changed.
Between October 1978 and the beginning of 1980 procurement prices for wheat
and rice were raised by some 22%. In February 1980 fertilizer prices were
increased by about 50%, to reduce the heavy burden of the fertilizer subsidy
on the budget, but this was more than compensated by an increase in the
procurement price for rice and paddy of 17% for Basmati and of 20% for IRRI
varieties. For wheat, a nominal price increase of about 3.6% took effect
in April. This was fallowed in October by a further price increase of 16.3%
to Rs 54.2 pea: maun-l, w'nic\x appears to be suaiiiciern1 to oiiset recernt irncreases
in production costs. Support prices for wheat are now in line with world
market prices, but for rice they are still considerably below international



- 11 -
prices (para 3.21)).  GOP has recently announced the establishment of an
Agricultural Prices Commission charged with the responsibility of preparing
recommendations for pricing agricultural inputs and outputs with the objective
to maintain farmer incentives and reduce Government subsidies while containing
inflationary pressures and keeping exportable products competitive in world
markets.  (Details on GOP procurement prices are in Annex 1, Table 4).
2.31      The procurement price of wheat is also a support price.  The Provin-
cial Food Departments and PASSCO have a well developed network of procurement
centers (paras 3.06 and 3.14) which have the dual responsibility of procuring
domestic wheat required for public sector distribution and ensuring that
producers receive: incentive prices.  While the former is generally the main
responsibility, in years of a favorable harvest, wheat procurement is deter-
mined mostly by price support considerations. For example, in 1976/77, as a
result of large wheat deliveries to the Government following a good crop year,
procurement was about 200,000 MT above the Government procurement target.
Similarly, during the current procurement season, the procurement target
of 2.755 million MT was achieved by the end of June, but the Provincial Food
Departments and PASSCO continued to procure wheat to support farmgate prices.
To the dismay of farmers and with the result of a drop in farmgate prices
below the support price, procurement was stopped in early September because
the shortage of storage facilities had already made it necessary to store
large amounts of wheat outdoors, and the Government did not consider it
prudent to incur ever increasing storage losses from outdoor storage (para
2.26). Additional Government storage facilities are therefore essential to
enable GOP to continue its policy of providing producer incentives through
procurement of aLl wheat offered at attractive support prices.
2.32      In the past, the Provincial Governments have frequently imposed
restrictions on the movement of wheat from surplus to deficit areas. Such
restrictions depress the open market wheat price in surplus zones down to the
Government procurement price and, thus, tend to discourage production in the
surplus area. In deficit zones, the movement restriction leads to high open
market prices and, as a result, increases the pressure on the Government's
rationing system. Since last year, the Government is no longer restricting
the movement of flour; but the transport of wheat by truck across Provincial
borders continues to require licenses administered to prevent smuggling of
wheat to Iran and Afghanistan.
2.33      Unlike wheat, most of the marketed rice must be sold to the govern-
ment (para 2.16). As a result, the prices received by rice sellers are
depressed and producers are indirectly taxed. GOP attempts to set rice
procurement prices at a level which, after allowing for trading, milling
and transportation margins, should enable traders and millers to pay enough
for paddy to provide satisfactory production incentives. The effectiveness
of the rice procurement price as a means of providing producer incentives is,
however, questionable. Data on paddy farmgate prices are incomplete, but it
appears that prices paid to farmers have often been lower than expected by
GOP. The Government, therefore, since 1977/78 fixes also paddy procurement
prices for Basmati and IRRI varieties and has instructed PASSCO to procure
paddy at the procurement prices in competition with private traders. PASSCO's
involvement in paddy procurement, to the tune of 146,000 MT and 224,000 MT
in 19T[T78 and 1978(79 respectively, seems to have improved producer prices.



- 12 -
Foodgrain Distribution Policy
2.34      GOP is operating a rationing system for wheat and sugar.  Under the
wheat ration system, which is known as the Partial Provisioning System, the
Government makes whole wheat flour (atta) available at subsidized prices in
urban centers and food deficit rural areas. Ration atta distribution reached
2.4 million MT in 1978/79. Day-to-day operation of the system is the respon-
sibility of the four Provincial Food Departments which release wheat from
their stocks for milling and subsequent sale to licensed ration shops. The
ration shops supply atta to ration card holders, usually on the basis of
3.75 kg per adult per fortnight, half this quantity per child and nothing for
infants. This entitlement compares with an overall estimated per capita wheat
consumption of 4.70 kg per fortnight in recent years.
2.35      Ration atta is sold at concessionary prices.  The current issue
price is Rs 50.4 per maund which is Rs 3.75 above the wheat procurement price
(Rs 46.65) for last year's crop. The margin covers wheat milling costs
(Rs 3/maund) and the commission paid to ration shop owners, but it does not
cover the transportation, storage and other incidental expenses averaging
about Rs 13.5 per maund (Annex 3, Table 1). The subsidy, though still sub-
stantial, has decreased from levels of previous years when the issue price was
lower than GOP's wheat procurement price. On imported wheat, the subsidy is
generally higher because of higher world market prices. The Federal Govern-
ment, which has the monopoly on wheat imports, sells the internationally
procured wheat to Provincial Governments at Rs 46.65 per maund free on rail
at Karachi and absorbs: (i) the difference between this price and actual
cost; and (ii) the expenses for gunny bags. All other costs associated with
the operation of the Partial Provisioning System are covered by Provincial
Governments.
2.36      Operation of the system has become a considerable financial burden
on the Federal and Provincial Governments. When GOP had to import 2.1 million
MT of wheat for the ration system following the bad harvest in 1978, the
reported subsidy exceeded Rs 2.4 billion, almost 4.5% of the total Government
expenditures for that year. The actual amount of subsidy was even higher
since interest charges on funds borrowed for procuring and storing the wheat
were not accounted for as subsidy. (Details on the subsidies for the years
1972/73 through 1978/79 are in Annex 3, Table 1). To reduce this drain on
financial resources, GOP has raised the atta issue price in May 1979 from
about Rs 35.4 per maund to Rs 45 and again in June 1980 to Rs 50.4. Addi-
tional price increases are contemplated for future years in an effort to
narrow the gap between prices of open market flour and atta and thereby
stabilize or reduce the demand for ration atta.
2.37      In addition to operating the Partial Provisioning System, the
Government supplies the wheat requirement of the armed forces and releases
wheat onto the open market to stabilize consumer prices. Open market sales
are made generally to millers at prices which reflect all cost incurred by
the Government iam 9tocurin, storing and transqortin_ the wheat.  The usual
condition of such sales is that the flour milled from the Government-supplied
wheat must be sold at retail prices determined by the Government.



- 13 -
Foodgrain Export Policy
2.38      Until 1971, the only foodgrain exported in significant quantities
was Basmati. Surpluses of other rice varieties produced in West Pakistan were
absorbed by East Pakistan. This arrangement had to change as a consequence
of the separation of East Pakistan, and in 1972 both private and Government
trading agencies substantially expanded their rice export activities. To
fully exploit the export potential, GOP considered it desirable to concentrate
all rice exports in one central agency and in 1974 established the Rice
Export Corporation of Pakistan (RECP) to which it granted a monopoly of rice
exports. Annual exports have about doubled since RECP was established. The
Corporation sold about 1 million MT of rice in 1978/79 and earned more than
Rs 3 billion equivalent in foreign exchange.
Food Security Policy
2.39      In view of the frightening experience Pakistan had following the
poor 1977/78 wheat crop, which was 8.5% below the production of the previous
year and made it necessary to import 2.1 million MT of wheat, and of the
greatly improved domestic wheat supply situation over the last two years, GOP
is contemplating the establishment of a food security reserve. The Government
is considering a reserve which would be adequate to make up for production
shortfalls of two consecutive poor wheat crops. On the basis of a 10% drop
from present wheat production levels for two years, GOP projects food security
requirements at 2 million MT and is considering setting up a reserve of such
size. The amount is currently being reviewed by GOP in consultation with FAD.
Storage for such a reserve is not available; but the Government has decided to
construct, as a first step, 300,000 MT storage capacity for this purpose
(200,000 MT in Punjab; 100,000 MT in Sind) and has entrusted the National
Logistic Cell with the responsibility for the construction program.
III. INSTITUTIONS
A. Federal Directorate General of Food
3.01      The main responsibilities of the Federal Directorate General of
Food are the importation of wheat (para 2.10) and sugar. The Directorate is
headed by a Director General reporting to the Joint Secretary (Food) of the
Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Cooperatives. The Director General is
supported by a Director and three Deputy Directors in charge respectively of
Finance, Administration and Operations. All operating sections are in the
port of Karachi.
3.02      The Federal Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Cooperatives (MFAC),
in consultation with the Provincial Food Departments, determines annually
the quantity of wheat to be imported, on the basis of (i) agreed targets for
procurement of indigenous wheat and (ii) estimated wheat requirements for
the public sector distribution system. MFAC procures the required imports in



- 14 -
the international markets and schedules the wheat arrivals at Karachi. The
Directorate General of Food arranges the unloading of the ships and bagging of
the wheat in the port, and organizes transport from Karachi to the Provinces.
The Directorate's responsibility ends with the loading of the wheat on trucks
or trains for inland destinations. MFAC and the Directorate have similar
responsibilities with regard to sugar.
3.03      Ships are unloaded in Port Karachi using vacuum equipment which blow
the wheat on to the dock. A crew of up to 2,000 laborers then fills the wheat
manually into bags and loads the grain onto trucks or trains for immediate
transport to Provincial Food Departments' stores. Grain losses incurred in the
present handling system are not recorded but are considered to be substantial.
There are neither port storage facilities for wheat nor operative mechanized
bagging equipment which could reduce the losses. Mechanized bagging equipment
was tried for a short period but had to be discontinued because of repeated
breakdowns and a lack of spare parts. GOP now intends to shift wheat imports
to the nearby Port Qasim for which plans for a 50,000 MT wheat import terminal
have been prepared.  The terminal would provide for automatic offloading and
automatic bagging of the wheat. It is anticipated that financing for the
terminal, if approved by GOP, would be provided by the Asian Development Bank.
B. Provincial Food Departments
Organization and Management
3.04      The Provincial Food Departments are responsible for the operation of
the public sector wheat and atta distribution system and of GOP's sugar ration-
ing program. Together with PASSCO they are also responsible for the domestic
procurement of wheat to supply the system and to provide price support to
growers. In addition, they procure rice on behalf of RECP for export (para
2.16). Each of the Provincial Food Departments is headed by a Director, Food,
who reports to the Secretary in charge of food matters in the respective
Province. The Director is supported by a number of technical specialists
and Deputy Directors responsible for such matters as procurement and distri-
bution planning, and finance and accounting. For field operations, Deputy
Directors have been assigned to designated areas where they are responsible
for day-to-day grain procurement, storage and distribution activities. Total
staff strength of the Provincial Food Departments is about 2,600 (excluding
guards and office helpers), with Punjab having the highest number of Food
Department personnel (1,230) and Baluchistan the lowest (240).
Operations
3.05      Wheat Procurement and Quality Control.  Wheat procurement is con-
centrated in Punjab and Sind. The Food Departments of these two Provinces
and PASSCO, which procures wheat only in Punjab, normally constitute about
S9%iO of total publit septtor 'wheat procurement; the Food Departments of both
NWFP and Baluchistan generally procure less thian 20,000 WA annaaa A-y .  A
significant procurement operation by the Government from domestic wheat
producers was undertaken for the first time in 1968, when the Green Revolution
produced a 50% increase in domestic wheat output and the Government stepped in



- 15 -
to support prices received by farmers. GOP also raised the procurement price
substantially to make it an effective support price, and to increase domestic
procurement of wheat required for the public sector distribution system.
Procurement, which was I million MT in 1968, declined in the subsequent
two years, when wheat production decreased from the 1967/68 level, but then
increased and after a bumper crop reached 2.2 million MT in 1977. In the
following year, due to a 8.5% drop in wheat production after a severe rust
attack on the 1977/78 crop, and because of a low procurement price, public
sector wheat procurement (including procurement by PASSCO) was reduced to
1.1 million MT, less than 50% of the Government procurement target. With the
subsequent increase in the wheat procurement price and as a result of favor-
able wheat harvests, procurement climbed to about 2.4 million MT in 1979 and
almost 3 million MT in 1980. (Details on annual wheat procurement in the
four Provinces is in Annex 3, Table 2).
3.06      Procurement is carried out through 255 permanent wheat procurement
centers and 635 temporary centers which are open only during the months fol-
lowing the wheat harvest, generally from May through September. Procurement
operations are governed by procurement targets set for each center and
directives issued annually by the Provincial Governments. The directives
addlress all relevant aspects of wheat procurement including grain testing,
sampling, transportation, payment procedures, and inspection. Although
generally similar, the directives show some significant differences between
Provinces. For instance, while in Punjab wheat samples are to be drawn from
all lots, in Sind, wheat sold directly by farmers is not to be sampled. The
directives establish also wheat grading standards and discounts to sellers
for low quality grain (Details are in Annex 3, Appendix 1). The standards
are, however, very complex and all but impossible to implement. Grain testing
equipment is not adequate; procurement staff is not sufficiently trained; and
quality inspection is entirely visual. As a result, the prescribed grading
standards are only partly applied and actual grain quality is often below the
levels permitted under Government regulation. Weighing practices are similarly
deficient. Due in part to insufficient weighing equipment, only part of the
grain is weighed during procurement or when the grain is put into storage.
Consequently, weights recorded at procurement and later storage levels are not
accurate. A review of the extent of current problems in quality inspection
and weight control is urgently required.
3.07      Quality control during storage consists mainly of fumigating the
storage facilities in intervals of up to six months. For fumigation, phos-
toxine tablets are used exclusively, and the doors and windows of an entire
godown are sealed with mud. Fumigation practices including interval between
fumigations vary considerably between the different storage complexes. So
do inspection practices for checking for signs of grain infestation. General
housekeeping and sanitation within godowns is often not satisfactory. Quality
control has not reached desired levels largely due to a shortage of trained
technical staff for carrying out independent grain quality analyses at the
various storage centers and providing on-the-job training for grain procure-
ment and storage personnel. Punjab is the only Province which has engaged a
Grain Technologist and set up four grain testing laboratories, to establish
and enforce improved quality control practices at the procurement, handling
and storage levels.



- 16 -
3.08      Rice Procurement and Quality Control.  Rice is procured mainly by
the Provincial Food Departments of Punjab and Sind; the Food Department of
Baluchistan also procures a small amount of rice. Procurement is exclusively
for export by the Rice Export Corporation of Pakistan (RECP) and is governed
by the Provincial Governments' procurement schemes (para 2.16). During the
period 1970/71 to 1978/79 rice procurement (including procurement by PASSCO)
more than tripled from about 400,000 MT to more than 1.2 million MT. (Annual
procurement details are in Annex 1, Table 3.)
3.09      Procurement is carried out through about 180 procurement centers
which are generally located close to mills and rail-heads. Immediately after
procurement, the rice is transported, mainly by train, to RECP storage and
cleaning facilities near Karachi. Intermediate storage of the rice in Food
Department stores is uncommon and generally limited to periods when RECP
storage capacity in Karachi is inadequate to accommodate all procured rice.
Procurement is governed by regulations issued annually by the Provincial
Governments which specify (i) movement and procurement and sales restric-
tions for paddy and rice, and (ii) procurement procedures for rice, including
responsibilities for sampling, transportation, payment and inspection. They
also establish grading standards and price discounts for low quality rice.
Rice quality is generally determined jointly by officials of the Food Depart-
ments and RECP. The same officials are responsible also for weighing the
procured rice. Partly as a result of the joint responsibility, and also
because standards are more strictly enforced, and better trained personnel
is engaged in rice procurement than in the procurement of wheat, quality
testing and weighing of rice appear to be more reliable than in the case
of wheat. However, most of the procured rice does not meet export quality
standards and requires additional cleaning and grading at RECP cleaning
facilities.
3.10      Wheat and Atta Distribution.  Wheat and atta are distributed by
the Provincial Food Departments under the Government's rationing system
and to stabilize wheat prices in the open market (paras 2.34 through 2.37).
The ration system was initiated in its present form during World War II in
response to foodgrain scarcity. The amount of whole wheat flour (atta)
distributed in the four Provinces under the system has been increasing since,
and by 1978/79 reached a total of 2.4 million MT.  In 1979/80, ration distri-
bution has declined to about 2.3 million MT as a result of a reduction in
bogus ration cards and improved wheat availability in the open market after
the good wheat harvest in 1979, and because ration prices were increased in
May 1979 by almost 30% from about Rs 35.4/maund to Rs 45/maund. Wheat releases
in the open market, which run parallel with the ration system, have been neg-
ligible. In 1978/79 they totaled about 285,000 MT, still a modest amount in
comparison with the rationing system. (Details on ration atta distribution
and open market wheat sales are in Annex 3, Table 2.)
3.11      Atta is distributed under the rationing system through Provincial
Government licensed ration depots, each serving between 2,000 and 3,000 people
in urban areas and, where they exist, about half this number in rural areas.
In urban areas, the head of a family is issued a ration card which entitles
him to fortnightly atta rations for all dependent family members. Each ration
issue is recorded on the card. In rural areas, a register is maintained by



- 17 -
each depot for residents who have been assigned to it for their supplies; in
these areas, ration issues are made monthly and an appropriate entry is made
in the register. Depot holders are supplied by mills operating under Govern-
ment contract. The mills in turn receive their wheat from Food Departments'
stocks. In the case of open market releases of wheat, the Government generaly
sells to millers under agreements fixing the retail price of the flour milled
from Government wheat.
C. Pakistan Agricultural Storage and Services Corporation (PASSCO)
Background
3.12      General.  PASSCO was created in 1973 under the Companies Act 1913
as a joint venture of GOP, owning 25% of the Company's shares, and the National
Bank of Pakistan, the Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan (ADBP), and
six nationalized commercial banks which together hold the remaining 75% of
PASSCO's share capital. The Company owes its origin to GOP's desire to
(i) have the nationalized commercial banks participate more actively in the
agriculture sector and (ii) strengthen public sector marketing activities in
order to ensure that producers earn adequate returns and consumers do not pay
unreasonable prices. The establishment of PASSCO under the Companies Act
as a semi-private organization, with its greater freedom of action, was seen
as a suitable means for promoting efficient procurement and distribution
operations. Initially, PASSCO confined its operations to procurement of
wheat, but it has considerably expanded its activities which now include
procurement of paddy, domestic marketing of rice, pulses, potatoes and onions,
storage operations and construction, and leasing of agricultural machinery.
3.13      Management and Organization.  The control of PASSCO is vested in
the Board of Directors comprising two members appointed by GOP, the managing
director and representatives of the National Bank of Pakistan, ADBP and the
nationalized banks. Both the chairman of the Board and the managing director,
who is also the chief executive officer, are appointed by the Board. PASSCO's
organization is based on a line-staff structure patterned in accordance with
the geographical distribution of PASSCO operations, which cover all four
Provinces.
Major Operations
3.14      Wheat Procurement.  PASSCO's major activity is the procurement
of wheat, mainly for the Food Department of NWFP and to supply Azad Kashmir,
the Northern Areas and the armed forces. PASSCO acts as an agent of the
Provincial Food Departments and MFAC procuring at the Government procurement
price and charging a commission for its procurement and storage services.
Wheat is procured in designated areas in Punjab where PASSCO is operating 162
procurement centers in addition to procuring directly on the farm. The Punjab
Food Department has discontinued wheat procurement in these areas. Part of
the wheat procured is transported immediately to NWFP, the Northern Areas,
Azad Kashimir or defence establishments; the remainder is temporarily stored
in PASSCO's 28 godown complexes in Punjab. Transportation of the wheat from



- 18 -
PASSCO's procurement and storage centers is the responsibility of the receiv-
ing agency. PASSCO started to procure wheat with a modest program of 27,000
MT in 1974. Since then this activity has expanded rapidly, reaching 576,000
MT in 1979 and over 700,000 MT in 1980. (Wheat procurement details are in
Annex 3, Table 2.)
3.15      Paddy/Rice Operations.  After a limited involvement in paddy pro-
curement during 1974/75 and 1975/76, PASSCO, at the request of the Government,
initiated a substantial paddy procurement program in 1977 in Sind and Punjab.
Paddy is bought at the Government support price in competition with private
Government-authorized paddy/rice dealers and millers, and it appears that the
procurement operation has been successful in supporting farmgate prices. A
total of 146,000 MT of paddy was procured in 1977/78 which was followed by
224,000 MT in 1978/79. Paddy procurement is carried out through 53 procure-
ment centers and direct purchases from farmers at the farmgate. PASSCO
operates 47 rice mills. Two of these mills are owned by PASSCO, and the
others are rented. The milled rice is sold to RECP except for a limited
quantity which PASSCO is allowed to market domestically (para 2.16).
3.16      Storage Construction.  In 1976, PASSCO commenced a program of
constructing storage to meet its increasing storage needs, and established
an engineering division headed by an Engineering Advisor. The Corporation
developed its own house-type godown design which has proven to be most suit-
able for grain storage under Pakistan conditions (Design details are in Annex
5). By now, PASSCO has completed construction of 303,000 MT (272,000 MT
nominal capacity) at 28 locations in Punjab and at two locations each, in Sind
and NWFP. In Lahore, it constructed a 3,000 MT cold storage for storing
potatoes. Additional grain storage capacity of 52,000 MT is under construc-
tion or included in the current year's construction program. The godowns
owned by PASSCO are used mainly for the storage of wheat and pulses and for a
small amount of rice. Paddy and rice are generally stored in storage facili-
ties at the PASSCO operated mills.
3.17      Finances.  By the end of June 30, 1979, PASSCO had a paid-up capital
of Rs 30 million. Outstanding long term loans amounted to Rs 66 million and
short-term bank borrowings were Rs 872 million. PASSCO has earned profits
every year since its inception (ranging between Rs 0.7 million and Rs 15.8
million), except the financial year 1977/78, when it lost Rs 1.8 million.
(Financial statements are in the Project File.) The main operations are
profitable, but some of the secondary activities, such as machinery leasing
and marketing of potatoes, entail losses. For procuring and storing wheat,
PASSCO receives a commission fixed at Rs 308/MT, which is adequate to cover
all cost associated with this activity. Since the commission is independent
of the period during which the wheat is stored by PASSCO, the profitability of
the operation varies with the storage duration in PASSCO's own stores. In the
case of paddy, PASSCO procures at Government procurement prices, and mills the
paddy into rice, most of which is sold to RECP (para 3.15) at prices fixed by
GOP. The operation has been profitable in Punjab but suffers losses in Sind,
where paddy is generally of lower quality.  Since PASSCO has to pay the same
paddy procurement price in Sind as in Punjab, GOP has agreed to cover PASSCO's
losses incurred in its paddy/rice operations in Sind during the last years.



- 19 -
D. Rice Export Corporation of Pakistan (RECP)
3.18      In 1974, GOP established the Rice Export Corporation of Pakistan
(RECP) under the Companies Act 1913 and granted a rice export monopoly to the
Corporation. RECP is fully owned by GOP and responsible to the Ministry of
Commerce. The firm is managed by a Board of Directors comprising an executive
chairman and a director each for field operations, administration, and finance.
The directors are appointed by GOP, and are supported by five general managers
and a secretary. The total RECP staff strength is about 2,200.
3.19      RECP procures most of its rice through the Provincial Food Depart-
ments of Punjab and Sind which share with RECP the responsibility for proper
quality inspection and weighing of the grain. RECP purchases rice from
PASSCO also and operates a sizable procurement center of its own near Karachi.
Much of the rice fails to meet export quality standards and needs additional
cleaning, grading2 and polishing. This is accomplished at RECP cleaning plants
near Karachi, which have a combined annual cleaning capacity of about 750,000
MT.  RECP procures paddy, also, which it mills at its seven rice mills in
Pinjab and at ones mill in Sind. The mills in Punjab mill exclusively Basmati
paddy, while the mill in Sind processes IRRI varieties. The combined annual
milling capacity of these operations is about 250,000 MT of paddy.
3.20      Rice exports have increased considerably since the establishment
of RECP, growing from 426,000 MT in 1974/75 to an estimated 1.1 million MT
in 1979/80. Export activities are highly profitable. In 1978/79, RECP
earned almost Rs 1.1 billion before taxes on a turn-over of Rs 3.4 billion.
The corresponding figures for 1977/78 are Rs 0.4 billion and Rs 2.4 billion.
The margins are large, especially for Basmati, which in 1978/79 had an average
export price of Rs 7,356/MT while the procurement price was set at Rs 2,936/MT
for the same year. The trading margin thus amounted to Rs 4,420/MT or 60%
of the export price. For IRRI varieties, the margins have been smaller, but
still they exceeded 45% in 1978/79.
IV. THE PROJECT
Project Concept and Objectives
4.01      Under GOP's program to provide producer incentives through support
prices and to make foodgrains available at reasonable prices in urban and food
deficit rural areas, public sector procurement of domestic wheat has increased
rapidly during the last years. The increase has been stimulated by two good
crops and attractive Government procurement prices that have encouraged
increased production. With the investments taken in the agricultural sector
(para 2.03) and GOP procurement and pricing policies, this favorable trend in
production and procurement is expected to continue. With the increase in
procurement, existing foodgrain storage capacity of the Provincial Food Depart-
ments and PASSCO has become increasingly inadequate and a constraint on the
Government's ability to maintain its commitment to procuring all wheat offered
at the procurement price (para 2.31). The Government's procurement commitment



- 20 -
has gained added importance as private grain traders and millers have been
reluctant, especially in good crop years, to procure and store over an extended
period significant quantities of wheat (para 2.22). The private sector lacks
the resources and does not have sufficient storage to hold large quantities of
grain. In addition, private traders and millers seem to be hesitant to assume
the storage risk. The Government is now encouraging greater participation of
the private sector in grain trade, and the project would finance a study which
would address private sector storage needs and possible GOP policy measures
for increasing the involvement of the private trade in grain marketing (para
4.25). While the private sector may therefore in the future expand its
role in the procurement and storage of foodgrain, this is not anticipated to
happen soon. Until such time storage requirements would be mainly in the
public sector from where at a later date storage facilities could be sold or
leased to private grain dealers. The lack of sufficient public sector storage
is also a constraint to the establishment of the food security reserve now
contemplated by GOP (para 2.39). Furthermore, under the earlier storage
construction programs preponderant shares of construction went to major urban
centers, with the result that the need for additional storage is most acute in
the producing and procurement areas (para 2.18). For storing rice for export,
the public sector storage located near Karachi appears to be adequate, but
storage capacity at RECP rice mills in Punjab is insufficient to meet opera-
tional storage needs (para 2.27). To overcome these constraints and permit
GOP to increase foodgrain procurement operations in support of expanding
foodgrain production, additional storage facilities are required beyond the
capacity being provided under the ongoing storage construction programs
(para 4.04).
4.02      The main objective of the project would be to assist GOP in the
implementation of its foodgrain policy by providing additional grain storage
facilities and improving the operational efficiency of the Provincial Food
Departments, PASSCO and RECP, so that these institutions can meet foodgrain
procurement, distribution and export requirements more effectively and reduce
quantitative and qualitative storage losses. In addition, the project would
aim at strengthening grain storage research and extension.
Major Features
4.03      The project, which would be carried out over a four year period,
would comprise:
(i)  construction of 500,000 M1T of bagged grain storage facili-
ties, mainly for the storage of wheat by the four Provincial
Food Departments and PASSCO;
(ii)  construction of 40,000 MT grain storage for RECP at seven
rice mills in Punjab;
(iii)  provision of warehousing, grain testing and quality control
equipment for storage facilities and grain procurement
cetntets an)  ity si-i% grain testing Alaboratories to be
established under the project;
(iv) pilot facilities for mechanical grain handling;



- 21 -
(v) provision of financial assistance to the Pakistan Agricul-
tural Research Council (PARC), universities and agricultural
research institutes for carrying out grain storage research
and extension training programs in grain storage technology;
(vi) technical assistance for studies in grain transportation
economics and logistics; for improvement of practices
in grain procurement, grading and testing, and storage
quality control; for developing design of systems for
mechanical grain handling; and for grain storage research
and extension;
(vii) training and study tours for officers of the Ministry of
Food, Agriculture and Cooperatives, the Provincial Food
Departments, PASSCO, RECP, PARC, universities and agricul-
tural research institutes; and
(viii)  a study on further storage requirements (especially in
the private sector, on farms and at village level) and
on grain processing needs.
Project Area, Storage Needs and Project Storage Provisions
4.04      The project area would comprise all districts in the four Provinces
in which the Provincial Food Departments procure and/or distribute wheat and
the districts where PASSCO is procuring wheat and paddy. Also included are
the areas in Punjab where RECP is operating its rice mills. Storage facili-
ties owned by these institutions together with storage under construction
or already included in approved programs are summarized below. (Details
on PASSCO's and the Food Departments' storage by district are in Annex 2,
Tables 1 through 4).
PUBLIC SECTOR GRAIN STORAGE CAPACITY
(in '000 MT)
Punjab    Sind    NWFP   Baluchistan   Total
Provincial Food Departments
Existing                         1,167       502    159          72        1,900
Under Construction or Planned    387          16     19          28          450
Subtotal                1,554       518    178         100        2,350
PASSCO
Existing                           271        18     10           4          303
Under Construction or Planned       39         9     -            4           52
Subtotal                  310        27      10          8          355
RECP
Existing                            39       690     -            -          729
Under Construction or Planned       -        225     -            -          225
Subtotal                   39       915     -            -          954
Total Public Sector                1,903    1,460    188          108        3,659



- 22 -
4.05      Grain storage requirements of the Provincial Food Departments and
PASSCO for the operation of their wheat procurement and distribution programs
(excluding food security stocks) have been projected on the basis that GOP
will continue its stated policies in the areas of grain pricing, procurement
and distribution. For the months of peak storage need for 1985/86, storage
requirements are estimated at 3.8 million MT, if the wheat crop is normal in
1984/85, and at 4.5 million MT, if it is a bumper crop because of particularly
favorable weather. Taking into account existing storage facilities which are
suitably located, and storage under construction or included in already
approved construction programs, additional storage requirements in 1985/86 are
projected at 1.3 million MT and 2.0 million MT for a normal and a bumper crop
respectively. These requirements can be reduced to 1.1 million MT (for normal
crop) and 1.8 million MT (for bumper crop), if maximal use is made of the
storage in districts with excess storage capacities. About 80% of the addi-
tional storage requirements are in the wheat producing areas. Additional
storage for distribution purposes is needed only in NWFP and Baluchistan.
Details on production, procurement and distribution projections and on pro-
jections for storage requirements are in Annex 4.
4.06      The project would provide 500,000 MT storage capacity in 35 of the
64 districts in the project area, covering about 47% of the projected addi-
tional storage needs of the Provincial Food Departments and PASSCO by 1985/86.
Almost 400,000 MT of project storage would be located in wheat procurement
areas (about 200,000 MT of this would be constructed at 60 new storage
locations where presently no storage is owned by Food Departments). The
remainder would provide for most of the additional storage requirements in
food deficit districts in NWFP and Baluchistan. The project storage facili-
ties would be distributed among the Provinces as follows (details by district
are in Annex 4, Tables 5 through 8):
PROJECT STORAGE FACILITIES
FOR PROVINCIAL FOOD DEPARTMENTS AND PASSCO
(in '000 MT)
Projected
Storage Needs                       Project Storage
1985/86          Project       as a Percentage of
Province          (Normal Crop)      Proposals         Storage Needs
Punjab                 580              290.4              50
Sind                   302              104.5              35
NWFP                   105               50.1              48
Baluchistan             87               55.0              63
Total          1,074              500.0               47
Project storage facilities would be located on the basis of projected district-
by-district wheat procurement and distribution, availability of transportation
facilities, -PTt'it  to toa1i an) tail netwotk, atx   e istiTg zttl&g c.apacity.
Locations, together with storage capacities, have been agreed upon during
appraisal and confirmed during negotiations (details are in Annex 4, Tables 9



- 23 -
and 10 and on Maps 15571-74). Project storage would be owned by the Provin-
cial Food Departments, but those to be constructed in Punjab in areas where
PASSCO is responsible for wheat procurement would be leased to PASSCO. While
project storage would provide only 47% of projected incremental operational
storage needs in 1985/86, large scale public sector construction of grain
storage facilities, in addition to those to be constructed under this project
and under other programs considered in this report, might jeopardize economic
utilization of the project facilities. An assurance was therefore obtained
from GOP during negotiations that GOP consult with IDA annually on the Govern-
ment's foodgrain storage construction programs.
4.07      Storage needs for paddy and rice at the seven RECP rice mills
in three districts in Punjab have been estimated at 122,900 MT for 1985/86.
Taking into account the existing storage capacity of 38,700 MT, additional
storage requirements are estimated at 84,200 MT.  The project would provide
storage facilities at each mill for a total of 40,000 MT or about 48% of
additional storage needs.  Details on projections for paddy procurement and
milling together with projections for storage needs are in Annex 4, Table 11.
Project storage to be provided to the seven mills would be as follows:
PROJECT STORAGE FOR RECP RICE MILLS
(in MT)
Project Storage
Projected Storage        Project        as a Percentage
Storage Location          Needs 1985/86         Proposals       of Storage Needs
Hafizabad                      7,200                4,000                56
Sheikhupura                   14,200               6,000                 42
Siranwali                      6,600               4,000                 61
Eminabad                       8,100                4,000                49
Faizabad                       9,400                5,000                53
Mubarikpur                     8,600                5,000                58
Dhaunkal                      30,100               12,00                 40
Total               84,200              40,000                48
Detailed Features
4.08      Storage Warehouses for Provincial Food Departments and PASSCO.
Since grain would be handled in bags in the forseeable future, project stor-
age facilities would be conventional bag storage warehouses. The warehouse
design developed by PASSCO has a proven record of successful construction and
is most suitable for Pakistan conditions. With some small improvements it
would be used as the standard design for project storage. The design meti-
culously takes into consideration all operational needs for effective storage
quality control and proper stock inspection, while at the same time providing
for easy construction with locally available construction material and equip-
ment, and permitting easy operation without sophisticated grain handling
equipment. The basic design would provide for a capacity of about 1,100 MT
of wheat in 95 kg bags stacked 14 layers high. The buildings would be rec-
tangular with inside dimensions of 62 ft x 100 ft (18.9 m x 30.5 m) and inside



- 24 -
height clearance of about 18.8 ft (5.7 m). Footings would be of plain con-
crete; walls of brick masonry; and the roof with a 1:40 pitch and of rein-
forced concrete either cast in situ or with pre-cast beams and girders. A
central row of columns inside the building would support the roof. The floor
would be raised 3.5 ft (1.1 m) above the ground level on a foundation of
compacted layers of earth sealed with a polyethylene sheet to prevent moisture
migration. The floor topping of cement concrete would be laid in panels which
would demarcate the bag stacking pattern to facilitate the best use of the
available space. Each building would be provided with hinged steel doors
mounted in steel frames with sealing rubber strips to facilitate fumigation.
Screened windows made of damage proof plastic glass, and continuous loading
platforms on two sides of the godown would be standard features. (Design
specifications for the godown are in Annex 5; the layout is presented in
Annex 5, Chart I. Cost estimates are in Annex 5, Table 1.) In seismic areas
(in Baluchistan) and at remote locations where small capacity godowns would be
constructued (in Chitral district, NWFP) or where stones instead of bricks
would need to be used for construction, the standard design would be suitably
modified or, if necessary, a separate design developed.
4.09      Ancillary buildings would be constructed at each site, depending
on the size of each storage complex and available existing facilities. These
would comprise an office, a laboratory, staff facilities and a guard house.
Storage sites would need to be improved. Improvements would be provided also
under the project and include all-weather access roads to the storage site and
inside the storage complex, a parking lot and perimeter walls. Other improve-
ments would be land filling, land levelling, sanitation, water and power
supply and drainage. (Cost estimates for storage complexes of different
capacities and for ancillary facilities and site improvements are in Annex 6,
Table 2. A cost summary by Province is in Annex 6, Table 1.) To design the
storage and ancillary facilities and carry out the construction program, the
Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Cooperatives would engage PASSCO which would
establish a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) attending exclusively to project
matters (paras 5.04 through 5.06).
4.10      Storage Warehouses for RECP.  The paddy/rice storage facilities,
which would be provided at seven RECP mills, would be bag storage warehouse-
type structures. The design would be similar to the one adopted for storage
facilities at the RECP rice cleaning plants near Karachi, but it would differ
from location to location because of the limited space availability at each of
the mills. Tentative site layouts have been completed for each location and
detailed designs for the stores are being prepared. Construction would be a
reinforced concrete column, beam frame with 20 cm thick block masonry walls
and a 6 m span reinforced concrete shell roof. The roof would be water
proofed with a three-ply bituminous felt treatment. The floor, 1.2 m above
grade, would have a 3 m wide continuous platform outside around the building.
Inside height would be at least 6 m under the roof beams and 7.8 m under the
roof shells, allowing for stacking paddy 18 layers high and for future use
of mechanical handling equipment. (Detailed construction cost estimates for
1,000 MT storage capacity have been VarVated Qn the basis of a wC&oX 8 io
andi ate ?resente.& in &a--xeyc 5., Ta1A e 2.  Cor--t-ctior cost estixstat.s frr o  eac
of the proposed paddy/rice storage facilities and for necessary site improve-
ments are in Annex 6, Table 3.) RECP has engaged National Engineering Services



- 25 -
(Pakistan) Ltd. (NESPAK) for designing the storage warehouses and for super-
vising their construction (para 5.07).
4.11      Warehousing, Quality Control and Laboratory Equipment.  Storage
facilities for the Provincial Food Departments and PASSCO would be provided
with grain testing and quality control equipment including hand sprayers,
fumigant applicators, moisture meters and miscellaneous other equipment items,
as detailed in Annex 6, Table 4. The facilities would be equipped also with
platform scales. Truck scales would be installed at project storage complexes
with capacities greater than 9,000 MT, and grain cleaners would be provided
for project godowns at procurement centers.
4.12      Existing procurement centers and storage facilities often lack
quality testing and grain cleaning and weighing equipment. This has been one
of the main causes of the quality problems in wheat procurement, inaccuracies
in weighing and reported malpractices in storage and distribution operations
(para 4.19). To improve quality inspection, especially at the time of procure-
ment, the project would provide grain testing and warehousing equipment for
those existing storage facilities and procurement centers which are presently
not adequately equipped. In addition, for existing storage complexes with
capacities in excess of 9,000 MT, truck scales would be provided where these
are now lacking.
4.13      While quality control procedures of the Provincial Food Departments
provide for an independent quality assessment (super inspection) of the pro-
cured grain at the time of procurement and during storage, the Food Departments
do not have adequately trained staff nor sufficient grain testing equipment to
carry out this function effectively. So far, only the Food Department in
Punjab has established four grain testing laboratories and engaged a trained
Grain Technologist. Six additional grain testing laboratories would be set
up, three in Sind and one each in the other Provinces, for which the project
would finance equipment and training of the six Grain Technologists who would
be in charge of the facilities (para 4.23). (Cost details on warehousing,
quality control and laboratory equipment are in Annex 6, Tables 1, 2 and 4).
4.14      Pilot Projects.  About 16% (303,000 MT) of the wheat storage facili-
ties owned by the Provincial Food Departments are interconnected hexagonal
concrete bins with concrete hopper and top deck.  The bins, each with a
capacity of about 35 MT, are grouped into storage units of some 500 MT or
multiples thereof.  Access to the top deck, about 30 ft above grade, is by an
exterior stairway. To fill the bins, bags are carried manually to the top and
emptied into hatch openings. When emptying the bins, the grain is rebagged.
The manual loading of these storage facilities requires large labor crews who
are engaged by the contractors responsible for transporting the grain to the
storage site. High labor requirements, substantial grain losses in handling
and considerable wear and tear of gunny bags make this operation costly;
sufficient labor is not always available; and carrying the 95 kg bags 30 ft
up the staircase is extremely arduous. As a result, the Food Departments,
despite lower grain losses in bin storage, usually wait until all other
storage facilities are filled before using the bins. To explore possibilities
of improved utilization of bin storage, the project would provide, on a pilot
basis, semi-mechaLnical and pneumatic handling systems for loading the bins at



- 26 -
five storage sites in each of the three Provinces where bins are being used.
The semi-mechanical handling system would consist of a platform at truck deck
height around a dump sink in which the bags would be emptied. From there the
wheat would be elevated with an electrically powered elevator and discharged
into a surge bin installed on the top deck of the storage bins. From the
surge bin the wheat would be moved by cart to the various hatch openings. The
pneumatic conveying system would be a combination vacuum/pressure type machine
which would be self-contained, mounted on wheels and powered by a diesel or
gasoline engine. To load the bins, bags would be emptied into a hopper
installed on the machine at truck deck height. From the hopper the grain
would be blown into the bins via vertical and horizontal piping and an air
separating cyclone. The equipment could be used also for emptying bins
into a bagging hopper and would provide for the possibility of unloading
bins into bulk trucks. The machine would load as well as unload bins and
is easy to move, so that it could be used at a number of bin complexes at
different locations.
4.15      Stacking practices at bag storage warehouses vary considerably from
region to region. While the stack height is normally thirteen to fifteen
layers, generally it is only ten layers high in Baluchistan. Laborers often
resist stacking higher than what is commonly practiced in the immediate
vicinity; and, if higher stacking is agreed to, labor costs frequently more
than double. There are a number of godowns, especially the large facilities
constructed by the Pakistan Public Works Department (Pak-PWD), which would
permit stacks of 20 layers. But labor resistance combined with the increased
risk of accidents generally prevents full utilization of the existing capacity.
The large warehouses also require long walking distances (the 16,000 MT godown
designed by Pak-PWD is 120 ft wide), making manual carrying and stacking of
the bags very streneous. To explore ways of making fuller use of the existing
capacity and to reduce the need for carrying bags manually over long distances,
some mechanical bag handling equipment would be provided for a pilot project
in five storage complexes with large Pak-PWD godowns. Each of the complexes
would be equipped with two mechanical handling systems, each comprising one
conveyor with adjustable height to elevate bags up to about 20 ft and five
horizontal conveyors, each about 30 ft long. All units would be mobile and
electrically powered. (Details on the equipment proposed for the pilot
schemes are in Annex 5. Cost estimates are in Annex 6, Table 5.) Selection
of the most suitable systems and preparation of detailed designs and specifi-
cations would be finalized by PASSCO in consultation with the Provincial Food
Departments, and with the assistance of a project consultant (para 4.20).
4.16      Grain Storage Research and Extension.  Grain storage research so far
has received little attention in Pakistan. Some research on identification
of insect pests and fungal damage in grain storage, and on insect control has
been carried out by agricultural universities and research institutes, partly
under the auspices of programs directed by the Pakistan Agricultural Research
Council (PARC). However, these efforts have been too limited to generate a
significant impact on the control of storage pests or on the development of
improved storage procedures and structures. Considerable additional research
is required in such areas as storage losses from various pests and the effec-
tiveness of different pest control methods, before a comprehensive strategy
for storage loss prevention can be developed. Adaptive research is required
also on the suitability of different storage designs to minimize grain damage



- 27 -
from moisture, rodents and pests. Such research appears to be needed espe-
cially for on-farm and village level storage where losses seem to be high
(para 2.20).
4.17      Extension programs have so far paid little attention to grain
storage technology. While the need for disseminating information on such
matters as identification of pests, application of chemicals and storage
sanitation is widely recognized, efforts in developing suitable extension
programs in these areas have been negligible. The project would provide
funds to PARC for storage research and extension training to be carried
out under a coordinated program by agricultural research institutions and
universities.  To develop a suitable program and coordinate its implementa-
tion, PARC would establish and maintain for about four years a Program
Coordination Unit. The project would finance (i) the operating cost of
the Program Coordination Unit, (ii) six man-months of consultancy services
necessary to set up the program, and (iii) vehicles, equipment and training
(para 4.24) required to carry it out. A draft program proposal is in Annex
7. (Cost estimal:es are in Annex 6, Tables 6 and 7.)
4.18      Technical Assistance.  Recent growth in public sector wheat procure-
ment and distribution has made the movement, especially of indigenous wheat,
an increasingly complex task. The Provincial Food Departments and PASSCO have
to decide daily on timing, transport mode, origins and destinations of a very
large number of wheat shipments. Transportation expenditures are a major
budget item of these institutions, exceeding, for example, 16% and 20% of the
procurement price for indigenous and imported wheat, respectively in NWFP.
The cost is high,, partly because the shortage of storage facilities in the
procurement area often make it necessary to use very costly transportation
means (para 2.18). Poor planning and coordination have also been the causes
of the very high transportation and handling costs. Wheat shipped to distri-
bution centers does not always originate from the closest procurement storage;
wheat is sometimes transported back in the direction from where it came; and
instead of sending wheat directly to where it is required, shipments are often
made to intermediate storage facilities, resulting in very round-about trans-
portation. The complexity of wheat transport operations involving more than
1,000 procurement and over 400 storage centers calls for better transport
planning and coordination and information systems design. To address current
problems in wheat transportation, the Food Wing of the Ministry of Food
Agriculture and Cooperatives (MFAC) would be strengthened (para 5.01) and
develop a plan for improvements in foodgrain transport operations (including
economics, logistics, coordination and information systems). The project
would finance a specialist in transport economics and logistics who, working
closely with the Provincial Food Departments, PASSCO, RECP, the Railway Board
and National Logistic Cell, would assist the Ministry for about 24 months in
this effort.
4.19      Wheat quality testing and weighing practices do not always comply
with Government directives (para 3.06). Much of the wheat procured is not
sampled and only a limited number of bags are weighed. Also, the quality
of grain at procurement is evaluated only visually so that the exact quality
differentiation prescribed by the Governments is impossible.  As a result, the
quality of the procured wheat is not always satisfactory and the quantity is
frequently inaccurate. Since quality and quantity inspection is similarly
inadequate at later stages of storage, problems get aggravated up to the



- 28 -
milling stage. Inspection problems have also given rise to a number of
reported malpractices, such as adulteration of wheat with dust and other
foreign matter. The impurities, which on the average may be as high as 5%,
are removed before milling, and millers are reported to practice adding water
to the flour to make up for the weight loss. Reliable information on losses
accruing to the Government as a result of these practices is not available.
Existing problems in wheat inspection are due partly to a lack of testing,
cleaning and weighing equipment (paras 4.11 through 4.13), but the poor
quality of staff engaged in procurement and storage, the laxity in enforcing
the Food Departments' directives, and the excessive complexity of the quality
standards and the related price discounts are also responsible for the deplor-
able situation. There are problems in grain quality control also, mainly
due to a lack of technical staff and to insufficient on-the-job training of
storage personnel (para 3.07). To improve grain testing, weighing and quality
control operations, the Food Wing of MFAC would be strengthened (para 5.01)
and be required to carry out a detailed analysis of the current practices
and problems, and prepare recommendations for improvements of wheat procurement
and inspection and quality control procedures. The project would finance an
internationally qualified consultant in grain quality standards, and grain
testing and quality control who would assist the Food Wing for about eighteen
months in preparing the analysis and recommendations. He would also assist
in preparing operational manuals for grain procurement and inspection and in
developing training programs for procurement and warehousing staff to improve
grain testing and quality control practices.
4.20      PASSCO's Project Implementation Unit (PIU) would be responsible for
equipment procurement and systems design for the pilot projects on mechanical
grain handling (paras 4.14 and 4.15). Since PASSCO's engineering staff has
only limited expertise in these areas, the assistance of an internationally
qualified engineering consultant experienced in the design of mechanical
handling systems would be required for about six months. The project would
provide such a consultant.
4.21      Technical assistance is required for PARC and participating univer-
sities and agricultural research institutes to develop the grain storage
research and extension training programs envisaged under the project (paras
4.16 and 4.17). The project would provide for an internationally qualified
grain scientist who would be engaged by PARC for about six months for this
purpose.
4.22      Total cost for 54 man-months of technical assistance is estimated
at about US$430,000 on the basis of a man-month cost of US$7,500 including
fees, subsistance and allowances. (Details are in Annex 6, Table 8). Assur-
ances were obtained from GOP and PASSCO at negotiations that technical assis-
tance consultants would be engaged by January 31, 1982 under terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA. (Draft Terms of Reference for the consultants
are in the Project File).
4.23      Training.  The storage construction program and the grain testing
laboratories financed under the project would increase the need for trained
staff in grain handling, storage, transport and quality control. The pro-
visions would be made under the project to train 16 officers of MFAC (2),
Provincial Food Departments (10, including six Grain Technologists to head
the project financed grain testing laboratories), PASSCO (2) and RECP (2) for
about 3 months each in these fields. This training could be given by the



- 29 -
Agricultural University at Faizalabad which has suitable courses in Grain
Technology. The project would also provide overseas study tours for about
seven senior officers of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Cooperatives,
the Provincial Food Departments, PASSCO and RECP to examine grain procurement,
handling, transport and storage systems in other countries. On-the-job
training for grain procurement and storage personnel in grain quality inspec-
tion and control would be provided by the Grain Technologists heading the
grain testing laboratories and by the laboratory assistants during their
inspection visits to storage facilities. The Grain Technologists with the
assistance of the project consultant for grain quality inspection and control
(para 4.19) would also organize two week training courses in procurement
procedures and quality testing and control for procurement and storage per-
sonnel. These courses would be conducted by each grain testing laboratory
about four times a year with some 20 participants per course.
4.24      Provision would be made for overseas training of scientific personnel
of PARC, agricultural research institutes and universities participating in
the project grain storage research and extension component. In addition,
the project would provide funds for thirty-five graduates to undertake post-
graduate study programs at participating universities. Upon completion of
their studies, these trainees would be expected to make valuable contributions
to the Provincial Food Departments, PASSCO and RECP, and to the extension
services of the Provincial Departments of Agriculture as subject matter
specialists. An assurance was obtained from GOP at negotiations that foreign
training end study tours satisfactory to IDA would be arranged by March 31,
1982. (Cost details on training are in Annex 6, Table 8).
4.25      Grain Storage and Processing Study.  The project would provide
funds for a study on further needs for grain storage and foodgrain processing
facilities. The study would address storage requirements especially on the
farm and village levels and in the private sector and: (i) provide a compre-
hensive picture of storage facilities available in Pakistan; (ii) make pro-
jections for future storage requirements at all levels; and (iii) prepare
recommendations for further storage construction programs and improvements
in grain transport, handling and quality control. For the preparation of
investment programs for the private sector, the study would evaluate also the
development needs in the area of foodgrain processing and include: (i) a
survey of existing rice and flour mills; (ii) a review and analysis of present
milling and grain drying practices; and (iii) recommendations for improvements
of existing facilities and operations and for additions of new processing
capacity. The study recommendations would be prepared within the framework of
alternative Government policies regarding: (i) grain procurement and distribu-
tion pricing including seasonal price differentiation for public sector grain
procurement; (ii) private sector involvement in grain marketing and processing,
and credit provisions for the private trade; (iii) food security; (iv) grain
imports and exports; and (v) transportation. The economic costs and benefits
of the alternative Government policies would be analyzed and recommendations
would be made for the adoption by GOP of the most suitable policy alternatives.
The study would be carried out by a multi-disciplinary team of project consul-
tants under the direction of the Food Wing of MFAC. An assurance was obtained
from GOP at negotiations that engagement of consultants for carrying out the
study would be completed by March 31, 1982, on terms and conditions satisfac-
tory to IDA. (Draft Terms of Reference for the study are in the Project File.
Cost estimates are in Annex 6, Table 9.)



- 30 -
Project Cost Estimates
4.26      Total project costs, including taxes and duties of about Rs 31.0 M
(US$3.1 M), over the four year development period, are estimated at Rs 673.6
(US$68 M equivalent) of which about US$15 M is foreign exchange. Details of
project costs, summarized below, are in Annex 6.
4.27      Cost estimates are based on the findings of the appraisal mission
and have been updated to December 1980.  Physical contingencies of 10% have
been provided for all civil works and equipment costs. Price contingencies
amounting to 28.2% of the sum of the base costs and the physical contingencies
are also included. Annual inflation rates assumed in estimating the price
contingencies are 12% for 1981, 11.5% for 1982, 10.5% for 1983, 9.5% for 1984
and 9% for 1985 for local costs; and 9% and 8.5% for 1981 and 1982, respec-
tively, and 7.5% for 1983 through 1985 for foreign costs.
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COST
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange
---kRs Million------   -----US$ Million-----         %
1. Wheat Storage
Facilities
Land                  8.2      -       8.2    0.8       -       0.8       -
Civil Works         310.1    81.3   391.4   31.3       8.2    39.5        21
Equipment             9.3    10.5    19.8    0.9        1.1     2.0       53
Subtotal     327.6    91.8   419.4   33.0        9.3    42.3       22
2.  Paddy/Rice Storage
Facilities           29.0      9.2    38.2    2.9       1.0     3.9       24
3.  Pilot Projects         2.2     3.3      5.5    0.2      0.3     0.5       60
4.  Grain Storage Research
and Extension
Equip. & Vehicles    1.7       1.3     3.0    0.2      0.1      0.3       43
PARC Coord. Unit      -1.6     0.1     1.7    0.2       -       0.2        6
Subtotal        3.3     1.4      4.7    0.4      0.1     0.5       30
5. Technical Assist-
ance and Training    3.5       5.3     8.8    0.4      0.5      0.9       60
6.  Study                 2.3      0.8     3.1    0.2      0.1      0.3       26
BASE COST ESTIMATE      367.9   111.8   479.7   37.1    11.3    48.4          23
7.  Contingencies
Physical             35.2    10.6    45.8    3.6       1.1      4.7       23
Price               122.1    26.0   148.1   12.3       2.6    14.9        18
Subtotal     157.3    36.6   193.9   15.9        3.7    19.6       19
TOTAL PROJECT COST      525.2   148.4   673.6   53.0    15.0    68.0          22
Project Cost Excluding
Taxes and Duties      494.2   148.4   642.6   49.9    15.0    64.9          23



- 31 -
Financing
4.28       The project financing plan would be:
---------------US$  M---4…---
Fed.    Prov.            Swiss Govt.    IDA
Total   Govt.   Govts.   RECP   US$ M I         US$ M   %
Wheat Storage Co plexes
and Equipment
Land                          1.0     -       1.0               -     -       -
Civil Works and Equip.    59.1   25.2          -        -      7.7   13    26.2  44
Paddy/Rice Storae               5.0      -       -       1.5      -      -     3.5  70
Pilot Projects                  0.7    0.3       -        -       -      -     0.4  57
Grain Storage Research                   >^<
and Extension                0.7    0.3        -        -       -     -      0.4  57
Technical Assistance and
Training                      1.1     -        -        -       -     -      1.1 100
Study                           0.4     -        -        -       -      -     0.4 100
Total                       68.0   25.8       1.0      1.5    7.7           32.0
Percent of Total              100.0   37.9       1.5     2.2   11.3           47.1
4.29       The Swiss Government and IDA together would provide a total of about
US$39.7 M, representing some 61% of project cost net of duties and taxes. The
proposed IDA Credit of SDRs 26.1 M (equivalent to US$32 M as of the date of
negotiations) would cover 89% of foreign exchange costs and about 35% of local
costs.  The Swiss Government grant of Swiss Francs 15 M (about US$7.7 M equi-
valent) would finance 11% of foreign exchange costs and about 12% of local
costs. The Swiss Government funds and part of the IDA Credit (US$28.5 M)
would be channel]ed through the Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic
Affairs to the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Cooperatives (MFAC). The
remaining IDA funds (US$3.5 M) would be onlent by the Ministry of Finance,
Planning and Economic Affairs to RECP. Onlending to RECP for financing the
construction of paddy/rice storage and ancillary facilities would be for up to
12 years includ:ing a maximum grace period of two years. RECP would repay the
loan at 11% interest, the basic lending rate charged by Pakistan development
banks and commercial banks for fixed investment loans. GOP would carry the
foreign exchange risk. These onlending terms are comparable with those of
other IDA assisted projects in Pakistan. Bank Group projected inflation rates
for Pakistan are generally in line with anticipated world inflation rates
falling gradually from about 10% at present to about 6% by 1987/88. The inte-
rest rate chargied to RECP would thus be positive in real terms. Execution of
a subsidiary loan agreement, satisfactory to IDA, between GOP and RECP would
be a condition of Credit effectiveness. To permit early construction of the
paddy rice storage facilities for which detailed designs are being completed,
retroactive financing of up to US$1 M is proposed for expenditures appro-
priately incurred for this component after January 1, 1981.



- 32 -
4.30      The funds channeled to MFAC would be passed on in part to:
(i) PASSCO for financing the construction of wheat storage
complexes (US$32.2 M) and for the procurement of equipment
for storage facilities, grain procurement centers, grain
testing laboratories and the pilot projects (US$2.1 M).
MFAC would establish for this purpose a revolving fund
which would be utilized by PASSCO to make payments for
project expenditures. It would be a condition of Credit
effectiveness that the revolving fund had been established
with an initial deposit of Rs 50 M. An assurance was
obtained from GOP during negotiations that the revolving
fund would be replenished every six months in amounts
sufficient to meet PASSCO's estimated project expenditures
during the forthcoming six-month period.
(ii)  PARC for financing the operating costs of its Program Coor-
dination Unit and the procurement of equipment and vehicles
(US$0.4 M), and the technical assistance and training
(US$0.4 M) related to the project's grain storage research
and extension component.
The remaining funds provided to MFAC (US$1.1 M) would finance other technical
assistance and training (US$0.7 M) and the study (US$0.4 M) outlined in para
4.25.
4.31      GOP's contribution of Rs 255.4 M (US$25.8 M equivalent) would
finance about 38% of project cost. It would cover the Government's contribu-
tion to wheat storage construction, equipment and vehicles procurement and the
operations of PARC's Coordination Unit. The Provincial Governments' contribu-
tion of Rs 10.4 M (US$1.0 M equivalent) would finance the purchase of land for
new wheat storage facilities. RECP would provide Rs 14.9 M (US$1.5 1M equiva-
lent) as equity contribution covering 30% of construction cost for the project
financed paddy/rice storage warehouses. A PC-i consistent with this report
would be prepared, and its approval by ECNEC would be a condition of Credit
effectiveness. 1/
Procurement
4.32      Civil Works.  Although in the aggregate, total cost of storage and
ancillary facilities and site improvements would be large (US$ 61.3 M; includ-
ing US$5.4 M engineering charges), international competitive bidding would
not be suitable for civil works contracts. Construction would be scattered
at 131 locations across the country; the contracts would vary in size; bulk-
ing of contracts into large packages would not be practical; and Pakistan
contractors are considered very competitive. Contracts for civil works would
therefore be let under local competitive bidding procedures which are satis-
factory to IDA. To the extent practical, tenders would be in packages of
I/   A PC-1 (Planning Commission Proforma Number One) is an outline of the
project including project costs. Approval of the PC-1 by ECNEC is
required under GOP's project approval procedures.



- 33 -
several contracts. Tenderers would be invited to bid for any one contract of
the package individually or for a combination of contracts or for the entire
package. Bidders would be prequalified by PIU for wheat storage construction
and by RECP for the construction of paddy/rice storage facilities.
4.33      Equipment and Vehicles.  Equipment and vehicles (US$4.0 M; including
US$0.3 M engineering charges) would be mostly imported and procured under
ICB in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. To the extent practical items
to be procured would be bulked to attract bidders. Items expected to cost
less than US$100,000, singly if they do not lend themselves to bul'ling or in
bulk if they do, would be procured under local competitive bidding procedures.
Minor items costing less than US$10,000 each for which bulking into contracts
of at least US$10,000 would not be practical would be procured by prudent
shopping with due regard to efficiency and economy, up to a total of US$300,000.
Procurement contracts for weighbridges and grain cleaners would include
initial operator training and preparation of detailed operating procedures by
the supplier. The technical assistance services to be engaged, and the
arrangements for overseas training and the project study, and the staffing of
PARC's Program Coordination Unit (US$1.7 M) would be on terms and conditions
to be agreed with IDA. Engagement of PASSCO and NESPAK by MFAC and RECP,
respectively, to provide engineering and supervisory services for the construc-
tion of storage facilities and equipment procurement and installation (US$5.7
M service charges are included in civil works and equipment cost) would be
under contractual arrangements satisfactory to IDA (paras 5.05 and 5.07). The
balance of project cost (US$1.0 M) would cover land purchases. An assurance
was obtained from GOP at negotiations that for all contracts in excess of
US$300,000 draft tender documents and bid evaluation would be submitted for
IDA review prior to contract award.
Disbursement
4.34      Disbursements under the proposed IDA Credit and the Swiss Government
grant would cover:
(i) 75% of expenditures for RECP civil works contracts
(excluding NESPAK engineering charges) (US$3.5 M);
(ii) 60% of expenditures for civil works contracts for wheat
storage complexes (excluding PIU engineering charges)
(US$31.3 M);
(iii) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported equip-
ment and vehicles, or 60% of expenditures for locally
procured items (US$3.3 M);
(iv) 60% of the staff cost of PARC's Program Coordination Unit
(US$0.1 M); and
(v) 100% of expenditures for technical assistance, training
and the project study (US$1.5 M).
The Swiss Government grant would be disbursed against expenditures under item
(ii) only. IDA would review GOP's withdrawal applications and request the



- 34 -
Swiss Government from time to time and in accordance with an agreed disburse-
ment schedule to make payments on withdrawal applications approved by IDA.
Procurement procedures for the Swiss contribution would be the same as those
applying to the proposed Credit. The conditions of the Swiss Government granL
as negotiated between GOP and the Swiss Government are detailed in the "Swiss
Contribution Agreement." Fulfillment of the effectiveness conditions of this
Agreement would be a condition of Credit effectiveness.
4.35      Disbursement for items (i), (ii), (iii) and (v) would be made
against full documentation. For expenditures in (iv) disbursements would be
made against certified statements of expenditure. Documents supporting the
latter type of disbursements would not be submitted to IDA for review but
retained by PARC and made available for inspection by IDA during supervision
mission visits. A schedule of estimated disbursements is given in Annex 8.
V. MANAGEMENT AND ORGANIZATION
General
5.01      Successful development of the post-harvest foodgrain sector would
depend heavily on the organizational and managerial strength of the Food Wing
in the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Cooperatives (MFAC). The decentral-
ized nature of grain procurement, wheat distribution and storage operations,
involving all the four Provincial Food Departments, PASSCO and RECP makes it
necessary that planning and coordination responsibilities are carried out
effectively at central level. Inadequate central planning and coordination
in the past have resulted in a rather ad hoc development of grain storage
construction in the Provinces, multifarious grain testing and storage quality
control procedures in the various Provinces, uneconomic grain transportation,
and failure to achieve multi-purpose storage utilization. To permit effective
planning and coordination at central level, the Food Wing of MFAC would be
strengthened. First, a Storage Cell would be established, which would be
headed by a Director or Deputy Secretary reporting to the Joint Secretary
(Food) and staffed with two Section Officers, an Accounts Officer and support
personnel. The Officer on Special Duty (Wheat) who has been responsible so
far for all storage matters is assisted by only one Section Officer and in
view of his other duties has not been able to pay enough attention to matters
concerning storage. The Cell would be responsible for project matters (paras
5.04, 5.10 and 5.11), and for the preparation of recommendations on future
storage construction programs, storage maintenance, multi-purpose storage
utilization, grain storage management, and grain handling methods. Second,
MFAC's Food Wing would engage a Grain Quality Technical Officer, and a Grain
Transportation Technical Officer, trained in grain quality inspection and
control, and in transportation economics and logistics, respectively. The
Officers would report directly to the Joint Secretary (Food) and advise him
on these subject matters. They would work closely with the two project
ctyonsultants -two wouxa assist 'ft&YC in improving grain quality inspection and
control and transportation operations (paras 4.1a and 4.19). An assurance
was obtained from GOP at negotiations that MFAC would establish the Storage
Cell and that the Director (or Deputy Secretary) heading the Cell and the two



- 35 -
Technical Officers would be engaged by December 31, 1981. The proposed
organization of MFAC's Food Wing is presented in Annex 9, Chart I.
Project Management and Coordination
5.02      The overall responsibility for project execution would rest with the
Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Cooperatives (MFAC). Within the Ministry,
the Secretary wouLd be responsible for effective project implementation and
for ensuring coordination among the various GOP agencies concerned and between
GOP, the Provincial Governments, PASSCO and RECP. Because of the large number
of entities involved in project implementation and the large number of project
storage sites, coordination requirements would be very great. To meet these
needs, a Project Management and Coordination Committee (PMCC) would be estab-
lished under the chairmanship of the Secretary, MFAC, comprising the Joint
Secretary (Food), the head of the Storage Cell, the Officer on Special Duty
(Wheat) and representatives of the Ministries of Finance and Commerce, the
Planning Division, the Provincial Food Departments, PARC, PASSCO, RECP,
Pakistan Railways and the National Logistic Cell. The head of the Storage
Cell would serve as the secretary to the Committee. Administrative support
to PMCC would be provided by the Storage Cell.
5.03      PMCC would meet as necessary, but at least quarterly, to review
project progress and help formulate policies and directives on project imple-
mentation. In particular, PMCC would: (i) monitor physical implementation;
(ii) review implementation bottlenecks and recommend suitable corrective
actions; (iii) review plans and recommendations for improvements in grain
transportation (para 4.18) and in grain quality inspection and control (para
4.19); (iv) guide preparation of the study provided under the project (para
4.25) and upon completion of the study make appropriate recommendations for
further sub-sectcor development; (v) ensure timely land acquisition for the
project; (vi) coordinate storage utilization among various public sector
agencies; (vii) monitor continually grain supply and consumption trends and
trends in grain procurement by the public sector; and (viii) help formulate
policies on foodgrain procurement procedures, quality standards, inspection
and quality control practices and on grain transportation. Establishment
of PMCC with composition and responsibilities satisfactory to IDA would be
a condition of Credit effectiveness.
Project Implementation
5.04      Storage Warehouses and Equipment for Provincial Food Departments
and PASSCO. The program for constructing storage facilities and procuring
equipment for the Provincial Food Departments and PASSCO, and implementation
of the pilot projects would be under the overall direction of the Storage Cell
in the Food Wing of MFAC. MFAC would engage PASSCO for carrying out the
programs and the pilot schemes. All important activities would need to be
agreed between MFAC, PASSCO and the Provincial Food Departments and would
require the cooperation of the Provincial Food Departments. The individual
responsibilities of these institutions under the project and coordination and
implementation arrangements would be detailed in an agreement the general
outline of which has been discussed and agreed upon during negotiations. Com-
pletion of such agreement, satisfactory to IDA, between MFAC, the Provincial
Food Departments and PASSCO would be a condition of Credit effectiveness.



- 36 -
5.05      PASSCO, which has considerable experience in godown construction
(para 3.16) and prepared the standard design for project storage facilities,
would establish a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) to carry out the respon-
sibilities assigned to it under the project. PIU would operate under the
direction of PASSCO's Engineering Advisor reporting to the Managing Director,
and would be headed by a Chief Engineer (General Manager) who would be sup-
ported by Executive Engineers responsible for different construction phases,
contracts and design. Assistant Engineers together with Sub-Engineers
(Overseers) would supervise construction at the construction sites. A Deputy
General Manager would be in charge of project activities in Punjab and NWFP
and another in Sind and Baluchistan. Adequate support personnel would be
provided. Details on PIU staffing which would be included in the agreement
between MFAC, the Provincial Food Departments and PASSCO (para 5.04), are in
Annex 9, Table 1. Establishment of PIU and engagement of the Chief Engineer
and of the two Deputy General Managers would be conditions of Credit effec-
tiveness.
5.06      PIU would have three sections:  (i) storage design and construction;
(ii) handling systems design and equipment procurement; and (iii) finance and
administration, responsible for accounts, audits, personnel and legal matters
related to the project. To assist PIU in designing mechanical handling
systems, PASSCO would engage an engineering consultant (para 4.20). In
addition to preparing designs, including structural drawings, specifications
and cost estimates, PIU would: (i) assist Provincial Food Departments in site
selection, and arrange site surveys and soil investigations; (ii) prepare site
layouts; (iii) prequalify civil works contractors; (iv) prepare tender docu-
ments for civil works and equipment; (v) evaluate bids and prepare bid eval-
uation reports; (vi) supervise construction; (vii) administer contracts;
(viii) manage project funds for construction, equipment procurement and PIU
operations; (ix) maintain project accounts and provide MFAC with quarterly
account statements; (x) submit disbursement requests; and (xi) prepare quar-
terly progress reports for PMCC consideration and IDA review. For determining
construction programs including site selection, site layouts and construction
scheduling, PIU would consult with MFAC and the four Provincial Food Depart-
ments. For awarding civil works construction and equipment procurement
contracts, a Tender Evaluation Committee would be set up, which would include
officials of MFAC, the concerned Provincial Food Department and PASSCO. Land
acquisition would be the responsibility of the Provincial Food Departments.
PASSCO would turn over the storage facilities to MFAC as construction is com-
pleted, and MFAC would transfer the completed godowns and ancillaries to the
Provincial Food Departments. In areas in Punjab where PASSCO is responsible
for wheat procurement, the Food Department would lease back the stores to
PASSCO. Assurances were obtained from GOP and PASSCO at negotiations that
transfer and leasing arrangements would be made under terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA.
5.07      Paddy/Rice Storage Facilities for RECP.  Construction of paddy/rice
storage at RECP rice mills would be the responsibility of RECP. RECP has
engaged the Natioaal EenV,teeriag_ Servtces (Paktstam) Ltd. (UVgPkK) fcr
designing the facilities and supervising construction umnder a contract
satisfactory to IDA. NESPAK has prepared site layouts and a basic design
for a 1,000 MT storage model. Design details including structural drawings,
specifications and cost estimates are under preparation.



- 37 -
5.08      Grain Storage Research and Extension.  The Pakistan Agricultural
Research Council (PARC) would be responsible for organizing and coordinating
the grain storage research and extension program and establish a Program
Coordination Unit for this purpose. A draft proposal for staffing the
unit is in Annex 6, Table 7. The unit, in consultation with participating
universities and agricultural research institutes, would finalize the project
supported grain storage research and extension program including personnel
requirements and investment needs. Other responsibilities of the unit would
be: (i) procurement of vehicles and equipment, except for small items which
would be more conveniently procured by the participating institutions them-
selves; (ii) arraLngement of overseas training courses in grain storage tech-
nology (para 4.24); (iii) ensuring timely flow of funds for project financed
graduate study programs; (iv) engagement of the consultant to assist in
developing the project supported grain storage research and extension training
programs (para 4.21); (v) management of project funds; (vi) maintenance of
project accounts; (vii) submission of disbursement requests; and (viii) prep-
aration of quarterly progress reports for PMCC and IDA review. Finalization
of a grain storage research and extension training program satisfactory to
IDA, and establishment of a Program Coordination Unit with composition and
responsibilities acceptable to IDA would be conditions of disbursement against
expenditures-incturred under the project's research and extension component.
5.09      Improvements in Grain Transportation and Grain Quality Inspection
and Control; Training and Overseas Study Tours; and Project Study.  The deve-
lopment of plans and systems for rationalizing grain transportation to reduce
transportation and handling costs (para 4.18), and preparation of an analysis
and recommendations for improving grain quality inspection and control, and
for establishing suitable grading standards (para 4.19) would be the respon-
sibility of MFAC's Food Wing. The Joint Secretary (Food) would be in charge
of these activities and coordinate closely with the Provincial Food Depart-
ments, PASSCO and RECP on this assignment.  He would be assisted by two
Technical Officers (para 5.01) and two project consultants (paras 4.18
and 4.19) who would be engaged by MFAC to assist in the preparation of the
analyses and recommendations. On each of the two subject matters a report
would be prepared by MFAC detailing current practices and problems and specify-
ing actions to be taken and systems to be implemented to improve grain trans-
portation, and grain inspection and quality control, respectively. The
reports would be made available to IDA for comments by March 31, 1983.
An appropriate assurance was obtained from GOP during negotiations.
5.10      The Storage Cell in MFAC's Food Wing (para 5.01) would coordinate
the training programs and the overseas study tours for officers of MFAC, the
four Provincial Food Departments, PASSCO and RECP (para 4.23). The Cell would
be responsible a:lso for engaging consultants to carry out the project study on
foodgrain storage and processing (para 4.25). Furthermore, it would maintain
project accounts and prepare quarterly progress reports on its own activities
and coordinate the preparation of the quarterly reports by PIU, RECP and
PARC's Program Coordination Unit.
5.11      Implementation Schedule.  The project would be implemented over a
period of about four years. PIU, MFAC and the four Provincial Food Depart-
ments would agree annually on yearly programs for wheat storage construction



- 38 -
which would be carried out simultaneously in all four Provinces. An assurance
was obtained from GOP at negotiations that such programs would be prepared
each year by July 31 and copies be made available to IDA for approval. Early
land acquisition would be crucial for timely implementation of the wheat
storage component. Provincial Food Departments have land available sufficient
for the first year construction program of 100,000 MT storage capacity. For
the remaining program, an assurance was obtained from GOP at negotiations that
land for additional 200,000 MT capacity would be acquired by each August 31,
1982 and 1983. A project implementation schedule, which has been agreed upon
during negotiations, is presented in Annex 9, Chart II.
.Storage Maintenance
5.12      Storage maintenance in godowns operated by the Provincial Food
Departments is generally poor. A considerable number of godowns have leaking
roofs, cracked floors and walls, damaged internal roof support columns and
broken windows. Windows often do not open for ventilation, and a large number
of doors and windows do not seal sufficiently for fumigation. As a result of
these maintenance problems, grain is being damaged by moisture penetrating the
buildings; grain is not protected adequately against rodents and birds; and
insect pest control tends to be ineffective. Existing maintenance problems
are mostly due to insufficient funds provided for building maintenance. Also,
repairs are usually late and restricted to storage facilities with signs of
advanced deterioration; and preventive maintenance is not carried out. The
backlog of unattended repair work is considerable and requires urgent atten-
tion to prevent further deterioration of existing stores. An assurance was
obtained from GOP at negotiation that: (i) a comprehensive survey be carried
out by October 31, 1981 to determine necessary repairs of the Provincial Food
Departments' existing grain storage facilities; and (ii) necessary repairs be
completed by December 31, 1985 in accordance with a phased program to be
agreed with IDA upon completion of the survey.
5.13      In addition to carrying out the repair program, annual budgetary
provisions for regular repair and maintenance work would need to be increased.
Present annual provisions of some Rs 8 million amount to only 0.3% of current
storage replacement costs and are totally inadequate. An increase to about
1.5% of replacement costs would be necessary. An assurance was obtained from
GOP at negotiations that it would cause the Provincial Governments to raise
budgetary provisions for regular grain storage and maintenance to levels
satisfactory to IDA. The increase would cover both the allocation to Provin-
cial Public Works Departments for major repairs and general maintenance, and
to Provincial Food Departments for minor repair works such as the repair of
windows, doors and other fittings.
Accounts and Audits
5.14      GOP would cause MFAC and PARC to establish and maintain separate
accounts for the project in accordance with sound accounting practices and
-mstre- that these accou_nts would be aN&ited anneal'y b-y the kuditor General.
The accounts of both PASSCO and RECP are audited annually by private auditing
firms which are satisfactory to IDA. Certified copies of the audited accounts
and auditors' reports would be furnished to IDA not later than six months



- 39 -
after the close of each financial year. The audit reports on PARC project
accounts would be required to include a statement that funds disbursed against
statements of expenditures had been used for the purpose for which they were
provided. Assurances from GOP, PASSCO and RECP were obtained at negotiations
that these accounting, audit and reporting procedures would be adopted.
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
5.15      PMCC would monitor project implemenation on the basis of detailed
implementation p:Lans which would be prepared for their respective sub-projects
by PIU, RECP, The Food Wing of MFAC, and PARC's Program Coordination Unit.
PMCC would also review implementation and coordination problems and assist
in solving them to avoid unnecessary cost or slippage. Day-to-day monitoring
would be conducted by the Joint Secretary (Food) of MFAC's Food Wing, the
heads of PIU and PARC's Program Coordination Unit,and RECP management.
5.16      In addition, the Implementation and Progress Section of GOP's
Planning Division would monitor progress and evaluate the project's impact
on the development of the sub-sector. Evaluation would concentrate on
operating efficiency of project institutions including storage utilization;
storage losses; turnover and age of stocks; procurement arrangements; grain
quality testing and weighing procedures; quality control during storage and
distribution; cost of storage operations; and transport cost. Evaluation
would also address organizational, managerial and staff development aspects
of the project and usefulness and impact of the project's grain storage
research and extension component. The Implementation and Progress Section
would prepare written reports, at least annually, detailing: (i) developments
in the above areas; and (ii) deviations from appraisal estimates regarding
benefits, cost and implementation scheduling. Copies of these reports would
be made available to PMCC and IDA. The Section would also prepare a Project
Completion Report and furnish the report to IDA not later than six months
after the Credit Closing Date. Appropriate assurances were obtained from GOP
at negotiations.
VI. FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
6.01      The purpose of the financial projections is to show that the finan-
cial benefits accruing to RECP from the project's paddy/rice storage component
would yield a satisfactory rate of return and that they would be adequate to
permit debt service on terms and conditions proposed under the project.
6.02      The major benefits of the paddy/rice storage component for RECP
would be the reduction in quantitative paddy storage losses and the improve-
ment in the quality of the milled rice. Present conditions requiring outside
storage of Basmati paddy under tarpaulins lead to excessive discoloration of
the milled rice, and to rice quality deterioration due to high susceptibility
of the paddy to insect attack (details on estimated losses are in para 2.28).
Project godowns would reduce also paddy handling and quality control costs and
enable milling operations to be organized more economically. To cope with the
shortage of storage facilities and avoid outside storage of high value Basnati



- 40 -
rice, RECP now slows down the milling of paddy when transport for milled rice
cannot be secured in time. On the other hand, to minimize the period of
outside storage for paddy, if transport is available, the mills operate at
full capacity in the months following paddy procurement, while towards the
end of the crop year the milling capacity is idle. Benefits from improved
scheduling of milling operations, although considered significant, have not
been quantified.
6.03      As detailed in Annex 10, Table 2, the quantified benefits would be
adequate to service the debt under the proposed lending terms and conditions.
The financial rate of return (ROR) would be about 37%. ROR remain satisfac-
tory if expected benefits are reduced or investment costs increased within
realistic boundaries. Storage construction costs, which already include
physical contingencies of 10%, would have to go up by 204%, or the combined
benefits from reductions in storage losses and operating costs would have
to decrease by 67%, to reduce ROR to 11%, the interest rate which would be
charged by GOP on the loan. The major uncertainty facing RECP with regard
to this investment would be excess storage capacity due to low paddy pro-
curement by the mills. This is, however, unlikely since storage capacity
is inadequate even if procurement is not increased from present levels.
Paddy purchases would have to decline by 18% from the average procurement
in 1977/78 and 1978/79 before ROR would be reduced to 11%.
VII. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Benefits
7.01      The project would strengthen procurement and storage operations of
the Provincial Food Departments, PASSCO and RECP and assist in implementing
GOP foodgrain policy more effectively. Without the project, a substantial
part of the grain procured by public sector institutions would have to be
stored in the open under cover on plinths and platforms. Grain storage losses
would be extensive (paras 2.26 and 2.28). Handling losses as well as storage
operating costs for the grain stored outdoors would be high (Annex 10, Tables
3, 4 and 5). Also some of the grain would need to be moved from the procure-
ment to distribution centers at high cost immediately after procurement (Annex
10, Table 5). The principal economic benefits would therefore be the reduction
in grain storage and handling losses and savings in storage operating and
transportation costs. At full development, safe storage provided by project
godowns would reduce annual storage losses by about 26,000 MT of wheat and
some 2,500 MT of paddy. Handling losses also would be reduced by about 2,000
MT and 100 MT of wheat and paddy, respectively. 30,600 MT of grain which
would thus be saved annually are valued at US$7.9 million. Annual foreign
exchange earnings would increase by about US$8.7 million. Savings in operating
cost, including transportation expenditures, are estimated at about US$2.0
million per year at full development. Total annual cost savings resulting
from the protect thuas would be almost US$10 miIlion.
7.02      An important additional but unquantifiable benefit stemming from the
project would be the Government's ability to implement its support price and



- 41 -
price stabilization policies more effectively. Project storage would permit
Provincial Food Departments, PASSCO and RECP to expand their grain procurement
operations, which would assist in providing additional farmgate price support,
and thereby encourage increased foodgrain production. Benefits from strength-
ening MFAC's Food Wing and from training and technical assistance in grain
transportation economics and logistics and in grain inspection and quality
control are difficult to quantify. However, these components are expected
to produce appreciable savings through improved planning and coordination,
more efficient operational management, and further reductions in transporta-
tion costs. Important additional benefits, including reductions in on-farm
storage losses, would be expected from the project's grain storage research
and extension component. These benefits have not been quantified. Benefits
from improved storage maintenance also have not been quantified. In the
present situation, characterized by inadequate maintenance, grain losses are
excessive. The increase in budgetary provisions for maintenance coupled with
timely execution of repairs, and increased emphasis on preventive maintenance
would permit a reduction in grain losses from the levels now experienced.
Beneficiaries
7.03      Benefits would accrue primarily to the Government in the form of
reduced grain storage losses, resulting in additional foreign exchange earn-
ings, higher income from public sector export operations and/or reduced deficits
in subsidized foodgrain distribution. The project would also benefit farmers.
Additional storage especially in the wheat procurement areas would enable the
Provincial Food Departments and PASSCO to expand procurement operations which
would increase competition for the farmers' produce. As a result, farmgate
prices would be expected to rise. Reduced storage losses and improvements in
grain transportation and grain inspection and quality control would result
also in less costly and more efficient public food distribution. During
construction, the project would provide employment opportunities for 2,975
man-years and 5,550 man-years of skilled and unskilled labor, respectively.
At full development the project would offer permanent job opportunities for
about 680 personnel.
Economic Rates of Return
7.04      Economic cost and benefit values have been calculated at estimated
border prices. Prices of internationally traded goods have been converted at
the official exchange rate (US$1.00 = Rs 9.9). For calculating the economic
value of non-traded goods, a standard conversion factor of 0.9 has been
applied. The shadow wage rage for unskilled labor has been estimated at
85% of the financial wage rate. All costs and benefits are expressed in
1980 constant Rupees. Economic rates of return (ERR) have been calculated
separately for four wheat storage models, the total wheat storage component,
each of the seven paddy/rice storage facilities, the total paddy/rice storage
component, the three pilot schemes and the entire project. ERR for the entire
project is estimated at about 28% with individual ERR of 26% and 43% for the
wheat storage and paddy/rice storage component, respectively. Details on
assumptions used in ERR calculations are in Annex 10. To take into considera-
tion the differences in construction costs and operating conditions in the
four Provinces, and to account for the Jifferent impact of the various prozJ>ew



- 42 -
storage complexes on transportation costs, the 124 wheat storage complexes
have been categorized and grouped into four models. Models A and B are
applicable to project storage facilities which would be constructed at existing
storage locations; Models C and D are for new storage locations. Model A con-
cerns project storage for NWFP and Baluchistan, the other three models relate
to storage for both Punjab and Sind. The difference between Models C and D is
that in the "without project" situation wheat is transported immediately after
harvest long distance to consumption areas under Model D conditions, while it
is moved to nearby procurement storage where Model C applies. ERR have been
calculated for different storage capacities for each model and are estimated
to range between (i) 26% and 36% for Model A; (ii) 23% and 24% for Model B;
(iii) 24% and 25% for Model C; and (iv) 30% and 32% for Model D (details are
in Annex 10, Table 6). Individual ERR for the paddy/rice storage facilities
are estimated to vary between 35% and 51%, and the three pilot projects have
estimated ERR of 19% and 23% (details are in Annex 10, Tables 3 and 7).
Sensitivity Analysis and Project Risks
7.05      ERR remain satisfactory even if benefits were significantly delayed.
If benefits streams were to lag by one full year, ERR would be reduced but
only four percentage points, from 26% to 22% for the wheat storage component
and only eleven percentage points from 43% to 32% for the paddy/rice storage
provided under the project. Utilization of the storage to be constructed in
the Punjab and Sind wheat procurement areas could vary considerably from year
to year depending on the crop size (Annex 4). Even if once every four years
project storage in Punjab and Sind were not to be used at all due to bad
harvests, ERR for wheat storage in these two Provinces would still be 19%.
7.06      Switching values have been calculated to determine the sensitivity
of the project's storage components to changes in major cost and benefit
streams. The following percentage changes in costs or benefits would have
to occur before ERR is reduced to 10% which would still be satisfactory.
% Increase (Decrease) Required to Reduce ERR to 10%
Cost or Benefit             Wheat Storage           Paddy/Rice            Total
Component                   Component         Storage Component        Project
Investment Cost                 108                     286                124
Savings in Storage Losses       (81)                    (81)               (81)
Savings in Operating Cost      (204)                   (867)              (241)
Total Benefits             (58)                    (74)               (61)
The analysis shows that ERR is not very sensitive to changes in investment
costs and savings in operating costs.  Investment cost overruns by 124% for
the entire project are highly unlikely. Civil works costs accounting for 90%
of total project costs have been estimated on the basis of detailed storage
model designs (Annex 5, Chart I), and physical contingencies of 10% have
al.ready beeni atie tD all majot cost items.  Yconoumlc viaDlity oi tnF ptoje- c
is most sensitime to beieits   o -'ce   stoa:  toes. iv-  roXC Icvos
reductions could be lower than anticipated if project storage would create an
excess capacity, due to low levels of grain procurement by the Provincial Food



- 43 -
Departments, PASSCO and RECP. However the utilization of the wheat and the
paddy/rice storage facilities would have to decrease by almost 60% and about
75%, respectively, from projected levels before ERR for these components would
fall off to 10%. In the case of paddy/rice storage, this would require a
reduction in annual paddy procurement by RECP of more than 20% from present
procurement levels. For wheat, public sector procurement would have to be
lower than 18% oif production, compared to 27% during the last year, 24% in
1978/79 and an average of 22% over the last five years. Such reductions from
present procurement levels are unlikely given the stated Government grain
procurement, distribution and pricing policies. Also, should public sector
grain procurement actually be significantly lower than projected, continuous
procurement monitoring by PMCC (para 5.03) would ensure that the project
storage construction program could be adjusted as necessary. With a change in
GOP's policy to offer incentive prices to producers, public sector grain
procurement would decline. However, such a change is not anticipated for the
near future. If the private sector were to take over a larger share of grain
marketing, the storage facilities would still be required and could be made
available to private traders and millers. Foreseeable risks would therefore
not jeopardize project success. The project would have no adverse environ-
mental effects.
VIII.  RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from GOP, PASSCO and
RECP on the following:
(i) IDA to be consulted annually on the Government's grain storage
construction programs (GOP) (para 4.06);
(ii) technical assistance consultants to be engaged by January 31,
1982 on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA (GOP and
PASSCO) (para 4.22);
(iii)  foreign training (including study tours) and the project study
to be arranged by March 31, 1982 under terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA (GOP) (paras 4.24 and 4.25);
(iv) the head of the Storage Cell and two Technical Officers to be
engaged by December 31, 1981 (GOP) (para 5.01);
(v) copies of reports and recommendations on grain transportation
and quality inspection and control to be furnished to IDA by
March 31, 1983 (GOP) (para 5.09);
(vi) copies of annual project storage construction programs to be
submitted to IDA for approval by July 31 of each year (GOP)
(para 5.11);
(vii)  land for 200,000 MT storage capacity to be acquired by Provin-
cial Food Departments by each August 31, 1982 and 1983 (GOP)
(para 5.11);



- 44 -
(viii) survey on unattended repairs of existing grain storage faci-
lities to be completed by October 31, 1981, and repairs to be
carried out by December 31, 1985 under a program to be agreed
with IDA (GOP) (para 5.12); and
(ix)  budgetary provisions for regular storage repair and maintenance
to be increased by Provincial Governments to levels satisfac-
tory to IDA (GOP) (para 5.13).
8.02      Agreement has been reached also on the following conditions of
Credit effectiveness:
(i) execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between GOP and RECP,
satisfactory to IDA (para 4.29);
(ii)  establishment of a project revolving fund and making an ini-
tial deposit of Rs 50 million (para 4.30);
(iii) PC-1 approval by ECNEC (para 4.31);
(iv)  fulfillment of the effectiveness conditions of the "Swiss
Contribution Agreement" (para 4.34);
(v) establishment of PMCC with composition and responsibilities
satisfactory to IDA (para 5.03);
(vi)  completion of an agreement, satisfactory to IDA, between MFAC,
Provincial Food Departments and PASSCO detailing coordination
and implementation arrangements (para 5.04); and
(vii) establishment of PIU and appointment of PIU's chief engineer
(general manager) and two deputy general managers (para 5.05).
8.03      Establishment of a Program Coordination Unit by PARC with composition
and responsibilities satisfactory to IDA and finalization of a grain storage
research and extension training program acceptable to IDA would be conditions
of disbursement for the project's grain storage research and extension compo-
nent (para 5.08).
8.04      It is recommended that retroactive financing up to a total of US$1
million be made available for RECP expenditures after January 1, 1981 on
appropriately procured civil works for paddy/rice storage construction (paras
4.10 and 4.29).
8.05      With the above conditions and assurances, the project would be suit-
able for an IDA Credit of SDRs 26.1 million (US$32 million) to GOP on standard
terms.



PAKISTAN
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Production ('000 MT), Cultivated Area ('000 ha) and Yield (MT/ha) for Foodgrains
Wheat if                   Rice 1/             Bajra (Millet)              Jowar (Sorghum)                  Maize                  Barley                Total Foodgrains
1-tr       Prod.   Area   Yield    Prod.   Area   Yield    Prod.   Area   Yield    Prod.   Area   Yield    Prod.   Area   Yield    Prod.   Area   Yield                      Prod.    Area
1970/71     6,476  5,978   1.08    2,200   1,503   1.47           355      750    .470      329      558    .5-K        717     640    1.13         91     141    .64       10,168    9,570
1971/72     6,890  5,797   1.19    2,262   1,456   1.55           360      759    .470      312      507    .62        705      633    1.12        103     157    .65       10,632    9,309
1972/73      7,442  5,971   1.24    2,330   1,480   1.58          304      612      .50      302     500    .60        706      645    1.10        109     164    .66       11,193    9,372
1973/74      7,629  6,113   1.24    2,455   1,512   1.62          351      733      .48      378     589    .65         767     632    1.21        140     205    .68        11,720    9,784
1974/75      7,674  5,812   1.32    2,314   1,604   1.44          266      545      .49      266     445    .60         747     614    1.15        137      194    .71       11,461    9,214
1975/76      8,691  6,111   1.42    2,618   1,710   1.53          308      624      .49      281     476    .59         803      620    1.29       130      186    .70       12,831    9,727
1976/77      9,144  6,390   1.43    2,737   1,749   1.56          311      648      .48      261      447    .58        764      624    1.22       124      174    .71       13,341   10,032
1977/78      8,367  6,360   1.32    2,950   1,899   1.55          318      641      .49      284      520    .55        821      656    1.25       121      167    .72       12,861   10,243         1
1978/79      9,948  6,687   1.49    3,274   2,026   1.61          317      659      .48      252      469    .54        799      650    1.23       129      177    .73       14,719   10,668        .-
1979/80    10,760  7,021   1.53    3,186   2,036   1.56           277      562      .49      250      454    .55        875      770    1.14       129      177    .73       15,477    10,981
Average Annual
arowth Rate (.) 2
1970/71 to
1979/80      6.8      2.1    4.2       5.6    4.62       .62    (2.13)  (2.38)  (.38)   (2.72)  (1.67) (1.25)    2.21;   1.44   1.55               4.11    2.34  1.64          5.71      1.83
1/ Detail by Province in Table 2.
T/ The average of 1970/71 and 1971/72 is compared with the average of 1978/79 and 1979/80.
Source:  Agricultural Statistics of PAkistan, 1978, Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Cooperatives, Food
and Agricultural Division (Planning Unit), Islamabad.



PAKISTAN
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Gross Production ('000 MT), Area ('000 ha), Yield (IIT/ha) for Wheat and Rice by Province 1970/71-1978/79
Wheat
Punjab                 Sind                  N.W.F.P.            Baluchistan                Total
Year      Prod.    Area   Yield   Prod.   Area   Yield   Prod.  Area   Yield  Prod. Area  Yield  Prod.    Area   Yield
1970/71    4,948   4,390   1.12    1,121        837   1.34    331   590    .56        76   161   .47    6,476   5,978   1.08
1971/72    5,291   4,229   1.25    1,081        780   1.38    440   593    .74        78   195   .41    6,890   5,797   1.19
1972/73    5,694   4,366   1.30    1,096        771   1.42    584   684    .86        68   150   .45    7,442   5,971   1.24
1973174    5,665   4,413   1.28    1,246        841   1.48    607   692    .88    111   167   .66    7,629   6,113   1.24
1974/75    5,786   4,216   1.37    1,144        755   1.51    613   695    .88    131   146   .90    7,674   5,812   1.32
1975/76    6,572   4,472   1.47    1,321        797   1.57    660   707    .93    138   135  1.02    8,691   6,111   1.42
1976/77    6,808   4,598   1.48    1,478        927   1.60    712   717    .99    146   148   .99    9,144   6,390   1.43
1977/78    6,090   4,601   1.32    1,427        906   1.58    689   696    .99    161   157  1.03    8,367   6,360   1.32
1978/79    7,322   4,806   1.52    1,682   1,009   1.67    740   705   1.05    204   168  1.24    9,948   6,687   1.49
Rice
1970/71      982      738   1.33    1,123       671   1.67      66    54   1.23       28    40   .71    2,200   1,503   1.47
1971/72      993      688   1.44    1,168       672   1.73      59    54   1.09       43    42  1.02    2,262   1,456   1.55
1972/73    1,001      688   1.46    1,222       702   1.74      66    52   1.26       41    38  1.06    2,330   1,480   1.58
1973/74    1,115      713   1.56    1,235       706   1.75      72    57   1.26       33    36   .94    2,455   1,512   1.62
i974/75    1,152      821   1.40    1,049       687   1.52      77    61   1.25       36    35  1.02    2,314   1,604   1.44
1975/76    1,207      877   1.37    1,286       731   1.76      85    63   1.34       40    38  1.03    2,618   1,710   1.53
1976/77    1,332      920   1.45    1,292       747   1.73      85    63   1.35       28    19  1.48    2,737   1,749   1.56
1977/78    1,508   1,048   1.44    1,315        747   1.76      88    66   1.33       39    38  1.02    2,950   1,899   1.55
1978/79    1,767   1,182   1.50    1,342        735   1.82    104    68   1.53        61    41  1.48    3,274   2,026   1.61
source: Agricultural Statistic of Pakistan, Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Cooperatives,
Food and Agricultural Division (Planning Unit), Islamabad.
mIx



ANNEX 1
- 47 -                                   -
Table 3
PAKISTAN
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Foodgrain Imports and Exports, and
Rice Procurement by Rice Export Corporation of Pakistan
(in '000 MT)
Foodgrain Imports and Exports
Rice Exports                Net Foodgrain
Year      Wheat Imports    Basmati    Others 1/ Total    Imports (Exports)
1970/71         :269            161         26        187              82
1971/72          439            180         17        197             242
1972/73        1,418             61        656        717             701
1973/74        1,0)79           178        310        488             591
1974/75        1,:173           153        273        426             747
1975/76        1,273            236        526        762             511
1976/77         .505            402        481        883            (378)
1977/78          821            247        557        804              17
1978/79        2,112            181        829      1,010           1,102
1979/80          678            250 2/    850 2/  1,100              (422)
Procurement of Rice by Rice Export Corporation of Pakistan -
Punjab                    Sind            Total
Year      Food Dept.   PASSCO   Food Dept.   PASSCO
1970/71        72           -         324         -         396
1971/72        40           -        297           -        337
1972/73       139           -           -          -        139
1973/74       226           -         308          -        534
1974/75       350           -        312           -        662
1975/76       390           -         320          -        710
1976/77       302           -        279           -        581
1977/78       416          24        404          48        892
1978/79       662          44        458          68      1,231
1/ Mainly IRRI varieties.
2/ Estimate.
3/ Rice is procured mainly through Provincial Food Departments and from
PASSCO.
SOURCE: Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Cooperatives and Rice Export Corpora-
tion of Pakistan.



ANNEX 1
-48-                                      Table 4
PAKISTAN
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Grain Prices
(in Rs/maund)
1973/74 1974/75 1975/76 1976/77 1977/78 1978/79 1979/80 1980/81
Government Procurement Prices
Wheat                             22.50   25.50   37.00   37.00   37.00   37.00   45.00   54.20
Paddy
Basmati 1/                          -       -        -       -   60.00   60.00   60.00   76.00
IRRI  1/                           -        -       -        -   30.00   30.00   30.00   36.00
Rice
Basmati                        60.00   90.00   90.00   90.00   95.00  110.00  110.00  128.00
IRRI                           24.00   40.00   40.00   40.00   46.00   49.00   49.00   59.00
Average Wholesale Prices (Punjab)
Wheat                              27.00   34.78   39.59   38.48   39.96   47.74   48.84    n.a.
Rice
Basmati                        73.26   99.16   99.53  101.75  118.03  123.21  126.54    n.a.
IRRI                           34.78   45.14   45.51   53.28   56.98   64.75   73.26    n.a.
Average Monthly Wholesale Prices for Wheat
1978/79     May   June   July   Aug.   Sep.   Oct.   Nov.   Dec.  - Jan.   Feb.   March   April
Karachi     52      52     57     57      58     54      54     60      61     57     52       51
Lahore      42      40     45     48      51     48      52     52     52      51     50       46
Multan      38      40     40     45      47     45      49     48     49      51     47       44
1979/80
Karachi     50     53      57     59      58     56      61     65     65      63     60       58
Lahore      47     46      46     46      49     48      48     51     52      51     53       54
Multan      44      46     47     48      48     47      48     50     51      53     51       50
1/  GOP started issuing support prices for paddy in 1977/78
Source: Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Cooperatives.



PAXISTAN
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Grain Storage Facilities of Provincial Food Departments and PASSCO
(in '000 MT)
Punjab
Provincial Food Department                               PASSCO
Existing        Storage                      Existing         Storage                        Total
Enclosed         Under                       Enclosed          Under                        Storage
District                  Storage 1/   Construction 2/   Total          Storage 1/   Construction 2/   Total          Capacity
1.  Rawalpindi Division
Attock                        23                -             23             -                -               -           23
Rawalpindi                   113                -            113            -                 -               -         113
Jhelum                        28                -             28             -                -               -           28
GuJrat                        22                -             22             -                                            22
Subtotal                  186                -            186            -                 -              -          186
2. Sargodha Division
Sargodha                      82                1             83            15                -              15           98
Jhang                         44                3             47             -                -               -           47
Faisalabad                   146               22            168            36                -              36         204
Mainvali                      16                3             19             -                -               -           19
Subtotal                  288              29             317           51                 -             51          368      $
3.  Lahore Division
Sialkot                        32               1             33             -                -               -           33
Gujranwala                    61               17             78             -                7               7           85
Sheikhupura                   60               23             83             -                -               -           83
Lahore                         81               -             81            19                2              21          102
Kasur                         16               10             26             -                -               -           26
Subtotal                                   51             301           19                 9            -28          329
4. Multan Division
Sahival                      130               80            210           90                11             101          311
Vehari                        46               79            125            35                4              39          164
Multan                       141               24            165            70               15              85          250
Muzaffargarh                   18              13             31                              -               _           31
D. G. Khan                     11               1             12                              -               -           12
Subtotal                                  IY7                          195                30            225          7[W
5. Bahawalpur Division
Bahavalpur                     29              79            108             6              . _               6          114
Bahawalnagar                  43               20             63             -                -               -           63
Rahimyar Khan                  25              11             36             -                -               _           36
Subtotal                 -T 7rj110                        207            6                 -              6          213
Prevince Total             1,167              387          1,554          271                39             310       1.864
1/ Includes storage warehouses, silos and bins. 'Where necessary, under-rated nominal capacities have been adjusted
on the basis of the floor area of different godown designs and assuming a stack height of 14 layers.
2/ Includes storage construction planned under approved programs through June 30, 1982.



PAKISTAN
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Grain Storaee Facilities of Provincial Food Departments and PASSCO
(in 000 MT)
Sind
Provincial Food Department                          PASSCO
Existing       Storage                      Existing        Storage                       Total
Enclosed        Under                       Enclosed         Under                       Storage
District                 Storage 1/   Construction 2/   Total        Storage 1/   Construction 2/   Total         Capacity
1. Sukkur Div~ision
Jacobabad                   22               -              22           -               -               -            22
Khairpur                     29              1              30           -               -               -            30
Larkana                      36              _              36           -               _               _            36
Nawabshah                    38              6              44           -               _               _            44
Sukkur                      18               1              19           9               -               9            28
Shikarpur                    5.-                             5.                                            
SubtotOl                148              8              156           9                               9          165      o
2. Hyderabad Division
Sanghar                     32              3               35           -               -               -            35
Tharparkaf                  62              3               65           -               _               -           65
Dadu                        38              -               38           -               _               -            38
Badin                        5              -                5           -               _               _             5
Thatta                      12              -               12           -                               -           12
Hyderabad                   49              2               51           _              _51
SubtotAl                198                            206                    -                       -          206
3. Karachi pivision
Karachi                    156                             156           9               9              18          174
Province Total             502             16             518           18               9              27. 545
1/  Includes Storage warehouses, silos and bins. Where necessary, under-rated nominal capacities have been adjusted
on the basiS of the floor area of different godown designs and assuming a stack height of 14 layers.
2/ Includes Storage construction planned under approved programs through June 30, 1982.



PAKISTAN
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Grain Storage Facilities of Provincial Food Departments and PASSCO
(in '000 MT)
NWFP
Provincial Food Department                                PASSCO
Existing        Storage                       Existing         Storage                        Total
Enclosed         Under                        Enclosed          Under                        Storage
Storage 1/   Construction 2/   Total          Storage 1/   Construction 2/   Total           Capacity
1.  Pesbavar Division
Pesbhaar                       62                 6              68          10                                10           78
Mardan                          9                 5              14            -                                -           14
Kohat                          11                 2              13            --13
Kurram Agency                   1                 -               1            -                                             1
Khyber Agency                   1                                 1                                                          1
Mobmand Agency                  I                                  1          -                                              1
Orakzai Agency                  I
Subtotal                    85               13               98          10                _               10          108
2. Hazara Division
Abbottabad                     29                 1              30            -                                -            30
Mansehra                        3                 -               3                                                           3
Kohistan                       --
Subtotal                    32                1               33                    -                        -           33
3. Malakand Division
Malakand                        2                 1               3                    -                        -             3
Swat                            2                 2               4                                                           4 -  4
Dir                             2                 -               2                                                           2 _  2
Chitral                         4                 1               5            --5
8ajour Agency                                                                      -    -                                  -
Subtotal                    10                4               14                                                         14
4. D. I. Khan Division
D. I. Kian                     18                 -              18                    -                        -            18
Bannu                          12                 1              13                    -                        -            13
N. W.Agency                     1                 -               1            --1
S. W. Agency                    1                 _               1            -                                              1
Subtotal                    32                1               33
Province Total                159                19             178          10                _               10          188
1/ Includes storage warehouses, silos and bins. Where necessary, under-rated nominal capacities have been adjusted
on the basis of the floor area of different godown designs and assuming a stack height of 14 Layers.
2/  Includes storage construction planned under approved programs through June 30, 1982.
W S



PAKISTAN
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Grain Storage Facilities of Provincial Food Departments and PASSCO
(in '000 MT)
Baluchistan
Provincial Food Department                                PASSCO
Existing         Storage                       Existing         Storage                         Total
Enclosed          Under                        Enclosed          Under                         Storage
Storage 1/    Construction 2/    Total         Storage 1/    Construction 2/    Total         Capacity
1. Quetta Division
Quetta                   26                8                34           4                 -                4           38
Pishin                    4                2                6            -                 -                -            6
Loralai                   4                1                5            -                 -                -            5
Zhob                      3                -                3            -                 -                -            3
Chagai                    2                -                 2           -                 -                -            2
Subtotal              39               T1               50            4                -                 4           54
2. Sibi Division
Nasirabad                 8                -                8            -                 4                4           12
Kohlu                     I                1                 2           -                 -                -            2
Kachhi                    3                -                3            -                 -                -            3
Sibi                      2                1                3            -                 -                -            3
Subtotal              14                2               16            -                4                 4           20
3. Kalat Division
Khusdar                   3                1                 4           -                 -                -            4
Kharan                    2                -                 2           -                 -                -            2
Lasbella                  1                1                 2           -                 -                -            2
Kalat                     3                6                9            -                 -                -            9
Subtotal               9                8               17            -                -                 -17
4. Mekran Division
Turbat                    4                2                6            -                 -                -            6
Gwader                    5                3                8            -                 -                -            8
Panjgoor                  1                2                3                                               -            3
Subtotal              lo                7               17            -                -                             17
Province Total           72               28              100            4                 4                8          108
1/  Includes storage warehouses, silos and bins.  Where necessary, under-rated nominal capacities have been adjusted
on the basis of the floor area of different godown designs and assuming a stack height of 14 layers.
2/  Includes storage construction planned under approved programs through June 30, 1982.                                            a-



- 53                                    ANNEX 3
Table 1
PAKISTAN
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Subsidies aLnd Operating Cost in Public Sector Theat Distribution
Subsidies
(in million Rs)
Federal               Provincial Governments
Year        Government    Punjab       Sind     NWFP    Baluchistan         Total
1972/73         767.2         99.2       28.1    27.9          16.3          938.7
1973/74       1,669.1        129.7       45.7    33.8          26.5        1,904.8
1974/75       1,900.9        151.8       92.3    68.5          30.0        2,243.5
1975/76       1,128.8        204.3      106.2    65.4          48.0        1,552.7
1976/77       1,176.1        237.9       43.1    65.4         69.9        1,592.4
1977/78         899.9        314.8      131.8   120.4        104.6        1,571.5
1978/79       1,723.1        283.6      175.5   121.8        116.2        2,420.2
Source:  Federal an": Provincial Food Departments.
Operating Cost 1/
(in Rs/maund)
Cost Item                               Punjab            NWFP
Gunny Bags                                4.09
Delivery Expenses                         0.45
Bank Commission                           0.17               -
Taxes and Duties                          0.15            0.11
Transport at ion
- Rail                                   1.87            1.90
- Road                                   0.37            3.21
Handling Charges                          0.22               -
Godown Expenses                           0.82            0.04
Shortages and Unforseen
Expenditures                            0.07               -
Storage Surcharge                         0.07            0.05
Departmental Charges                      0.52            0.23
Interest                   2/             2.74            0.57
Punjab Food Dept. Charge -                   -           11.54
Total                              11.54            17.65
Source:  Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Cooperatives,and Provincial
Food Departments.
1/ For indigenous wheat during 1979/80.
2J Charge levietd by Punjab Food Department and PASSCO oh wheat procured in
Punjab and transported to NWFP. The transportation costs are covered
by NWFP separately.



PAKISTAN
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Public Sector Wheat Procurement and Distribution
(in '000 MT)
Wheat Procurement by Provincial Food Departments and PASSCO
----------Punjab-------
Year                   Food Dept.         PASSCO          Sind       NWFP        Baluchistan         Total
1970/71                   827                -             188         -               -             1,015
1971/72                   642                -              84          -                              726
1972/73                   120                -              84         -               -               204
1973/74                 1,122                -             212          7              -             1,334
1974/75                   826                -            400          -              16             1,242
1975/76                   894               27             328          1             46             1,291
1976/77                 1,790               15             498        24              19             2,346
1977/78                 1,231             204              394         5               8             1,842
1978/79                   424             229             423          1              10             1,087               @
1979/80                 1,242             576             531         15              14             2,378
Wheat and Atta Distribution by Provincial Food Departments
Sales to
Ration Distribution            N. Areas1I                 Open Market Sales                Total
year    Punjab   Sind   NWFP   Baluch.   Total    & Defense- Punjab   Sind    NWFP   Baluch.   Total   Distribution
1970/71    520      263    215     68       1,066        N/A        _       _        _         _       _            N/A
1971/72    574      256    253     93       1,176        N/A        _       _        _         _       _            N/A
1972/73    621      312    284    155       1,372        N/A        _       _        _         _       _            N/A
1973/74    815      543    352    183       1,893        254        _       _        _         _       _          2,147
1974/75    900      533    380    173       1,990        286        -       --                         -          2,272
1975/76    919     432    382    170        1,903        299        -      52        -         -      52          2,254
1976/77  1,003     510    484    159        2,156        246      201      49        -        -      250          2,652
1977/78  1,144     494    567    199        2,404        277       102    123        7        -      225          2,906
1978/79  1,029     566    599    236        2,430        390        78    200        7        -      285          3,105
1/  Includes Sales by PASSCO                                                                                                 c|
SOURCE:  Provincial Food Departments



- 55 -
ANNEX 3
PAKISTAN                                       Appendix 1
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Governnent Grading Standards for Wheat
Grading Factor                             Standards            Discount
1. Foreign Matter
<.52             No discount
.5%-1%           %foreign matter x procurement price; plus Rs 30
per 100 bags for cleaning
>1Z               2 x %foreign matter x procurement price; plus Rs 30
per 100 bags for cleaning
2. Admixture
43%               No discount
3%-5%             ;5 x  %admixture x procurement price
.>3X              .75 x %admixture x procurement price; plus Rs 30
per 100 bags for mixing
I/
3. Damaged Grains-
43%               No discount
32-4%             .5 x %damaged grain x procurement price
4X-5%             %damaged grain x procurement price
215%              1.5 x Zdacaged grain x procurement price
4. Insect Infestation
a)  up  to end of August                  #.O%              Reject
b)  September - October                   (.5%              No discount
.5Z-1%           %infested grain x procurement price
>1%               Reject
c)  November - December                   <1%               No discount
l-2%             %infested grain x procurement price
>2%               Reject
d)  January and later                     C1.5%             No discount
1.5%-3%           % infested grain x procurement price
>3%               Reject
II  Broken grain"s are 'lot discounted as long as they are zzoe damaged by Insects, moZds, fungi or heat.
SOURCE: Punjab Food Department, Wheat Procurement Policy, 1980-81.



- 56 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1
PAKISTAN
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Projections for llheat Storage Requirements by 1985/86
A.   Wheat Production
1.   Wheat production has grown from 6,476,000 MT in 1970/71 to 10.76 million
MT in 1979/80. The increase corresponds to an annual growth rate averaging
6.2%. Excluding the years 1977/78 and 1978/79, when growth rates have been
unusual as a result of a severe rust attack in 1977/78, annual production
growth has been fluctuating between a low of 0.6% in 1974/75 and a high of
13.3% in the following year. The 1979/80 wheat harvest exceeds the 1978/79
crop by 8.2%. Details on wheat production are in Annex 1, Tables 1 and 2.
2.        Wheat production has been projected for the crop year 1984/85 on
the basis of the actual production in each district since 1970/71, and assum-
ing that wheat output would continue to grow linearly at the average annual
growth rate achieved in each district over the last ten years.
3.        An exception has been made for NWFP and Baluchistan.  In NWFP, the
years 1970/71 and 1971/72 have been excluded from the calculation of projected
production growth rates because growth has been unusually high during these
years.  In Baluchistan, where wheat production has been fluctuating erratic-
ally in the various districts during the last ten years, projections have been
made on the basis of the average output during the crop years 1976/77 through
1978/79 and assuming a 5% linear annual growth.
4.        Projections based on the above assumptions reflect expected pro-
duction in a normal crop year. For a bumper crop, output has been estimated
to be 5.5% higher than in the normal production year. The 1984/85 wheat
crop has been extrapolated to reach about 13.6 million MT for a normal harvest
and about 14.3 million MT in the case of a bumper crop. Production projec-
tions by district are in Tables 1 and 2.
B.   Public Sector Wheat Procurement
5.        During the last four years, public sector wheat procurement, as a
percentage of wheat production, has been fluctuating between 20.1% and 26.8%
except for 1978, when, following the rust attack suffered by the 1977/78 crop,
procurement was down 41% from the 1977 level. Last year's public sector
procurement was 2.95 million MT, about 27% of production. Procurement details
by Province are in Annex 3, Table 2.



- 57 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2
6.        Assumbing that 1984/85 would be a normal crop year, public sector
wheat procuremenlt in 1985 has been projected for each district on the basis
of the district's forecasted 1984/85 wheat production and on the assumption
that the Government will procure a similar percentage of the crop as in 1977
and 1979. 1977 and 1979 have been selected for projection purposes because
Government procurement during these years followed two harvests which were
fairly normal, deviating little from the historical production trend. For
projecting the procurement for 1985, the average of the 1977 and 1979 pro-
curement percentages has been taken. Total public sector wheat procurement
forecasted on this basis for 1985 is 2.931 million MT or 21.6% of the pro-
jected 1984/85 crop. For a bumper crop, the percentage of public sector
wheat procurement has been estimated to be 15% higher than in a normal year.
Accordingly, for a bumper crop in 1984/85, wheat procurement by Provincial
Food Departments and PASSCO in 1985 has been forecasted at 3.555 million MT
or at 24.8% of the projected production. Details on procurement projections
by district are in Tables 1 and 2.
C.   Public Sector Wheat Distribution
7.        Wheat and atta distribution by Provincial Food Departments has
increased from 2.147 million MT in 1972/73 to 3.105 million MT in 1978/79.
For 1979/80, the amount has been estimated to have declined to about 2.8 mil-
lion MT. The decline has been due to a reduction in open market sales and
in sales to Norlthern Areas and Defense, and also to a drop in the amount of
atta issued under the ration system following the Government's increase of
the price for ration atta and a reduction in bogus ration cards. Details
on public sector distribution by Province are in Annex 3, Table 2.
8.        In view of GOP's intention to raise atta prices further and thereby
reduce the gap between open market flour prices and ration atta prices, it
has been assumed that public sector distribution would grow less rapidly in
the future than before 1979 and even diminish in some areas. Taking into
consideration transportation conditions and transportation costs together
with the relative importance of the private sector in wheat marketing in
the various Provinces, wheat distribution by the public sector has been
projected to grow annually by:
2% in Norithern Areas and for Defense;
1% in NWF]P and Baluchistan;
negative 1% in Sind; and
negative 2% in Punjab.
9.        On thie basis of these growth rates and the average quantity of
wheat distribution in each district during 1977/78 and 1978/79, public sector
distribution has been projected for 1985/86 at 2.841 million MT including
409,000 MT forecasted for Northern Areas and Defense. Details by district
are in Tables 1 and 2.



- 58 -
ANNEX 4
Page  3
D.   Public Sector Wheat Storage Needs and Proposed Project Storage
10.       Provincial Food Departments and PASSCO presently own 2.203 million
MT storage capacity mainly for the storage of wheat. Additional capacity of
502,000 MT is under construction or planned. Furthermore, GOP plans to con-
struct 300,000 MT capacity for storing food security reserves. Details are
in Annex 2, Tables 1 through 4.
11.       Wheat storage needs have been projected for 1985/86 on the basis
of the forecasts for wheat procurement and distribution in each district.
The projected yearly wheat procurement in each district (Tables 1 and 2)
has been allocated to the various months in accordance with the past procure-
ment pattern. The annual amount distributed in each district (Tables 1 and 2)
has been assumed to be released during the year in accordance with historical
monthly distribution patterns which show an increase in ration distribution
towards the end of the crop year. Wheat movements into and out of the various
districts have been assumed to follow past movement patterns and be directed
in a manner that would keep transportation cost at a minimum, while taking
into consideration constraints in transportation capacity and timing pre-
ferences of the Provincial Food Departments of NWFP and Baluchistan.
12.       Carry over stocks have been estimated for each district considering
normal operational needs and taking into account transportation difficulties
in the various Provinces. For districts in which projected procurement
exceeds distribution needs, carry over stocks have been estimated at 15% of
annual procurement. For the other districts, it has been assumed that carry
over stocks would vary with annual distribution requirements: (i) in Punjab
and Sind, carry over stocks are estimated at 20% of annual distribution needs;
(ii) in NWFP and Baluchistan, carry over stocks are projected at three months
and four months distribution requirements, respectively.
13.       Under the assumption that 1984/85 would be a normal crop year, pro-
jected public sector wheat procurement exceeds forecasted distribution needs
by 90,000 MT; in the case of a bumper crop, by 714,000 MT. For the normal
crop, it has been assumed that the excess procurement would be used to increase
carry over stocks; for the bumper crop, it has been assumed that export prices
would be attractive and GOP would export 600,000 MT while 114,000 MT would be
added to inventories. Assuming that Pakistan's total wheat consumption would
continue to expand at the average annual rate of 4% experienced in the past
decade, Pakistan would be self-sufficient in wheat in 1985/86.
14.       Additional wheat storage needs in each district by 1985/86 have
first been calculated under the assumption that multiple grain handling would
be kept at a minimum and wheat would be moved in the most economical manner.
(Examples of the calculation of district-wise storage needs are in Tables 3
and 4.) In a second step, by making use of excess storage which is available
especially in large distribution centers, overall storage needs have been
reduced.  Excess stocage would be utilized by shipping wheat more rapidly
to distribution areas using less economical transportationt -eaas avld/ot byj
sending wheat temporarily to locations with excess storage from where it would
be moved later to consumption points. Details on additional storage require-
ments in each district, together with project storage proposals, are in Tables
5 through 8.



- 59 -
ANNEX 4
PAKISTAN                                               Table 1
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Projections for Wheat Production (1984/85), and
Public Sector Wheat Procurement and Distribution (1985/86)
(in '000 MT)
Projected Production               Projected Public                    Projected Public
(1984/85)   1/               Sector Procurement                 Sector Distribution
(1985/86)    2/                    (1985/86)       3/
District                     Normal Crop      Bumper Crop         Normal Crop       Bumper Crop
PUNJAB
Attock                            357               377                                                            22
Rawalpindi                        153               161                                                           217
Jhelum                            200               211                  -                  -                      52
Gujarat                           459               484                 34                 42                      28
Sargodha                          447               472                101               122                       30
Faisalabad                      1,072            1,131                 241                292                     80
Jhang                             628               663                135                164                      18
Mianwali                          473               499                 26                 32                       7
Sialkot                           445               469                 34                 42                     26
Gujranwala                        567               598                157                190                     33
Sheikhupura                       393               415                 88               107                      14
Lahore                            131               138                 27                 33                    245
Kasur                             455               480                 94                114                     18
Sahiwal                         1,148            1,211                 465               564                      14
Vehari                            423               446                148               180                        9
Multan                          1.069            1,128                 373               451                      73
Muzaffargarh                      536               565                 81                 99                      1
D.G. Rhan                         208               219                 14                 17                      4
Bahawalpur                        275               290                 63                 77                     26
Bhawalnagar                       347               366                 97               118                       1
Rahinyar Rhan                     317               334                 61                 74                      2
Punjab Totals                  10,103           10,657               2,239             2,718                     920
SIND
Jacobabad                          83                88                  8                 10                      8
Thatta                             22                23                  1                  1                      8
Karachi                             -                 -                  -                  -                    413
Dadu                              183               193                 29                 35                       9
Rhairpur                          172               181                 51                 62                       7
Tharparkar                        309               326                 99                120                     14
Sanghar                           335               353                157                190                      9
Larkana                            94                99                  8                 10                     13
Nawabshah                         493               521                197                239                      22
Sukkur                            165               174                 23                 28                     68
Shikarpur                          20                21                  2                  2                      5
Hyderabad                         256               270                 67                 81                     61
Badin                             129               136                 20                 24                      3
Sind Totals                     2,261            2,385                 662               802                     640
1/ See paras 2 and 3.
2/ See para 6.
3/ See paras 7 and 8.



- 60-                                       ANNEX 4
PAKISTAN                                     Table 2
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Projections for Wheat Production (1984/85), and
Public Sector Wheat Procurement, and Distribution (1985/86)
(in '000 MT)
Projected Production           Projected Public              Projected Public
(1984/85)        1/     Sector Procurement            Sector Distribution
(1985/86)    2/              (1985/86)      3/
District           Normal Crop   Bumper Crop    Normal Crop   Bumper Crop
NWFP
D.I. Khan               137            146             10              12                    48
Bannu                   172            181               2              2                    45
Dir                      47             50               -              -                    27
Chitral                   9              9               -              -                     6
Bajour Agency            27             28               -              -
S.W. Agency               7              7               -              -
N.W. Agency              10             11               -              -                     -
Swat                     68             72              -               -                    22
Malakand                 48             51               -              -                    27
Mansehra                 53             56               -              -                    16
Abbottabad               92             97               -              -                    85
Orakzai Agency            7              7               -              -                     -
Mohmand Agency           20             21               -              -                     -
Khyber Agency            15             16               -              -                     -
Kurram Agency             9              9               -              -                     -
Kohat                    78             82               -              -                    77
Mardan                  119            126               1              1                    47
Peshawar                 96            101               1              1                   239
Kohistan                  -              -               -              -                     3
NWFP Totals           1,014          1,070              14             16                   642
BALUCHISTAN
Quetta                    6              6              -               -                    75
Pishin                   21             22              -               -                    40
Loralai                  26             27               2              2                    12
Zhob                      9              9              -               -                    21
Chagai                    3              3              -               -                     7
Sibi                     10             11              -               -                     5
Nasirabad                88             94              11             13                     3
Kohlu                     3              3              -               -                     1
Kachhi                   17             18              -               -                     7
Khuzaar                  12             13              -               -                     3
Kalat                    18             19               3              4                     4
Kharan                    2              2               -              -                     5
Lasbella                  1              1              -               -                    15
Turbat                    1              1              -               -                    15
Gwader                    -              -              -               -                    10
Panjgoor                  1              1              -               -                     7
Baluchist-an ''tuXs                    2               16              19                   230
1/ See paras 2 and 3.
2/ See para 6.
3/ See paras 7 and 8.



- 61 -
ANNEX 4
Table3
PAKISTAN
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Projected Wheat Storage Requirements 1985/86 -
(in '000 MT)
Example: Sahiwal District (PunJab)
Shipments to:2/
Sales in                                      Northern Areas    Ending
Month                          Procurement-V   District2/   Rawalpindi   Lahore   NWFP    and Defense            Inventory
Beginning Inventory .V 70
May                              186             1               1           5        36            7             206
June                             186             1               1           5        36            7             342
July                              65             1               1           5        22            7             371
August                            14             1               1           5        13            8             357
September                         14             1               1           5        22            7             335
October                           -              1               1           5        22            7             299
November                          -              1               1           5        22            7             263
December                          -              1               ,1          5        23            7             226
January                           -              2               1           5        22            8             188
February                          -              2               1           5        23            7             150
March                             -              1               1           5        22            7             114
April                             -              1               1           5        22            7              78
Total                              465            14               12         60       285           86
Peak Inventory                                             371
Wheat Storage Requirements 4/                              436
minus:  Existing Storage Capacity 5/                       220
minus:  Storage Under Construction or Included
in Planned Construction Programs 5/                 91
plus :  Storage Requirements for Jute Bags, Sugar
andl Other Commodities Sharing Wheat Storage
Facilities 6/                                       22
Additional Wheat Storage Requirements                      147
1/ Assuming normal crop year (see paras 2 and 3 ).
2/ See para 11.
3I See para 12.
4/ It has been assumed that for operating reasons, transportation constraints and unsuitable location of some
existing storage, storage facilities can be loaded on the average only up to 85% of nominal capacity.
5/ From Annex 2, Table 1.
6/ Estimated at 5% of wheat storage requirements.



- 62 -
ANNEX 4
Table 4
PAKISTAN
GRAIN STORAGE PROJrCTr
Projected Wheat Storage Requirements 1985/86 ./
-     (in  000u MT)
Example: Karachi (Sind)
Sales in                           Shipments from: j/                            Ending
Month                 District .   Dadu   Tharparkar   Sanghar   Navabshah   Hyderabad   Badin   Inventors
Beginning Inventory * 83 -
April                 41           1        6            15          18          1          1         84
May                   31           1        6            13          14          1           1        89
June                  30           1        6            13         .14          -          -         93
July                  31           1        7            10          12                      1        93
August                30           1        7            10          11          -          1         93
September             31           1        7            10          11          1          1         93
October               30           1        7            10          11          -          1         93
November              31           1        6            10          12          -           1        93
December              31           2        7            10          12          1          -         93
January               37           1        7            13          15          -          1         93
Febuary               45           2        7            16          18          1          1         93
March                 45           2        7            16          18          1           1        93
Total                   413          15        80          146         166          6          10
Peak Inventory                                93
Wheat Storage Requirements 4/                109
minus:  Existing Storage Capacity 51         165
minus:  Storage Under Construction or
Included in Planned Construction
Programs  51                           9
plus:   Storage Requirements for Jute
Bags, Sugar and Other Commodities
Sharing Wheat Storage Facilities Y        5
Additional Wheat Storage Requirements        (60)
1/ Assuming normal crop year (see paras 2 and 3).
2/ See para 11.
3/ See para 12.
1 It has been assumed that for operating reasons, transportation constraints and unsuitable location of some
existing storage, storage facilities can be loaded on the average only up to 85% of nominal capacity.
5/ From Annex 2, Table 2.
6/ Estimated at 5% of wheat storage requirements.



-63 -                                                 ANNEX 4
Table 5
PAKISTAN
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Wheat Storage Gap 1985186 and Proposed Project Storage
(in'OOO MT)
Punjab
Normal Crop Year                                   Bumper Crop Year
Projected       Adjustment                        Projected        Adjustment
Storage Gap    for Utiliza-        Remaining      Storage Gap      for Utiliza-       Remaining         Proposed
(Excess)       tion of Excess    Storage          (Excess)         tion of Excess    Storage           Project
District          1985/86 I/      Storage         2/ Need           1985/86   1/    Storage          2/  Need             Storage  13/
Attock               (16)             16  3/                            (15)             15  9/             -                 _
Rawalpindi           (41)             41  4|              -             (38)             38 101             - o
Jhelum               (12)             12  5|             -              (13)             13 11/             -                 -
Gujarat               13               -                13               22               -                22              12.1
Sargodha              15               -                15               33               -                33              14.3
Faisalabad            52               -                52              108               -               108              22.0
Jhang                 95              24  3/ 4/          71             121             (21) 9/ 10/       100              23.1
Mianwali               7               -                  7              13               -                13                 -
Sialkot                5               -                 5              11                -                11                 -
Gujranwala            79             (45) 4/ 51          34             110             (45)10/ 11/        65              22.0
Sheikhupura           27 81            -                27              44 8/             -                44              24.2
Lahore                 -               -                  -               4               -                 4                 -
Kasur                 73               -                 73              89               -                89              39.6
Sahiwal              147             (12) 6/           135             272                -               272              52.8
Vehari               (12)             12  6/              -               8               -                 8                 -
Multan               104             (55) 7/             49             244             (47)12/           197              26.4
Muzaffargarh          43               -                 43              56               -                56              19.8
D. G. Khan             1               -                  1               1               -                 I                 -
Bahawalpur           (55)             55  7/              -             (47)             47 12/             -                 -
Bhawalnagar           31               -                 31              56               -                56              20.9
Rahimyar Khan         24 8,            -                 24              40 8/            -                40              13.2
TOTAL                580                               580           1,119                              1,119             290.4
Gross Storage Gap   716                                              1,232
(before deduction of excess storage)
1/  Calculated on the basis of projected grain flows (Examples are in Tables 3 and 4).
2/  Excess Storage would be utilized by accelerating shipments from the procurement area to distribution
centers and/or throughi temporary use of the excess until the wheat is moved to the consumption area.
1/  16,000 MT excess in Attock utilized to reduce needs in Jhang.
4/  41,000 MT excess in Rawalpindi utilized to reduce needs in Jhang (8,000 MT) and Gujranwala (31,000 MT).
5/  12,000 MT excess in Jhelum utilized to reduce needs in Gujranwala.
6/  12,000 MT excess in Vehari utilized to reduce needs in Sahiwal.
7/  55,000 MT excess in Bahawalpur utilized to reduce needs in Multan.
8/  Adjusted by 15,000 MT to account for disproportionate increase in procurement during last two years.
9/  15,000 MT excess in Aittock utilized to reduce needs in Jhang.
10/  38,000 MT excess in Rawalpindi utilized to reduce needs in Jhang (6,000 MT) and Gujranwala (32,000 MT).
11/  13,000 MT excess in JlJelum utilized to reduce needs in Gujranwala.
12/  47,000 MT excess in Bahawalpur utilized to reduce needs in Multan.
13/  Details by location are in Table 9.



PAKISTAN
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Wheat Storage Gap 1985/86 and Proposed Project Storage
(in '000 MT)
Sind
Normal Crop Year                                    Bumper Crop Year
Projected       Adjustment                        Projected         Adjustment
Storage Gap    for Utiliza-        Remaining      Storage Gap       for Utiliza-        Remaining       Proposed
(Excess)        tion of Excess    Storage          (Excess)         tion of Excess    Storage           Project
DiStrict       1985/86  1/    Storage         2/  Need            1985/86   1/    Storage          2/  Need             Storage  9/
Jacobabad          (15)             -                 -               (15)             -
Thatta              (8)             8  3/             -                (7)              7  6/
Karachi            (60)            60  4/             -               (54)            54  7/              -
Dadu                (8)             8  5/             -                10                -               10                  _
Khaitpur            24              -                24                32               _                32                9.9
Tharparkar          38             (8) 3/            30                56               7  6/            49               14.3
Saighar            127            (40) 4/           87                158            (40) 7/            118               22.0
Larksna            (25)             -                 -               (24)             -                  _                  _
NavJabshah         159            (28) 4/ 5/       131                195            (14) 7/            181               38.5
Sugkur              12              _               12                 12              _                 12              11.0
Shiksrpur            -                       -                 -                         -
Hy4eyabad           12 8/           -               12                 23 8/                             23                8.8
Badifl               68/            -6                                  9 8/           -9                               __
TOTALS             262 -                           302                394                               434             104.5
Gross Storage Gap 378
(before deduction of excess storage)
1/ Calculated on the basis of projected grain, flows (Examples are in Tables 3 and 4).
Excess Storage would be utilized by accelerating shipments from the procurement area to distribution
centers and/or through temporary use of the excess until the wheat is moved to the consumption area.
3/ 8,000 MT excess in Thatta utilized to reduce needs in Tharparkar.
4/ 60,000 MT excess in Karachi utilized to reduce needs in Sanghar (40,000 MT) and Nawabshah (20,000 MT).
5j 8,000 MT excess in Dadu utilized to reduce needs in Nawabshah.
6/ 7,000 excess in Thatta utilized to reduce needs in Tharparkar.
7/ 54,000 MT excess in Karachi utilized to reduce needs in Sanghar (40,000 MT) and Nawabshah (14,000 MT).
8/ Storage requirements in Hyderabad have been increased by 10,000 MT, while those in Badin have been                           E
-   decreased by the like amount to take account of the need for milling in Hyderabad a large part of the                       ' x
wheat consumed in Badin.
9/ Details by location are in Table 10.



PAKISTAN
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Wheat Storage Gap 1985/86 and Proposed Project Storage
(in'000 MT)
NWFP
Normal Crop Year                                   Bumper Crop Year
Projected       Adjustment ,                       Projected        Adjustment
Storage Gap    for Utiliza-        Remaining       Storage Gap      for Utiliza-        Remaining        Proposed
(Excess)        tions of Excess   Storage          (Excess)         tion of Excess    Storage            Project
1985/86 l/      Storage            Need            1985/86  1/      Storage             Need             Storage  2/
D.I. Khah          10               _                 10              12                _                  12              4.4
Bannu               8               _                  8               8                -                   8              3,3
Dir                 8               _                  8               8                -                   8              3.3
Chitral             2               _                  2               2                -                   2              1.7
Swat                6               _                  6               6                -                   6              4.4            @
Malakahd           10               _                 10              10                _                  10              9.9
Abbottebad          4               -                  4               4                -                   4                 _
Kohat              18                                  7 18           18                -                  18              5.5
Mardan              7                                                                                      1               5.
Peshawar           24               _                 24              24                _                  24             12.1
Kohistan            2                _                 2                2               -2
Mansehta            6                _                 6                6               _                   6               2.2
TOTAL             105                                105             107                                  107             50.1
1/  CalCulated on the basis of projected grain flows (Examples are in Tables 3 and 4.
2/  Details by location are in Table 10.
-J P,



PAKISTAN
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Wheat Storage Gap 1985/86 and proposed Project Storage
(in '000 MT)
Baluchistan
Normal Crop Year                                  Bumper Crop Year
projected       Adjustment                         Projected        Adjustment
Storage Gap    for Utiliza-        Remaining       Storage Gap      for Utiliza-        Remaining        Proposed
(gxcess)        tion of Excess    Storage          (Excess)         tion of Excess    Storage           Project
District       1985/86 1/      Storage  2/ _       Need           1985/86 1/       Storage 2/          Need             Storage  5/
Quetta             17                _                17              17                _                  17              9.9
Pishin             23               _                 23              23                _                  23             11.0
Loralai       ~5               -                  5               7                _                   7              3.3
Loralai3.
Zhob               13               _                 13              14                _                 14               6.6
3                                 3                3                                   3               2.2
Chagai              3               -                  3               3                                    3              2.2
Sibi
Nasirabad           2  4/           _                  2               2                _                   2              2.2
Kohlu                                                                                                       2  --
Kachhi              2                                  2               2                                    2              1.1
Khuzdar            (2)              -                                 (2)              -  3/
Kalat              (2)              4  3/              _              (4)                    
Kharan              2                                  2               3                                   3               2.2
Lasbella           11              (4) 3/              7              11               (4) 3/              7               4.4
Turbat              7                -                 7               7                -                  7               6.6
Gwader             (1)                                 -              (1)-
Panjgoor            3_                                 3               3                                   3               3.3
TOTAL              84                                87               88                                  91              55.0
Gross Storage GaP 91                                                  95
(before deduction of excess storage)
1/ Calculated On the basis of projected grain flows (Examples are in Tables 3 and 4).
2/  Excess storage would be utilized by accelerating shipments from the procurement area to distribution
centers amd/or through temporary use of the excess until the wheat is moved to the consumption area.
3/  4,000 MT excess at Lasbella utilized to reduce needs at Kalat.
j_  Adjusted to account for transport constraints in moving wheat procured in Nasirabad.
5/ Details by location are in Table 10.



- 67-                                       ANNEX 4
Table 9
PAKISTAN
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Proposed Project Storage Locations and Capacities
Capacity                                          Capacity
District              Location           (MT)      District               Location           T)
PUNJAB
Gujarat           M.B. Din                7,700    Muzaffargarh   Rakh Hirpolu               4,400
Lala Musa               4,400                    Chak 568/TDA              2,200
Total                12,100                    Mandi Leiah Town          3,300
Chak 354/TDA             2,200
Kasur             Khudian                 2,200                    Chak 106/ML               2,200
Theng More              8,800                    Chak 99-B/TDA             2,200
Chunnian                5,500                    Chak 138/TDA              3,300
Sarai Moghal            5,500                      Total                  19,800
Pattoke                 9,900
Bhai P'heru             7,700    Bahawalnagar   Minchinabad                3,300
Total                39,600                    Faqirwali                 3,300
Madrasa                  3,300
Sheikhupura      Bucheke                  2,200                    Khichiwala                3,300
Muridke                 3,300                    Chabiana                  3,300
Kh. Dogran              1,100                    Chak Abdullah             4,400
Panwan                  3,300                       Total                 20,900
Shahkot                 1,100
Manawala                9,900    R.Y. Khan       Liaqatpur                 8,800
Dhaban Singh            3,300                    Feroza                    4.400
Total                24,200                      Total                 13,200
Guiranwala       Gujranwala              22,000    Sargodha        Phullarwan                2,200
Bhalwal                  1,100
Multan            Mian Chunnu             2,200                    Shahpur                   3,300
Khanewal                4,400                    Jauhatabad                3,300
Dunyapur                8,800                    Sillanwali                1,100
Dairapur                2,200                    Qaidabad                  3,300
Lodhran                 5,500                      Total                  14,300
Thatta (Multan)         3,300
Total                26,400    Faisalabad      Faisalabad                8,800
Kamalia                  4,400
Sahiwal           Chak L70/9-L.7         17,600                    Pir Mehal                 4,400
Renala Khurd            3,300                    Jaranwala                 3,300
Chak 1/4-L.             4,400                    Chak Jumra                1,100
Akhtarabad              4,400                      Total                  22,000
Shergarh                8,800
Kameer                  4,400    Jhang           Jhang Sadder              1,100
Harappa                 3,300                    Bhawana                   9,900
Kamand                  2,200                    Mochiwala                 3,300
Qaidarabad              4,400                    Shah Jewana               4,400
Total                52,800                    Lalian                   2,200
Rabwah                   1,100
Waryan                   1,100
Total                 23,100
PUNJAB TOTAL 290,400 MT



-  68 -                                  ANNEX 4
Table 10
PAKISTAN
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Proposed Prolect Storage Locations and Capacities
Capacity                                            Capacity
District          Location              (MT)      District           Locatiou               (MT)
SIND
Hyderabad        Udero Lal               4,400    Sukkur            Arain Road               7,700
Chamber                4,400                      Dhaharki                  3.300
Total                8,800                        Total                 11,000
Tharparkar       Jamesabad               5,500    Rhairpur          Gambat                   3,300
Samaro Town            4,400                      Pacca Chang              3,300
Hirpurkhas             4.400                      Pir Wasan                 3.300
Total               14,300                        Total                   9,900
Sanghar          Shahpur Chakar          4,400    Nawabahab         Daur                     5,500
Hingorne               4,400                      Sixty Miles               5,500
Tando Adam             4,400                      Kazi Ahmed                7,700
Khipro                 4,400                      Nawab Wali Mohd.          3,300
Barani                 4,400                      Sarhari                   4,400
22,000                      Dariya Khan Mari         4,400
Bhiria Town              4,400
Tharu Shah               3.300
Total                 38,500
SIND TOTAL 104,500 MT
NWFP
D.I. Khan        D.I. Khan               4,400    Swat              Saidu Sharif.            4,400
Bannu             Bannu                  2,200    Malakant          Dargai                   9,900
Serai Norang           1,100
Total                3,300    Kohat             Kohat                    4,400
Eangu                    1,100
Dir               Timergara              3,300                        Total                  5,500
Chitral          Chitral                   500    Mardan            Hardan                    3,300
Broghil                  250
Darosh                   500    Peshawar          Peshawar                  9,900
Arundu                   250                      Nowshera                  2,200
Laspur                   250                        Total                  12,100
Total                1,750
Manshera         Manshera                  2,200
NWFP TOTAL 50,150 Mr
BALUCHISTAN
Quetta           Quetta                  8,800    Kachhi            Belpat                   1,100
Pishin           Pishin                  6,600    Nasirabad         Usta-Mohbamad             3,300
Chaman                 4.400
Total               11,000    Rharan            Rharan                   2,200
Loralai          Loralai                 2,200    Lasbella          Bela                      2,200
Barkhan                1.100                      Uthal                     1,100
Total                3,300                      Rub Chowki               1,100
Total                  4,400
Zhob             Zhob                    4,400
Muslimbagh             2,200    Turbat            Turbat                    4,400
Total                6,600                      Mand                      1,100
Magai  Nusbki  1,100               Tump                      1.100
Chagal           TUhiali                 1,100                        Total                   6,600
Dalbandin              1.100
Total                2,200    Panjgur           Panjgur                   3,300
Sibi             Sibi                    2,200
BALUCEISTAN TOTAL 55,000 MT
PROJECT TOTAL 550,000 MT



- 69 -
ANNEX 4
Table 11
PAKISTAN
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Projected Paddy/Rice Storage Requirements for 1985/86 at RECP Mills
(in MT)
Month         Activity                Hafizabad    Sheikhupura    Siranwali        Eminabad     Paizabad      Mubarikpur      Dhaunkal       TOTAL
October       Procurement 1/               100          200             100           100          100             100           700          1,400
Milling 2/                    -             -                     -             -              -             -                      -
Carry-Over-Stocks;          100           200            100           100           100            100           700           1.400
November      Procurement                3,200        5.600           2.600         3,100        3.600           3.300        19,600         41,000
Milling                     200           400            200           200           300            200         1.400           2.900
Carry-Over-Stocks         3.100         5,400          2,500         3.000         3.400          3.200        18.900          39.500
December      Procurement               5,000         8,600           4.000        4.900         5.600           5.100        30,400         63,600
Milling                     800         1.300            600           800           900            800         6.100          11.300
Carry-Over-Stockst        7,300       12,700           5,900         7,100        8,100           7,500        43,200          91,800
January       Procurement               2,300         4,000           1,900        2.300         2,600           2.400       14.200          29.700
Milling                   1.200         2.100          1,000         1,200         1.300          1.200         7.500          15.500
Carry-Over-Stocks;        8.400       14.600           6.800         8,200        9,400           8,700        49,900        106.000
February      Procurement                 500           800             300          400           500             400        2,600           5.500
Milling                   1.500        2,500           1.500         1.500         1.500          1.500         7,500          17.500
Carry-Over-Stocks         7,400       12,900           5.600         7.100        8.400           7,600        45.000         94.000
March         Mi lling                   1.500        2.500           1,500         1.500        1,500           1.500        7.500          17.500
Carry-Over-Stocks         5.900       10,400           4,100         5,600        6,900           6,100        37,500         76,500
April         Milling                    1,500        2,500           1,500         1,500        1,500           1,500         7,500         17,500
Carry-Over-Stocks;        4,400        7,900           2,600         4,100        5,400           4,600        30,000         59,000
May           Milling                    1,500        2,500           1,500         1.500        1,500           1,500        7,500          17,500
Carry-Over-Stocks;        2,900        5,400           1,100         2,600        3,900           3,100        22,500         41,500
June          Milling                    1,500        2,500           1,100         1,500        1,500           1,500        7.500          17,100
Carry-Over-Stocks;        1,400        2,900               -         1,100        2,400           1,600        15,000         24,400
July          Milling                    1,400        2,500               -         1,100        1,500           1,500        7,500          15,500
Carry-Over-Stocks             -          400               -             -          900             100         7,500          8.900
August        Milling                        -          400               -             -          900             100        7,500           8,900
Carry-Over-Stockis            -             -              _                           -              -             -               -
September     Carry-Over-Stocks              -            -               -             -            -               -            -               -
Paddy Storage Requirements 3/           8,400        14,600           6,800         8,200        9,400           8,700       49,900         106,000
plus:  Rice Storage Requirements 4/    1.000          1.700           1,000         1,000        1,000           1,000         5,000         11,700
plus: Storage Requirement for Jute
Bags and Pumigants 5/              400           700             300          400           500             400        2,500           5.200
minus:  Existing Storage Capacity        2,600        2,800           1,500         1,500        1,500           1.500       27,300          38.700
Additional Paddy/Rice Storage RIeq.      7,200       14,200           6,600         8,100        9,400           8,600        30,100         84,200
Proposed Project Storage                 4,000        6,000           4.000         4,000        5,000           5.000        12,000         40,000
1/ Procurement for 1985/86 has been estimated on the basis of the average paddy procurement during 1978/79 and 1979/80 and assuming that
procurement would increase by 8% annually, provided that total annual procurement does not exceed 75% of the annual milling capacity.
Monthwise procurement has been projected in accordance with historical procurement pattern.
2/ Milling during November, December and January has been projected on the basis of annual paddy procurement and past milling pattern.
Mills are not used at full capacity during these months mainly because of paddy drying operations. For later months,mills are
assumed to run at full capacity until all paddy is milled.
3/  Based on peak carry-over-stock.
4/  Estimated at one month out'put of milled rice when mill operates at full capcity.
5/ Estimated at 5% of paddy storage requirements.



- 70 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1
PAKISTAN
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Specifications for Wheat Storage Godowns and Pilot Projects
A. Specifications for 1,100 MT Godown
1.        Size, Capacity and Stacking.  Capacity has been calculated on the
basis of the following warehouse dimensions: length 100 ft (30.5 m), width
62 ft (18.9 m), and height from floor to evases 18.75 ft (5.7 m).  The floor
area would be divided into four equal stacks of 45.5 ft x 23.3 ft each. To
facilitate stacking, the floor topping would be laid in panels of 38 in x 42
in demarcating the size of two standard 95 kg bags laid side by side. Bags
would be stacked 14 layers high. The number of bags in a stack would be 2,912;
four stacks would have a total weight of 1,106 MT.
2.        Construction Details
(i) Footing. Footing for the outer foundation wall would be of
plain concrete (1:4:8 mix) with a thickness of 9 in and a
width of 4 ft. Footing would be placed 3 ft below grade.
Soil conditions would be analyzed at each site and special
footing prepared where required.
(ii) Floor. The floor designed to support a distributed load of
at least 3,000 kg/m2 would consist of 0.75 in thick topping
of cement concrete (1:2 mix) over 2.25 in plain concrete
(1:2:4 mix) which would be laid on 6 in plain concrete
(1:6:12 mix). The latter would cover 3 in of sand laid
over a layer of 0.03 gauge polyethelene to prevent moisture
migration. Under the moisture barrier 15 in of compacted
sand would be placed on stones and well compacted earth
without organic material.
(iii) Walls. Walls would be 18 in thick and of brick in cement
mortar (1:6 mix);
(iv) Columns. Interior roof sup ort columns would be constructed
on concrete footing of 8 ft1 placed 3 ft below grade. The
columns would be of heavily reinforced concrete with dimen-
sions 14 in2 and a flared concrete base of 7 ft2 at footing;
(v)  Roof and Beams.  Roof and beams would be of reinforced con-
crete (1:2:4 mix) cast in situ or pre-cast. Beams which
would be 27 in deep with a 5.5 in roof slab on top would



- 71 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2
have a pitch of 9 in across 31 ft. Bed plates would be
poured on top of walls to support roof beams, and tied
together by tie beams in walls. The roof slab would have
18 in overhang to prevent rain from entering through windows.
On top of the roof deck, for heat insulation, layers of bitu-
men, polyethelene, 3 in of puddled earth and 1 in of mud
plaster would be placed under a 1.5 in thick cover of burnt
tiles set in cement mortar (1:6 mix) and grouted with cement
sand mortar (1:3 mix);
(vi) Loading Decks. A continuous concrete loading deck (8 ft
wide) would be provided on two sides of each godown. The
loading decks would be raised to a minimum height of 3 ft,
3 in above grade. The retaining wall for the deck would be
of 18 in wide burnt brick on concrete foundation. The top
of the wall would be made of reinforced concrete 9 in thick
with a 12 in projection and steel nosing to protect against
truck bumpers. For drainage, the deck would be sloped 1.5
in across 9 ft;
(vii) Doors. Six doors (three each on two sides of the godown)
would be in two parts, hinged on each side in a steel frame
7.5 ft high and 6 ft wide, and swing flat against the wall
with adequate clearance to the loading deck. Doors would be
framed with steel angle provided with rubber sealing strips
and clad with steel sheet 18 gauge. A 30 in reinforced
concrete canopy would be over each door;
(viii)  Windows.  42 bottom hung 24 in x 18 in metal frame gasketed
plexiglass windows would be installed inside wall panels on
both sidJes of the building. The windows would be screened
with wire mesh of galvanized iron, and would close and
latch f:rom the inside for fumigation;
(ix) Rat Protection. A 9 in reinforced concrete projection would
be around that part of the building where no loading deck
is provided. The projection with a thickness of 3 in would
be at thle same height as the loading deck;
(x)  Multiple Godowns.  For larger size storage facilities multi-
ples of the 1,100 MT structure would be built with the end
wall as a common wall. The roof slab would be provided with
an expansion joint over the center of the wall. A formed
PVC expansion joint would be used together with a raised and
capped joint.



- 72 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3
B. Specifications for Pilot Projects
3.        Proposed Equipment for Mechanization of Loading/Unloading of
Storage Bins
(a) Semi-Mechanical Alternative
(i)  platform at truck deck height built around dump sink;
(ii) bucket elevator with dump sink; elevator capacity: 40
MT/hr; discharge height: 42 ft; power source: 2 HP
electric motor;
(iii) surge bin with discharge gate 5 ft above top deck of bin
complex; surge bin capacity: 1 MT;
(iv) two portable carts with rubber tires; cart capacity: 500 kg;
cart would straddle manhole over top of bin; for emptying,
cart would have discharge gate at bottom.
(b) Pneumatic Conveyor Alternative
(i)  portable self-contained pneumatic conveyor:combination
vacuum/pressure type; power source: 80 HP diesel or
gasoline engine; complete with feeding hopper and air
separating cyclone; capacity: 25 MT/hr;
(ii) quick coupling type piping, 30 ft each horizontal and
vertical.
4.   Proposed Equipment for Mechanical Bag Handling
(i) one mobile conveyor; adjustable height to 6 m; length 10 m;
width of belt 0.6 m; power source: 4 HP electric reversible
motor; hydraulic hand pump;
(ii)  five mobile horizontal conveyors; length 10 m; width of
belt 0.6 m; power source: 1 HP electrical reversible motor;
belt speed 0.5 m/sec; castor wheels for moving the conveyor.



IC'    01-0    C- to          C- C' C'           -              C'                 lb        C-          -0         Cit                  to                C-             C'               O -        C
01 "a C'          itt            'it                                       "I        it                  tOt              '"IC'          'CO            't'C'it  'a
00       it  -        C-C  0                                                                                                                                                           C       -
o                        or.' nit tocitotoS tov,osto  "'                                     V 80,010'             ' to                     oongo,w,,,o 41 coo-a nS c
t.litOC- C it'I II itS CCCICVCC 'VM 
CCitt   C   OO01Cit't           Otitotoito       C'IOCCI)   CflOititOC01  C              It
'1    00   at                  "IPito  it'C,it.CtSO   it'II-'0I-' Cit         Cito  it'tit o'i  it-on   atatititato 9-01  C-oatoOCit   oIitC900   C-tO 9 "'C-C  C.                          C
it,'             C-tOt    C-C.it  0'IC- it    n.OC-o.itlbit1  C.          OnlaC-CitlitOCCC-0'1  C.  CC                         it
S           VS        S      oe   o   0-it  it                   CC-it   it   CC        it    Cit   0,-I  Cit  "1 Cit--it    Ciba   C   it   Coo   oat   C   itt Cit   0110(10
o  0  00t       0     it '00   0CtC'.       Cl        0010    0                    0010
ICC  it  I-'- 0       0      0  ititit      it  01      "it    00                     p1  itit    too-   -  ittotdit            C    OCit        C    it        00CC           CCC   C
01     '411  C',o Cl lit    C- 411CC                Cit  it     C  -   'C          0             CO      'CCitit0OCI1  CCII           - V  -   0        Ct   C'        Cat  '-0         Cit  it
it      it         -0          1101           -      0       C'                   C-   it      -    -   -    OtIOC                     it       -                    it      'C
at                 0         0-           itit'          -     it      it         S                      o    it   o    Coo                                lit         CCC'                001
o         0    C  "         cop  it-.    it            it     C       it         at         pa          at   it  at                     Cl                C           CO                'C   it
0         4    C  0              it, at    it            C     0       it                   it                C.        '-it,-,-'        C                 9           C                 ton
it    Pit                        0            0      C'                           0           "it                              -
it        0    0                    01                         C                             C-          C'   -          Cl-ito                                                              C
it-       it-  al                   C        1                  0                            C                 C'        itltitt                                       C
-         it                                H                                                                                            C                 S           'IC-              it
-         it                        '                          at                                        Sb
-         C-                        C'                         itt                           a                 to                                                      Cit
-                                                                                                                        S   B
C-        Cit                                                  it                                                         'C-            "1                            itC
-                                                    C-                                             it         it'-            -                             Co
-         to                                                                                                   C         Ct              0                             00                  5
it        Cl                                                                                                  it'        "it             C                             it-
at                                                                                                             it                       'I
it       C'        C-                                -                  C-        C'           C-        ito                cit               -              C'
C        C         it                                "                  -         it          -          -                  -                 -
to                 C-        C-           to       C'                  C'                -             -
to C - to N lb C'
P2
it           0      C           0                                 '3         0                     it                                                                      'it
-M        I.   '-toW         'tit,ZtottititC' 01 -oto          at,,'     Otto                   CC-at'-t"to           u-'II,olto       atititto       itit'tC'               it    C'
it I  itit nat  not'   noitol   oo,'CoOl   nOt   000'  001   itittttOOC''   ,'000l    01101                                                                   One    i
itO              alit         Witit         ititit it it       it        it it        Cit              lit it         C  it C          C  it          it it                  0
0                              '01              it  C-         at          01                            0                01         '    C-            at
0'                               01                 at         at          at                            01               01             01             01
C'       NC'    -           N                to                 to        to          C'                            to                to            to             to               010
01  I    01011  at 01   it00'O I    atocat I    C'0NeCitat I    C'at I    C't-'at I    01'l              01C-itItol'itl I      toto-'C- I      0-at I         C-at        I  I    0         C'
"IC-        Ntit'Oto                                  to        toatto                 o                C-                                    0
to-         toOitO                                    0                               'it3             to                                    it              Cl
it,
N                                    -         -                                    at                                  001               C
-                     01        litattoLitI                   -            010       C'aotoC-ito                            C'C'C-         tolO                itO   itit       '1
C'   C'C'it'      totot          atC-C'NCo          C-C'      C-itoC'      Oat       C'C'C'atLOlO          C-Cit            C-aC'          OtoC'                      Oj-it
at C    NCOQ         QC''O -          0'-11it101'o       C-      C'C'         001       IotoC'lb'OC-          000110           C-toN          OC-at                00   It
C'  I    totol  010    C-atC'l        C'IAtotoI        CatOOC'            -,      00    I    001         01C'Cit01C'C' I       01tC-toI         C-itOtol       toCILO      I  '       't 01
to
                *j
'it'                             Lit,',
C-                                                                                                       to I                                                                            0              tit  Ct   '4
at                    lit                           to       C'                   '0     -    C'  -    C'  t13lto  to                          e'C'C'C-
l0Iit 13'         -        C'NlOto"oNC'atC'C'01'o                                C-C'  at   C-C-C'    lb attoatlOtoN         lolitit    Cit    CoIN              toN                 colt
tolitit t:-- ---it "'it it to
; C-Ia';   '08  V8?  C-33N
toN    C-C'C'0         O0CoOattOlb    C-C-lb    01to"I01    ate at   C-itoC'itlC-C' 'C           toC'to'oitoC'toto                 totoC'               C'Ct
NI,' 01         0010                                                                      Cl   C-C'lOtC'l0C' I    atOOC-to I    O   '-30 I               OtoC-       I  I       it                 lit
C-                   I                                    8gs    8             5301    C'C-C-C- lblbto         C-C'C-01'C        '080to           C-C-itO
1%                                                                                       C'                   NCit     C-                              C'             -                 Cli
lb   C'               C'      -                          I-','    C'        C-           C'                C1to0       N                C'             lb             at
lbt                at 0    totot               C-        lbto     -          C'          at      C-        aCe         La        'C    C-              C-             C'                       C-       C-
§                                                          IC-'      101       I           C'        attotI  Itol          at'  101          I IC''         I IC'
atO                88       CC"8         II  ll        '55w    Ia'         lb                             toC-,'      N         -      C-             at             C'               it
Is,       '               liii'          I I   C'                  C'        -            -    01  Cit         Ill                       -              Cit                 --         V
8   '8                   Il8  IllS  olS  II    lit  11118    1118   I' I  88
CC               01                            IC                 itt        "it         Ct         01                                   It            itt                 lit    01
C                  -         it           C         it                                   it             Il                 it
at           C' N                                                  -         at          tO         N                                   lb             C'                  C-to    010       01
I    a'          ICC'  C-    I 'Ito           I   '0       IIIIII               IC'       '10       Ole        11111   'at           Ill  Ito            110         III        0to      it      'it'
it        "it         it                             it                                                it    it    it   ititlb
lb                    -                                                        C'                 -5                   C'                     Ci                           to C'      '3
C                                                                                                                              J'   I          'h
lat                INLOI  IC'   I    Ito                    111111 toll  Cit                            I           II       C' C'      ft
lC'    at    to      0  ito       NC'                               C'        C- to       C' C-SC-                                                       5                  0       01C'    C'
C-C'    01     t-to    to         toit'              14   1111    laO          C' -        C' N       N                  C-                                                  tot
Ne   01''- tat '01' 'NatIII
C'                                                C'        C'          01         C-                                     C'             C-                       0
C' La' at          at             5                  lb        C'           C'        C-                   C-                to             to               C'   C'C'    itt
LI" CC atto    at         C' C' lb          itO             C'                 at        C'                     to                    at              'C              to               C'   +10       0
0  tot             lb            lb                  0         C'          C'        lb                    01                C'             at
1101  cC  '0111  at at 01'l' C'I 'I'' CIIIIII I to' lltolllC-Il   01111111    C'l 1111   C-Ill I  toll    I to  'Cit



_ 74 -
ANNEX 5
Table 2
PAKISTAN
FOODGRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Civil Works Cost for 1,000 MT Paddy/Rice Storage Capacity
Foreign
Unit Cost     No. of       Total Cost       Exchange
Cost Item             Unit        (Rs)        Units           (Rs)           (Rs)
1.  Foundation,.sxcavation      ms         20            100           3,600
2.  Plain Cement Concrete
in foundation
- Cement                    kg          1         2,900            2,900           2,610
- Sand                      ms         45           8.5              383               _
- Aggregate                 m3         70            17            1,190
3.  Block masonry work
- Blocks                    Nos.        4         8,500           34,000               -
- Cement                    kg          1           750              750               -
- Sand                      m3         45              7             315               -
4.  Damp proof course           m2         26             35              910               -
5.  RCC work in columas, beams,
roof, foundation
- Cement                    kg          1        85,250           85,250          76,725
- Sand                      ms         45           120            5,400               -
- Stone crush               mS        150           240           36,000               -
- Steel (deformed bars)    kg           6.5      13,200           85,800          26,400
- Steel (plain bars)        kg          6         3,300           19,800           6,600
- Form work                mi2         30         2,000           60,000               -
6.  Floor filling
- Sand                      mS         45           730           32,050               -
- Stone soling              m3         70           100            7,000               -
- Compacting                mi2         4           675           27,000               -
7.  Plain cement under floor
- Cement                    kg          1        13,640           13,640          12,276
- Sand                      mS3       45             28            1,260               -
- Stone crush               m3       130             56            7,280               -
8.  Floor topping
- Cement                    kg          1         9,720            9,720           8,748
- Sand                      m 3       45             14              630               -
- Stone crush               m3       130             28            3,640               -
9.  Cement sand rendering
- Cement                               1         10,270           10,270           9,243
- Sand                                45             25            1,125               -
10.  Bitumen filled roof cover  m2          50           765           38,150          22,950
11. Ventilators and windows    m 2        262.5           68           17,850           4,463
12.  Rolling doors              mi2       450             28           12,600           3,150
13.  Ramp protection             m 2         8           500            4,000               -
14.  White wash                  m2          2           630            1,260                -
- Enamel paint              m 2        20           700           14,000           8,400
- Cement base paint         i2         10           650            6,500        _
15. Total material cost                                               545,173         182,240
16.  Labor comionent (LtS  af L5. LU                                   8.,116               -
17.  Total material and labor cost                                    626,949         182,240
18. Contractors overhead (20X of 17)
(including transportation charges)                               125,390
19.  TOTAL COST                                                       752,339         182,240
1/  60% of amount is estimated being skilled labor.



Aisle 3' WVi                             Ttuck Dor,k                         7
g   ---6- I  I  l! I  IBag1Stacking Pttern                                                               HofWMu  n
II _  _  _      _  _    _  _  _    . Each Square: 38" x 42"                            Roof W/Mud and
Equals 2 Bags, 95 kg Each'                                             Tile Covering
14      "  1  's  1H C Cn   ;Cl mn
Aisle 4'4" Wide                                                 3'6" Above Grade
14'-5 10z/ 3/7"O 1 014! 03/7"  ,14  5 3/7". _14'5 l3/7"_ -14'-6 3/7"_ IT-10 3/7; "1  N             F1818
9,     31                          ~~~~~~~~31'           9
l   l      l            l            |       ~~~~~~~~~~~Door 6E: x 7'4"|              ;3'                          |            3               >      -
31' a -  tl1.62'
I   In  Truck Dock                  Jlul         |                                           CROSS SECTION
_ ~~~~~~~~~~~~100' ,
BUILDING PLAN
Roof
11Linc               L       itt  Us LiL    Li Li Liz    Li Li JLi  Li Li LiL   -txt-"PKSA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Windows                                 Model Design for 1,100 MT Godown
ELEVATION   LONGITUDINAL                                                                                                              World Bak -   2_Grade
ELEVATION, LONGITUDINAL                                                                                                               World Bank - 22457



- 76 -                                                ANNEX 6
Table 1
PAKISTAN
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Investment Cost Sumary for Wheat Storage Complexes
and Warehousing and Quality Control Equipment        1/
(in Rs '000)
Foreign
Cost Item                                    Punjab      Sind    NWFP   Baluchistan       Total    Exchange
LAND                                           4,752    1,710      821         900        8,183            -
CIVIL WORKS
Storage facilities                        168,036   60,468  35,126       38,190       301,820       75,848
Site clearance                              1,584       570     274         300         2,728            -
Soil survey                                   810       345       75         75         1,305
Grading, sanitation, drainage               1,980       713      343        375         3,411            -
Perimeter walls                             3,583    1,494       377        390         5,844          797
Guardhouse, staff quarters, office          3,210    1,740       560        560         6,070          828
Roads and parking lots                     14,502    5,660   2,422        2,608        25,192        3,440
Power and water                             1,380       660      180        180         2,400          328
Miscellaneous                               3,902    1,433       787        853         6,975            -
Subtotal                             198,987   73,083  40,144       43,531       355,745      81,241
WAREHOUSING EQUIPMENT
Truck scale                                 5,580    1,163       697        465         7,905        4,884
Platform scale                              2,453    1,321       347        364         4,485        1,352
Grain cleaner                               1,030       373       61         43         1,507        1,245
Subtotal                               9,063    2,857   1,105          872        13,897       7,481
QUALITY CONTROL EQUIPMENT
Sieves                                        329       153       12         20           514          425
Portable moisture meters                       457      229       27         30           743          614
Hand sprayers                                  333      147       56         59           595          492
Bin samplers                                   176       26       41          -           243          200
Triple beam scales                             537      256       43         57           893          738
Fumigant tablet applicators                    372       67      101          -           540          446
Bag sampling spears                            120       54       17         15           206            -
Grain pans                                     144       66       21         17           248            -
Moisture meters (capacitance type)              12       38       12         12            74           61
Laboratory scales                                4       12        4          4            24           20
Sample diviiders                                 2        6        2          2            12           10
Air ovens                                       10       29       10         10            59           49
Magnifying glasses                               1        2        -          -             3            -
Sample bottles                                  -         2        1          -             3
Miscellaneous laboratory supplies                1        3        1          1             6            -
Subtotal                               2,498    1,090      348         227        4,163        3,055
Engineering Charges 2/                     21,055    7,703   4,160        4,462        37,380            -
BASE COST                                 236,355   86,443  46,578       49,992       419,368       91,777
Physical Contingencies  3/                 23,160    8,473   4,577        4,909        41.119        9,178
TOTAL COST                                259,515   94,916  51,155       54,901       460,487     100,955
1/ Details are in Tables 2 and 4.
2/ Ten percent of civil works and equipment cost.
3/ Ten percent of the sum of civil works, equipment and engineering charges.



PAKISTAN
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Investm.ent Cost for Wheat Storage Co-pitee with Different Caparitien 1/
New Storage Co=plexes                                    Prujcct__torage at Locations With E.isting Storage
In Pun,iab and Siad 2/                                 I   un Fgab and Sind                               11 NWFP and Eulcchlvtae
Cost Item                        (1,100 MT)       (4,400 MT)       (17,600 HT)          (1,100 HT)       (3,300 NT)        (22,000HT)           (250 MT)       (1,100 MT)       (9,900 HT)
LAND (0.3 ha per godowo at
Re 60,000/ho)                     18.0             72.0             288.0                 18.0            54.0              360.0               9.0             18.0            162.0
CIVIL WORKS
- Storage facilities                   636.5         2,546.0          10,184.0                S36.5          1,909.U          12,820.0             21.763.8 .                      6,874.1. 31
- Site clearante
(Rs 20,000/ha)                       6.0             24.0              96.0                 6.0             18.0              120.0               3.0              6.0             54.0
- Soil survey (RE  15,000/site)         15.0             15.0              15.0                   -             15.0              15.0                  -                -             15.0
- Grading, eanita,ioe
aend draieage (Rs 25,000/ha)          7.5            30.0             120.0                  7.5             22.5             150.0               3.0               7.5            67.5
- Perimeter walls (Re 70/ft)               -             72.8             151.2                29.4             46.2             117.6                  -                              68.6
- Guardhouse, staff quarters.
office                                  -           110.0 6/          220.0 5/                 -                -              80.0 7/               -                -            80.0 7/
- Roads and parking lots
(Rs 4.5/sq.ft)                      80.0            260.0             800.0                56.0            150.0           1,000.0               30.0             56.0            450.0
- Power and water                       30.0             40.0              60.0                   -                -              60.0                  -                -             40.0
-Hiscellaneous (22 of
civil wrks)                         15.5             61.9             232.9                 14.7             43.2             287.3                5.1             16.7           156.4
Subtotal                            791.0          3,159.7          11,878.1                750.1         2,204.4          14,649.9              258.1            850.0          7,975.4
WAREHOUSING EQUIPMENT
Truck scale (30 NT)                        -                -             232.5                   -                 -            232.5                  -                -            232.5
Platform scale (500 kg)                  6.7             16.9              47.2                 6.7             13.5               64.0               3.4              6.7             23.6
Grain cle-enr (40 NT/hr)                 8.7              8.7              26.0                 8.7              8.7              26.0                  -                -                -
Subtotal                              15.4            25.6             305.7                 15.4             22.2             322.5                3.4              6.7            256.1,
QUALITY CONTROL EQUIPHENT
Sieves (set of 4 with pan)               0.5              1.0               2.0                 0.5              1.0                2.0               0.5              0,5              1.5
Portable wisture meters
(battery operated)                    3.8               3.8              11.4                 3.8              3.8              11.4                  -                -              3.8
Hand Sprayers (3 gallon
capacity, stainless Steel)             1.3              3.2               7.7                 1.3              1.9               9.6               0.6               1.3              4.5
Bin sa.plesm (with thermometer
and refill)                              -              1.0               3.1                   -              1.0               3.1                  -                -
Triple beam stales                       1.2              1.2               2.4                 1.2              1.2                2.4                 -              1.2              2.4
Fu.igant tabllt applicators                -              2.7               5.3                   -              2.7                5.3                 -                -              2.7
Rag saspling spears                      0.4              0.7               1.5                 0.4              0.6                1.5               0.2              0.4              0.9
Grain pans                               0.4              0.8               2.1                 0.4              0.7                2.5               0.3              0.4              1.4
Subtotal                               7.6            14.4               35.5                 7.6             12.9              37.8                1.6              3.8             17.1
Engineering Charges (10% of
civil works and equipwent)            81.4           320.0           1,220.0                 77.3            224.0           1,501.0               26.3             86.1           937.2
RASE COST                              913.4         3,591.7          13.729.3                868.4          2,517.5          16,871.2              298.4            964.6        10,471.4
Physical Contingencies 8/               89.5            352.0           1,344.1                85.0            246.3           1.651,1               28.9             94.7         1,030.9
TOTAL COST                        1,002.9          3,943.7          15,073.4                953.4          2,763.8          18,522.3             327.3          1,059.3         11,502.3
1/  Capacities at project storage complexes range from 250 MT to 22,000 Mt.   8y way of e.asple, only the s,aliest and the
largest capacities together with the most frequent capacities are presented here.
2/  NWFP and Raluchistan have not been considered separately, Since  -ore than 902 of proJect storagt in these two Provinces
would be at locations with existing storage capacity.
3/  Storage facilities in NW?P and Raluchistan have been estimated tn cost 20%  ore than thnse in Punjab and Sind, be-anse                                                                            .' a
of higher material and labor cost in the former and heavier construction in Baluchietmn's earthquake prone areas.
4/  Cost of small godown is estimated at 25% higher per NT than for 1100 NT Standard type.
5/  Guardhouse: Rs 30,000; staff quarters: Rs 70,000;and offices: Rs 120,000.
6/ Guardhouse and office Rn 30,000 and Rs 80.000 renpeetloely.
7/ Additional staff quarters and office Re 80,000.
d/ 10% of the sum of civil works and equipteent cost and engineering charges.



PAKISTAN
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Investment Cost for Paddy/Rice Storage Facilities
(in Rs '000)
Hafizabad    Sheikhupura    Siranwali    Eminabad    Faizabad    Mubarikpur    Dhaunkal          Total      Foreign Exchange
Cost Item                         (4,000 MT)    (6,000 MT)    (4,000 MT)   (4,000 MT)  (5,000 MT)  (5,000 MT)    (12,000 MT) (40,000 HT)
CIVIL WORKS
Storage facilitieP
(Rs 753/MT) I/                      3,012          4,518         3,012         3,012        3,765       3,765          9,036       30,120          7,229
Pavement,drain,.ge 2/                  240            360            240          240          320          320            720       2,440               -
Soil survey                             18             22             18           18           20           20             30          146             -
Electrification ilnternal and
external (10%of civil works cost)    327              490            327          327          410.5        410.5          978.6     3,270.6        1,962
Miscellaneous (2% of civil
works cost)                            _6.5             9.8            6.5          6.5          8.2          8.2           19.6         65.3 
Total Civil Won'5 Cost               3,603.5        5,399.8       3,603.5       3,603.5      4,523.7     4,523.7       10,784.2    36,041.9          9,191
Engineering charges (6% of
civil works cost)                      216.2          324           216.2         216.2        271.4       271.4          647.1      2,162.6             -
BASE COST                            3,819.7        5,723.8       3,819.7       3,819.7      4,795.1     4,795.1       11,431.3    38,204.4         9,191
Physical cOntingencies (10% of
base cost)                             382.0         572.4          382.0         382.0        479.5       479.5        1,143.1      3,820.5          919
TOTAL COST                           4,201.7       6,296.2        4,201.7       4,201.7      5,274.6     5,274.6       12,574.4    42,024.9        10,110
1/ Detailed civil works cost are in Annex 5, Table 2.
2/ Roads, pave%ent and drainage estimated on basis of 4,000 ft2 per 1,000 MT capacity at Rs 15/ft2.
F3 



PAKISTAN
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Warehousing and Quality Control Equipment Cost
Unit                     Number of Units for:                               Total         Foreign
Cost     Project        Existing      Procurement      Grain Testing         Cost         Exchange
Cost Item                            (RL)     Stores 2/       Stores        Centers        Laboratories        (Rs '000)      (Rs '000)
WAREHOUSING EQUIPMENT
Truck Scale (30 MT) 1/            232,500         14            20               -                -               7,905          4.884
Platform Scale (500 kg)             3,370        531           300             500                -               4.485          1,352
Grain Cleaner (40 MT/hr)            8,660         99            75               -                -               1,507          1,245
Subtotal                                                                                                      13,897          7,481
QUALITY CONTROL EQUIPMENT
Sieves (Set of 4 with Pan)            495        227           300             500               12                 514            425
Portable Moisture Meter
(Battery Operated)                3,810         95           100               -                -                 743            614
Hand Sprayer (3 Gallon Capacity,
Stainless Steel)                    640        479           450               -                -                 595            492
Bin Sampler (with Thermometer
and Refill)                       1,040        134           100               -                  -               243            200
Triple Beam Scale                    1,220       132           100             500                -                 893            738
Fumigant Tablet Applicator          2,660        103           100               -                -                 540            446
Bag Sampling Spear                     60      1,300           600           1,500               36                 206              -
Grain Pans                              70     1,370           600           1,500               72                 248              -
Moisture Meters
(Capacitance Type)               12,380          -            -               -                 6                  74             61
Laboratory Scale (2 kg)             1,995          -             -               -               12                  24             20
Sample Divider                      2,060          -             -               -                6                  12             10
Air Oven                            9,880          -             -               -                6                  59             49
Magnifying Glass (Desk Type)           250         -             -               -               12                    3             -
Sample Bottles                          10         -             -               -              300                   3
Miscellaneous Laboratory
Supply Set                        1,000          -             -               -                6                   6              -
Subtotal                                                                                                       4,163          3,055
Engineering Charges(l10 of
Equipment Cost)                                                                                                 1,806              -
BASE COST                                                                                                        19,865         10,536
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                                                                                            1.987          1,054
(10% of Base Cost)
TOTAL EQUIPMENT COST                                                                                             21,852         11,590
1/  Includes civil works for foundation, installation and transportation cost.
2/  Equipment costs for project storage complexes of different capacity are detailed in Table 2.



ANNEX 6
-80                                         Table 5
PAKISTAN
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Pilot Projects - Investment Cost
Unit                  Total       Foreign
Cost     No. of        Cost       Exchange
Cost Item                                      (Rs)      Units      (Rs tO0O)    (Rs '000)
1. Mechanization of Loading/
Unloading of Storage Bins
(i) Semi-Mechanical System
Platform                           15,000        5            75            23
Dump Sink                          35,000        5           175            53
Bucket Elevators                   25,000        5           125            38
Surge Bins                         15,000        5            75            22
Carts (2 per storage complex)    10,000         10           100            30
Subtotal                                                  550           166
(ii)  Pneumatic Conveying System        225,000       10         2,250         1,575
2.  Mechanical Bag Handling
Conveyor with Adjustable Height          50,800       10           508           356
Horizontal Conveyors
(5 per storage complex)               32,900       50         1,645         1,187
Subtotal                                               2,153         1,543
3. Engineering Charges
(10% of equipment cost)                                         495             -
BASE COST                                                            5,448         3,284
4. Physical Contingencies
(10% of base cost)                                              545           328
TOTAL COST                                                           5,993         3,612



PAKI STAN
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Grain Storage Research and Extension - Equipment and Vehicle Cost
(in Rs)
University  Sind Agric                    Ayub        Sariab   Grain Sto.                  Vertebr.                   PARC
Unit     of Agric.   University  Peshawar           A.R.I.      A.R.I.   Laborat.       N.I.A.B.    Past Ctr.  P.C.S.I.R.  Coord.    Total             Foreign
seTe                            Cost      Faisalabad  Tando Jam   Universit    Faisaiabad   Qtueta   Karachi            Faisalabad   Lboratory   Karachi          Unit      Cost        ______
Labor,tory Moisture Meter               4,190         8,380        8,380        8,380          4,190      4,190      4,190          4,190         4,190         4,190        -      50,280       41,550
Portable Moisture Meter                  3,810        3,810         3,810        3.810             -      3,810      3,810               -             -        3,810        -      22,860       18,850
Balant5, Triple Beam                    1,220         2,440        2,440         2,440         1,220      1,220      2,440          1,220          1,220        1,220        -      15,860       13,100
Seve Set (4 Sieves with Pan)               495           990          990          990           495        495        495            495            495          495                5,940        4,920
Hygro  Thermograph                      8,335        25,005        25,005       25,005        16,670    16,670    16,670           16,670         16,670       16,670        -    175.035       144,730
Pocket S1ing Psychrometer 1/               620        1,860         1,860        1,860         1,240      1,240      1,240          1,240          1,240          620        -      12.400       10,250
Sample Divider                          2,060          2.060        2,060        2,060         2,060      2,060      2,060          2,060          2,060        2,060        -      18,540       13,350
Microa°OPe (Binocular, Inclined)        13,150        92,050       78,900       78,900        26,300    13,150    26,300           26,300         26,300       26,300        -    394,500       326,200
Microa,uPe (Compound, 4 Objectives)  19,720                -            -            -             -          -          -               -                     19,720        -      19,720       16,300
Sample SPear                                60           600          600          600           600        600        600             600           600          600        -       5.400
CoPmaetmented Bulk
SamPler (63 in.)                       1,600         3,200        1,600        1,600         1,600      1,600      1,600                             -        1,600        -      12,800       10,600
Extendable Bulk Sampler
(Not Corypartmented) 2/               2,710         2,710        2,710        2,710          2,710      2,710      2.710               -             -             -       -      16,260       13,450
Maborst0   Glassware                   40,000         40,000       40,000       40,000        40,000    40,000    40,000           40.000         40,000       40,000        -    360,000              -            X
Slide llneous Supplies 3/               40,000        40,000       40,000       40,000        40,000    40,000    40,000           40,000         40,000       40,000        -    360,000              -
d rojector                        5,750        17,250         5,750        5,750         5,750          -      5,750               -             -            -        -      40.250       33,280
S5btotal                                       240,355      214,105      214,105       142,835   127,745   147,865           132,775       132,775       157,285        -  1,509,845       646,580
VEHICLES
Four Wheel Drive                       111,000       222,000      111,000      111,000       111,000   111.000   111.000           111,000       111,000      111,000 111,000  1,221,000         507,000
Sedan                                  125,000             -            -            -              -          -          -              -             -             -125,000    125,000          66,700
Mtrycle (200cc)                          9.000        36,000       36,000       36,000         9,000      9,000      9,000           9,000        18,000        9,000         -    171,000        64,900
Subtotal                                       258,000      147,000      147,000        120,000   120,000   120,000          120,000       129,000       120,000 236,000  1,517,000        638,600
BASE COST                                            498,355      361,105      361,105       262,835   247,745   267,865           252,775       261,775      277,285 236,000  3,026,845   1,285,180
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES
(10% of Base Cost)                                    49,835       36,110       j6,110        26,285    24,775    26,785            25,280        26,180       27,730  23,600    302,690         128,520
TO    MUIPMENT AND
VEHICLE COST                                       548,190      397,215      397,215       289,120   272,520   294,650           278,055       287,955      305,015 259,600  3,329,535   1,413,700
2R Wih- Slde erule and extra thermometer.
2/ With handle and two extensions.
3/ For project period.
a' a



- 82 -                               ANNEX 6
Table 7
PAKISTAN
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Grain Storage Research and Extension
Operating Cost of PARC Coordination Unit
Foreign
Unit Cost   Number    Total Cost   Exchange
Cost Item                          Unit        (Rs)     of Units       (Rs)         (Rs)
Salaries and Wages 1/
Coordinator                   man-year      66,000       4          264,000            -
Technical Field Officer       man-year      51,600       4          206,400            -
Office Manager                man-year      51,600       4          206,400            -
Accountant                    man-year      23,850       4           95,400            -
Typist/Clerk                  man-year      23,850       4           95,400            -
Stenographers                 man-year      18,180       4           72,720            -
Drivers                       man-year       5,200       8           41,600            -
Office Helper                 man-year       4,080       8           32,640            -
Subtotal                                                      1,014,560            -
Travel Allowance
Coordinator                     month        2,500      48           120,000           -
Technical Field Officer         month        2,500      48           120,000           -
Driver                          month           750     96            72,000           -
Subtotal                                                          312,000           -
Vehical Operation and
Maintenance
Four-Wheel Drive                mile           2.5    60,000         150,000     75,000
Sedan                           mile           1.6    60,000          96,000     48,000
Subtotal                                                         246,000    123,000
Office Supplies and               year        25,000       4           100,000
Miscellaneous
Total Operating Cost                                                 1,672,560    123,000
1/ Includes allowances.



- 83 -                                     ANNEX 6
PAKISTAN                                    Table 8
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Cost of Technical Assistance and Training
Cost Per                 Total      Foreign
Man-Month    No. of       Cost      Exchange
Cost Item                             (Rs)     Man-Months  (Rs'000)   (Rs'OOO)
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1. Transportation Economics and Logistics
Fee and Expenses                                  74,250       24        1,782        1,336
Travel                                                                     100          100
2. Grain Testing Quality Control and Grading
Fee and Expenses                                  74,250       18        1,336        1,002
Travel                                                                     100          100
3. Mechanical Grain 'Handling
Fee and Expenses                                  74,250        6          445          334
Travel                                                                      25           25
4. Grain Storage Research and Extension
Fee and Expenses                                  74,250        6          445          334
Travel                                                                      25           25
Total Technical Assistance Cost                                     4,258       3,256
TRAINING
1. Grain Storage Operations and Management
ti) Local Training (16) 11
Travel and Tuition (at Rs 60,000 each)                                960
Expenses (Rs 200/day)                         6,000       48          288            -
(ii) Overseas Study Tours (7)-
Travel (at Rs 40,000 each)                                            280          280
Expenses (ItS 1,000/day)                     30,000       21          630          630
2. Grain Storage Research and Extension
(i) Foreign Tra:ining (9)
Travel and Tuition (at Rs 75,000 each)                                675          675
Expenses (Rs 600/day)                        18,000       27          486          486
(ii) MSc Fellowships (35) -
Travel and Tuition (at Rs 24,000
each for 2 years)                                                   840
Expenses                                        500      840          420            -
Total Training Cost                                                 4,579        2,071
TOTAL TRAINING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE COST                                 8,837        5,327
l/ For officers of MFAC (2), Provincial Food Departments (10, including 6 grain technologists),
PASSCO (2) and RECP (2).
2/ For one senior officer of each MFAC, Provincial Food Departments, PASSCO and RECP.
3J1 For three grain *scientists of the University of Agriculture, Faisalabad, two of the Ayub
A.R.I. at Faisalabad and one of each Agricultural University at Tando Jam, Peshawar
University, the Vertebrate Pest Control Institute and the PARC Coordination Unit.
4/ For students at the University of Agriculture at Faisalabad (15), Agricultural University
at Tando Jam (10) and Peshawar University (10).



- 84 -                                ANNEX 6
Table 9
PAKISTAN
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Cost Foodgrain Storage and Processing Study
Cost Per                   Foreign
Number of    Man-Month    Total Cost   Exchange
Cost Item               Man-Months   (Rs'000)        (Rs'000)    (Rs'000)
Salaries and Wages
Co-ordinator                           12           120          144.0             -
International Grain Storage
Specialist                            6         69.3          415.8         312.0
International Foodgrain
Processing Specialist                 6          69.3         415.8         312.0
Marketing Economist                     9           8.4           75.6             -
Agricultural Economist                  9           8.4           75.6             -
Food Technologist                       6           8.4           50.4             -
Storage Technologist                    6           8.4           50.4             -
Processing Technologist                 6           8.4           50.4             -
Entomologist                            6           8.4           50.4             -
Transport Specialist                    6           8.4           50.4             -
Economists (2)                         16           8.4          134.4             -
Statistician/Programmer (2)            18           8.4         151.2             -
Support Staff                         120           3.0         360.0             -
Subtotal (1)                                             2,024.4         624.0
Travel
Local Travel (25% of subtotal (1) )                             506.1          76.0
International Travel  1/                                         69.3          69.3
Subtotal (2)                                               575.4         145.3
Office Supplies and Miscellaneous                               100.0          10.0
Total Cost Before Overheads                                   2,699.8         779.3
2/
Overhead Cost -                                                 424.9             -
Total Cost of Study                                           3,124.7         779.3
1/ For internationally recruited consultants.
2/ 20% of sum total of salaries and wages and office supplies and miscellaneous.



- 85 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1
PAKISTAN
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Proposed Grain Storage Research and Extension Programs
A.   Grain Storage Research Programs
1.   University of Agriculture, Faisalabad
Agronomy Department and Department of Plant Breeding:
-    determine grain characteristics producinR insect resistance.
Entomology Department:
-    study on-farm and village level storage losses under Punjab
conditions;
-    determine grain storage losses under controlled conditions in
Punjab during monsoon and dry seasons.
2.   University of Peshawar
Entomology Department:
-    determine and analyze on-farm and village level storage losses
under NWFP conditions with particular reference to hot and cold
seasons;
-    test simple designs for on-farm storage, including storage
within the farm house.
3.   Sind Agricultural University
Entomology Department:
-    study on-farm and village level storage losses under Sind con-
ditions during monsoon and dry seasons;
-    determine and analyze grain handling and transportation losses
at various stages of the grain marketing chain.
4.   Ayub Agrictultural Research Institute, Faisalabad
-    investigate traditional on-farm storage practices and struc-
tures and develop improved storage designs and effective
methods of grain protection;



- 86 -
ANNEX 7
Page  2
analyze wheat varieties with storage insect resistance, and
hreed varieties with improved resistance to insects.
5.   Grain Storage Laboratory, Karachi
-    determine characteristics of farm storage structures offer-
ing best grain protection in Sind.
6.   Agricultural Research Institute, Sariab, Quetta
-    trace movement of insecticide in grain environment to deter-
mine more effective application of insecticides;
-    investigate best timing of insect control action;
-    determine and analyze storage losses under Baluchistan rural
conditions.
7.   Nuclear Institute for Agriculture and Biology, Faisalabad
-    investigate repellent fractions in storage insect resistant
wheat and in traditional protectants to determine possibility
of chemical production.
8.   Vertebrate Pest Control Center, Karachi
-    determine rat depredation in on-farm and village level stores
during different seasons;
-    develop suitable means to protect with local materials grain
stored on farms and in villages.
9.   Pakistan Center for Scientific and Industrial Research, Karachi
-    determine conditions giving rise to mite caused losses in
wheat and analyze mite population/loss relationship.
B.   Grain Storage Extension Training Programs
1.   University of Agriculture, Faisalabad
-    develop suitable instructional methods to train extension staff
in grain storage technology.
2.   Three Participating Universities
-    ieNeNn\v ax cVose ~cordiiatixva with Prrovitc_ial Akricul tural
Departments extension training programs in grain storage
technology, including:



- 87 -
ANNEX 7
Page  3
(i) storage characteristics of different grains;
(ii) grain quality inspection and storage pest
recognition;
(iii) storage quality control and grain protection,
insect control principles and insecticide/
fumligant use; and
(iv)  grain drying and storage principles and means.



- 88 -
ANNEX 8
PAKISTAN
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
(US$t000)
IDA Fiscal Year                     Disbursement
and Quarter                 In Quarter       Cumulative
1982   2nd -/                     150              150
3rd                        970            1,120
4th                     1,880             3,000
1983   1st                      2,240            5,240
2nd                     2,450             7,690
3rd                     2,530            10,220
4th                     2,670            12,890
1984   1st                      2,810           15,700
2nd                     3,130            18,830
3rd                     2,870            21,700
4th                     2,560            24,260
1985   1st                      2,320           26,580
2nd                     2,020            28,600
3rd                     1,650            30,250
4th                     1,290            31,540
1986   lstV2/                     460           32,000
l/ Estimated date of Credit effectiveness: Septembev l5, I9%I.
2/ Estimated closing date December 30, 1985.



- 89 -
ANNEX 9
PAKISTAN                            Table 1
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Proposed Staffing of Project Implementation Division of PASSCO
Position                          Nos.    Qualifications and Experience
Head Office
Chief Engineer (General Manager)              I     Graduate or MSc (Civil) Engineer;
15 years experience
Executive Engineer, Design                    1     BSc Civil Engineer or equivalent;
5 years experience
Assistant Engineer, Design (SDO)              1     BSc Civil Engineer or equivalent;
1 year experience
Executive Engineer, 'Contracts                1     BSc Civil Engineer or equivalent;
5 years experience. Alternatively:
Diploma Polytechnic Institute;
15 years experience
Head Draftsman                                1     Diploma Polytechnic Institute;
5 years experience
Draftsman                                     2     Diploma Polytechnic Institute;
2 years experience
Tracer                                        2
Accounts Officer                              1     Qualified FAS; 8 years experience
Accountant                                    3     Graduate School of Commerce;
4 years experience
Support Staff (incltuding Secretaries,
Clerks, Drivers and Office Helpers)       19
Field Staff
Deputy General Manager                        2     BSc Civil Engineer or equivalent;
(Superintending Engineer)                           10 years experience.  Alternatively
Diploma Polytechnic Institute;
15 years experience
Executive Engineer                            8     BSc Civil Engineer or equivalent;
(Project Engineer)                                  5 years experience
Assistant Engineer                           16     Diploma Polytechnic Institute;
8 years experience. Alternatively:
BSc Civil Engineer or equivalent;
1 year experience
Sub-Engineer (Overseer)                      32     Diploma Engineering School;
1 year experience
Accouncanc                                   20     Craduate School of Commerce;
8 years experitnce
Support Staff (including Secretaries,       50
Clerks, Drivers anld Office Helpers)



PAKISTAN
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
PROPOSED ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE FOOD WING
IN THE MINISTRY OF FOOD, AGRICULTURE AND COOPERATIVES
SecretarV       j
Additional Secretary
Livestock and Cooperatives
Joint Secretary
(Food)
Fgechnical Officer            Technical Officer           Director"             Officer on Special         Deputy Secretary               Director
I Grain (lualitV         Grain Transportation             Storagie               Duty (Wheat)                   (Food)                  of Accounts
Section Officer              Section Officer
Accounts         Section Offcer    I Section Officer1              Wheat 
Officer        Planning, Statinkic    I Storage Project
L___J..1 l_... ____                                                                           :SectionOfficer
STORAGE CELL                                                                    Sugar
_   - ,Positions which would be added under the project                                                           Section Officer
Establishment 
*Atpresent there Is one Section Officer, Storage Reporting to the Officer on Special Duty (Wheat)
.,0irector or Deputy Secretary                                                                                                                                       _ 'o
World Bank - 22541



- 91 -
ANNEX 9
Chart II
PAKISTAN
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
19-1                      1982                      19w                        1984                      1965
1     2     3      4      1     2      3     4      1      2     3      4      1     2      3     4      1     2      3      4
Staffing of PID
1. Chief Engineer (General Manr                                    ____
2. DeputV General Manapr_;
3. Exacunive Engineer                                       WIN
4. Auaistant Engineers 
6. Sub-Enginsers tOnrn=enr=
6. Support Stfi                                                    _
Wheal Storage C;omplene
1. Lend Acquisition
for consnm.ction thrugh JuM 1982
for conttction thro,ugh December 1983
for construction ithrough June 1985                                                 W
2. Desigr nd Tender Pmparrtion_
3. Prequalificetion nd Tender Anard                           _   _
4. Construction
Pilot Proects
1. Desig.
2 Tender Prparationt
3. Pocumtment end Installation of Equipment
Storege and Quality Contrl Equipmrnent
1. Tender Pr.pereionf
2. Procurement e,d nsatl leion of Equipmegnt
Paddy/Rimcn Storge Fecilities
1. Design rnd Tender Prpwation_
2. Prequalification end Tender Awad-
3. Cionstruction
Grain StDrage Rea. rch end E.ttnrion_
1. PARC Coordinaton Unit
2. Penparation of Programs                                    W
3. Tender Preparation for Equipment ani Vehicles                    * 
4. Procuremt                                                              _E"
5, Progrrnm lphmenPam ion                                                _
Technicl Assistamtt
1. identification of Conaultants
2. ! Mgasrnnt of Consultant for
En-ginarenn  (Pilot Proiwcu)
Grain Trnmporation_
Grain Quditty Inepction and Contrasl
Grabin Storage Refserch rmd Extendlon
Training
1. MFAC, Prov. Food Depts., PASSCO and RECP
Local Training Courss                                          _
Oynarase Study Tour,                                                      ME
Z PARC. Uniar,nities. and Agric. Reserch Int.
Fonign Studiaes
MSC Greduint Study Progrr                                 -                    I
Study
I. Identification of Co,nsultants
Z Study Preparation                                                      _            _             -
Strengthening of M FAC s Food Wing
1. Stonre Ceil
Director (or Dputy Brtwrry i                                   _      _                                      - _           -      m  _ * I
Setimon Officen r nd Accounts Offiker                          _      _  f         _          _                    _             _ i - -  -  -           _      _
Support Staff                                                 *       _                          -  - '         -         -             -                               -
2. Technical Officers                                              _           _  _         _      _                                  -      -- *
3. Reponr no ImProre Gram Trnponanoiton and
Gretn Qualiiy lnuP-e n nd Contro_
__ lndefrnitn Durut,or                                                                                                                                   World  Bl, - 22540



- 92 -
ANNEX 10
Page 1
PAKISTAN
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Basis of Economic Analysis
1.        Base Year.  Investment and operating costs of the project and
project benefits are expressed in June 1980 constant Rupees (Rs).
2.        Exchange Rate.  The official exchange rate of US$1.00 = Rs 9.90
is used for converting border prices.
3.        Standard Conversion Factor (SCF).  Tariff and trade restrictions
introduce a distortion in the price relationship between traded goods (valued
at border prices) and non-traded goods (valued at local prices). In order to
evaluate the non-traded components of project costs and benefits more correctly,
SCF is applied to make them compatible with the traded components expressed in
Rs. SCF is estimated by the ratio between the value of all trade goods in
border prices and their value in local prices and is calculated as follows:
X + M
SCF =    X + M + Sx + Tm -Tx
where X = exports (fob), M = imports (cif), Sx = export subsidies, Tm =
import duties, and Tx = export taxes. Trade data from 1976/77, 1977/78 and
1978/79 yield an estimate for SFC of 0.86. In view of recent developments
in Pakistan which point to a less stringent tax and import duty regime in
the future, SCF has been estimated at 0.9 for the purpose of evaluating
non-traded components of project costs and benefits.
4.        Shadow Wage Rates.  Skilled labor has been costed at 100% of the
financial salary rates. Economic costs for unskilled labor used in construc-
tion and grain handling have been valued on the basis of a survey carried out
under the UNDP financed Indus Basin Planning Project, and are estimated at
85% of the financial costs.
5.        Wheat Storage Models.  To take properly into account differences
in investment costs and operating conditions in the four Provinces and in the
"with project" and "without project" situations, project storage complexes
have been grouped into four models with the following characteristics:
(i9 Model A would be applicable to all project storage complexes
in WMYP anda 'Baluchistan. Storage construction cost voald be
20% higher than in Punjab and Sind (Annex 6, Table 2). Proj-
ect facilities would be constructed at existing storage loca-
tions, where in the "without project" situation, the grain
would be stored on raised plinths. Average storage duration
would be about three months; annual grain throughput in



- 93 -
ANNEX 10
Page 2
project storage would amount to 300% of the storage capacity;
and average capacity utilization have been calculated on the
basis of grain flow models which have been prepared for each
district (examples are in Annex 4, Tables 3 and 4);
(ii)  ModeL B has similar characteristics as Model A but would
be applicable to storage complexes in Punjab and sind only,
where project storage facilities would be located in the
wheat procurement areas. Average storage duration would be
4.5 months; annual grain throughput in project storage would
amount to 125% of storage capacity; and average capacity
utilization would be 46%;
(iii)  Model C has the same characteristics as Model B, except that
project storage facilities would be constructed at new stor-
age locations where presently only temporary procurement
centers exist. In the "without project" situation, the pro-
cured wlieat would be transported to nearby storage locations
where it would be stored on raised plinths; and
(iv)  Model D has the same characteristics as Model C, except that
in the "without project" situation grain would not be stored
at nearby storage facilities, but transported immediately
after procurement long distance to consumption areas where
it would be stored on raised plinths at existing storage
locations.
6.        Storage Losses.  Estimates for quantitative and qualitative storage
losses for different storage periods in the "with project" and "without
project" situations are detailed in paras 2.26 and 2.28 in the main text.
On the basis of these estimates and the Model characteristics average monthly
wheat storage losses in the "without project" situation have been calculated
at 0.972% for Punjab and Sind, and at 0.861% for NWFP and Baluchistan. For
Basmati paddy, average monthly storage losses in the "without project"
situation have been calculated at 1.125%.
7.        Ecornomic Value of Wheat and Paddy.  The economic values of wheat
and Basmati paddy have been estimated on the basis of the IBRD projected
export prices of wheat and rice in 1985. For calculating the economic value
of wheat it has been assumed that Pakistan would become a net exporter of
wheat by 1984/85 (Annex 4, para 13). The estimated values of wheat and
Basmati paddy are Rs 2,250.86 per MT and Rs 5,772.33 per MT, respectively.
Details are in Table 1.
8.        Economic Value of Cement and Steel Bars.  For calculating the
economic values of cement and steel bars, it has been assumed that Pakistan
would remain a net importer of cement during the project period and that it
would continue to procure scrap steel for domestic processing into finished
steel. The estimated economic values of cement and steel bars are detailed
Za Tv b 2. 2 .



PAKISTAN
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Economic Value of Wheat, Basmati Paddy, Cement and Steel Bars
1. Wheat
85 price of Canadian No. 1 Western Red Spring Wheat,                                     3.  Cement
Projected 95   (in 1980 Conatant Dollars)  1/                                   US$  248.00/MT
f.o.b. Thunder Bs, (in 1980-Constant Dollars)   II                              US$   248.00/HT             Import  Price  c.i.f. Karachi (US$90.00/MT at Rs 9.9
Price of Pakistan Wheat, f.o.b. Karachi in Rs (US$1.00- Rs 9.9) 2/              Rs 2,455.20/MT              per US$1.00)                                                     Rs   891.00/MT
Minus Average Forwarding and Handling Charges from Punjab                                                   Plus Port Charges, Handling Cost, Average Incre-
to Karachi and pot Charges at Karachi 3/                                        Rs   204.34/NT              mental Transportation Cost and Dealer Margins 7/                Rs   209.75/MT
Price of Pakistan Wheat at Godown                                               Re 2,250.86/MT              Average Price of Cement at Godown Construction Site             Ra 1,100.75/MT
4.  Steel Bars 8/
2.  Easat  Pdd
Projected 1985 Prices of Thai Rice (5X Broken), f.o.b. Bangladesh                                           Import Price of Scrap Steel c.i.f. Karachi
(in 1980 Constant Dol ) 1                                                       US$  561.00/MT              (US$200.00/MT at Rs 9.9 per US$I.OO)                            Rs 1,980.00/MT
Plus 67% Average Price Premium for Pakistan Basmati 4/                          US$  375.87/NT              Cost of Handling, Dismantling and Average Transport
Plus 67% Average                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~of Scrap Steel to Smeltery 9/                    Rs   942.30/MT
Projected 1985 Averoge Price Premium for Pakistan
easmati (in 1980 CoA stant Dollars)                                             US$  936.87/MT              Smelting and Rolling of Steel into Bars                         Rs 1,575.00/HT
Projected 1985 Aver0ge Price of Pakistan Basmati in                                9,27501/NT               Ex-Factory Price of Steel Bars                                  Rs 4.497.30/MT       q.
Rs (US$1.00 - Rs 9-9)                                                           US$9,275.0/TR44930H
Minus (US$1.00 - rwading and Ha9dling,Charges from Punjab                                                   Handling Cost and Average Transport of Steel Bars                                     I
FKaah,adr Cand Handling Charges from Punjab                                                  and Dealer Margins 10/                                          Rs   540.00/MT
trojKrchi 1and orgt Charges  5/                                                 Es   564.59/NT             Average Price of Steel Bars at Godown Construction
Projected 1985 Averige Basmati Price at Godown                                 Es 8,710.42/NT              Site                                                             Es 5,037.30/NT
Minus Variable 1i411ng Costs 6/                                                Rs    95.00/HT
Price of 1.493 MT Of Paddy (Which Yield 1 MT of Rice at
Milling RecoverypR5e of 67%)                                                   Rs 8,615.42/NT
Price of 1 NT of Bamati Paddy                                                 Rs 5 772.33/HT
1/  IDA Commodity price Forecast, November 1980
/  It has been  Psued that the price of Pakistan Wheat f.o.b. Karachi would be the same as the price of Canadian No. 1 Wheat f.o.b. Thunder Bay.
2/  Calculated on the bWais of financial costs of Rs 227.05/HT multiplied with the Standard Conversion Factor (0.90).
3/Over the last nioe years Pakistan Basmati prices on the average have exceeded prices of Thai Rice (5 broken) by 67%.
4/ Calculated on tbe b6sis of financial costs of Rs 627.32 multiplied with the Standard Conversion Factor (0.90). The financial costs include
5   handling cost of ,s 18.05/NT, transportation cost of Rs 232.40/MT port charges of Rs 20.00/NT and cost of gunny bags of sa 356.87/NT.
6/  Calculated on the bnsis of financial costs of Rs 105.55 multiplied with the Standard Conversion Factor (0.90).
6/  Calculated on the b0sis of financial coats of Rs 233.05 multiplied with the Standard Conversion Factor (0.90).  The financial costs include
handling cost ofRa18.05/NT, port charges of Rs 20.00/MT, average incremental transportation cost of Rs 105.00/NT (for an average distance                                                    ^ 
of 700 km at Re 5s,$T/lOOkm) and dealer margins of Rs 90.00/MT (estimated at 10% of c.i.f. prices).                                                                                          1.
8/  Calculated for p 1io steel bars.  Economic costs for deformed steel bars have been estimated at 109% of the economic costs of plain steel bars.
Local cost componen(s have been multiplied with the Standard Conversion Factor (0.90).
9/  Scrap steel is 1tPOted in the form of ships which are dismantled in Pakistan.  Financial costs of handling and dismantling have been estimated
qt rs 900/MT. cost of transport to the smeltery estimated at Rs 147/MT has been calculated on the basis of an average distance of 700 km and a
transport cost f R# 21/MT for 100 km. Handling costs are estimated at Rs 45/MT.
10/  Handling cost etioted at Rs 45/NT.  Transport Costs of Rs 105/MT have been calculated on the basis of an average distance of 500 km to storage
sites.  Dealer mxrgAns have been estimated at Rs 450/MT (10% of ex-factory price).



- 95 -
ANNEX 10
PAXISTAN                                                  Table 2
GRATN STORAGE PROJECT
Paddy/Rice Storage Component - Financial An alysis 1/
(in Rs '000)
Year
1         2         3          4         5          6          7         8          9        10        11
SOURCE OF FUNDS
RECP Equity Contribution          10,000      4.858
GOP Loan  2/                      12.891    17,841    3.938
Subtotal                     22,891    22,699      3,938
Storage Operating Cost (Without:
Proiect) 3/
Salaries and Wages
Store Manager                         66         72        79         86        92         99       106        113       120        127       135
Asst.  Accounts Officer               58         64        70         76        82         88        94        100       100        106       119
Watchmen                             139        152        165       180        194       209       224        239       253        268       284
Handling Cost                        220        241       263        285       308        331       354        377       400       424        449
Electricity                           44         48        53         57        62         67        72         77        82         87        92
Ground and Godown Maintenance      1,056      1,157     1,260      1,368     1,477      1,588     1,699      1,809     1,918      2,033     2,155
Pest Control                         176        193       210        228       246        264       282        300       318       337        357
Wear & Tear of Gunny Bags          1.690      1,851     2 017      2.189     2.364      2,541     2,719      2,896     3.070     3.254      3.49
Subtotal                     3,449     3,778      4,117     4,469      4,825     5,187      5,550     5,911      6,267     6,642     7,040
Grain Losses (Without Proiect) 4/
Handling Losses                    1,082      1,260     1,397      1,535     1,674      1,803     1,931     2,059      2,188     2,315      2,443
Storage Losses                    14,89      17.347    19.242    21,137    23.056    24,822    26.587    28.355    30.123    31.883    33.635
Subtotal                    15.976    18.607    20,639    22,672    24.730    26,625    28.518    30,414    32.311    34.198    36.078
Total Source of Funds       42,316    45.084          28,694    27.141    29.555    31.812     34,068    36.325    38,578    40,840    43.118
USE OF FUNDS
Stora e Construction 5/             18,416    25,487      5,625
Debt Service
Interest (11% p.a.)                1,418      3,381     3,814     3,390      2,966     2,543      2,119      1,695     1,271       648        424
Amortization 6/                                         3.852      3,852     3.852      3,852     3.853      3.852     3.852      3,852     3.853
Subtotal                     1,418     3,381      7,666     7,242      6,818     6,395      5,972     5,547      5,123     4,700     4,277
Storage Operating Cost (With
Pro ject)
Salaries and Wases
Store Manager                         66         73        79         86        92         99       106        113       120       127        135
Asst.Accounts Officer                 58         64        70         76        82         88        94        100       106        112       119
Watchmen                             139        131       116        120       130        140       150        160       170        180       191
Handling Coat                        220        222       215        228       246        264       282        300       318       337        357
Electricity                           44         53        64         71        77         83        89         95       101        107       113
Ground and Godown Maintenance      1,056      1,060     1,024      1,083     1,170      1,258     1,346      1,433     1,519      1,610     1,707
Pest Control                         176        159       127        128       138        148       158        168       178       189        200
Wear & Tear of Gunny Bags         1.690       1.604     1.411      1,459     1.575      1.693     1.812      1.930     2,046      2,169    2.299
Subtotal                    3,449     3,366      3,106     3,251      3,510     3,772      4,037     4,299      4,558     4,831      5,121
Grain Losses (With Project)
Handling Losses                    1,082      1,008       769        768       837        901       965      1,030     1,094      1,158     1,221
Storage Loeser                    14.894    11,179      3.848      2.349     2.562      2,758     2,.954     3.151     3,347       3,543    3.737
Subtotal                   15.976    12,187      4.717     3.117      3.399     3,659      3.919     4.181      4.441     4.701     4.958
Total Use of Funds         39.259    44,421    21,014    13.610    13.727    13.826    13.928    14.027    14.122    14.232    14.356
Annual Funds Surplus        3,057        663     7.680    13.531    15.828    17,986    20.140    22,298    24,456    26,608    28,762
Cumulative Funds Surxllus   3,057     3,720    11.400    24.931    40,759    58.745    78,885   101.183   125.639   152.247   181,009
Financial Rate of Return 7/ 377
1/  In current Rupees assuming that inflation will decline annually by 0.5% from 10% in 1981 to 67. in 1989 and thereafter.  The Rupee/Dollar
exchange rate has been assoumed to remain constant at Rs. 9.9 per US$ 1.00.
2/ The RECP equity contributLon and the GOP loan would be 30% and 70% respectively of storage construction cost including physical and
price contingencies. It has been assumed that all funds would be made available at the beginning of a given year.
3/  Cost details in constant 1980 Rupees are in Table 3.
4/ Details on handling losseis are in Table  3.   Storage losses have been estimated on the basis of different loss percentages corresponding
to different storage periods (para 2.28 of main text) and the weighted averages for storage utilization and storage periods. The latter
have been calculated in accordance with the projections in Annex 4, Tablell and are estimated at 51% for storage utilization and six
months for storage period. Grain losses have been valued in current Rupees in accordanee with the IDA Commodity Price Forecast, Nov. 1980.
5/  tncludes physical and price contingencies.
6/  It has been asumed that the GOP loan would be anortized  in even amounts over a nine-year period following two year grace on principal
repayments.    For interest calculation, it has been further assum d that repayments would be made at the end of a given year.
7/ Calculated on the basis of operating cost in constant 1980 Rupees and storage construction cost including physical contingencies (see
Table 3 and Annex 6, Table 3). Grain losses have been valued in financial prices projected for 1985 in accordance with the methodology
detailed in Table 1.



PAKISTAN
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Economic Rates of Return for Paddy/Rice Storage Component
Hafizabad          Sheikhupura            Siranwali             Eminabad             Faizabad            Mubarikpur            Dhaunkal                    TOTAL
(4,000 MT)         (6,000 MT)            (4,000 MT)            (4,000 MT)           (5.000 MT)           (5,000 Kr)          (12,000 Kr)                (40,000 MT)
With      Without   With       Without   With       Without   With       Without   With       Without   Wout       With ut   With       Without         With       Without
Cost Item  1/                     Project  Project   Project  Project   Project  Project   Project  Project   Project  Project                  ect   roject         ect       ect        1roect
Investment Cost  2/                            3,656         -      5,478         -      3,656         -      3,656         -      4,591         -      4,591          -    10,940          -         36,568           -
Storage Losses  3/                               166    1,563         312    2,930         156    1,372         190    1,790         260    2,442          234    2,104         447    3,932            1,765     16.133
Operating Cost
Salaries and W,4ges   4/
Store Manager (Rs 8,500/year)              8         8           8        8           8         8          8         8          8         8          8         8          8          8             56          56
Assistant AccodntinR Officer                                                                    8          8         8          8         8          8         8         16         16             64          64
(Rs 7500ya! 200e year)8                              83        87        82          8        18                    13         13        17         13        17         26        34              93        129
Watchmen (Rs 4,200/year)                    8       13          17        22          8        13          81 13
Total Salaries and Wages                       24        29         33        38         24        29         24        29         29        33         29        33          SO        58             213        249
Handling Cost  5/                              16        20         24        30         16        20         16        20         20        25         20        25         48         60            160         200
Electricity                                     5         4          7         6          5         4          5         4          6         5          6         5          14        12             48          40
Ground and Godown f4aintenance  6/             76        96        114       144         76        96         76        96         95       120         95       120        228        288            760         960
Pest Control  7/                                9        16         14        24          9        16          9        16         11        20         11        20          27        48              90        160
Wear and Tear of Gunny Rags  8/               102      154         153      230         102       154        102       154        128       192        128       192         307       461          1,022      1,537
Handling Losses                           8___8        115          86    __17_3         58       115         58       115         72       144         72       144        172        346            576      1,152
Total Operating Cogts                        290       434        431       645         290      434         290       434        361       539        361       539        846    1,273            2,869      4,298
Total Economic OpeIrting Costs 10/           267       402        396       598        267       402         267      402         332       500        332       500        779    1,180            2,640      3,983
Economic Rates of RetOrn   11/                       42%                   51%                  37%                  47%                 51%                  44%                  35%                        43%
1/ Costs and benefits are expressed in Rs thousands.
2/ Calculated on the basis of financial investment costs detailed in Annex 6, Table 3 after deducting duties and taxes, shadow-pricing unskilled construction
labor (para 4), a,d applying the Standard Conversion Factor (0.90) to local cost components.  Steel bars and cement have been valued at their economic
prices (Table ;)  Land costs have not been considered since land requirements would be the same in the "with project" and "withouit project" situations.
3/ Storage losses h,e, been estimated on the basis of (i) different loss percentages corresponding to different storage periods (see para 2.28 of main text)
and (ii) the storage utilizations and average storage periods at each site.  The latter have been calculated in accordance with projections in Annex 4,
Table 11. CapacitY utilization is estimated to vary between 43% in Dhaunkal and 60% in both Sheikhupura and Faizabad. The weighted average for the entire
paddy/rice storage component is 51%.  Average storage duration is ranging from 5 to 7 months with an overall average of 6 months.  The economic value of
Basmati paddy losses is detailed in Table 1.
4/ Includes allyowances of 50% of base salaries.
5/ Estimated at Rs 30 and Rs 37.5 for handling 100 bags of 75 kg each in godown and open storage respectively.  The rate includes transportation to mills and
stacking.
6/  Estimated for gOjwn storage at Rs 19/MT storage capacity (2% of godown construction cost) and at Rs 24 per MT of paddy stored in the open.  The cost for
open storage is bAsed on the assumption that tarpaulins and dunnage would have an average life of 5 years and plinth maintenance costs would be 2.33' of
plinth conatructi°l cost (Rs 180 per Kr plinth storage capacity).
7/ Estimated at Res 2,25 and Rs 4 per MT of grain treated for godown and open storage respectively.
8/  Estimted at 2X 05d 3% of cost of gunny bags (Rs 16 per bag holding 75 kg of paddy) per month storage for godown and open storage respectively.  Storage
periods would vary between five and seven months.  The average storage period would be six months,
91/  Estimated at 0 25% and 0.50% of the economic value of the paddy handled for godown and open storage respectively.
10/  Calculated by ;uItiplying operating expenditures with Standard Conversion Factor (0.90).  Handling losses have been valued at the economic price for
Badmati paddy (T*tbfe I)-
11/  Assuming a 25 year economic life of the storage facilities.  It has also been assumed that benefits from a reduction in operating cost and grain lossea
would start accrui"8 only one year after the investment cost are incurred.



PAKI STAN
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Annual Operating Cost of Wheat Storage Complexes with Different Capacities
(in Rs)
MODEL A  -/                                                                   MODEL B
250 Mf Capacity         1,100 MT Capacity          9,900 M1 Capacity          1,100 KT Capacity          3,300 MT Capacity         22.000 MT Capacity
With      Without       With         Without       With         Without       With         Without       With         Without      With          Without
Project                 Project       Project      Project       Project      Project       Proiect      Project       Project    Project         Project
1. Salaries and Wages 3/
AssiItsnt Food Controller
(Rs 12$000/year)                                                                -                           -            - -                        -             -     12,000          12,000
Food itspector (Rs 8,300/year)             -          -        8,300         8,300       16,600        16,600            -             -        8,300         8,300      24,900         24,900
Supervisor (Ra 7,300/year)                 -          -            -             -        7,300         7,300        7,300         7,300            -             -       7,300          7,300
Watchnn/Sweeper
(ES 4-200/year)                       4.200       8,400        8,400        21,000       46,200        67,200       8,400         16,800       12,600        25,200      92,400        117,600
Subtotal                              4,200       8,400       16,700        29,300       70,100        91,100       15,700        24,100       20,900        33,500    136,600         161,80
2-  TransPortation and Handling  4/        96,000      96,000      422,000       422,000   3,801,000    3,801,000         10,300        10,300       30,900        30,900    206.250         206,250
3.  Electricity                              1,500      1,000        3,000         2,500       15,000        12,000        3,000         2,500        4.000         3,000      25,000         17,000
4. Offite and Equipment Maintenance          1,000      1,000        1,500         1,500        5,000         5,000        1,500         1,500        2,000         2,000       8,000          8,000
5.  Ground and Godown Maintenance  5/        4,000           -      17,600              -     158,400             -       17,600              -      52,800              -    352,000               -
6.  St.r.ge quality Control  6/              1,125       2,000       4,950         8,800       44,550        79,200        2,475         4,400        7,425        13,200      49.500         88,400              .
7-  Wear end Tear of Gunny Bags  7/          7,200     10,800       31,680        47,520      285,120       427,68Q       19,800        29,700       59,400        89,100    396,000         594,000
8. Handlin9 Losses  8/                       4,220       8,441       18,569        37,139     167,126       334,253        7,737        15,475       23,212        46,424    154,745          309,493
9.  Repair lid Replacement of Dunnage,
plith and Tarpaulins  9/                   -      8,750            -        38,500            -       346,500            -        26,400             -       79,200            -       528,800
TOTAL                                  119,245    136,391      515,999       587,250   4,546,296    5,096,733         78,112       114,375      200,637       297,324  1.328,095        1,913,343
Total Etcnomic Operating Cost  10/   107,742       123,596     466,225       532,247   4,108,379    4,620,485         71,074       104.485      182,894       272,234  1,210,760       10752,958
Tons Handled                               750         750        3,300         3,300      29,700        29,700        1.375          1,375       4,125         4,125      27.500          27,500
EconoRl  Cost per MTr                      144         176          141           161         138           155            52            76           44            65          44             64
2/  For chatractetistics of Model A storage complex see para 5.
3 1/ For ch5rcteristics of Model B storage complex see para 5.
4i Includes allowances of 50Y of base salaries.
-l For Model A transportation and handling costs have been estimated at Rs 128 per MT handled assuming an average
teransprtation distance of 800 km. For Model B transportation and handlitng costshave been estimated at Rs 7.5
er Mti handled assuming an average transportation distance of 15 km.
6/ Estimated at Es 16 per MT storage capacity (about 2S of investment costs).
-6/ Estiate5 at Rs 2.25 and Rs 4 per MT of grain treated in open and godown storage respectively.  It has been
Assumed that for Model A 67X of all grain handled needs treatment, while for Model B 80X of the grain handled
would be tetd
/  rEstimate5 at 32 and 2% of cost of gunny bags (Rs 16 per bag) per month storage for open and godown storage
respecti,sel
9/ Estimateq 0.502 and 0.252 of the economic value of the grain handled for open and godown storage respectively.
Estiateq at Rs 35 and at Rs 24 per MT storage capacity for Model A and B respectively.  For Model A it has
been as,hled that tarpaulins and dunnage can be used for 3 years, and plinth repair cost amount annually to
42dof ins,estment costs. (Rs 180 per MT plinth storage capacity). Corresponding figures for Model B are 5 years
and 2.33k.
!0/ Calcula1td by multiplying operating expenditure with Standard Conversion Factor (0.9).  Handling losses have been
valued at the economic price for wheat (Table 1).



PAKISTAN
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Econotic Analysis
Annual Operating Cost of Wheat Storage Complexes with Different Capacities
(in Rs)
MODEL C  -/                                                                         MODEL    2/
Cost Items                                 1,100 MT Capacity         4,400 MT Capacity           17,600 MT Capacity           1,100 MT Capacity           4,400 MT Capacity           9,900 MT Capacity
With          Without      With          Without       With          Without        With         Without        With         Without        With         Without
Project        Project    Project         Project      Project        Prject        Project       Project       Project       Project       Project       Project
1.  Salaries and Wages  3
Assistant Food CUntroller
(Rs 12,000/year)                                            -           -              -            -              -                           -             -             -              -
Food Inspector (s 8,300/year)                -              -       8,300         8,300        16,600         16.600             -              -        8,300         8,300        16,000        16,600
Supervlsor (R  7,300 /year)             7,300           7,300           -              -        7,300          7,300         7,300         7,300             -              -        7,300         7.300
Watchmen/Sweeper (Rs 4,200/year)        8,400          12,600      16,800         33,600       71,200         96,600         8,400        12,600        16,800        33,600        46,200        67,200
Subtotal                          15,700         19,900      25,100         41,900       95,100        120,500        15,700        19,900        25,100        41,900        70,100        91,100
2.  Transportation and Handling  4/                 -         10,300             -       41,200             -        160,000      159,500        214,500      638,000       858,000   1,435.500       1,930,500
3.  Electricity                                 3,000          2,500       5,400          4,000       20,000          13,600        3,000          2,500        5,400          4,000       15,000         12,000
4.  Office and Equipment Maintenance            1,500          1,500        2,600         2,600        6,000           6,000        1,500          1,500        2,600          2,600        5,000          5,000
5.  Ground and Godown Maintenance  5/          17,600               -     70,400              -      281,600               -       17,600              -       70,400              -      158,400
5.  Storage Quality Ca,tiol  6/                 2,475          4,400       9,900         17,600       39,600          70,400        2,475         4,400         9,900        17,600        22,275         39,600
7.  Wear and Tear of Gunny Bags  7/           19,800          29,700      79,200        118,800      316,800        475,200        19,800        29,700        79,200       118,800       178,200       267,300
8.  Handling Losses  8/                         7,737         15,475      30,949         61,899      123,800        247,600         7,737        15,475        30,949        61,899        69,635       139,272         00
9.  Repair and ReplaceeCnt of Dunnage,
Plinth and Tarpaulins   9/                     -         26,400            -       105,600             -        422,400             -        26,400             -       105,600             -       237,600
10.  Temporary Procurement Center  10/               -          6,500           -        18,600             -         55,800          _            6,500             -         18,600            -        39,000
TOTAL                            67,812        116,675    223,549         412,199      882,900       1,571,500      227,312        320,875      861,549    1,228,999   1,954,110         2,761,372
total Economic Operating Cost  11/        61,804        106,555    204,289         377,169      806,990      1,439,110       205,352        290,335      778,489    1,112,289   1,765,662        2,499,162
Tons Handled                               1,375          1,375        5,500         5,500       22,000          22,000        1,375          1,375        5,500          5,500       12,375         12,375
Economic Cost per NT                          45              77          37            68            37             65          149            211          142            202          142            202
1/ For characteristics of Model C storage complexes see para 5.
2/ For characteristics 0f Model D storage complexes see para 5.
3I Includes allowances of 50% of base salaries.
4/  Transportation and handling costs for the "without project" situation in Model C has been estimated at Rs 7.5 per MT handled assuming
an average transpo,tation distance of 15 km. In Model D for the "without project" situationhandling and transport cost by truck have
been estimated at Re 156 per MT handled assuming an average transportation distance of 600 km, while for the "with project" situation,
enabling transport tion by train. handling and transport cost over the same distance have been estimated at Rs 116 (which includes Rs 8
per MT handled fo.ra loc I transport).
5/  Estimated at Re 16 per MT storage capacity (about 2% of investment costs).                                                                                                                                   0
6/  Estimated at Rs 2.25 snd Rs 4 per MT of grain treated in open and godown respectively.  It has been assumed that 80% of the grain handled                                                                    a
7   Eutid bted  et 3% and 2% of cost of gunny bags (Rs 16 per bag) per month storage for open and godown storage respectively.
8/  Estimated at 0.501 nd 0.25%  of the economic value of grain handled for open and godown storage respectively.
9/  Estimated at Rs 24 pet MT storage capacity.  It has been assumed that tarpaulins and dunnage can be used for 5 years and plinth repair cost
a a   t  .33% of investment cpst (Re 180 per MT plinth storage capacity).
/  In "witho   pj" , ituations,temporary procurement centers would be established for about four months.  Costs include salaries, wages
n d a              s for ojelection Officers, Assistant Purchase Officers and helpers.
I1/  Calculated by multiplying operating expenditures with Standard Conversion Factor (0.9). Handling losses have been valued at the economic price
for wheat (Table 1).



-99 -
ANNEX 10
Table 6
PAKISTAN
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Economic Rates of Return for Storage Models with Different Capacities
and for the Total Wheat Storage Component
MODEL A 1/
250 MT Capacity       1,100 MT Capacity       9,900  MT Capacity
Year 1   Year 2-25   Year 1   Year 2-25    Year 1   Year 2-25
Incremental Investment Cost  2/         213           -        678            -      6,859            -
Savings in Operating Cost  3/             -          16          -           66           -         512
Reduction in Grain Losses  4/             -          40           -         177           -       1,594
Net Benefits                      (213)         56       (678)        243      (6,589)      2,106
Economic Rates of Return                 26%                   36%                      31%
MODEL B  1/
1,100 MT Capacity    3,300 MT Capacity         22,000 MT Capacity
Year 1   Year 2-25   Year 1   Year 2-25    Year 1   Year 2-25
Incremental Investmient  Cost  2/       627           -      1,851            -     12,021            -
Savings in Operating Cost  3/             -          33          -          89            -         542
Reduction in Grain Losses  4/             -         116        _           347            -      2,315
Net Benefits                      (627)        149    (1,851)         436    (12,021)       2,857
Economic Rates of Return                 24%                   23%                      24%
MODEL C  I/
1,100 MT Capacity    4,400 MT Capacity         17,600 MT Capacity
Year 1   Year 2-25   Year 1   Year 2-25    Year 1   Year 2-25
Incremental Investment Cost  2/         669           -      2,622           -       9,892            -
Savings in Operating Cost  3/             -          45          -         173            -        632
Savings in Grain Losses  4/               -         116          _         463            -      1,852
Net Benefits                      (669)        161    (2,622)         636      (9,892)      2,484
Economic Rates of Return                 24%                   24%                      25%
MODEL D  1
1,100 MT Capacity    4,400 MT Capacity         9,900  MT Capacity
Year 1   Year 2-25   Year 1   Year 2-25    Year 1   Year 2-25
Incremental Investiment Cost  2/        669           -      2,622           -       5,562            -
Savings in Operating Cost  3/             -          85          -         334            -         734
Savings in Grain Losses  4/                        .u _                              -§_4        1.042
Net Benefits                      (669)        201    (2,622)         797      (5,562)      1,776
Economic Rateis of Return                30%                     30%                    32%
TOTAL WHEAT STORAGE COMPONENT 5/
Economic Rate of Return                                          26%
1/  For characteristics ofmodel storage complexes see para 5.  Costs and benefits are expressed
in Rs thousands.
2/  Incremental investment costs have been calculated by subtracting the economic cost for constructing
raised plinths from the economic investment cost of project storage complexes. The latter has been
derived from the financial investment costs detailed in Annex 6, Table 2 after deducting duties and
taxes, shadow-pricing unskilled construction labor (para 4), and applying the Standard Conversion
Factor (0.90) to local cost components. Steel bars and cement have been valued at their economic
prices (Table 1). Land costs have not been considered since land requirements would be the same
in the "with project" and "without project" situations. The economic cost of constructing raised
plinths has been estimated as follows:
Plinths Storage Capacity (in MT)
250   1,100  3,300  4,400   9,900    17,600   22,000
Economic Cost (Rs '000):  41.4  182.7  548.1  729.0  1,645.2  2,880.0  3,655.8
3/ Details are in Tables 4 and 5.
4/ Calculated on the basis of an average warehouse loading factor of 81% in NWFP and
Baluchistan and 46% in Punjab and Sind (para 5) and an average storage period of 3 months
and 4.5 months in NWFP and Baluchistan, and Punjab and Sind respectively. Estimated
storage losses for different periods are detailed in para 2.26 of the main text. The economic
value of wheac is presenced an Zaf,le 1.
5/ Total wheat storage capacity provided under the project would be composed as follovs: Model A -
105,000 MT (21%); Model B - 190,000 MT (38%); Model C - 87,000 MT (17.4%); and Model D - 118,000 MT
(23.6%). Investment and operating costs, and storage losses for storage capacities not analyzed
in detail under the Models and in Annex 6, Table 2 have been calculated through interpolation.



- 100 -
ANNEX 10
Table 7
PAKISTAN
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECTS
Economic Rates of Return for Pilot Projects
Mechanization of Loading/Unloading
of Storage Bins                           Mechanical
Semi-Mechanical System 1/   Pneumatic Conveyer 2/          Bag Handling 3
With         Present      With         Present       With        Present
Cost Item                         Project      Practice    Project       Practice      Project    Practice
Investment Cost (in Rs) 4/                   117,964            -      236,363            -       451,950            -
Annual Operating Cost (in Rs)
Labor (at Rs 25/man-day)                     3,600 5/   12,000 5/    4,000 5/   24,000 5/   108,000 6/  156,000 6/
Wear and Tear of Gunny Bags                 51,200 7/   64,000 7/  102,400 7/  128,000 7/   156,800 8/  224,000 8/
Electricity/Diesel Oil 9/                    2,300            -       15,600            -         6,600            -
Equipment Maintenance
(at 2.5% of Equipment Cost)                3,277             _       6,566             -       12,554             -
Subtotal                              60,377       76,000      128,566      152,000       283,954      380,000
Economic Operating Cost  10/                  54,015       67,320      115,349      134,640       245,839      327,960
Annual Grain Losses (in Rs)
Handling Losses  11/                         4,502       13,505        9,003       27,016       162,062      202,577
Storage Losses   12/                        37,139       47,268       74,278       94,536             -            -
Subtotal                              41,641       60,773       83,281      121,552       162,062      202,577
Economic Rates of Return: 13/                         23%                      19%                        23%
1/ For the semi-mechanical handling system it has been assumed that it would be installed at a 1,000 MT bin complex
which would be filled with wheat twice a year.
2/ For the portable pneumatic conveyor system it has been assumed that it would be used annually for loading twice
two storage complexes of 1,000 MT capacity each.
3/ For the mechanical bag handling system it has been assumed that it would be used at 14,000 MT godowns. These would
be filled twice a year with stacks 18 layers high which would permit storing 18,000 MT of wheat.
4/ Including physical contingencies; excluding duties and taxes. Financial cost are in Annex 6, Table 5. Local cost
have been multiplied vith the Standard Conversion Factor (0.90).
5/ Under present practice a crew of about 24 laborers is required for 10 days to load a 1,000 MT complex. The crew
size and the days required for loading would be reduced to 18 and 4 respectively with semi-mechanical handling
equipment and to 8 and 5 respectively with the pneumatic system.
6/ Under present arrangements the cost for each loading and unloading of the godown is about Rs 15 per 100 bags if stacks
are up to 10 layers high. Cost for layers 11 through 18 are Rs 30 per 100 bags (arrangements differ by location). In
the case of mechanical handling it has been assumed that handlihg cost per 100 bags would be Rs 15 for all layers.
7/ Estimated at 20% and 16% of the cost of gunny bags under the present and the proposed practice respectively. Ten
thousand bags would be handled per 1,000 MT of grain. The cost per bag is Rs 16.
8/ Estimated at 5% and 3.5% of the cost of gunny bags under the present and the proposed practice respectively. Ten
thousand bags would be handled per 1,000 MT of grain. The cost per bag is Rs 16.
9/ Cost of diesel oil has been calculated on the basis of Rs 12 per liter.
10/ Calculated on the basis of financial cost after shadow pricing labor (para 4) and multiplying the total with the
Standard Conversion Factor (0.90).
11/ For bin storage estimated at 0.3% and 0.1% of the handled wheat with present and proposed systems respectively.
Corresponding handling losses have been estimated at 0.25% and 0.2% for the bag storage facilities. The economic
value of wheat is presented in Table 1.
12/ With mechanical equipment it would be anticipated that bin storage capacity would be utilized fully for 11 months
while present usage is estimated to average 8 months, with grain being stored longer in godownas. Monthly storage
losses are estimated at 0.30% and 0.15% in godown and bin storage respectively (see para 2.26 of the main text).
13/ Assuming a ten year economical life of the proposed equipment. It has also been assumed that benefits from a
reduction in operating cost and in grain losses would start accruing only one year after the investment cost are
incurred.



- 101 -
ANNEX 11
PAKISTAN
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
1. Canadian International Development Agency - Economic and Engineering
Study, Foodgrain Storage and Handling, West Pakistan, by R. G. Watson
Co., Ltd., Consulting Engineers, June 1970.
2. Canadian International Development Agency - Foodgrain Storage and
Handling Master Plan, Pakistan, by Carr and Donald and Associates,
Consulting Engineers, January 1980.
3. FAO - Report on Assistance to the Pakistan Agricultural Storage and
Services Corporation, January 1980.
4. FAO - Draft Report of Food Security Policy Formulation and Project
Identification Mission to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan (Five
Volumes), September 1980.
5. Government of the Punjab, Food Department - Wheat Procurement Policy
1980-81, and Monopoly Procurement Scheme of Rice 1979-80 (Two Volumes).
6. Government of Sind, Food Department - Wheat Policy 1980-81, and
Voluntary Procurement Scheme for Rice 1979-80 (Two Volumes).
7. Kansas State University - Foodgrain and Oilseed Storage in Pakistan: An
Assessment of the Sector's Problems and Plans, by H. B. Pfost, D. Anderson,
W. Briggs and C. Hugo, December 1976.
8. MICAS Associates (Pakistan) Ltd., Management Consultants - A Study of
Problems Associated with Procurement, Storage and Distribution of Wheat,
May 1976.
9. University of Agriculture, Faisalabad - Research on Stored Grain Pests
in Pakistan, by H. A. Qayyum and M. A. Zafar, October 1978.
10. University of Agriculture, Faisalabad - Foodgrain Losses in Pakistan (Six
Volumes), by M. A. Chaudhry, 1980.
11. Articles and Memoranda and Financial Statements of Rice Export Corporation
of Pakistan and Pakistan Agricultural Storage and Services Corporation.
12. Site Layouts for Paddy/Rice Storage Construction at RECP Rice Mills.
13.  Storage Engineering Designs.
14.  Draft Terms of Reference for Project Consultants.
15. Draft Terms of Reference for Grain Storage and Processing Study.






IBRD 15571
S7n -        U.S.S.R.   r     \    CHINA                                !            720                                                   MARCH 1981
44 .) JJ    .    <</r.RXAfroxCmora/erfitine                  1          U. S. S.  R.
/D EM. REP. OF
IRAN    ?k AFANSTNJ 
L _ _! / > /                                                                                 Broghil i
PAKISTAN   /          L           t                              . *  __
U.A.E.~     -- ----*-r-J
INDIA                                               r _           p
°Ag       frAraban Sea                     6-3                           C  H  I T-oR  A          ,                                           36°-
v       \                                   /                     i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Reshun 
-hu , he beenp,r ae Wor,8.nk%et-I ,e.Ci                                                Gaf,lniOnenC r  * Oaramch,shna)
_n-r      lh,e don,ehe  oniOn Ofp rr non n    or iM. pan oitfln   nd s8 _ 
onniciss. .nE,iOOinceonsoct on lfleidrreo.ioe     _fanni.iiiOiVOn,n, t      -Chitral
0    20   40    60   8C   100  KILOMETERS                                  i
0   10  20  30 40   50 MILES                                          *  Oro   /
I, ?lvl.)A  L A,') K A  N  D
I                  Arandu                                        H AZ           RAS  W    A   T!
_ 0<:                                            t     lmegaa \ p         Kwaj Kh 4          H  A  Z  A   R  A J
y  Ba,dj Sharif
e .                                /         a>   - ~*Shau-glapur    B                 (
- g   ~ .    2 tSajda Shnarif  (    Batagr-
q    ()   ~ ~~~~~             g~MALA(AND1-=.*..       
(7MOHMAND arga_
/                  I<  , MiARDAN                Ma-hr
Takhit-!-Bhoi U'\'Mandan
340                                                   _       *           T   i                      / <      Abbottabad                         340\
Kani       /   asd a               Sroabi     g 
Kabulbi
(              *K-CH Y B E R  )   J                   of CPIESHAWA                                         ofontroL
-*         E  S  H  A  WV  A/'- R                                >o  No' *
KURRAM                                                                  A -  ,B '\
*L\           >      H            Kohat       v
et_          .,,     K  OyH2A  T          f<.
w ~ ~          /          z  >-s ~  Karak    l     \      /          
PAKISTAN
INORTH  WAZIRISTAN    Bn
~BANU (    RAINSTORAGE PROJECT~
/         ) ~~~~B  A  Nt I              2
) D  I<  K  FHs 1\ A' -IPROVINCIAL FOOD DEPARTMENT AND
PASSCO STORAGE FACILITIES IN
/  Nx ,X2  !    , Z                              N.WF. PROVINCE
32°  >  Tank _r( I ~ ec   PROPOSED WHEAT STORAGE FACILITIES                                               320
SOUTH  WAZiRISTAN                                                                    EX STING WHEAT STORAGE FACILIT ES
/SOT      WAIRTA     D'ERA  -iMAIL KHAN:
\.     /             s                \               D    PROVINCIAL CAPITAL
'0.1. -     g Klachl            i}                          - - --SELECTED ROADS
J                    jP         K \  __     +.%rsalac,    Khan                  - - SELECTED RAILROADS
I   N  .~~  ~    a I-,no   KEh-
D STRICT BOUNDARIES
I g   \   <> ;;                            -   -  DIVISION BOUNDARIES
-   PROV NC AL BOUNDARIES
1iit.    I }  \    >   e                                 -*-   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
C                          -~~~~~~~~ ~RIVERS
B A L U C H IS T A N                             ;-RVR
70IIT                                                    720                                                        740






64                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MARCH 1981
32 0 '                                                              640                                                                          680                                            BRD  I55 7
PAKISTAN                                                                                                                     I V. WF
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT                                                                                      r                 2
PROVINCIAL FOOD DEPARTMENT AND PASSCO
*STORAGE FACILITIES IN BALUCHISTAN PROVINCE                                                                                z H 0 B
r    ~,Q U  ET TAJ
*            PROPOSED WHVEAT STrORAGE FACILITIES ----   DISTRICT BOUNDARIES                   p I S H  I N             Q     U,                       A
/     *    ~~~~E.WBi.G VtEAT STOR-EIACtFAlLlrEs -   _   DIVISION 1SOUNDARIES            ,Cae
1    PROVINCIAL CAPITAL                -      -    PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES            Clthmn -eI o' Jo                                   -
SELECTED  IROADS                  _         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES    (
.       --  -- - ~StLECTtLL RAILROADS             _-=        RAEsj                                   /                Z     ,\      LVO RALA I                   (
20 p40  6S  50 160 110 120 KILOMETERS                        i  /                                             ORA            Al     -.7
10 20  30 40 00 60 70 80  MILES                                              'N 
Y                               _, %, Lfff,.tq, ,,,  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,  , ,/ i   ,,,          '
DEM. REP  OF  AFG/HANISTAN                                                                 o  I    M A R
SoOR
S  Q   U   E  T   T   A                                         K 1 A L A  T
C  H  A  G  A  I  Dab,, b                    >                 /       #Kalat          /   Rhogj        /  < >   B    i50 ut           P      N     A
/  /KAccHI/                BUGT~~~~~~~~ID-B~f
_  .   .  /                   rJ    /   /~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~/K  A C C H JFV,   B U G  Tl1   5
\- -   z -  _       Kh4ra,d           )  /    /               ,       TorploDerT,O D-'
v  /  I /( tfrf f ZrEA / /                                                             Y
2B0                                                                                             A  .                A A      T     ,/         /     /tItBaMuhammad                                       280
K H A R A N- -    Be-1 dm                          SKEu7dr          -~   $1  N  D
Wosh k#              '   /       _                     /
IR A N                                                                                      /                             /
/  WoHo                                           moo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T, -np h.. Seen Pr8000-d b, tOe
i/K H  U   Z  D  A  R                                              TEe d.sed -nd R..
. r           Z  ' *P0njgigur            - o i                                                                      b       do tot itpiv. o- the port oR the
_    8   P A,; N  J G  U  R                                                                               -y,7  1   I   j   ;   anv WaterrtoY or y  endorSotnent
T! ;, ;            X 7                 AT                       /,b                              X,t                                          DEM FIEP. OF //.  
/ SPANJGUR>                                     /      tUthal         V                            IRAN    \           J\  t  /t   '
'0'_-    - ".-/~                         / 7 - -  >--  -  ff   8:  ,<,,                   5 - ¢                              INDIJ L
71
M/ EuRChANkl              I                   '   t*t
A   r  o  b  ia  nSeo                                                                    - ?                                     °            raij  ?      |
_~~ ~~~                                  ~        ~      ~         ~         ~        ~        ~          ~        ~~         ~~~~~ _  64  4 _EREO   ' 65.1\     






IU. & S. R.         I      CHINA      b8°                                                                    70°
twim.a  r   AporbPAKISTAN
IN DEMREP                                                            GRAIN  STORAGE PROJECT
IpAN  LAFGHANISTAN  I amabasdANg\> 'PROVINCIAL FOOD DEPARTMENT, PASSCO AND RECP
t.-.PAKIS'TAN /                                             STORAGE FACILITIES IN SIND PROVINCE
, 4   4lWt   i,-                                  PROPOSED WHEAT STORAGE FACILITIES                       -   DISTRICT ROUN/DARlES
biND"'.                                Sl            * EXISTING WHEAT STORAGE FACILITIES             -     DIVISION BOUNDARIES
U.A.E.                                                          "   <   YINDIA  EXISTING PADDY/RICE STORAGE FACILITIES              PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
-  OMAN)                                                     @ fs    PROVINCIAL CAPITAL                                     -    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
<4                                                          - -=      SELECTED ROADS                                               RIVERS
Arabi-n   Sea                                             SELECTED RAILROADS                    W
<"'WSBAAD    asc# '                                        P   U   N   J   A    B
B         V      -    IU   C  / S-rdJabakad@Y ' -  ' -    'LKasdh Lot
SAL~~~~~~~~~ UCI'/aw- /| $
Dhaharki                        28'
r ....................  ArBi&  -/    / 0 Mirpour Mathel    n
- S               Md       R           Pan Akil          R
L4   A  R   ~ N                  ~                     r
(as.    .LarkanaS                                 Rnl                                   J
Kambar                                     U KhairPsr4    S    U    K    K   U    R
Nasirabad    a                  &*Tandu Masti Khan
.,    Natlrahad.    NDskti   /ma          KtDj                              /
N"                                 mEats    * Kot RaniPir WaD /'
Sethar                              /
Naths Shah*        Kasdar
Thari M,rwa I                Y
Th-rn Shah
B4F:   38hiria Town                                   I          N           D           I         A
Dadu ,'        -, i  *Padidan  K  H  A   I  R  P  U   R
I .  * ,           -sahare, 
\     Joh, . .:<      ,,Moro @ay z
\        :. S  ~~~~~~~~~~NAWABS,,HAH,, I
Sehwan      Nawab Wali      Sixty
\            , ti~~~~Kasi Ahmad  Daur, 
*Nawabshah
.4 '  tShahpu, Ch.kar
Mshrabpu*  SnE  Sjh.W  *SaEghar S   A   N   G   H   A   R
26'                                 U      A      U                  7Shahdadpar *Jhol                                      \                                        26'
! D    A      D       U~I Ca.>          Tando  Baranx,         K hipro
/                               - GderoXtY/§x       -*Hing r 
''  H    y                                  T DYd R                tA osB  Aj   D
/,;Allahyar               Pith-     o-
Thar,a              Kotri    .   - '                     Samarow      Dlint Naro
;   J  / Bu)la Kh             HYDERABAD  \               *Tswt          - Umerkot
Tacos    ~ ~ ~ ~ ,jarnxbad,'>4.,.
-ganmdd.        \ir
/ Karac'h,®                                     ' Mohatriad(  T   D.rM shR-
0   */%==                 (~(       --    C   *T  d        'XMonha°mmamd   T  H  A    R  P  A    R  K  A    R 
1   XKARAPII HKX1( M-Ghulam AI` -N 'N biSar
' Thstt;  M'i0J toot4        B ANnukItOt
.tt  k         r              BADINaCOamSr  ,5J
Mirpur              s2   Sulawal            -'      ai
Sakro~~~~~~~h                                Ch-b-, Y  
H.        AV                                Badi n
.   9    T  H  AW/ T         t      A                   {D /iplx
i ~      ~           ~          ~           -                                  K.                               L-.ai   n    .r 1 ~ .
24-  '/g,                                                                                                                                                            24°-
This map has bees prepared by the
20    40    60    80    100 KILOMETERS         WorldBah-V  staff e--tssvay for
the report to whis it's attached
iAtabin  Se          -                                             0    10   20   30   40   50   60 MILES               The denanri-shssso- d asd the
-                                                            ds~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ sot-iply, onteplbartofth
Wrd°° Bask ad its affilfiates any sp
_sy territory or a eroatt
I  o                                                               or acceptasse of s-sh bo-sdases  r,r,
oai      ,            6      8           - 9                                                                                70-                                             C






U. L S. S. P                                                                                                           74'
.. ISLAMABADI2%\
EM.                                                                   *PAnePM
RAN     (ASFGANISTAN /)    ->IF_    Abdali i   .2 .a ' ;                                                              I
U'                                                Faneh PIJanj              f'S    I\         B       An )-~ ' XFs at ai- nfnC-n
p PAKISTAN                   _Jnd                                                        IRAWALPNDI /
NOI                                          DineS ICAMPBELLFUR  ¶.E       - *Khe.r                               JAMMU
.-.E./gI) X   E_        ~~~~~INDIA                  !      ;           GNedi  A      L          N      B      i                              ASh'M
/LIMAN,7                                                             RAWAQPfrKN-D                                      (                       KASHMIR
COCa                                                             IS           Coknl U,, Ko 
Mar                       JI-I~~~~~~~~~~)ELUM         JRAT
- ______________A____R   G_  (''                                                     -OLh           A                        qAMAE
/   tii                      4a1'3,              S               )   Silian               w al   KflF-Misninal  c   #unrKaniudEEH P
*Ph.li       aad  dDmnakina
N  k-V  F          Berr SJ   QabadPllnP--                                  0ala        .          -          SIALKOT
M.  W       F        ge.  GVad                            ;efmg*             Kllalo          .VktTbd            .kh.s  " Kidif
"I ' 0 h t Ll ZZ A F i A R G ~~~~~~~~A R  H C                         T             b                                       e    XKA,  N U 
GUJRA.N ,S t .WALA                   D     I
/A           Rl    G  L-n                                aiahd5  -.  --         $'aa   anne
-32'   ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~     ~ ~ ~ 1                                                SaadA    ~                   H~32'-
,,  (K'a7/'*'                                 .10/L S .lnnl  Ka      L Pakpatt an,    C_Or 
'2g                                      3      aMslTaD  MU N                KCmmd  ,           *eMank_    KHEHUPURA
t~~~~~~ nka   MI;WL    Der                                    ka/               G     h    aizinKan )     ~te  *.a hanana  -   
Chak  j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
j '               '     i/[t 2t12                              k           h F$'/uawaou nsi    B orsa   j                               
r                  '       7  FU   AFAGRalnalpu Pior,a                                     "'   Ouawidaalnaa  Ha; s
a;     ivi             U              L             T -' ,¶~5    N~ f,                      Mn'Sr¶n/ a1020;0 40 fO fUf7 Al
CA                                                    7
*0            M4 /    AhbaSlan Khanptjr   |          P.AHAWALHUL                     { NG
.1         <Roen Hrnp             2' Danvinur                       *CfrMrnW    *Dn.rga BarR~~J*h  ).h       Rid
~~  f           , -R~~ahmya Kn*                                   SPkE i             H GRAINrSTORAGE PROJEC
e  A . 4Sadlqaelad             #                             /~~~~h.k  PROINISALAFOOD  DPRIE                                   ASOADRC
DERAGH/S AN    KHAN 74/. SAGEr                FACIIIE                              *IN
41  Miibanlkpiin- ~ ~ ~ ~    T.  Tl
RSm,Nn D                          :d                     -                                        6        2XIST NG  40'F EATSTORAGE FAC60lS1-T-    - g M-
rianhgont  Yasinee                   )'I AHAWALNAA
ev~~~~/tae            I~~~~,, Ad                            CI                                                                               
cI  9            Khanper  /                                      OAPAWALSUR  /R   STRA                 KIST     A
Ken Samabe  /~~~~~~~~~                                                                   SQ  -
D R*Gmy KnanSTIGRAIN  STRG   PROJECT
J5                                                               hiai  PROVINCIAL AIL FO   DEPRTMNT  PASSICO AONDAHRECP
This~~~aphsrmrfeMarChebvrhe~~~~~~                                    EXiSr 6sfclsef vrvew * NTIONGL CPADD/IESOAEFCLTE  _._  DIIIOTENABOONDALIESuDRE 
>    ~         ~~~~~~ tnnnanwnaa onane an n np ano nmar rnirn enr Sr. ansIWantSsfr Ran and In                                                RIVERS                        ED
o                    3    snelneras0 ae,dnrrann an rreneal snarar fnt.rrn z nenmn n n .eaaeerfr an
X   / 7rs                     'G'                                                                               74'                                       J
/ ;~~~~~--  - I M.w__                                              _  __    __    __    



