DouCmn CREDIT NUMBER 1157 PAK
PASSCO Project Agreement
(Grain Storage Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
PAKISTAN AGRICULTURAL STORAGE AND
SERVICES CORPORATION LIMITED
Dated                                , 1981


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1157 PAK
PASSCO PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      O64", 1981, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and PAKISTAN AGRICULTURAL STORAGE AND SERVICES
CORPORATION LIMITED (hereinafter called PASSCO).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even
date herewith between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to twenty-six million one hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 26,100,000), on the terms and con-
ditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only
on condition that PASSCO agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Association as are hereinafter set forth;
(B) the Borrower has applied to the Government of the
Swiss Confederation (hereinafter called Switzerland) for a
non-reimbursable contribution (hereinafter called the Swiss
Contribution) in the amount of fifteen million Swiss francs
(SwF 15,000,000) to assist in financing the Project on terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the Swiss
Contribution Agreement) between the Borrower and Switzerland; and
(C) Switzerland has appointed the Association as Adminis-
trator of the Swiss Contribution in accordance with the provisions
of the Development Credit Agreement, and the Association has
accepted such appointment;
WHEREAS PASSCO, in consideration of the Association's enter-
ing into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) hive the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
Execution of Part A of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) PASSCO shall carry out Part A of the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial and engineering practices.
(b) PASSCO shall: (i) establish and maintain a Project
Implementation Unit for carrying out its responsibilities under
the Project; and (ii) at all times employ therein a Chief Engineer
(General Manager) and two Deputy General Managers, all being
qualified and experienced.
Section 2.02. In order to assist PASSCO in carrying out the
pilot projects under Part A.4 of the Project, PASSCO shall employ
by January 31, 1982 an engineering consultant whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Association and Switzerland
shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods and civil works
required for Part A of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit or the Swiss Contribution, shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit
Agreement.
(b) PASSCO shall include in all contracts for weigh bridges
and grain cleaners under Part A.2 of the Project provisions
requiring the supplier to provide initial operator training and to
prepare detailed operating procedures.
Section 2.04. (a) PASSCO undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Swiss Contri-
bution made available to it by the Borrower against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by PASSCO
to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, PASSCO
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit or the Swiss Contribution made available to it by the
Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project.


﻿-3-
Section 2.05. (a) PASSCO shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules
for Part A of the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) PASSCO: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of Part A of the
Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from
it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit or the Swiss Contribution, and to disclose
their use under Part A of the Project; (ii) shall enable the
Association's and Switzerland's accredited representatives to
visit the facilities and construction sites included in Part A of
the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit or the Swiss Contribution and any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association and the
Borrower at regular intervals all such information as the Associa-
tion shall reasonably request concerning Part A of the Project,
its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from
it, the expenditures of the proceeds of the Credit or the Swiss
Contribution and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c) PASSCO shall enable the Association's and Switzerland's
representatives to examine all plants, installations, sites,
works, buildings, property and equipment of PASSCO and any
relevant records and documents.
(d) Upon the award of any contract by PASSCO for goods,
works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
Section 2.06. (a) PASSCO shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to
the progress of Part A of the Project, the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to
the purposes of the Credit.
(b) PASSCO shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of


﻿4-
the Credit, or the performance by PASSCO of its obligations
under this Agreement.
Section 2.07. PASSCO shall transfer completed storage
facilities constructed under Part A of the Project to the Borrower
for transfer to the Provincial Food Departments in accordance with
Section 4.10 of the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of PASSCO
Section 3.01. PASSCO, shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory
to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. PASSCO shall: (i) maintain records and separate
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of Part A of the Project;
(ii) have said separate accounts for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently..
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(iii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year,
(A) certified copies of said separate accounts for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and (iv) furnish to the Association such other infor-
mation concerning said separate accounts and the audit thereof as
the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.


﻿Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of PASSCO thereunder shall termirate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms;
or
(ii) a date 25 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accor-
dance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify PASSCO
of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall con-
tinue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or
suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitte. to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have des-
ignated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-6-
For PASSCO:
Pakistan Agricultural Storage
and Services Corporation Limited
Cooperative Bank House
Bank Square
Shahra-e-Quaid-e-Azam
Lahore, Pakistan
Cable address:
PASSCORP
Lahore
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of PASSCO may be taken or executed by
its Managing Director or such other person or persons as the
Managing Director shall designate in writing, and PASSCO shall
furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.
. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
B y
tcT1,V- Regional Vice President
South Asia
PAKISTAN AGRICULTURAL STORAGE AND SERVICES
CORPORATION LIMITED
By
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the   2/       day of
1981.
FOR SECRETARY


