RETURN TO
Report No. 580a-IVC                                              REPORTS DE
Appraisal of the                                                     OEWHIN _ LE COPY
Abidjan Sewerage and    B                                                                           t
Ivory Coast
December 20, 1974
Regional Projects Department
Western Africa Regional Office
Not for Public Use
M
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Croup. Il may not be published,
quoted or cited wîthout Bank Croup authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility
for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1       ,     CFAF 24o
CFAF 1     -    US$0.0o4
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 mi - millimeter           -    0.u4 inches
1 cm - centimeter                 0 0e39 inches
1m  - meter                 -     3,28 feet
1 km - kilometer                  o 0.62 miles
1 1  - liter                      0,26 US gallons
1 m3 - cubic meter          -     264 US gallooe
1 m3/sec - cubie meter            31.5 imillion cubic meters
per second       m           per year or
22.8 million US gallons
per day
mmZm                        -    millimeter per meter
M/3VC c                           meter per second
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BNETD           -     Bureau National d'Etude Technique et
de Développement
CAA             -     Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement
SCET - INT      -     Société Centrale pour l'Equipement du
Territoire Internationale
SETU            -     Société d'Equipement des Terrains Urbains
SODECI          -     Société de Distribution d'Eau de la Côte
d'Ivoire
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 to September 30



Reior- No. 580-a X0.
Appraisal o-f the Abidjoe-l Se. r3ace a -id Draînage Projact "Ivory Coast"
Paq,e       Paraçraoh            Gorrec't Ion
(iii)         (x)                $ 9.5 million should road $9.0 million
16            6.o8               Maarch 31, 1976 shculld read January 1, 1976
Annex 6         -                Decenbzer 31, 1973 should read June 30, 1979
Januarx  16, 1975
Regional Projects Department
Western Africa Regional Office






IVOAY COAST
SOCIETE DIEQUIPEMENT DES TERRAINS URBAINS (SETIJ)
APPRAISAL OF THE ABIDJAN SEWERAGE AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  oo.oo 00000 G     ............oooooooo   i-iv
1i    INTRODUCTION      0OGO0OGOGOO.....................GO 00000        1
2.    THE SECTOR  2O.OGO000OGOOOOOOO000000000000000000000000            2
Background *GGOOGCGOOOGOOOOGOOO000000000000000000000            2
Existing Sewerage and Storm Water Drainage Facilities 0o        2
Long-Term Program and Bank Project ooooooooooo oooooo           3
Sector institutions 0oo 000 00GOGOGOGO000G000e000 00000000      4
3o    THE PROJECT o0ooO Goooo OOOOOOO G@00C**0000000000000G0000*0        6
Description oooooooooooooo 0000 oooooo 00000OOG 00000OGOGGO 0GO  6
Cost of the Project  .0000000000000000000.OO.OOOOOO0O0O         7
Project Financing Arrangements *ooooooo0 oooooo0o0ooooooo       8
Procurement OOOOO*OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOGOOOOOOOOOOOOOGOGOGOO0o        8
Project Administration and Execution oooGoooooooooGooG0         9
Disbursement oOOOOOOOoooooo 0GoooooooooGoooooooooooooooooG   10
h.    JUSTIFICATION ..00.00.00 . o.O.ooo000 .OG.O . .OO .GO  G G GO  Goo O..  10
Program anl  Project 0ooooooooooooooo.oooooooooooooooooooo     1
5.    THE BORROWER AND THE BENEFICIARIES oooo0o....  00o0o0o0oeo0    12
SETU - Organization OOOOOOooOOOGOOOoooooOOOOGOOoOOOOOo    12
Training OOOOOOGGOOOOOODOOOOOOOOOO OOOOGOOOOOOOOoo0o0o    12
Operations  o0o0GGOoooooooooooooG0oGoooooGGOGOOGOO ooo         12
Sewerage and Storm Water Drainage-Code of Regulations          13
Funds oOooOoooOoooOooo..oooooooooooooooooooooooo               13
Accounts and Audit *OO00G0  O O O O O O 0000   0000G   O    13
6o   FINANCES .OOO.O.O.O O.O.O.O.O OGOO.O.GOOOOG OGGO  .00000 ...OOGO .  13
Value of Existing Fixed Assets ooovooooooovoooooooooo          14
Past and Current Charging Arrangements o.oooooooooooo    1h
Financing Plan oooovvoovovvo*oeoooo                            15
Investment by Development Companies  .oooooooooooooooo         16
Future Finances   0 OCO  00 O      0C0 OOCS OOOOO GO          17
Water Supply Studies 0..o000G 00O 0000 00 O0000000000GOG    18
Fiscal Impact oooGooooooG ooooooOGoo0oo00ooooo0o00ooC0000    18
7.    RECOMMENDATIONS ooGGoo@OOOOGooGooooOoooo>ooooooGoooooooooo        18
This report is prepared on information provided by Ivory Coast govern-
mental departments and agencies and on the findings of a missiocn com-
prising Messrs, J0 G0 Davis, J0 C. Rietveld and R, WO Bates which visi-
ted Ivory Coast in May 1974.



LIST OF ANNEXES
1.    Existing Sewerage and Drainage Systeme
2.    Ten-Year Development Program
3.    Project Description
l.    Summary of Project Costs
5.    Construction Schedule
6.    Estimated Schedule of Disbursements of Bankc Loan
7.    Projections of Population, Water Consumption, Private Water
and Sewer Connections and Population with Private Water
and Sewer Connections
8.    Short Range Projections 1971-1985
Population - Water Sales - Water-Sewerage Connections
9.    Cost-Benefit Studies
10.    Organizaticr  Chart
il.    Water Supply Tariffs
12.    Statements of Estinmated Sources and Applications of Funds
FYs 1975-1978
13.    Property Taxes
14.    Statements of Estimated Trncome  FYs 1975-1978
15.    Estimated Balance Sheets FYs 1975-1978
16.    Notes and Assumptions on Financial Statements
Mep
Gonoral Froject Area - IBRD-11200



PLA TEA U, WITH TREICH VILLE -IN THE
BACKGROUND
KOUIMASSI, CONTROLLED
AND UNCONTROLLE1\DT
URBAN DE VEL OPAIENT
BANCO HOUSING DEV ELOPME,VT
WITH BANCO FORES T
IN THE BACKGROUND






IVORY COAST
SOCIETE D'EQUIPEMENT DES TERRAINS URBAINS (SETU)
APPRAISAL OF THE ABIDJAN SEWERAGE AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
SUMKARY AND CONCLUSIONS
Introduction
i.        The Government of the Ivory Coast has asked the Bank to help
finance (a) the first stage, FY 75-77, of Government's ten-year (1975-
1985) sewerage and storm water drainage development program for the
Abidjan metropolitan area, and (b) studies for national water supply.
The sewerage and storm water drainage works vould be implemented by the
Government-owned entity Société d'Equipement des Terrains Urbains (SETU)
which is responsible for sewerage and drainage services in the metropo-
litan area; the studies for national water supply would be implemented
by the Ministry of Plan.
Existing Sewerage and Drainage Facilities
ii.       Sewerage facilities in Abidjan are totally inadequate to meet
the needs of its rapidly increasing population; 65% of the area's 800,000
people dispose of their waste water in open pits and unlined water courses.
Existing sewerage systems have no treatment plants and sewage is discharged
untreated into the lagoons around which the city is built. Storm drainage
facilities are insufficient and some densely populated areas of the city
regularly have flooding problems. This situation poses a serious health
hazard for the area and there has been a noticeably higher incidence of
typhoid and cholera in recent years in areas where sanitary conditions are
the worst. The danger of general contamination of groundwater is serious;
and the use of the cityes lagoons as open sewers has resulted in extensive
areas of these becoming heavily polluted with industrial and human waste.
Institutions
iiio      The present unsatisfactory situation has been caused by the frag-
mentation o! responsibility for the sector, lack of coordination and plan-
ning, and generally inadequate financing.  In order to improve the situation
Governtient has centralized, as of October 197h, technical and financial res-
ponsibility for sewerage and drainage services in Abidjan in SETU, a non-
profit company, initially created in 1971 to provide essential infrastruc-
ture for Government land development schemes.
iv.      Under the new arrangements SETU has established a separate depart-
ieht to dell exclusively with all public sewerage and drainage development
and operation. These arrangements, which are similar to those in other franco-
phone countries, are satisfactory. They provide for management and control of
the assets by SETU, except for ownership, which stays with the municipalities.
For the first few years,at least;SETU will subcontract the planning and design
of facilities to consultants, construction to contractors, and operation and
day-to-day maintenance of the systems to the water supply company, Société d'Eau
de la Côte d'Ivoire (SODECI), or other suitable entity, acceptable to the 'Bank.
However, SETU will be fully accountable for the sector, control the preparation



- ii -
of sector regulations, propose new tariffs, approve all construction permits for
connections to the system as well as for the construction of sewers and drains
by third parties, and generally supervise operations and developments. As is
usually the case with a public agency taking on new functions, continuous assis-
tance through Bank supervision missions will be required to reduce the risk of
management difficulties.
Long-Term ObJective and Program
v.        Following a UNDPf/WHO general study of the sector in 1970/72,
the Government, with UNDP financial assistance, commissioned prepara-
tion of a master plan covering the sewerage and drainage facilities
required for Abidjan over the decade 1975-1985.  The objectives of the
master plan are to (i) provide 75% of the population with adequate se-
werage facilities by 1985 and (ii) reduce flood risks and the pollution
of the lagoons to acceptable levels.  Execution of the master plan is
foreseen as three phases: FYs 75-77, FYs 78-81, and FYs 82-85. The
first phase is the project proposed for Bank financing and is essentially
an emergency operation to provide a number of urgently needed facilities.
The second and third phases would be much larger and would cover more
extensive works, including possibly the construction of a sea outfall.
It is expected that the Government will ask the Bank to help finance the
second phase project.
vi.       Although the sectoral objectives have been set out to 1985,
and the content of the first phase project defined in detail, the
precise scope of the two subsequent -phases has still to be developed
and in view of their heavy cost this should be determined within the
context of a comprehensive program for infrastructure development i-n
Greater Abidjan. Assurances were obtained that the Government would
prepare such a study (including a financing, plan) for the period
1979-1985.
The Project
vii.      The sewerage and drainage component of the proposed project com-
prises essentially (a) the laying of 19.1 kms of sewers with construction
of associated works; (b) the laying of 3.6 kms of drains; (c) a pilot scheme
for the construction of public showers and toilets in low income areas; (d)
construction of an office building for SETU; (e) supply of vehicles,
service and office equipment; and (f) providing staff training, consul-
ting services, and additional management staff.  The water supply study
component provides for consultants services for the preparation of stu-
dies for a national water supply iavestment program; it is expected
that these studios will lead, in about two years, to a Bank-financed
project primarily orientated to provincial and rural potable water
supplies.
Execution
viii.     The Sewerage and Drainage Department of SETU will be responsi-
ble for execution of the sewerage and drainage components of the project.
Final design of the project, feasibility studies needed for determining
the next phase of development and other studies will be executed by con-



- iii -
sultants, including the Ivorian Government agency Bureau National d'Etudes
Technique et de Developpement (ENETD). 3NETD vill be concerned particular-
ly with on-the-job training of Ivorian staff in project analysis
and preparation.  SETM itself vill be responsible for construction super-
vision. In order to assure adequate management and staff training, SETU
has recruited an experienced expatriate engineer to be responsible for
design, tenders and bid evaluation and vill recruit one more expatriate
for supervision of construction and operations. The water supply studies
will be carried out by consultants hired by the Ministry of Planning.
Project Costs
ix.       The cost of the sewerage and drainage component of the project,
net of import duties, but including US$2.2 million for local taxes is es-
timated at TJS$15*0 million; the estimated cost of the water supply studies
is US$1.7 million. Estimated foreign cABts of the whole project are US$9.0
million, and represent 54% of the total cost. Costs are based on current
prices for similar works in Abidjan, with contingencies added to cover price
escalation and unforeseen design and engineering modifications. SETU is exempt
from inport duties.
Project Financingy
X. -      The proposed Bank loan of US$9.5 million would be for 25 years,
including a three-year grace period for principal and would be made to the
Government. The SETU severage and drainage project would be financed from
US$7.8 million provided by the loan and US$7.2 million from SETU's own
resources.  Thewater supply studies would be financed from US$1.2 million
of the loan, and Useo.5 million from Government funds.
Procurement
xi.       Contracts for the supply of equipment and for civil works would
be awarded following international competitive bidding in accordance with
the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement.  In the comparison of bids from
foreign suppliers, local manufacturers would be accorded a 15% preference.
Local civil wôrks contractors anid man"fncturers are experienced and would
be expected to compete successfully for the award of the relatively small
contracts that would be let under the project.
xii.      SETU, in agreement with the Bank, is negotiating for the construct-
ion of five project sewers (total cost US$1.1 million) in the Banco area under
e tensiona to tive existing contracta for similar work which have been awarded
b;IzftulY'bf ,STU on the ba9is of local competitive bidding. These sewers
need to be operative by mid-1975 when development of the areas which they servre
will be completed. This is impossible to achieve if contracts for the five
severs have to be let through new competitive bidding. Moreover, assuming a
delay were acceptable, it is almost certain that if the new sewer works were
submitted to competitive tender, contractors now on site, benefitting from low
mobilization costs, would subnit the lowest bids. Therefore it is recommendecd
that the Bank accept this procedure.



- iv-
Disbursement and Retroactive Financing
xiii.     The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed against the CIF cost
of all direct imports, and against 60% of civil works and supply of pipes,
and 70% of other local supplies and consultants costs. Some contracts,
mainly consultants services, office construction and equipment, and sewer-
age and drainage construction for the Banco area vould be awarded before
the loan is approved. It is reconmended that, providing satisfactory pro-
curement procedures are carried out, any payments made against such contracts
should be financed retroactively from the loan. Total retroactive financing
required is expected to amount to about US$250,000.
'Justification
xiv.       The proposed project is a logical first step towards achieving
the objectives of te master plan.  Its content is common to all alter-
native solutions for the future development of the sector. It represents
the least cost solution for the facilities most urgently needed to (a)
prevent a further deterioration of public health and environment, (b)
reduce the pollution level in the worst affected areas of the lagoons,
(c) improve sanitary conditions in the fast growing Banco area and in
low income areas and (d) reduce the incidence of flooding in low lying
sectors, thus reducing economic losses and health hazards.
Finances
xv.       In the past, financial planning for the sector has been unsa-
tisfactory and funds inadequate. The institutional changes recently
made are expected to lead to an improvement in financial planning, manage-
ment and control.  New charging policies were introduced.  Sewerage surcharges
on water consumption (which have been increased) will be used to finance only
sewerage services. A new drainage levy which will be established as a com-
ponent of property taxes will be used to finance the drainage services. These
sewerage and drainage charges should provide the sector with adequate funds
for operations and development during the construction period of
the project., Assurances were obtained that to ensure the financial via-
bility of the Abidjan sewerage and drainage sector, SETU would not under-
take capital expenditures for any major expansion which materially and
adversely affects SETUts carrying out of the Project and that the
Governmnent will regularly review and impose such water surcharges and
drainage levies as are necessary to provide funds from internal resources
equivalent to not less that 504 of the annual cost of sewerage and drain-
age construction in the years in which the project would be implemented,
Ir 5LthroUgh FI 77.
Conclusion
xvio      On the basis of the agreements reached as set out in Chapter 7
the project is suitable for a loan of US$9.0 million equivalent for 25 years
including a grace period of about three years.



IVORY COAST
SOCIETE D'EQUIPEMT DES TERRAINS URBAINS (SETU)
APPRA.IBAL OF THE ABftDJAN SEWERAGE AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Ivory Coast has asked the Bank to help
finance a project comprising rehabilitation and extension of the sewer-
age and drainage system in the metropolitan area of Abidjan, and nation-
wide vater supply studies.
1.02      The sewerage and drainage works are expected to cost US$15.0
million, and the cost of the studies US$1.7 million; a loan of US$9.0
million is proposed. The loan would be the first Bank operation in the
water supply,sewerage,and drainage sector of the Ivory Coast. The pro-
ject would be the first, and an urgently needed phase of a program of
severage and drainage works in Abidjan for which Government is likely
to request further Bank assistance.
1.03      The project originates from a general water supply, sewerage
and drainage study of Greater Abidjan carried out in 1970-1972. The
study was financed by the United Nations Development Program (UNDP)
and administered by the World Health Organization (WHO). Following
this study, the Government, with UNDP financial assistance, com-
missioned preparation of a master plan covering the sewerage and
drainage facilities required for Abidjan over the decade 1975-1985.
These latter studies form the basis of the proposed project which
was appraised in May 1974 by Messrs. J. G. Davis (Financial Analyst),
J. C. Rietveld (Engineer) and .%. W. Bates (Economist). Mr. N. Carrere
from the Transportation and Urban Projects Department joined the mission
to evaluate the urban development aspects of the project.



-2
2. THE SECTOR
Background
2.01      The Ivory Coast has a land area of about 324,000 km2 and a
population of about 5.6 million. Over the past decade annual popula-
tion growth has been 3.3% for the country as a whole and 11.5% for
Abidjan.  Ilmigrants from northern neighboring countries, attracted
by job opportunities and better living conditions, account for part
of the high growth rates. Twenty-five percent of the population of
the Ivory Coast is urban, of which more than half (800,000) live in
or around Abidjan, the capital and principal city. In 1972 the Ivory
Coast's GDP per capita was about US$340, one of the highest in Western
Africa.  GDP growth in real terms has been impressive in the past de-
cade and promises to continue so at about 6% p.a. despite the recent
increase in oil prices.
2.02      The characteristics of the Abidjan climate, which are of pri-
mary importance to the design and operation of its severage and drain-
age systems, are sustained heat and high rainfall. Average annual
rainfall is 2,100 mm (Washingtcn 1,000 mm).  No month is without rain
and there are two seasons of particularly intense rains, May-July and
October-November. At these times rainfall intensity can reach as high
as 115 mm/h during 15 minutes.  Under these conditions flooding and
erosion are serious problems with which urban drainage must cope. Eva-
poration is relatively low with a mean of 680 mm per year.
Existing Sewerage and Storm Water Drainage Facilities
2.03      Abidjants sewerage and storm water drainage systems have been
constructed over the years in a piecemeal manner, and are totally inade-
quate. Only about 20% of the population is served by the sewerage sys-
tem; 15% has sewage disposal by septic tank; and the remaining 65% dispose
their waste water and sewerage in open pits and unlined water courses;
there is no official bucket collection in operation. Storm water drain-
age is mainly open unlined channels, except for the Plateau and Treichville
areas, which have drainage systems.  In some areas, e.g. Treichville, the
original storm drainage systems have been converted to combined sewerage/
storm drainage systems. About one-half of the Abidjan urban area is low-
lying and several densely populated areas have serious flooding problems
in the absence of adequate drainage facilities. There are no public
sevage treatment stations and consequently waste water is discharged un-
treated into the lagoons around which the city is located, see Map IBRD-
11200 and photographe. Annex 1 gives further details of existing facil-
ities.
2.04      In addition to being inadequate in scope, most facilities,
except those recently constructed, are in poor condition. This is because
of factors such as faulty design, poor maintenance, misuse of facilities ,
and lack of coordination between concerned agencies. This situation now
poses a serious health hazard in the Abidjan area and lately there has



-3-
been a noticeable increase in the incidence of typhoid and cholera in
areas where sanitary conditions are the worst. There is a danger 0f a
general contamination of ground water resources from infiltration, and
the use of the lagoons as an open sewer has resulted in extensive areas
of these in Central Abidjan becoming heavily polluted with induatrial
and human vaste. Pollution in parts of the lagoons has already passed
their self-purification capacity and anaerobic conditions have resulted.
Long-Term Program and Bank Project
2.05      Under the UNDP-financed studies (para. 1.03) the consultants
Holfelder-SCET have prepared (i) a master plan for the development of
sewerage and drainage facilities in the decade 1975-1985 (see Annex, 2) and (ii) a
feasibility study of a first phase investment project covering the îoet
urgently required facilities. This project,which would be the first step
in implementing the master plan.,would be constructed in FYs 75-77, and
would comprise the sewerage and drainage component of the proposed Bank
project and would cost about US$15.0 million. The master plan foresees
a second phase project for execution in FYs 78 through 81; this is ex-
pected to cost about US$60 million (inclading price contingencies of US$21
million). It is expected that Government will ask the Bank to help finance
this second phase project. A third stage project, covering the period Fis
82 through 85 and costing some US$124 million (including price contingen-
oies of US$49 million), has also been outlined in the master plan.
2.06      The objectives of the master plan are:
(i) the provision by 1985 of a sewage disposal system adequate
to serve 75% of the population;
(ii)  the improvement of drainage in areas subject to serious
damage from flooding in order to reduce the rate of flood-
ing from about ten times a year at present to about on
average once a year; and
(iii)  the reduction of pollution in the lagoons to a level con-
sistent with reasonable environmental standards.
The Holfelder-SCET study demonstrates that these objectives can be achieved
most economically through providing the Greater Abidjan area with a public
piped sewerage disposal system and phasing out sewerage disposal by septic
tanks except in a limited number of peripheral developments.
2.07 1   The firet phase project, apart from being a logical firet step
in implementing the master plan, can also be considered as an emergency
operation to provide facilities urgently needed in Abidjan. Very impor-
tantly the first phase project does not require implementation of the
second and third phases of the master plan in order that its benefits
may be realized. Consequently there is no danger of investment in the
first phase project being wasted in part or in whole in the event of



either of the subsequent phases not being implemented or being delayed.
During implementation of the first phase project, Government will:
(i)  define and design the second phase project and establish
a time-frame for its execution;
(ii) preoare a long-term tariff policy and financial plan for
the sector for the period post FY 77; and
(iii) evaluate the effectiveness of the recently established
institutional arrangements for sewerage and drainage
development.
2.08      In order to accurately define the scope and timing of the costly
second phase project and to establish suitable long-term tariff policies
in the sewerage and drainage sector, a detailed urban infrastructure deve-
lopment program covering approximately the period 1978-1985 is needed.
This progran should relate the needs, based on priorities, of the several
urban sectors (transportation, roads, water supply, sewerage, drainage,
etc.), to the funds which can reasonably be expected to be raised from
consumers, taxpayers and other sources. Assurances were obtained that
the Governnent would prepare such a program and make available to the
Bank the program and the related financing plan.
Sector Institutions
2.09      Prior to October 197h, responsibility for the planning, design,
construction and maintenance of Abidjan's sewerage and drainage facil-
ities was divided among several agencies. Because of the absence of ade-
quate coordination between these, and a general shortage of financing
for the sector, Abidjan's systems are insufficiently developed and in
general poorly maintained. Originally, primary responsibility rested
with the Municipality of Abidjan, but when urban development spilled
over Abidjan's municipal borders, the Municipality of Bingerville also
became involved. Neither Municipality has ever had the organization or
the finance to fulfill their responsibilities, and as a result the Minis-
try of Public Works and Société d'Equipement des Terrains Urbains (SETU)
together with various housing developnent companies have constructed most
of the sewers and drains that have been built in the last five years.
Uhfortunately these programs have been carried out with a minimum of coor-
dination and uniformity of design criteria.
2.10      Until October 1974 the private company that supplies Abidjan s
water, Societd de Distribution d'Eau de la Cote d'Ivoire (SOw4CI), was
employed by the Abidjan Municipality to undertake a limited amount of
routine maintenance of the municipal sewerage and drainage systems.
However, most of the more recently constructed systems were not covered
by the SODECI maintenance contract because:



- 5 -
(i)  many of the systems were defective and difficult to
maintain due to faulty design and construction, facil-
ities constructed by SETU's infrastructure department
were notable exceptions; and
(ii)  the Municipality of Abidjan lacked the financial re-
sources needed to maintain facilities other than the
original municipal systems (para. 6.Oà).
2.11      To correct the generally unsatisfactory institutional arrange-
ments in the Abidjan sewerage and drainage sector, the Government, in
October 1974, introduced a number of reforms, the principle of which are
as follows:
(i)  SETU, a Government ror.-profit makirng company,created  in 1971,
to undertake urban land development on behalf of Governrient,
has been given full technical and financial responsibility
for the Abidjan sewerage arnd drainage sector. The decree crea-
ting SETU and its statutes are being changed to incorporate the
new responsibilities. A draft decree and statutes have been sub-
mitted to Government by SETU and are acceptable to the Bank.
Assurances were obtained that the agreements transferring
responsibility for the sewerage and drainage sector in the
Greater Abidjan urban area will be concluded and that SETU's
statutes would be amended in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
Enactment of these amended statutes and transfer of the res_
ponsibility for the sewerage and drainage sector in Greater
Abidjan would be conditions of effectiveness of the proposed ioeol
inese  '--nnRements which e-e smar to those used successfu` !v
in other francophone countrirC ire sAtisfqctorv.  They provide 17or
mnanqgement nnd control of the P-sets bv SETU oe<cept for nwnership whiich
stays with the municipalities. SETU will,at least -for the first few years,
subcontract planning and design to consultants, construction
to contractors, and operation and maintenance of the systen
to the water supply company, SODECI. SETU will control the
preparatia, of sector regulations, propose new tariffs for
Governnent approval, approve all construction permits for
connections to the systems as well as for the construction
of sewers and drains by third parties, and supervise the exe-
cution of all contracts with cansultants, contractors and
SODECI. SETU has established a separate department with its
own accounts, to deal exclusively with all public sewerage
and drainage development and operational matters.
(ii)  SETU will be subject to Government supervision through the
Ministry of Public VJorks and Transport for techr.ical matters
concerring sewerage and drainage and the Ministries of Plan
and Finance in the case of investment planning, and tax and
tariff questions. The Ministry of Construction and Urbanisnm
will continue to be responsible for the technical supervision
of SETU's general urban infrastructure department and the
Ministry of Health will, as now, be concerned with health
and hygiene related to the sector and the State Secretary
of Mining for matters concerning industrial pollution.



- 6 -
(iii)  the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (CAA), a Government
financial agency, will act as SETU's banker by (a) re-
ceiving from SCDECI and from the Ministry of Finance
the revenues from sewerage surcharges and drainage levies
(para. 5.06) respectively, and (b) settling creditors
accounts as approved by SETU, including those to be paid
out of Bank funds.
3. THE PROJECT
Description
3.01      The main component of the project consists of implementation,
during the period early-1975 through late 1977, of the first phase of
SETU's ten-year master plan of development of sewerage and storm water
drainage facilities in the Greater Abidjan area. Principal project
items, which are detailed in Annex   3, are:
(i)  constructing 41,100 m of main  sewers and related works for
Central Abidjan to divert sewage outflow from the Plateau
and Adjame areas away from the polluted end of Cocody Bay
into areas of the lagoons where it will be dispersed by
currents; this will allow more efficient use of the self-
purification capacity of the lagoons than at present;
(ii)  constructing 15,000 m of sewers for new urban and indus-
trial development areas;
(iii)  constructing 3,600 m of drainage mains and related works
for the Treichville area to eliminate serious flooding in
this area;
(iv)  constructing, as a pilot scheme, twelve public showers
and toilet blocks for predominantly low income areas;
(v)  constructing an office building for SETU;
(vi)  supplying vehicles,service and office equipment;
(vii)  providing consultants services to carry out the detailed
engineering of the project, as well as the preliminary
design of the next phase of the master plan and assist-
ance in miscellaneous services (see para. 3.11); and
(viii)  strengthening the executing agency, SETU, by providing
staff training and additional management staff.



- 7 -
3.02      The proposed project comprises a series of facilities urgently
needed to:
(i) expand and improve existing facilities; and
(ii) meet the demand for complementary services created by
development, either under construction or already commit-
ted.
Pending the construction of a main sewer and an ocean outfall under the
second phase of the program, the main sewers of the project would
provide for temporary ejection of effluent at a point in the lagoon where
it vill be dispersed by currents. The primary sewer installations would
provide service for the Banco area, which has an estimated potential of
600,000 inhabitants.  The main drainage facilities would be installed in
the densely-populated area of Treichville, where, owing to the inadequacy
of the storm water drainage facilities, lowlying areas are flooded at
least ten times a year, with the consequence of raw sewage being discharged
into the streets, property damaged, and important transit traffic disrapted.
The project also includes a pilot scheme to provide twelve blocks of public
showers and toilets in areas of low income population.
3.03      The proposed project also includes the cost of consultants ser-
vices required for a nationwide study of the development of the water
supply sector and in particular rural water supplies. This study could
lead, in about two years, to a  Bank project in the water supply sector.
The studies would be a follow-up to an ambitious 1974-1979 investment
plan prepared for the sector by Service Autonome d'Hydraulique Humaine
(SAH), of the Ministry of Planning, the organization responsible for Ivory
Coast water supply investment planning. The bulk of financing needed
for the 1974 and 1975 tranche of the plan has been assured, either from
foreign aid agencies such as the European Development Fund and Kreditanstalt
fur Wiederaufbau (Germany), or from local resources such as revenues from
an investment surcharge included in the Abidjan water supply tariff. Go-
vernment has now asked the Bank to finance part of the detailed preparation of
the next phase of the water supply investment program for the period 1976-
1977. Details of the package of studies to be financed under the Bank
project will be defined before March 1975,   and will be determined in
part by the financial resources which Government can reasonably expect
to allocate to the sector from 1976 onwards.
Cost of the Project
3.o4      Estimated project costs are summarized below and given in
detail in Annex 4.



Local Foreign Total   Local Foreign Total   Total
---CFAF millions---   --- uS$ millions----   -- --
1.  Supply of pipes, fittings,
equipment and accessories      151    481    632     0.6    2.0    2.6       16
2. Civil works and layizg ci PIes  486    568  1,054     2.0    2.4    4.4       26
3.  Consulting services and mana-
gement assistance               63    300    363     0.3    1.2    1.5        9
4. Supervision and training        218      4    222     0.9      -    0.9        5
5. Local taxes                     517     -     51      2.2      -     2.2      13
Base cost estimate      1,435  1,353  2,788      6.0    5.6   11.6       69
6. Physical contingencies          126    240    366     0.6    1.0    1.6       10
7. Price increases                 15J    286    439      0.6    1.2    1.8      il
Total cost SETU project   1,714  1,879  3'593    7.2    7.8  15.0        90
8. Consulting services for
water supply sector            120    288    408     0.5    1.2    1.7       10
Total cost of project   1,834  2,167  4,001      7.7    9.0   16.7    100
3.05      Base line costs are end of 1974 cost estimates and were calculated
by taking prices obtained at appraisal time for similar work undertaken in Abidian
and adjusting these for  price increases  in 1974.   The foreign
exchange component reflects the expected outcome of procurement, (see para 3.07);
pipe supply contracts were assumed to be won by local contractors. A 15> physi-
cal contingency has been added to the base line cost of items 1, 2, and 3 to
cover unforeseen design and engineering modifications; this is considered ade-
quate since design is at an advanced stage and, except in a few small areas, soil
conditions are well known. Price contingencies have been calculated assuming
increases of 17-6, 14.5> and 12.5, for'1975, 1976 and 1977-for the local'and io-
reign exchange components. Assurances were obtained that the Governnent will
relieve SETU bf customs duties on equipment and materials imported for the
project. However SETU will pay internal taxes amounting to about US$2.2 million
and these have been included in the cost estimate.
Projiect Financing Arrangements
3.06      The proposed Bank loan of US$9.0 million would be for 25 years,including
a three-year grace period for principal. The SETU sewerage and drainage project
would be financed with US$7.8 million from the loan and US$7.2 million from the
sector's own resources. US$1.2 million of the cost of the water supply studies
would be financed from the loan, and the balance of US$0.5 million of local costs
by Government.
Procurement
3.07      Except for items discussed in para. 3.08, contracts for the
supply of equipment and for civil works would be awarded following inter-



-9 -
national competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines
for Procurement. Local civil works contractors and manufacturers are
experienced and, with possibly the exception of contracts for the sup-
ply of pipes, would be expected to compete successfully for the award
of the relatively small contracts that would comprise the project.
Concrete pipes of the quality required for the project presently are
not manufactured in Ivory Coast, but the substantial quantities required
may be sufficient to induce local manufacturers to purchase the equipment
required to manufacture them.  In the comparison of bids for pipes and
other materials local manufacturers would be accorded a preference equal
to 15%,
3.08      SETU, in agreement with the Bank, is negotiating for the cons-
truction of five project sewers (botal cost US$1.1 million) in the Banco
area under extensions to five existing contracts for similar work which
have been awarded previously by SETU on the basis of local competitive
bidding. These sewers need to be operative by mid-1975 when development
of the areas which they serve will be completed. This is impossible to
achieve if contracts for the five sewers have to be let through new com-
petitive bidding. Moreover, assuming a delay were acceptable, it is almost
certain that if the new sewer works were submitted to competitive tender,
contractors now on site, benefitting from low mobilization costs, would
submit the lowest bids. Therefore it is recommended that the Bank accept
this procurement procedure.
Project Administration and Execution
3.09      SETU is,in agreement with the Bank,retaining the two firms of
consultants, Holfelder and SCET-International, to prepare final design
and bidding documents in accordance with terms of reference acceptable
to the Bank. Bureau National d'Etudes Technique et de Developpement
(BNETD), the Government consulting agency, wwald assist Holfelder-SCET
by providing most of the local technical input needed and in the process
would acquire the expertise needed to play a more significant part in
the planning and development of subsequent phases of the program. During
negotiations the Government confirmed that SETU, assisted by the con-
sultants as necessary, would be responsible for all procurement, the
administration of contracts, and the supervision of project construction;
these arrpnnements Are satisfactory.
3.10      Final design of the project started in the fall of 1974 and
construction of the most urgently required sewers will start early 1975.
The remaining and major parts of the project will start late 1975. A
construction schedule is at Annex5.
3.11      SETU has also retained Holfelder and SCET-International for:
(i) preliminary design of a follow-up project covering the
second phase of the master plan, and general preinvest-
ment studies for the third phase;
(ii)  preparation of a draft contract between SETU and SODECI



- 10 -
covering the maintenance of sewerage and drainage facil-
ities;
(iii)  assistance in preparing regulations for the Abidjan sewer-
age and drainage sector, including determination of design
criteria for the drainage system; and
(iv)  assistance in preparing an inventory and valuation of
existing sewerage and drainage facilities.
3.12      The water supply studies would be carried out by consultants
acceptable to the Bank and hired by the Ministry of Plan. Assurances
were obtained that they would work under terms of reference approved
by the Bank.
Disbursement
3.13      The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed against the CIF cost
of all direct imports, and against 60% of civil works and supply of pipes,
and 70% of other local supplies and consultants costs, thus covering about 54;
of total project costs.  To allow sufficient time for the submission of final
invoices, a closing date of December 31., 1978 is proposed.  A disbursement
schedule is at Annex 6.
3.14      It is expected that some contracts, mainly for consultants'
services, office construction and equipment, and sewerage and drainage
construction in the Banco area (see para. 3.08) will be awarded before
the loan is approved. The early award of these contracts is essential
l'or the timely execution of the project. Consequently it is recommended
that, providing procurement complies with the procedures set forth in
paras. 3.07 and 3.08, any payments made before loan approval against such
contracts should be financed retroactively from the loan. Assuming Board
approval in January1975, total retroactive flinancing is expected to amount
to about US$250,000.
3.15      If, after completion of the project, any funds allocated to the
sewerage and drainage component remain undisbursed, it is proposed that
these funds be disbursed against the cost of additional goods and services
needed for the sector similar to those procured under the loan. These
goods and services would be determined in agreement with the Bank. This
procedure is justified because the proposed project is part of a broader
program in the sewerage and drainage sector. Any unused portion of that
part of the loan relating to water supply studies would be cancelled.
4. JUSTIFICATICN
4101      The serious deficiencies in the existing sewerage and storm
drainage facilities in the Abidjan area and the threat these pose to
health are described in paras. 2.03 and 2.o4. Unless appropriate mea-



- 1i1 -
sures are taken the situation will deteriorate further because of rapid
population growth and increasing industrialization. The Holfelder-SCET
study assumes that until 1980 the population of Greater Abidjan will
continue to grow at the rate of 11.5% recorded over the past ten years
and still be 9% p.a. by 1985. These high rates reflect the expected
continuing large inflow of people in search of jobs from the interior
of Ivory Coast and from the Sahelian countries, particularly Upper Volta.
In line with population, water consumption is projected to grow at about
12% per year, the rate of the past five years, until 1980 and then to
decline to about 9% per year in 1985. lorecasts of population and water
constuption are shown in Annexes 7 and 8.
Program and Project
4.02      The long-term program envisaged under the master plan and des-
cribed in para. 2.05 was designed as the least-cost solution to meeting
the sector objectives set out in paragraph 2.06, in particular achieve-
ment of reasonable standards for sewage disposal and the reduction of
flooding and of the pollution of Abidjan's lagoons. Should population
groazth fall below the rates assumed, the execution period of the program
would need to be lengthened, but no basic change in the design of the
facilities themselves would be required. Costs per person served through
implementing the total program are estinated in 1973 prices at Us$57,
which is in line with costs estimated for other African cities.
4.03      The realization of the project would:
(i) prevent a serious deterioration in public health standards
and environment;
(ii)  improve the conditions in the worst affected parts of the
lagoon which are already anaerobic;
(iii)  improve sanitary conditions in the Banco area, the fastest
growing residential area of Abidjan and in the areas occu-
pied by low income population; and
(iv)  reduce significantly the incidence of flooding and substan-
tially diminish economic losses and health hazards due to
flooding.
The project, clearly, has substantial social and health benefits which
justify its implementation. However, since these are difficult to
quantify, justification essentially is qualitative.  An attempt has been
made nonetheless, to support this aualitative judgment with a quantita-
tive analysis by estimating on the basis of necessarily speculative
assumptions (i) savings in septic tanks, (ii) benefits to fishery and
tourism (iii) health and environmental benefits (iv) savings due to
reduced flood damages and working time losses (see Annex 9).



12  -
5.  THE BORROWER AND THE BENEFICIARIES
5.01      Government would be the Borrower for the whole loan and the
Beneficiary for that part of the loan relating to water supply studies.
SETU would be the Beneficiary for loan funds used f or sewerage and
drainage investments.
SETU - Organization
5.02      Under its new statutes (para 2.11) SETU's chief executive would
continue to be its Director General and he would be responsible to a board
of Directors.  SETUts three principal departments (see Annex 10) - (i)
General Urban Infrastructure Development, (ii) Sewerage and Drainage, and
(iii) Finance, Administration and Programming - would each be headed by a
Director. This set-up is satisfactory. So is Management: The present
Director General, an Ivorian, his assistant a French technical consultant
and the Director of Finance, Administration and Programming, another
expatriate, are expected to continue in their posts for at least the
duration of the project.  SETU staff currently totals 36 of which four
are expatriates. For the new Sewerage and Drainage Department, SETU pro-
poses to recruit 24 new staff; this number would be adequate. All new
staff would be Ivorian, with the exception of two experienced expatriate
engineers who would be recruited for an initial period of three years to
set up and manage the new department - one would be responsible for de-
sign, tenders and bid evaluation and the other for supervision of cons-
truction and operation. The Director of Sewerage and Drainage Department
would be Ivorian. Assurances were obtained that the Governnent would
consult with the Bank before filling a vacancy in the post of the Director
of the Sewerage and Drainage Department.
Training
5.03      Training facilities for the types of specialized personnel
needed by SETU do not exist in the Ivory Coast. Consequently, SETU pro-
poses to train newly recruited staff either through on-the-job training,
or by sending them overseas for special courses. Provision has been made
in the proposed loan to cover the foreign costs of 18 man-months of over-
seas training.
Operations
5.04      Government has decided that while SETU shall have full manage-
ment responsibility for the sector it should not deploy a work force for
execution of either development or maintenance. Thus for the time being
the water supply concessionaire, SCDECI, will continue to undertake day-
to-day maintenance of the sewerage and drainage system under SETU super-
vision, and continue to collect sewerage surcharges along with its own
water charges. To formalize these new arrangements a new contract is
needed between SETU and SODECI; the contract would provide for SODECI's
direct intervention to be limited to day-to-day maintenance with larger
repairs being subcontracted. Assurances were obtained that, by June 30,
1975, SETU would enter into a contract with SODECI, or another suitable
entity acceptable to the Bank, covering day-to-day maintenance respon-
sibilities of the sewerage and drainage system.



- 13 -
Sewerage and Storm Water Drainage - Code of Regulations
5.05     The existing regulations relating to sewerage and storm water drain-
age are unsatisfactory, particularly in respect of health and environnental
matters and technical design standards. SETU, assisted by its consultants,
is presently drafting a new code of regulations. Assurances were obtained
that the Government would establish, by December 31, 1976 at the latest, a
new code of regulations acceptable to the Bank and covering all aspects of
public sewerage and drainage in the Greater Abidjan area.
Funds
5.06     Assurances were obtained that the Government would (i) establish a fundl,
named "Fonds National d'Assainissement et de Drainage" (the "Fonds")  to be
kept by the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (CAA) and (ii) deposit in the Fonds
the revenues accruing from the sewerage surcharge,(see para 6.05),collected by
SODECI, and from the proposed drainage levy (para 6.08) as well as other revenues
related to Abidjan's sewerage and drainage services.  Establishment of the
Fonds would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan.
Accounts and Audit
5.07     SETU's present accounting arrangements are satisfactory; however, SETU
will need to undertake a complete inventory and valuation of existing sewerage
and drainage facilities before opening accounts for these operations.  Assurances
were obtained that SETU would (i) maintain separate accounts for its Urban Infra-
structure Development and its Sewerage and Drainage Departments as from FY 75,
(ii) establish an analytical accounting system for the Sewerage and Drainage
Department capable of showing separately the financial results of its sewerage
and of its drainage services, (iii) engage independent auditors, acceptable to
the Bank, to conduct annual audits of SETU's accounts, and (iv) submit to the
Bank certified financial statements and audited reports within four months of
the end of each fiscal year. Assurances were also obtained that the Government
would (i) engage independent auditors, acceptable to the Bank, to conduct annual
audits of the Fonds (ii) submit to the Bank certified financial statements and
audited reports of the Fonds within four months of the end of each fiscal year.
6. FINANCES
6.01     In the past financing of Abidjan's sewerage and drainage facilities
has been largely on an ad-hoc basis with very little advance financial planning.
One reason for this has been the fragmentation of responsibility within the
sector. With the institutional changes described in Chapter 2 both physical
and financial planning should improve. Further, given Government's current
policies concerning sewerage and drainage charges the sector should be in
receipt of regular revenues in the future.  These revenues should be adequate
to meot most of the Ivory Coast's share of project costs, and to meet other
SETU 1 requirements in the project development period FY 75 through FY 77.
A clear determination of SETU's position post Ey 77 is not feasible at this
time as sector development plans and the arrangements for their financing
require further definition, para. 2.08,
/1 Any reference to SETU in this chapter refers to the Sewerage and Drainage
Department of SETU unless otherwise specified. Any reference to SETU's accounts
refers to the accounts of the sewerage and drainage sector as kept by SETU
(i.e. including assets owned by the Municipalities and revenues paid into
the Fonds etc.l.



- 14 -
Value of Existing Fixed Assets
6.02      In the absence of detailed inventories and accounts the histo-
rical and written down costs of existing sewerage and drainage facilities
in the Abidjan area can be estimated only very roughly. As of October 1,
1974, the undermentioned values are indicated, and in the absence of any
long-term debt, the equity capital of SETU's Sewerage and Drainage Depart-
ment is assumed as the total of these values plus net current assets, i.e.
CFAF 14,324 (US$18) million.
Sewerage Drainage       Total
CFAF     CFAF      CFAF   US$
--       millions-----------
Gross Fixed Assets             2,480    4,570    7,050  29.4
Depreciation                     924    1,847    2,771  11.6
Net Fixed Assets         1,556    2.723    4,279  17.8
Past and Current Charging Arrangements
6.03      Currently, as in the past, the only source of direct revenue
for the sewerage and drainage sector is a surcharge collected by SODECI
on water sold to its consumers in the Abidjan area. In the past, reve-
nues from the surcharge, even had they been made available in full for
the purpose, were inadequate to meet the needs of the sector. Additional-
ly, the surcharge itself was and remains inequitable, since while there
is a fairly close relationship between the water consumption and the
sewerage needs of a consumer, drainage requiremnents depend on the size
and type of the property being protected and are not related to water
consumption. A further defect of the charging arrangements used to be
that a number of large consumers pumped theîr water frorm wells and, not
being SODECI consumers, paid nothing for sewerage and drainage services
although disposing large quantities of effluont into the sewerage system.
6.o4      Prior to July 1, 1974, the surcharge was CFAF 4.50/M3 of water
consumed of which SODECI retained CFAF 1.40/m3 to cover sewer and drain
cleaning and other minor maintenance. The remainder of the surcharge
was paid by SODECI to the Abidjan Municipality for the purpose of finan-
cing larger repair and rehabilitation works and other related expenses.
In the ,five years, 1969 through 1973, however, of CFAF 300 million pro-
vided to the Municipality, some CFAF 210 million was used for general
municipal purposes.
6.05       To meet the immediate financial needs of the water supply and
sewerage sectors, Governnent increased the consumer water supply charge
(including sewerage surcharges, see Annex 11) by about 655S on July 1, 1974.
Additionally it required as from that date, consumers pumping their own water
be charged a water tariff including the same sewerage surcharge charged to
SODECI's consumers. Although the tariff increase was large, combined water
and sewerage tariffs remain reasonable in relation to income levels. Thus the



- 15 -
tariffs represent 3-5% of income for Abidjants lower-income group, which com-
pares favorably with other Francophone countries in West Africa. The tariff
system favors this low-income group, which essentially comprises consuners
using about 60 m3 annually, by charging its members 2/3 the normal water
tariff and exe'mpting them from the sewerage surcharge. As a result of
the July 1 changes the sewerage surcharge is now CFAF 10 .00/m3 of water
consumed, and represents about 10% of total water charges. Subject to
progressive adjustment for the effect of inflation, the present sewerage
surcharge of CFAF 10.00/m3 would be sufficient to provide funds needed
for AbidJan's sewerage services including the sewerage component of the
project during the three-year construction per.iodFYs 75-77.
Financing Plan
6.o6      Summarized capital investment and working capital requirements
for SETU's Sewerage and Drainage Department during the development period
of the proposed project (FYs 75-77) are shown below together with the
sources from which they would be met. Further details are given in
Axnex 15.
Sewerage Drainage       Total
--CFAF-- --CFAF--    CFAF   US5 P
- ------millions------------
Requirem8nts
Construction program'
First phase (The Project)/1   2,335    1,258       3,593  15.0   91
Working capital                  327       36        365   1 .5    2
Total requirements         2 662    1,296     3,958  16.5  100
Sources
Internal cash generation         1,549      696      2,2h4   9.4   57
Less:  debt service                108        58       166   0.7    4
____4              2,079   -?   5
Borrowings:
Proposed Bank Loan             1 221      656    1,879   7.8   47
Total sources                2      1,296     395b  6    100
/1  Excluding costs of water supply studies which are to be executed by
the Governnent.
6.07      In order to ensure the internal cash generation assumed in the
above table Government has deci.ded to:
(i)  continue with the existing surcharges on water consumption
to finance sewerage costs, and
(ii)  subject to the findings of a study (see para. 6.08), intro-
duce a levy based on property value assessments to meet the
cost of drainage services.



- 16 -
6.08      Government s proposals for charging for drainage through a
levy based on property value is an equitable and the most usual method.
Unfortunately, the Ivory Coast property tax system provides for many
unjustified exemptions and requires review, as do actual collection
procedures, which are poor (see Annex 13). Government is now consider-
ing the form and scope of a property tax system study which it will use
as an input for the preparation of the urban development program for
Abidjan (para. 2.08). Assurances were obtained that Government will
(i) carry out the above study in accordance with terus of reforence
agreed with the Bank, and (ii) establish by March 31, 1976 a satisfac-
tory system for recovering drainage costs fron property owners.
In establishing the latter and also in reviewing sewerage surchar-
ges Government will make an analysis of the possible duplication
of charges levied on occupants of premises served by se-
condary and tertiary sewerage and drainage systems installed by land
development agencies, both private and Governmental (see para. 6.10),
and the costs of which are borne finally by the purchasers or lessees
of the developed property. Until the proposed tax study is completed
the exact mechanism of the drainage levy cannot be determined, but in
the financial projections used in this report it is assumed that in the
period FY 75 through FY 77 a total of CFAF 1015 million will be generated
in this way, of which CFAF 638 million would be available for investment
in the project.  Pending the outcome of the study, Government proposes
to ensure funds needed for drainage investment in 1975 by imposing a
temporary additional 5% tax on property assessments; no exemptions are
to be granted.
6.09      The portion of the proposed Bank loan relating to the sewerage
and drainage project would be  made available by the Government to the
.onds  (see para5.G6) at tne terms of the Bank lending, for exclusive use
by SETU for the Abidjan Sewerage and Drainage Sector. Assurances were
obtained from the Government that a) SETU's Sewerage and Drainage Depart-
ment will not undertake capital expenditures exceeding a total of
US$500,000 for any major expansion which may materially and adversely
affect SETUI's carryingout the project, b) revenues attributable to Abidjants
sewerage and drainage services would not be used for other purposes unless
these were surplus to the operational, debt service, and development require-
ments of these service, c) sewerage surcharges and drainage levies would be
reviewed at least annually during the project implementation period in
order that they should generate sufficient funds to cover the recurrent
costs and not less than 50% of capital outlays of the Abidjan sewerage and
drainage services, and d) any shortage in the financial recuirements of the
drainage services would be met by direct contribution from Government until
such time as these requirements are being met by the drainage levy.
Investment by Development Companies
6.10      Development companies, including SETU's own Infrastructure Deve-
lopment Department, will construct a substantial volume of secondary and
tertiary sewerage and drainage works in the period



- 17 -
FY 75 through FY 77.  These works, estimated to cost CFAF 5.6 billion,
would be financed entirely by the developers, including Government, but
on completion would be declared public property and vested, without
charge, in SETU to the account of its Sewerage and Driainage Department.
The estimates of SETU's Sewerage and Drainage Department's financial
requirements for FY 75-77 take into account the maintenance of these
assets.
Future Finances
6.11      Forecast Icome Statements and Balance Sheets for SETU's
Sewerage and Drainage Department for the period FY 75-78 are given in
Annexes 14 and 15 with related notes in Anmex 16.  Salient features of
the estimates, which assume introduction of the new tariff arrangements
outlined in para. 6.07, and vesting of the assets discussed in para.
6.10, are shown below.
1975   1976   1977
Net Income (before interest) CFAF millions  374    506    6t3
Operating ratio   %                            249    49      52
Rate of return     %                          6.9    6.2    4.8
Debt/equity ratio                            5/95   9/91  12/88
Current ratio                               6.4.1  7.9:1  6.1:1
Revenues for sewerage services are expected to increase from CFAF 504
million in WY 75 to CFAF 812 million in FY 77, and drainage revenue
fromn CFAF 2324 million in FY 75 to CFAF 2471 million in FY 77. The in-
creases take into account anticipated adjustment in charges to cover
inflation.  The bulk of operating expenses, apart from depreciation,
relate to maintenance work undertaken by SODECI (see para. 5.04) and
other subcontractors.  The cost of such work is expected to increase
from CFAF 179 million in FY 75 to CFAF 309 million in EY 77, these
figures reflecting the need to undertake a large backlog of maintenance.
To allow for the effect of inflation, the forecasts of the value of the
Department's fixed assets take into account an annual revaluation of
assets. With the latter adjustment operating ratio is expected to average
about 50%, which is satisfactory.
6.12      The financial rate of return calculated on the overall value
of net fixed assets/1 in operation is estimated to fall from 6.P% in
Fr 75 to 243% in FY 77, the decline being due to the introduction of new
facilities into the system. However, given the lack of information on
existing facilitLes and their values, this estimated rate of return can-
not be used as a yardstick for fixing sewerage and drainage charges.
Later, when the scope of the second phase of implementing the master plan
is more clearly defined, possibly towards the end of EY 77,it might be
possible to base future tariff policy on a rate of return concept.  This
/1 These include secondar y and tertiary sewerage and drainage works taken
over from development companies.  In the event of future sewerage and
drainage tariffs being based on a rate of return concept the equity of
including such acquired facilities in the fixed assets on which the rate
of return would be based would have to be examined carefully.



- 18 -
possibility will be studied by SETU and Bank supervision missions will
pay particular attention to the feasibility and mechanics of such a
system.
Water Supply Studies
6.13      The part of the Bank loan covering water supply studies (see
para. 3.03) would be reimbursed directly from Government funds.  Debt
service on this part of the loan together with local costs of the stu-
dies in FYs 75 through 77 will amount to a total of about US$600,000.
Fîscal Impact
6.14      During the three year period FYs 75-77 SETU's Sewerage and
Drainage Department would not pay customs duties on material imported
directly for the project; it would. however. contribute to Government
revenues an amount of about CFAF 517 (US$2.2) million in taxes relating
to project construction works.
7. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations the following assurances were obtained:
(i)  an urban infrastructure investment program for the
period 1978-1985 and related financial plan will be prepared
and mde Pvailable to the Benk (see parc 2.08);
(ii)  qualified and experienced consultants will be employed for
- the detailed engineering of the project and for the water
supply studies and would work under terms of reference
approved by the Bank (paras. 3.09 and 3.12);
(iii)  no vacancy in the post of Director of the Sewerage and
Drainage Department of SETU will be filled without
consultation with the Bank (para. 5.02);
(iv)  a contract, satisfactory to the Bank, between SETU and
SODECI,or another suitable entity,will be concluded by
June 30, 1975 (para. 5.04);
(v.) a new code of regulations for the sewerage and drainage
sector will be established (para. 5.05);



- 19 -
(vi),  all revenues relating to the Greater Abidjan sewerage
and drainage services will be maintained in a separate
fund (para. 5.06);
(vii)   separate accounts will be maintained for SETU's Urban
Infrastructure Development Department and the Sewerage
and Drainage Department (para. 5.07);
(viii)   an analytical accounting system will be maintained for
the Sewerage and Drainage Department showing separately
the financial results of its sewerage and of its drain-
age services (para. 5.07);
(ix)   SETU's and the Fonds' accounts will be audited by
independent auditors (para.5.07);
(x)   a review of the present system of levying and recovering
property tax will be made in accordance with terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank; a satisfactory system
for recovering drainage service costs from property owners
will be established by Januaryl, 1976; and an analysis
will be made of possible duplication of charges levied on
occupants of premises served by secondary and tertiary
sewerage and drainage systems installed by land development
agencies (para. 6.09);
(xi)   SETUts Sewerage and Drainage Department would not undertake
additional capital expenditure, exceeding a total of
US$500,000 during the construction of the proposed project;
(para.6.09);
(xii)   revenues attributable to Abidjan's sewerage and drainage
services would not be used for other purposes unless these
were surplus to the operational, debt service and develop-
ment requirements of these services (para. 6.09);
(xiii)   sewerage surcharges and drainage levies would be reviewed
and amended regularly during the project implementation
period in order that they generate sufficient funds to cover
recurrent costs and not less than 50  of capital outlays for
the Abidjan sewerage and drainage services (para.6.09);
(xiv)   any shortage in financial requirements for the drainage
services would be met by direct contributions fi m Goverr-
ment until such time as these requirements could be met
by the drainage levy (para. 6.09).
7.02      It is proposed that (i) the enactment of the statutes of
SETU amended in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, (ii) the transfer
of the responsibility for the sewerage and drainage sector to SETU and
the establishment of the "Fonds National d'Assainissement et de
Drainage" be made conditions of effectiveness of the proposed loan.



- 20 -
7.03      The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$9.0 million
equivalent for a term of 25 years including a grace period of about
three years.



ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 2 pages
IVORY COAST
SOCIETE D'EQUIPMENT DES TERRAINS URBAINS (SETU)
ABIDJAN SEWERAGE AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
Existing Sewerage and Drainage Systems
Collection and Transportation Systems
1.     The existing sewerage and drainage system serving Abidjan. for
which there is no inventory, has been developed gradually by the house-
owners, developers, municipality of Abidjan, and the Government. However,
iin all cases development has been carried out on a piece-meal basis since
no overall sewerage and drainage development plan existed; there has been
no central coordination of planning, design, construction, and of opera-
tion and maintenance. The lack of coordination is shown by the fact that
on occasions the municipality has refused to take over as public systems
some of the facilities constructed by the Ministry of Public Works and
the development companies on the grounds of poor design and construction,
or lack of funds for maintenance.
2.     Developient has not kept pace with the rapid increase in population
and existing facilities are totally inadequaate; only about 20% of the
population is connected to the sewerage system, a further 15% have sanitary
sewerage disposal by septic tank0   The public systems vary widely from
open drainage canals, combined systems carrying both drainage water and
sewage, to completely separate piped sewerage and drainage systens; some
of the schemes which started as drainage systems have become combined
systems. Separate tertiary and secondary sewerage and drainage systems
have been constructed in land development schemes. The house-owners'
systems consist of varieties of septic tanks, sink pits and latrines;
these are found in the low density suburban areas as well as in the poorer
and free settlement areas.
3.     Except for the Plateau and Treichville areas, and SETUIs urban
development areas, storm water drainage mainly takes place by natural
infiltration or open unlined channels, About one hall of the Abidjan urban
area lies on lowland, and the inadequate drainage facilities, including the
lack of pumping stations, has resulted in some densely popula.ted areas
having oerious flooding problems.
4.     Owing to faulty design, poor maintenance, misuse of facilities, lack
of coordination between agencies concerned, and shortage of funds, the
facilities (except for the recently added systems) are generally in a poor
state of repair. In some areas poor design and the construction of facili-
ties on unstable sub-soil has resulted in inadequate sloping. In these



ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 2 pages
areas the effluent has become stagnant and then, with the high tempera-
tures, septic, causing the release of corrosive gasses, which attack
concrete pipes.  Under these circumstances many of the older sewage pipes
have become so deteriorated that only the bottom segments of the sewers
remain, with roots and topsoil forming the upper part of the sewer; in
many cases the sewers have collapsedo In the more populous areas, e.go
Treichville, the street drainage system is often used for disposal of
liquid and solid household wastes; these cause deposits in the pipes and
a reduction of their effluent carrying capacity.
Sewerage and Drainage Disposal
5.     Traditionally, Abidjan has discharged its sewage and drainage into
the surrounding lagoons, given their proximity to most of the urban devel-
opment. The lagoons are extensive and have a large self-purification
capacity,  and an extensive drainage outflow to the sea, through the
shipping caqal of Vridi.  However with the rapid population and indus-
trial growth of Abidjan, extensive areas of the lagoons have become heavily
polluted and their self-purification capacity has been exceeded in many
places, and particularly in the dead end areas (see Map IBRD 11200). This
situation has created a eutrophic condition in these areas, which, if pre-
sent rates of sewage discharge continue, will render them impossible of
restoration by self-purification. These conditions are also both obnoxious
to sight and smelle and have caused serious destruction of fish life.
Operation and Maintenance
6.     The operation and maintenance of the municipal system is being
executed by SODECI under contract with the mmmicipality of Abidjan. Main-
tenance is practically limited to emergency interventions, as the deplorable
state of the sewerage and drainage systems makes it impossible to execute
preventive maintenance. Many of the repairs required are so large as to
be outside SODECI's contract and the financial capacity of the municipality,
Sewerage and drainage systems constructed by SETU or housing development
companies are maintained by those agencies. Private septic tank mainten-
ance is executed by a few small, private, specialized firms.
Regulation of the Sector
7.    A further factor which has contributed significantly to the poor
state of the facilities has been the absence of adequate regulations for
the sector, Although BNETD has made some guidelines for the design of
sewerage and drainage systems and septîc tanks, design criteria have varied
from one development area to the other.
November 20, 1974



ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 3 pages
IVORY COAST
SOCIETE D'EQUIPEMENT DES TERRAINS URBAINS (SETU)
ABIDJAN SEWERAGE AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
Ten-Year Development Program
1. Introduction
The goal of the ten-year- development program is to provide
the Greater Abidjan urban area with adequate systems of sewerage and
drainage and an institutional set-up which will assure orderly execu-
tion of the program and proper operation and maintenance of the systems.
2.  Design Criteria
For the sewerage and drainage systems the velocity of flow
in a full sewer should be 0.74 m/sec for 0 200 mm pipe increasing to
1.09 m/sec for 0 2,000 mm pipe.  Under these conditions, for 0 200 mm
pipe, for example,the minimum permissible velocity of 0.33 m/sec occurs
when the sewer is about 17% full, sufficient to prevent the sedimenta-
tion of sludge and light mineral matters. The minimum slopes would
accordingly vary from 5 mm/m for a 0 200 mm pipe to 0.565 mm/m for a
0 2000 mm pipe.
The maximum permissible velocity of flow within concrete
pipes is about 3.00 m/s, resulting in maximum slopes of 79.5 mm/m
for 0 200 mm pipe, decreasing to 4.23 mm/m for a 0 2,000 mm pipe.
The minimum depth of the sewers and drains below the ground
surface has been chosen at 1 m. This provides enough protection
against point charges under normal conditions and enables the free
crossing above the pipes of the potable water system. Exceptions are
permitted in cases of lowlying areas if this can result in less pumping.
The flow resulting from storm water run-off is calculated by
the Kehr-method using the coefficient of Drecipitation intensity and
duration. The dimensions of drains are calculated for the once-a-year
rainfail and the open drainage works and road crossings for the once
in twenty five years rainfall.
For the combined system, the dilution rate for the overflows
with discharge in the open drainage works is 1 on 5, and for direct
discharge into the lagoons 1 on 2.



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 3 pages
3. The Sewage Collection System
Secondary and tertiary sewers and drains in the new housing
develooment or urban restructuring areas will be constructed at the
same time as the water and power supply, and roads. Since this is the
most economical method, the timing of these works will be linked to the
general urban development program. There will normally be one contract
for the construction of sewers, drains and roads. The cost of the urban
infrastructure thus provided will be recouped in the price of the land
sold to development companies or individual builders.
Some secondary and tertiary sewers and drains will have to
be constructed or reconstructed in existing urban areas; these will be
executed under small contracts. The financial charges for this part of
the program should be fairly high in the early years, and then decline
quickly when normal operation and maintenance of the system has been
established and all urban areas are fully served.
14.  Transportation System and Disposal (see Map)
The salient feature of the proposed development program is
the construction of a main collector system for central Abidjan, pos-
sibly connecting with an ocean outfall. A final decision on a sea out-
fall has not yet been made;however,an econorlic comparison between tho
construction of local treatment plants and the disposal of the sewer-
age into the ocean showed the latter to be the least-cost solution.
Storm water run-off will continue to be disposed of in the lagoons
surrounding the city.
Central Abidjan
A main sewer would be connected to the sewerage systems of
Treichville, Plateau ard Adjame, Marcory, Koumassi, Vridi and industrial
zones; this would start at the Marcory Bay and then follow the unused
"Canal du Bois", the "Boulevard de Marseille", with a siphon across the
"Baie de Vridi" to the seaboard, to the place where the ocean outfall
would start. This layout has the advantage of following, for the greater
part, unused ground owned by the Abîdjan Municipality.  The length of
the principal sewers would be:
Main collector             850oo m        i .600 - O 1.000
Plateau and Adjame        10.500 m     0   600 - 1.200
Vridi - Treichville        9.000 m      0   6o - 1i.200
Koumassi                   h.O00 m      O   600 - 1.200
Marcory                    1 .200 m     0   600 -
Cocody                    L.oO mni          600 - 1.200
The proposed ocean outfaIl would be constructed near or in
a submarine valley, which has a S-lo-e of about 5, and a depth of 250 m
and 500 m at a distance of 2,00J m. and 6,500 mi respectively from the
coast.  To enable the optimum economical desigrn-length of pipe line,
diffuser, etc., further ocear: current and disoersion testing is necessary.



ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 3 pages
Banco and Riviera Areas
Both the Banco and the Riviera areas, which are the urban deve-
lopment areas of Abidjan, are on hilly ground. The sewerage and drainage
system in these localities can be designed to make optimum use of the
available natural slope.  It is envisaged that separate systems would be
constructed since they  would be the most economical and easily adaptable
to the urban development.
Depending on the location where the sewers reach the lagoon,
(i.e., dead-ends in the lagoon or places where .the lagoon has insuffi-
cient natural flow)to assure good dilution of the sewage, treatment or
transportation to more suitable disposal places may be necessary.  Gra-
dually as the urban, industrial and harbor development areas reach a
higher occupation density, ring sewers will have to be constructed
along the shores of the Banco and Riviera areas to ensure that the la-
goons do not become over-polluted.  Sewerage disposal will then most
likely be by ocean outfall.
5. Financial Implications
The undermentioned table gives the estimated costs of the three
phases of the proposed 1975-1984 program at current prices and including
local taxes and contingencieso
Sewer-   Drain-            Local Taes   Cont   encies
age      age      Total   - -incl. in Cots
____ ___ __TJS$mi 1 1 i ons -----------~  ~
lot phase  Frs 75-77       9.7       5.3     15.0          2.2            1.8
2nd phase  Fls 78-81      36.7      20.9     57.6          8.7           21.0
3rd phase  FYs 82-85      84.6      39.6    124.2         18.6           49.0
Total      131.0      65.8    196.8         29.5           71.8
Decenber18, 1974






ANN EX3
Page 1 of 4 pages
IVCRY COAST
SOCIETE D'EQUIPEMENT DES TERRAINS URBAINS (SETU)
ABIDJAN SEWERAGE AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
Project Description
1.        The proposed sewerage and drainage project, which is the first
phase of a ten-year development program (see Annex  2 and Map IBRD-11200),
will essentially include the construction of priority works for sewers
and storm drains in the Abidjan area as requested by the Government in
June 1973. Design criteria are set out in Annex 2.
2.        The project can be riivided in the following main elements:
(i)  Plateau - Combined Ring Sewer
This sewer will intercept all primary and
secondary sewers on the east side of the Plateau,
thereby reducing pollution in Cocody Bay; the works pro-
vide for:
a.  the supply and laying of:
200 m of pipes of diameters 500 to 1,000 m
1,530 m of pipes of diameters 1,000 mm
270 m of pipes of diameters 1,200 mm and
500 m of pipes of diameters 1,400 mm
b. the construction of a 120 m rectangular sewer
of a 3,300 x 1,650 mm section;
c.  the construction of:
17 storm water overflows
8 lagoon outfalls
1 pumping station with a capacity of
2,100 liter/sec and 7,550 m3/h
34 manholes
d.  the supply of pumps for the pumping station; and
e.  the supply and laying of a 250 m force main of a
diameter of 1,200 mm and a diffuser.
(ii) Adjaméé - Central Sewer
This combined sewer will also reduce the pollutlon in
Cocody Bay by intercepting all primary and secondary sewers
in the Adjame area; t;he works include:



hNNEX 3
Page 2 of 4 pages
a. the supply and laying of:
120 m pipes diameters 250 to 300 mm
1,470 m pipes diameters 800 to 1,000 mm and
20 m pipes diameters 1,500 mm
b. the construction of:
22 manholes and
3 storm water overflows.
(iii)  Banco Area - Primary Sewers
These primary sewers will intercept the sewers from
the new urban development areas for which SETU's General
Urban Infrastructure Department has constructed the secondary
and tertiary sewerage systems and will transport the waste
water to the lagoons; the self-purification capacity of the
lagoons at the outfall points is still sufficient; the works
include:
a. the supply and laying of:
7,800 m of pipes of diameters 300 to 500 mm and
6,300 m of pipes of diameters 600 to 800 mm
b.  the construction of 250 manholes and 4 outfalls into the
Banco Bay and Ebrie Lagoon.
(iv)  Industrial Area of the Dyke of Vridi - Sewer
This sewer will receive the waste water (principally
organic wastes) from local industries (mostly after primary treat-
ment) and will dispose of it in the lagoon near the Canal de Vridi,
where it will be diluted by existing currents. The works include:
a.  the supply and laying of:
920 m pipes of a diameter of 920 mm and
640 m force main of a diameter of 1,000 mm
b.  the construction of a p.mmping station with a
capacity of 810 liter/sec and 2,920 m3/h; and
c. construction of 20 manholes.
(v) Treichville - Drainage M4ains
These works are principally oriented to alleviating
the serious flooding, which seasonally occurs in the center
of this area; they include:



ANMx 3
Page 3 of 4 pages
a, the supply and laying of 350 m of pipes of diameters
6co to 1,000 mm and 3,220 m of pipes of diamiters
1,200 to 1,800 mm;
b.  the construction of rectangular drainage main8  of 360 m of
3,300 x 1,650 mm and 440 m of 3,900 x 1,950 mm;
ce  construction of 90 manholes and construction and renewal
of 320 street inlets; and
de construction of three outfalls into the Marcory Bay.
(vi)  Low Incore Areas - Sanitary Services
These works provide for the construction of a nuber
of sanitary blocs (a row of latrines and showers) in low
income areas where the water supply and sewerage services are
particularly inadequate. This is essentially a pilot scheme.
(vii) SETU - Office Building
The construction of an office building to accommodate
SETUis new Sewerage and Drainage Department.
(viii)  Vehicles and Equipment
The supply of vehicles, service and office equipment
for the Sewerage and Drainage Department.
(ix) Consultants Services
Consultants services for:
a. the detailed engineering, preparation of bidding documents
and assistance for special problema in the supervision of
the execution of the project;
b. the preliminary design for the second stage and general pre-
investaent studies for the third phase of the ten-year
development program;
ce the preparation of the SODECI maintenance contract;
d. the preparation of new regulations for the Abidjan sewerage
and drainage sector;
e. the definition of design criteria for the Abidjan drainage
system;



ANNEZ 3
P-age . ot 4 pages
t. the preparation of an inventory and valuation of
existing severage and drainage syetems; aZd
e. management assistance.
Newly recruited staff are to be given either on-the-job
or opecialimed overseas training; as regarde the latter it is
proposed to send three engineers to Europe each for a six-month
course on sewerage and drainage system, operation, desiga and
debelopment.
December18, 19714



IVORY COAST
SOCENTE D1EQUIPU4ENT DES TERRAINS URBAINS (SETU)
ABIDJAN SEWER&GE AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
Summary of Project Costs
-----(CFAF million-
Local Costs                           Foreign Exchange
FYY      Ff        FI     Sub-          Fi        FY       Fi      Sub-
1974-75  1975-76  1976-77  Total        1974-75  1975-76  1976-77  Total         Total
1. Sewerage and Drainage System
Iron and Plastic Pipes,
Fittings, Electrical and
Mechanical Equipment and
Accessories                        -        -         -      -             -        94       78       172         172
Concrete Pipes                      29       56        66    151            59       115      135       309         460
Construction of Severs and
Pumping Stations                 54       114       280    448            65       139      347       551         999
Construction and Equipment -
SETU Offices                     34         4         _      8            15         2        _        17          55
Total Construction         117       17       3      67             3_9 ___  1079
2.  Engineering
Consultants:
lst Phase - Final Deeign          12        -         -     12            49         -         -       49          61
2nd Phase - Prelim Design        13        23         -     36            51        90        -       144         180
Special Studies and Man3-        10         5         -     15            39        20      )48       W0?         122
enehnt Assist.ance
SETU: Supervision & Training    4h-          84        94    218             t         2        1         4         222
Total Engineering           79 112             9      î__                    1439               3k
3.  Local Taxes                           2        171      254    517              -        -                            517
4. Contingencies
Physical                            22       35        69    126            43        86       111      240         366
Price                                7                113    1              114       90       182      286         4
29       68       12    279             Z 7               293 m      25
Total Cost SETU Project             313      525       876  1.714                     63B       902    1,8?9       3.593
50  Consultants:                   /1
Water Supply Sector Studies-        36        48       36    120             84      120        84      288         408
Total Project Cost            349      573       912  1 834           423       758      986    2 167        4,001
~~~-   g-  '  - _
/1  This part of the project would be executed by the Government.                                                               Ir
Decenber 18, 1974



ANNEX 5
ABIDJAN SEWERAGE AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
CONSTRUCTIoN SCH3DULE
ITEM                       _à                                   Y3AR _7  _ _____   FY76 1976          FY77 1  7
Estimated Cost
Millio  CFAF *
-Per    Sub-
1. TREICHVILLE
TRUIOE  - SEM  534                                        00      4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i+-- t- ±    i    + t *i -4- -i -+ -4
2.  PLATEAU-FAST AND ADJAME                                                              I V       1 +Z+Z
TRUNK - SEWER                   350°00- +   t   + + ,+ + 4   + + +-
3. VRIDI - INDUSTRIAL                                                                        1 1       f      +
TRUNK - SEWER                  260                               *            000                -     J         + +    -
1,144
4.  BANCO                                                                  _  __
PRI4ARY - SEWERS                347                        _1o             + + + +  + +
3147
5. MISCELLANEOUS SYSTENS            139
AND SANITARY BLOCS
139
6. OFFICE BUILDING  AND              55                                00+ +4
EQUIPMENT
$5
TO0T AL                                1,685
*  Net of contingencies and engineering.                                                LEGEND
iE~       ~ I ODesign, preparation of specifications
t/z// /z<j  Bidding
IoOf5O,ooD   I    Bid analysis and award
4- + + + + +-I Construction or supply
Preparation, bidding and construction/supply
November 20, 1974                                                                                                                  !
br        Planned Delay



ANNEX 6
IVORY COAST
SOCIETE D'EQUIPEMENT DES TERRAINS URBAINS (SET)
ABIDJAN SEWERAGE AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements of Bank Loan
IBRD Fiscal Year                 Cumulative Disburse-
and Quarter                  ments at End of Quarter
Sewerage and            /1
Drainage Pro&ect   Studies      Total
1974/1975              -__-_____ US$ thousands _----------
June 30, 1975                  250              100         350
'975/1 976
September 30, 1975           1 ,000             200       1 ,200
December 31, 1975            1,500              300       1 ,800
March 31, 1976               2,000              400       2,Loo
June 30, 1976                2,700              500       3,200
1976/1977
September 30, 1976           3,050              600       3,650
December 31, 1976             ,1o00             700       4,800
March 31, 1977               4,65o              8oo       5 ,450
June 30, 1977                5,700              900       6.600
1977/1 978
September 30, 1977           6,600            1,0.00      7,600
Decetber 31 , 1977           7,200            1 ,100      8,300
March 31, 1978               7,200            1,200       8 Â400
June 30e 1978                7,200            1,2 00     R :,400
1978/1979
September 30, 1978           7 800            1,2 00      9,0 00
Although disbursements are expected to end by September 30,
1978, a closing date of December 31, 1978 is proposed; this
will allow sufficient time for any possible delays in sub-
mission of invoices.
/1 This part of the loan, which is for water supply studies,
would be disbursed on behalf of the Government, who would
be responsible for the execution of the studies.
Deceember 18, 197h



-tVO IZY COAST
SOCi L]T'h- P_ _IP}M2;'  DES TERRAINS UHR'`3A0ETU)
ABIDJAN SEkE.TiAGE AND DRAIIUGE fA ûJECT
Projections of Population, Water Consumption, Private Water and Sewer Connections
and PoL:  tAioùn with Private Water anC .'3ewer C,onnec4tions
PopulatiAon With                                                                          33
Private Connec-   Private Water    Sewage Connections            Population With      Water Consumption (10 m)
Popul- tions(Water Supply) Comnection   Septic Sewerage                 Sewage Connection   Sales by  Private
tiond1 Annual -   TotaliF Tot-atL~         ks/hSys tem/5       Total        Tota,/6    _      SODECI /7  Wells_/5   Total
1973    765,000   6,000   35,000    350,000  L6  20,000  15,000    35,000            2L5,000    32       31,900    13,100    45,000
1974    850,000   8.00   43,000    L30,000  51  20,000  23,000    43,005            301,000    35       35,000    13,100    L 8,100
1975    950,000  11,000   54,000    5h0,000  57  20,000  34,000   5,000             378,000    ho       39,300    13,100    52,400
1976  1,o60,000  11 75ao   65,500    655,oo0  61  18,000  >47,500    65,500          458,500    43       44,000    13,600    57,600
1977  1,180,000  12,000   77,500    770,500  65  16,000  61,500    77,500            620,000    53       49,hoo    14,100    63,500
1978  1,310,000  12,500   90,000    900,000  69  lh,000  76,000    90,000            810,000    62       55,300    14,600    69,900
1979  1,460,000  13,000  103,000  1,030,(00  71  12,000  91,000   103,000    1,030,000    71             62,000    15,100    77,100
1980  1,630,000  13,500  116,500  1,160,500  71  13,000 106,500   116,500    1,165,000    71             69,500    1 ,600    85,100
1981  1,800,000  1îo000  130,500  1,305,000  72   8,000 122,500   130,500    1,305,000    72             75,800    16 JOO    91,900
1982  1,990,000  th,500  1L5,000  1,45o,o0o   73   6,000 139,000   145,000    1,450,000    73            82,600    16,c,09    99,200
1983  2,190,000  15,000  160,000  1,600,000  73   h,o0o 156,ooo   160,000    1,600,000    73             90,000    17,100   107,100
198b  2,00,000  15,500  175,500  1,755,000  73   2,000 173,500   175,500    1,755,000    73             98,100    17,600   115,700
1985  2,600,000  16,000  191,500  1,915,000  74         -   191,500   191,500    1,915,000    7>    106,900    18,100   125,000
/1  Assume 11.5% p.a. Dopulation growth rate to 1980 falling by 0.5% p.a. thereafter.
77  Number of comnections p.a. assumed equal to number of sewerage connections.
71j Assuming ten pDersons ; Der connection.
7I Assume septic tanks phased out in regular pïogressnor by 1985, when sewerage program complete, starting from end
construction of first phase works (1975).
/5  SETU estimates.
75  At present, septic tanks often do not fuiLLtF,ion properly and some sewage connecticiis poorly made.  Therefor3, assume
seven persrons per connection in period 127>-1976, increasing to 8 in 1977, 9 in 1978 and 10 in 1979 after first.
phase wcrks oe.onlete ancr associatel  pnblic  IealU` legislation Aiipl,mented.
/7  Assmre 12% '.n. growth to 1980 and 9% p.a. gfr";.t.h  J)81-1985.
75  Assumed to remain a. present level unt.i tl2,   Incioas ing at 0.5 milli-n m3 p.a. thereafter.
October 9, 197L|



IVORY COAST
ABIDJAN SEWERAGE AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
SHORT RANGE PROJECTIONS 1971-1985
POPULATION -WATER SALES - WATER-SEWERAGE CONNECTIONS
POPULATION &MION
POP. SERVED                                                                                                       m3/YEAR
3 MILLION
DOUBLING 0F O
POPULATION
2 MILLION                                                                                                                   200
POPULATION
1 MILLION _                                0o 100
WATER-SUPPLY CONNECTIONSS- v
jWATER SALES                                       50
/               ~~~~1 ST STAG E
200000  /2ND STAGE                                                                                                20
3R0 STAGE
10 YEARS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
100,000    I   I       I       I       I       I       I       I           I       I       I        I       I       I
1971     72      73      74     1975     76      77      78      79     1980     81       82     83       84    1985
PERCE ITAGE
OF
POPUL -,TION
SERVE D
100
80 _
60   WATER-SUPPL    CONECTON
50 
40 ~~~~~~~~~~~SEWERAGE CONNECTIONS
40
20
o I       I            I       I           I         I       I.    I         I       L              I        I
1971     72      73      74     1975    76       77       78     79      1980    81       82      83      84    1985
ACTUAL -                                             PROJECTION
Wo,ld 8ank-9016



AENNX 9
Page 1 of 8 pages
IVORY COAST
SOCIETE D'BQUIPE14NT DES TERRAINS URRAINS (SET)
ABIDJAN SEWERAGE AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
Cost-Benefit Studies
A. Methodology
1.        Although the justification of the Abidjan sewerage and drain-
age project ultimately rests upon a oualitative judgement-regarding the
objectives of the overall program for sewerage and drainage and the con-
tribution of the project camponents to these objectives, an attempt has
been made to support this oualitative judgement with a quantitative ana-
lysis. While the results are necessarily speculative and subject to
differences of opinion, given the conceptual problems and the inadequate
data, they nevertheless give a clear indication that the monetary value
of the benefits is substantial.
2.        Benefits of the project works on the Banco and the trunk sewers
for central Abidjan are not calculated in isolation because these compo-
nents are most appropriately seen in the context of the benefits of the
overall program for sewerage in Abidjan. This is not to say that the
justification of these components requires implementation of the entire
program but rather that their benefits cannot meaningfully be measured
separately from, the benefits of other sewerage investments. The benefits
of the third project component - the Treichville drainage scheme - have
been analyzed separately because they are independent of other sewerage
and drainage expenditures.
B.  Summary of Analysis and Results
3.        For the purposes of quantification, the benefits of the program
relate to the avoidance of other forms of sewerage expenditures which be-
come unnecessary with the program, to fishing, tourism, the environment and
health.  As a reference point for raeasuring these benefits, it is assumed
that without the programn the number of septic tanks would increase at the
samne rate as the total population, the nunber of connections to the exist-
ing sewerage system would remain constant at the 1973 level and sewage
would continue to be discharged into the lagoons without treatment. The
costs of the progran cover investment and operating costs (excluding
taxes, duties and depreciation).  Costs and benefits are expressed in 1973
prices and (except for environmental benefits as explained in para. 1h)
were calculated over a 50-year period. After 198h, when the capacity of
the main sewers is reached, operating costs are held constant.
4.        The results of the cost-benefit study are surmmarized in Table 1
and they yield an economic return on the overall sewerage program of 24h.



ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 8 pages
The sensitivity of this rate has been tested for changes in all the main
variables (see Table 2). It is apparent that the major calculated bene-
fits are those attributable to health and the savings in the cost of sep-
tic tanks. The remaining benefits exert only a small influence on the
rate of return. Of the two major items, estimates of the savings in the
cost of septie tanks are relatively straightforward and believed to be
within the usual range of uncertainty. Thus, the main source of uncer-
tainty relates to the health benefits. At an extreme, if the health
benefits are eliminated completely, the rate of return falls to 8.5g.
A 50% reduction in health benefits leaves the rate of return at 15%.
These results suggest that the degree of uncertainty surrounding the
health benefits is not crucial to the analysis and the program is justi-
fied on economic grounds since (i) the estimated opportunity cost of
capital in the Ivory Coast is of the order of 10%; (ii) the calculated
health benefits refer only to the direct economic benefits (savings in
medical costs and lost production); and (iii) it was not possible to
quantify the general environmental benefits of the program, which are
substantial.
C. Economic Return - Sewerage
(a) Savings in the Cost of Seotic Tanks
5.        As stated in para. 4, it is assumed that without the program
the number of septic tanks would increase in proportion to the population,
giving the results shown in Table 5. The estimates of the number of
septic tanks with the program appear in Annex 7. The cost of installing
a septic tank is estimated at CFAF 200,000 on average. Maintenance and
the cost of emptying (once per year) is estimated at CFAF 4,000 per sep-
tic tank per year. The additional investment and operating costs of
septic tanks without the program was accordingly calculated and attribu-
ted to the program as a benefit.
(b) Fishing Benefits
6.        A report compiled by the Centre de Recherches Océanographiques shows
that the productivity of fishermen in the lagoons around Abidjan has
fallen dramatically over the last 30 years. mTis has been caused partly
by pollution and partly by other factors, such as a change in the salinity
level in the lagoons due to the opening of the Vridi canal in 195h.  How-
ever, even over the last decade, the fish catch has fallen from an
estimated 6,000 tons p.a. to an estimated 3,000 tons p.a. It is expected
that without the program the catch will decline further, in linear pro-
gression, to 1,500 tons p.a. by 1985.  With the program, it can be anti-
cipated that the catch will stabilize in 1980, after the commissioning
of the first sea outfall, and then increase linearly to regain the level
of 6,000 tons p.a. by 1990.  The additional fish output can be used to
substitute for fresh fish imports valued at CFAF 50 per kg dockside in
1973 prices.



ANN EX 9
Page 3 of 8 pages
7.        Another important fishing activity which wi11 benefit from the
program is the catching of shrimps, since about 60% of the Ivory Coast's
output of shrimps comes from the lagoons. Without the program, it is
projected thàt output from the lagoons will decline progressively from
600 tons p.a. at present to 200 tons p.a. by 1985. Following the cons-
truction of the first sea outfall, the shrimp catch should stabilize
and then increase linearly to regain the present level by 1990. The
export price of shrimps (CFAF 1,000/kg) is used to measure the benefits
of the additional shrimp catch.
8.        Estimates of fish and shrimp production with and without the
program are shown in Table 3.
(c) Tourism Benefits
9.        The lagoons around Abidjan are undoubtedly an important ele-
ment in attracting tourists. Governnent statistics for 1970-1972 and a
tentative Bank estimate'  for 1973 show the following situation:
1970       1971      1972      1973
Number of room nights
spent by international
visitors in Abidjan        190,000    i95,000   220,000   37k,000
The National Plan forecasts that the nuxnber of room nights spent by inter-
national visitors in Abidjan will increase to 580,000 by 1975 and 1,330,000
by 1980.
10.       The preceding data include business travellers as well as
tourists. It can be argued that the condition of the lagoons will affect
business travel only marginally although it may affect the establishment
of coramercial enterprises. While a rigid line cannot be drawn between
businessmen and tourists, the BankL1 has recently estimated that about
16% of room nights can be attributed to tourism. Applying this ratio
to the National Plan targets for international visitors in 1975 and 1980
provides the figures for tourism shown below. The 1985 figure is obtained
by maintaining the 1975-80 growth rate (18p p.a.) over the period 1980-1985.
Estimates of value added by international tourists, also included in the
are based upon a value added per day of CFAF 7,700 in 1973 Pr /2
table, arpasdrIces-.
derived from the National Plan.
1975     1980      1985
Number of room nights spent
by international tourists
in Abidjan                       92,800   212,800   L89,000
Value added (CFAF 106)              715     1,639     3,758
/1  Tourism Projects Departrment
/2 This figure corresponds to an independent estimate made by Tourism
Projects Department.



ANNEX 9
Page 4 of 8 pages
il.       The effect on tourism of the increased pollution of the lagoons
without the program is extremely difficult to foresee but a very conser-
vative estimate vould be a reduction of 10% by 1985. The benefits of
the program would start from 1980 (with the commissioning of the first
sea outfall) and annual benefits are assumed to grow linearly to 1985
after which they remain constant at 10% of the forecast value added (i.e.
(F.AF 376 million p.a.).
(d)  Environmental Benefits
12.       The major environmental feature of the sewerage program is the
protec;ion of the lagoons from pollution. Some of the associated bene-
fits are reflected in the estimated impact on tourism. However, the pre-
yenation of anaerobic, unsightly and nauseous conditions will benefit the
r iéqdents of Abidjan as a whole and particularly those residing next to
areas o.f the lagoons where water circulation is limited. It is not pos-
sible te quantify thle general environmental benefits of the program
(alth.ough uhey may represent a major part of total benefits) but the par-
ticular impact on residential areas next to the lagoons was approached
by using the proposition that, without the program, high and middle in-
come residents would, over a period of time, move out of affected areas
and be replaced by lower income residents. Some of the benefits of the
program are therefore reflected in the cost of rehousing those who would
move less the costs which are saved in not having to build other housing
for those who replace them. Benefits estimated this way are believed to
provide a minimum estimate of those which would have been obtained using
land values, an approach which was not possible due to a complete absence
of data.
13.       On the basis of information from the Bank-financed urbanization
study for Abidjan an inventory was compiled of high and middle income
property which would be directly affected by pollution of the lagoons.
This property was divided into two groups A and B, group A containing
property in areas more affected than properties in group B due to loca-
tion. It is reasonably estimated that over a twenty-year period (to
1995) 60% of properties in group A and 40% of properties in group B
would be vacated. The cost of rehousing those who move and the cost
savings by using the property for lower income families as estimated
by SETU are shown in Table 4. The undiscounted total benefits thus cal-
culated for the twenty-year period (i.e.the difference between the re-
housing costs and the housing costs saved) were converted into a stream
of annual benefits by taking a linear increase in the annual benefits
to 1985 (starting from completion of the first phase of the program) and
then holding them constant for ten years. By 1995, the effect of pollu-
tion on property surrounding the lagoons is assumed to stabilize.
(e) Health Benefits
14.       The number of people without a sewerage connection in the
reference situation would increase substantially (see Table 5), water-
borne diseases would become more widespread and there would be an



ANNEX 9
Page 5 of 8 pages
increase in the medical costs of treatment and the loss of production
(measured by the labor's value added) due to absence from work. The
savings in medical costs and savings in lost production due to the
program are considered separately.
15.       Savings in I4edical Costs - Plausible assunptions are that
(i) the share of total medical costs attributable to water-borne di-
seases is equal to the number of cases of water-borne diseases as a
percentage of all diseases, (ii) 90% of the medical costs attributable
to water-borne diseases are caused by bad sanitary conditions, and
(iii) medical costs caused by bad sanitary conditions will increase
(decrease) in proportion to the number of people without a sewer
connection.
16.       It is estimated, on the basis of a study carried out by the
Service Autonome de la Programmation Sanitaire and health statistics
published by the Service Autonome de Statistique Sanitaire, that total
medical costs in the public sector in Abidjan in 1973 (i.e. excluding
private health care which in any case is largely confined to a section
of the community which is least prone to water-borne diseases) were
CFAF 3,500 million and that 13% of all diseases reported in Abidjan can
be classified as water-borne. Thus it is estimated that CFAF 455 mil-
lion in 1973 prices can be attributed to water-borne diseases and CFAF
410 million (90%) specifically to poor sanitary conditions. This lat-
ter figure was increased in proportion to the number of people without
a sewerage connection as shown in Table 5 to obtain the savings in me-
dical costs due to the program.
17.       Savings in Lost Production - Calculations of production losses
attributable to water-borne diseases were confined to the industrial
sector, on the grounds that unemployment or under-employment are much
more prevalent in primary and tertiary activities. Estimates of indus-
trial value added for Abidjan over the period 1973-1985 are shown in
Table 6. In line with the approach adopted in para. 15, the proportion
of industrial value added lost through water-borne diseases was taken
as equal to the proportion of working time lost through water-borne
diseases and 90% of this was attributed to bad sanitation.
18.       According to enquiries under a WHO study in Abidjan, two work-
ing days per year are lost on average as a result of water-borne diseases.
An enquiry carried out specifically for the cost-benefit study produced
a figure of 0.5. It is proposed therefore to take one day per year for
the calculations and, assuming 250 working days per year, the proportion
o! working time lost through water-borne diseases in 1973 was 0.004 of
which 0.0036 was attributed to bad sanitation. This gives an estimated
loss of value added due to bad sanitation in 1973 of CFAF 295 million-.
Projections for the future are based upon the reasonable proposition that
the proportion of wôrking time lost through bad sanitation will vary
directly with the proportion of the population without a sewerage connec-
tion as shown in Table 6. Savings in medical costs and lost production
are held constant after 1984, the last year of the ten-year program.



ANNE 9
Page 6 of 8 pages
D.  Economic Return - Drainage
19.       Although the proposed project involves the construction of a
combined sewerage and drainage system,the capacity of the system has
been determined by the degree of protection which is to be afforded
against flooding. All investmernt e;osts are therefore allocated to
drainage in the cost-benefit calculation.  Annual operating costs can-
not strictly speaking be divided between sewerage and drainage, but an
annual amount equal to 1% of the investment cost has been allocated to
drainage.
20.       The degree of protection o4 the system is defined by the
average time interval (in years) between floods (the period of return)
which is measured by the reciprocal of the average number of floods per
year. Thus flooding ten times a year and once every two years corres-
pondsto periods of return of 0.1 years and 2 years respectively. In
the case of Treichville, the consultants chose, on the basis of judge-
ment, what they considered to be the minimum reasonable degree of pro-
tection, which is a period of return of one year, i.e. flooding once a
year on average. In the cost-benefit study which was carried out, an
attempt was made to assess the optimality of this choice in relation to
other periods of return, based on the fact that while benefits increase
as the period of return increases, costs will also increase and there is
a trade-off between the two.
21.       Investment costs for a range of periods of return, in 1973
prices, are as follows:
Period of return
(in years)        O6(     0.75   1.00   1.50   2.00
Investment costs
(CFAF millions)       505    535    560    595    620
22.       Corresponding benefits for each period of return were quanti-
fied as the reduction in flood damages compared with the present situa-
tion, where flooding occurs about ten times per year. Given inadequate
knowledge about the relationship between the magnitude of a flood and
the ensuing damage, it was conservatively assumed that the extent of
flood damage depends upon the number of floods per year rather than the
magnitude of the floods and that the average damage per flood remains
constant with respect to the period of return. These assumptions under-
estimate the benefits of increasing the capacity of the drainage system
because, with a larger system, the magnitude of flooding is reduced as
well as the frequency and hence the damage per flood is also reduced.
23.       Since no systematic records have been kept of the present
extent of flood damage, direct enquiries were carried out among the
inhabitants of Treichville and the concerned public authorities, with
the following results:



ANNEX 9
Page 7 of 8 pages
- Private dwellings - About 480 dwellings are involved
and the cost of essential repairs due to flooding is
CFAF 50-70,000 per dwelling per year, say CFAF 29
million per year in total.
- Public buildings - The cost of repairs is about CFAF 1
million per year.
- Highways - The cost to the Municipalities of controlling
flood-water, clearing debris from the streets and repair-
ing the streets is estimated at CFAF 5 million p.a. Si-
milarly, the Ministry of Public Works estimates that it
costs CFAF 6 million p.a. to repair flood damage to the
roads under its jurisdiction.
24.       Apart from the above damages, there is a serious loss of working
time through traffic interruptions while the roads in Treichville are
flooded. According to the Bank-financed urbanization study, about 8,000
people are directly affected (i.e. in the area actually flooded) and
additional enquiries indicate that typically three hours are lost per
person per flood, a figure which is sufficiently large to cause a corres-
ponding loss in economic value. It is conservatively estimated that as
many people again suffer equally from repercussions in neighboring areas,
so that about 48,000 man hours are lost per flood per year. Industrial
value added in Abidjan in 1973 was CFAF 82 billion (see Table 6) for a
population of 765,000 (see Table 5), i.e. CFAF 107,000 per capita. Since the
population affected by flooding contains a higher proportion of productive
people than the population at large, this figure can be increased by at least
10% to value the man hours lost through flooding, i.e. to CFAF 118,000. Assum-
ing 250 working days p.a. of 9 hours per day, this corresponds to CFAF 52 per
man hour. It is thus estimated that industrial value added of CFAF (48,000 x
62) = CFAF 2.5 million is lost per flood, and since there are 10 floods per
year on average, this corresponds to CFAF 25 million per year in total.
25.       The above results are summarized below.
Cost of Flooding in Treichville
---   (CFAF millions)---------
Private dwellings               29
Public buildings                 1
Highways                        il
Lost time                       25
66
26.       These figures do not take into account damage suffered by
stocks of merchandise and the health hazard caused by the discharge
of raw sewerage into the streets. It is considered that CFAF 15 mil-



ANNEX 9
Page 8 of 8 pages
lion p.a. is a minimum provision for these itemst so that total flood
damages are taken to be CFAF 81 million p.a. or CFAF 8.1 million per
flood with 10 floods p.a.  Using the assumptions of para. 23,the annual
benefits of a period of return T are CFAF (81 - 8.1/T) millions.
27.       The present values of the net benefits of the Treichville
drainage project, on the basis of the above data, are summarized in
Table 7 for different discount rates and periods of return. The results
indicate that the optimal period of return lies between 0.75 and 1.0.
Given the uncertainties in the data, the consultants' choice of a period
of return of one year,based upon judgement, is justified and yields a
rate of return of 12%. The sensitivity of this rate of return to changes
in costs and benefits is sunmarized in Table 8.
December  18, 1974



AMNEt 9
TAE-E 1
I V O R Y   C O A S T
ABIDJAN SEWERAGE AND DRÂINAGE PROJECT
SUMARY OF SEWERGE BENEFITS AND COSTS
(CFAF millions)
------------------------------------ BENEFITS ---------------------------------------            ----------------- COSTS ---------------
Savings in       Total                            Operation          Total
Year        Health     Fishing       Tourism          Environment       Cost of        Benefits            Investnent         and             Costs
Septie Tanks                                      Xaintenance
1973             _          _             _                   _              _             _                   _                _
1 974                  -           -                -                        -             -                   -                -                -
19`5            161         -             -                                 785          946                 1255              133             1388
1976           224          -             -                   -            884          1108                 1365              154             1519
1977           415          -             -                  50             9214        1389                 1775              1 80            1955
1978           625          -             -                  100          1026          1751                 1920              212             2132
1979            855         -             -                  150          11149         2154                 2080              250             2330
1980           992          40            63                 200          1255          2550                 1835              325             2160
i981           H t101          ~         126                250           1300          2899                 3956 -3385                        43 41
1982          1237         197           189                300           1407          3330                 3958              445e            4403
1983          1362         276           252                350           1516          3756                 3958              505              4463
1984          1634         356           315                400           1586          4291                 3958              565             4523
1985          1699         433           376                4450            -7 -453                 -          -               625              625
f'986         1699         1472          376                1450 j-       535           3532                   50              625              675
1987           1699        511           376                450           535           3571                   50              625              675
1988          1699         550           376                450           535           3610                   50              625              675
1989          1699         588           376                1450          915           4028                   50              625              675
1990          1699         625           376                450          1035           4185                   50       _      625              675
1 991         1      6      25           346 4               50          1115 -4265 5                                          625              675
1792          1699         625           376                450          1135           4285                   50              625              675
1993          1699         625           376                 450         1215           4365                   50              625              675
1994          1699         625           376                450          1315           4465                   50              625              675
1995      _ 1699           625           376                450          1395           4546                   _               62
1996           199         625            3                   -                          150                   50              625              675
1997          1699         625           376                  _          1495           4195                   50              625              675
1998           1699        625           376                  -          1575           4275                   50              625              675
1999           1699        625           376                  _          1615           4315                   50              625              675
2000          1699         625           376                  -          1575           )4275                  50              625              675
2001           1699                       37 6                            -r35          323 5 -                                                  675
2002           1699        625           376                  -           535           3235                   50              625              675
2003           1699        625           376                  -           535            3235                  50              625               675
200h           1699        625           376                  -            915          3615                  890              625              1515
2005           1699        625           376                  -          1035           3735                   -               625               625
2006           1699        625           376                  _          t115           3815                   50              625              675
2007          1699         625           376                  _          1135           3835                   50              625              675
2008          1699         625           376                  _          1215           3915                   50              625              675
2009          1699         625           376                  -          1315           4015                 1170              625             1795
2010          1699         625           376                  -          1395           4095                   50              625              675
2011          1699         625           376                  -         12415             41 5                 50        -     625-             675
2012          1699         625           376                  -          1495           4195                   50              625              675
2013          1699         625           376                  -          1575           4275                   50              625              675
2014           1699        625           376                  -           1615           4315                  50              625               675
2015          1699         625           376                  -          1575       _ 4275                     -               625              625
2016          1699         625           376                               _ 5355       3235                   50              625               675
2017          1699         625           376                  -           :535          3235                   50              625              675
2018          1699         625           376                  -           535           3235                   50              625              675
2019          1699         625           376                  -            915          3615                   50              625              675
2020          1699         625           376                  -          1035           3735                   50              625              6
2021          1699         625           376                  -          1115           3815                   50              625              675
2022          1699         625           376                  -          1135           3835                   50              625              675
2023          1699         625           376                  _          1215j          3915                   50              625               675
2024          1699         625           376                  _          -5452          -2752               -2873              625            -22148
1/ Residual Valuies
Septe:nber 24, 19714



ANNEX  9
TAEI 
I V O R Y C O A S T
ABIDJAN SEWERAGE AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
SENSITIVITY TESTS ON RATE OF RETURN OF
SEERAGE PRO GRAM
Base Rate of Return: 24 o/o
Increase (+) or
ecrease (_) + 25 o/o    + 50 o/o    - 25o/o    - 50 o/o °       100 o/o
Total Costs                14.6        10.6         79.6        *
Investment Costs           15.6        11.7         60.9        *
Operation and Main-
tenance costs              21.8        20.0         25.8       28.1.
Total Benefits             50.6                     12.9        5.5          -
Health Benefits            29.4        36.6         19.1       15.1         8.5
Fisliing Benefits          24.3        25.1         23.0       22.2       20.7
Tourism Benefits           24.3        24.8         23.1       22.5        21.3
Environmental Benefits    24.7         25.7         22.7       21.8        20.0
Savings in the Cost of
Septic Tanks               23.4                     18.0       1)4.2        9.0
Value exceeds 1OOo/o.



I V 0 R Y   C O A S T                    TABLE
ABIDJAN SWERAGE AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
FISHING
--------Without the Program----------           ----------With the Program-----------
Year           Fish Catch           Shrimp Catch               Fish Catch          Shrimp Catch
Quantity   Value    Quantity    Value           Quantity  Value   Quantity    Value
1/       2/                                                        W v  2/  6/
(tons)  (CFA mnlioE) (tons)   (CFA miuli=)      (tons) (CFA nIlicn) (tons)  (CFA mUliorn
1973         3000        150        600        600            3000     150        600        600
1974          2875       144        567        567            2875     144        567        567
1975         2750        138        534        534            2750     138        534        534
1976         2625        131        501        501            2625     131        501        501
1977          2500       125        468        468            2500     125        468        468
1978         2375        119        435        435            2375     119        435        435
1979         2250        113        402        402            2250     113        402        402
1980         2125        106        369        369            2250     113        402        402
1981         2000        100        335        335            2625     131        422        422
1982         1875         94        301        301            3000     150        442        442
1983         1750         88        267        267            3375     169        462        462
1984         1625         81        233        233            3750     188        482        482
1985         1500         75        200        200            4125     206        502        502
1986         1500         75        200        200            4500     225        522        522
1987         1500         75        200        200            4875     244        542        542
1988         1500         75        200        200            5250     263        562        562
1989          1500        75        200        200            5625     281        582        582
1990         1500         75        200        200            6000     300        600        600
1/ Linear decrease from 3000 tons in 1973 to 1500 tons in 1985 then stabilizes
2/ Taking CFAF 50,000/ton.
3/ Linear decrease from 600 tons in 1973 to 200 tons in 1985 then stabilizes
/ Taking CFAF 1 million/ton
5/ As for without program to 1979, stabilizes 1980, then linear increase
to 6,000 tons in 1990
6/ As for without program to 1979, stabilizes 1980, then linear increase to 600
tons in 1990.



ANNEX 9
I V O RY C O A S T
ABIDJAN SEWERAGE AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
HOUSING COSTS 1/
1. Cost of Rehousing High and Middle Income Residents affected by Pollution
CFAF milliorLs
Infrastructure costs for 102 ha at CFAF 12 million per ha.           1224
Construction costs for 158 houses for high income families
at CFAF 15 million per house   2370
Construction costs for 756 houses for middle-income families
at CFAF 8 million per house    6048
Total additional costs                              9642
2. Housing Costs saved by using property affected by pollution for lower-income
Residents
Infrastructure costs for 26 ha-/ at CFAF 8 million per ha.            208
Construction costs for 914 houses for lower-income families
at CFAF 3 million per house    2742
Total cost savings                                   2950
3. Undiscounted total benefits of program  (Item 1 minus Item 2)           6692
1/ Infrastructure costs per acre and construction costs per house
from SETU. Number of houses and hectares involved based on
Bank-financed urbanisation study.
2/ 914 houses are vacated. It is assumed that alternative housing
would have been required at a density of 35 houses per ha.,
thus involving infrastructure on 26 ha.



I V 0 R Y     C O A S T
ABIDJANi SEWERAGE AND DRAJNAGE PROJECT
Medical Cost
-__-----____- WITHOUT THE PROGRAM ---------------------          -------------------WITH THE PROGRAM ----------------------
Year      Total 1/   Population    Population    Population             Medical         Population with           Population without        Medical
Population    with Septic   connected to  without Sewe-    Costs  ./             Sewerage connec-t-       sewerage connect-         Costs  8/
(thousands)    Tanks  2/    System   3/    rage conn. l/    (CFAF                ion     /                ion  7/
(thousands)   (thousands)   (thousands)          millions)        (thousands                 (thousands)           (CFAF millions)
1973        765            140            105            520              410                  245                    520                    410
1974        850            153            105            592              451                  301                    549                    433
1975        950            171            105             674             533                  378                    572                    451
1 976     1060             1 91           105             764             615                  458                    602                    475
1977      1180             212            105             864             697                  620                    560                    442
1978      1310             236            105             969             779                  810                    500                    394
1979      1460             263            105           1092              861                 1030                    430                    339
1980      1630             293            105            1232             984                 1165                    465                    365
1981      1800             324            105            1371            1066                 1305                    495                    390
1982      1990             358            105            1529            1189                 1450                    540                    425
1983      2190             394            105           1691             1312                 1600                    590                    465
1984      2400             432            105            1863            1476                 1755                    645                    508
1985      2600            >468            105            2027            1599                 1915                    685                    5>41
1/ From Annex
2/Maintain samne proportion (18 o/o) oif total population as in 1973
3/ Held constant at 1973 level
)L/ Total population minus population with septic tanks minus population connected to system
G/ Grow at same rate as population without sewerage connection
6/ From Annex
/ Total population minus population with sewerage connection
l/ Grow at same rate as population without sewerage connection.



ANNEX 9
I V O R Y   C O A S T                       TIE  6
ABIDJAN SEhERAGE AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
VALUE OF LOST PRODUCTION
-Without the Program---   -- -----With the Program----------
Industrial     Proportion of       Loss of            Proportion of         Loss of
Value Added     Population          Value             Population            Value
lear         Abidjan  1/    without Sewera-    Added  3/           without Sewerage      Added  3/
(CFAF          ge Connection  /   (CFAF               cornection   /
billion)           o/o            millions)                o/o           (CFAF miliorns)
1973           82.0            0.68               295                  0.68                295
1974           89.4            0.70               331                  0.65                309
1975           97.4            0.71               366                  0.60                287
1976          106.2            0.72               405                  0.57                321
1977          115.7            0.73               447                  0.47                287
1978          126.1            0.74               494                  0.38                254
1979          137.5            0.75               546                  0.29                213
1980          150.9            0.76               607                  0.29                234
1981          164.5            0.76               662                  0.26                237
1982          179.3            0.77               731                  0.27                258
1983          195.4            0.77               796                  0.27                281
1984          213.0            0.78               873                  0.27                307
1985          232.2            0.78               959                  0.26                318
1/  Estimates for 1970 (not shown), 1975 and 1980 from National Plan.
These estimates have implied growth rate of 9 o/o p.a. This rate
is used to find other years by interpolation and extrapolation.
2/  Calculated from Table 2
3/  Proportion of working time lost through bad sanitation and Industrial
Value added. For 1973, former figure estimated at 0.004 x 0.9 = 0.0036
(see text). For subsequent years, proportion of working time lost
through bad sanitation increases (decreases) at same rate as proportion
of population without a sewerage connection.



ANNE. 9
TABLE 7
I V 0 R Y C 0 A S T
ABIDJAN SE;ERAGE ATD DRAIUAGE PROJECT
Present Values of IJet Benefits for Treichville Drainage
(CFAF millions)
Period of Return      0650         0.75         1.00       1.50        2.00
Discount Rate
3 o/o            226         259          263         257         2h6
10 o/o             o7          103         107          96          82
12 o/o            -9             4         - 2         -16         -32



I V 0 R Y C O A S T
ABIDJAN SENERAGE AND DRAIIIAGE PROJECT
Sensitivity Tests on Rate of Return of
Treichville Drainage
Period of Return       : 1 year
Base Rate OI Return   : 12 o/o
-Increase (+) or
e'-;Lcrease (_)    + 10 o/o    + 25 o/o   -10 o/o       _ 25 o/o
Variable
Total Costs                   10.9         9.6            13.3        15.8
Investnent Costs              11.0         9.8            13.1        15.4
Operating and Main-
tenance costs               11,9        11.7           12.1         12.2
Total Benefits                13.1        14.9            10.8         9.0



IVORY COAST
SOClETE D'EQUIPEMENT DES TERRAINS URBAINS (SETU)
ABIDJAN SEWERAGE AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
|GENERAL MANAGER
DEPARTMENTS
FINANCE, ADMINISTRATION             GENERAL URBAN                    SEWERAGE AND
AND PROGRAMMING           INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT                DRAINAGE
ADMINISTRATION                     STUDIES                        5TUDIES
_  FINANCE         _      WORKS                           WORKS
q    COMMERCIAL   l       q  LAND USE SERVICES  *.|***|X|**  q SUPERVISION 0
CIAL   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~SYTMOERATI ONS
PLANNING
World Bank-9195



ANNEX 1i1
Page 1 of 2 pages
IVORY CQAST
SOCIETE  D'EQUIPEMENT  DES TEiRRADiS UR.BAMS (SETU)
ABIDJAN SEWERAGE AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
Water Supply Tariffs
Unt'l July 1, 197h, the domestic water supply tariff in Abîdjan
was CFAF 45/m-. Large consumers (consumring more than 18,000 m3 p.a.) en-
joyed a degressive tariff which fell eventually to CFAF 38/m3. In addi-
tion to the basic tariff for water supply, there was a charge for sewer-
age of CFAF 4.,/m3 on all water sales.  Domestic consumers paid an extra
CFAF 5/m3 to the municipality for solid waste disposal. The combined
domestic tariff was therefore CFAF 54.5/m3.  Tariffs in the rest of the
country were higher than in Abidjan, being generally about CFAF 80/m3.
Following extensive study by the Service Autonome de l'Iydraulique in
the IMinisstry of Plan a uniform national water supply tariff was intro-
duced on July 1, 197h; the main elements of the new tariff are as follows:
Consumption per year (m3)       Water tarif£
O - 60                     60
61 - 18,000                 89.5
18,001 -500,000                 79
Over  500,000                 51
Public appliances
Standpipes, fire hydrants,
etc.                          5°
Users of private groundwater
sources                         38.7
(The tariffs for consumDtiQn between 60 and
500,000 m3 p.a. include CFAF 10/m3 for
sewerage).
The uniform national tariff has been introduced in response to
the Governnent's aim to encourage development of the interior.  Given the
population growth rate of 11i5% p.aO in Abidjan, and the attendant costs
of urban infrastructure, the Government's overall policy of developing the
interior is reasonable. However, the mission pointed out the main dangers
of using water supply tariffs to promote this policy, notably the possible
over-stimulation of water consumption in high cost areas.



ANN il 1
Page 2 of 2 pages
The introduction of a social tariff block for a consumiption,
considered to be a minimum appropriate to health needs, is a desirable
step in extending the benefits of a niped water supply to the lower in-
come population. The social tariff block will be reinforced by reducing
the connection charge from CFAF 29,000 to CFA-F 6,000 for connections
(i) which are not more than 0 15 mm in diameter, (ii) which are not in
an apartment building, (iii) which are not in sublet premises and (iv)
where the construction value of the house does not exceed CFAF 3 million.
Connections meeting these requirements are generally those serving lower
income families and the difference between the connection charge and the
cost of making the connection will. be made up by a general charge on all
water consumers of CFA 1/m3. (inclUd.ed in the above tariff) and a contribu-
tion from general revenues. Furthermore, tXe social tariff block is exempt
from sewerage surcharges.
The price concessions given to large water consumers are con-
sidered by the mission to be excessive in relation to any cost savings
in supplying these consumers. The view of the Service Autonome de
l'M.ydraulique is that these concessions are necessary to support the
Government's policy of encouraging industrial development.
December 18, 1974.



IR)RY COAST
SOCIETE D'EQUIP3NIT DES TERRAINS URBAINS (SETU)
SEWERAOE MAD DRAI)RGE DEPARTUT
StateanetaoT Estimted Sources sand Applications of Funds - FYs 1975-1978
(in millions of CFA Francs)
Year ending Septesber 30'                           197%                     1976                        1977                          1978
Sewer-  Drain-           Sever-  Drain -             ewer-   Drain-               Sewer-  Drain-
age     age    Total   age        ag     Total      age       age     Total        aee     age      Total
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Internal cash generation
Net income before interest                         333       41      374     450       56     506       476       137       613        514     287       801
Depreciaticn                                        61      log      170      89      149     238       1l4O      204      344         198     266       464
Total internal cash generation              3914    150      5114    539      205      744      616       341       957        712      553    1,265
Vested systein                                       675      975   1.650      761   1,100   1,861        848    1.225    2,073          940   1,357    2.297
Borrowings:
IBRD proposed loan (lst phase)                     220      119     339      415      223     638       586       316       902          -       -         -
Future borrowings  (2nd phase)                        -       -        -       -        -       -         -         -         -     1 136      640    1,776
220     T-9    339        _       223     3B          6       31;       902       ,1          O    1,776
Government contribution                               _         -        -       -        -       -         -         -         -         57       -        57
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS                  1289   1,244   2,533   1,715   1,528   34243  2,050    188              3,932 2-845 2,       5
APPLICATICNS OF FUNDS
Capital coe truction
1975-1977 project (let phase)                      424      228     652      756    1407   1,163    1,155         623    1,778           -       -
1977-1981     "    (2nd phase)                        -       -        -       -        -       -         -         -         -     1,971   1,109    3,080
Vested systems                                     675      975   1,650      761   1,100   1 861        848    1 225    2 073         940   1 357    2 297
1,099   1,203   2.302   1 ,17   1.0                 2003                   1
Debt service - a,mrtizaticri
IBRD proposed loan (lst phase)                       -        -        -          -                       -                             10       6        16
Future borrowings  (2nd phase)                      _        _        _       _        _           _     _         _                    -       -          1
Debt service - irterest
IBRD proposed loan (let phase)                        4       3        7      36       19       55       68        36       104         93       49      142
Future borrowings  (2nd phase)                        -       -        -       -        -        -        -         -         -         67      39       106
E       -J       -7       3                              19   j 6       T1          -o      - 
Total debt service                            4        3       7       36       19      55        68        36       104       170       94       264
Increase (decrease) in vorkin g capital
Cash & bank                                         153      h40     19      126        6      132       (141)      4       (37)      (260)      (1)    (261)
Receivables and advance payments                     36       -       36      45        -       45       32         -        32         40        -        40
Sundry creditors                                     (3)     (2)      (5)      (9)     (4) (3)          (12)       (6)      (il)       (16)      (9)      (25)
186      7       2214    162        2     f         _  )      T)         )        (-           )    (:24)
TOTAL APPLICATIONS OF FWNDS             1,289   1,244   2,533 3,715   1,528   3_21             _      1    2     ,932 _    28145   2_50    5,39S
Debt service coverage - times                                         77.7                      13.5                           9.2                          4.2
December 18, 1974



ANNEX 13
Page l of h pages
IVOR! COAST
SOCIETE D'EQUIPEMENT DES TERRAINS URBAINS (SETU)
AEIDJAN SEWERAGE AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
Property Taxes
Components
1.        Property taxes in Abidjan as in other cities of the Ivory Coast
include the following components:
(i) a land tax on built-up property (contribution fonciére des
propriétés bfties);
(ii) a land tax on undeveloped property (contribution fonciére des
propridtés non bâties);
(iii) a land tax on insufficiently developed land (surtaxe foncière sur
les propriétés insuffisamment bâties);
(iv) a land tax on property owned by legal entities (taxe des biens de
mainmorte);
(v) a surcharge on the four preceding taxes in favor of the munici-
palities (centimes additionnels);
(vi) a municipal tax on built-up property (taxe sur le revenu net des
propriétés bâties);
(vii) a municipal tax on undeveloped property (taxe sur la valeur vénale
des propriétés non bâties);
(viii) a special contribution to the National Investment Fund (Prélèvement
FNI-B).
As se ssme nt s
2.        Property taxes on built-up property (items i, iv, v, vi and viii)
are levied on the rental value of property whereas those on undeveloped
property (items ii, iv, v and vii) are charged on the market value of prop-
erty. The tax on insufficiently developed land (item iii) is based on an
assessment equal to the difference between the market value and three times
the rental value of property.
3.        The market values of taxable inmmovable property are assessed
towards the end of each year for the following fiscal year by manicipal com-
missions appointed by the Minister of Finance. In Abidjan, the Commission
in charge of assessing land values is composed of five delegates from the
Ministry of Finance, one delegate from the municipality and two representa-
tives of land owners. This commission determines a market value per m2 for
17 sectors (including many subsectors) of Abidjan.



ANNEx 13
Page 2 of 4 pages
4.        Rental values of built-up property are assessed on the basis of
the existing rents paid to the owners. In the case of owner-occupied
houses, the rental value is assessed by comparison with similar houses or
in applying a given rate of return to the assessed market value. The same
method applies to industrial and commercial buildings.
5.        Liability for property taxes rests with the owners of the property.
The basis for the tax on built-up property is the net rental value, which is
computed by deducting a fixed percentage from annual (or gross) rental value
for depreciation and maintenance; the percentage is h0 o/o for houses and
80 o/o for factories. In the case of rented houses the 40 o/o deduction is
raised to 80 o/o.
6.        Property records are well maintained by the Ministry of Finance.
The general opinion is that the assessments are fair and have kept pace with
the evolution of market and rental values; concern has, however, been ex-
pressed that in some areas, eg. Treichville and Adjamé, the values might be
a little overassessed.
Rates of Tax
7.        The undermentioned are the present main rates of tax:
(i) taxes on built-up property.
(a)  land tax - 20 o/o o! net rental value for current budget,
(b) land tax - 2 o/o of net rental value for investment budget,
(c) surcharge - 4 o/o of net rental value for municipality,
(d) municipal tax - 5 o/o of net rental value,
(e) special contribution to National Investment Fund - 10 o/o
of net rental value. (This contribution is refunded when
the taxpayer makes an investment of equivalent amount in an
approved investment favoring the economic, social or cul-
tural development of the country.)
(ii) tax on insufficiently developed land.
This land surtax is levied on the difference between the market
value and three times the gross rental value when the difference is
positive. The rate of tax is 4 o/o for the first two years, 5 o/o for
the third year, and 6 o/o for the fourth and subsequent years.
(iii) tax on property owned by legal entities (taxe des biens de main-
morte).
This land tax is equal to 50 o/o of the land tax on built-up
property (excluding the investment budget tax) and of the land tax on
insufficiently developed land (when the latter applies). Real estate
companies are, however, exempted and a special regime applies to re-
ligious missions.



ANNEX 13
Page 3 of 4 pages
Exemptions
8.        The fiscal law provides for a liberal system of permanent or
temporary exemptions for the land tax on built-up property (contribution
fonciére des propriétés bâties).  Permanent exemption is granted to im-
movable property owned by the state, departments, municipalities, and
public entities whenever it is used for a public purpose and does not yield
income. Similarly, permanent exemption applies to religious buildings,
vater and power works, ports, railway stations, immovable property used
for medical or social aid, and owner-occupied houses the annual rental
value of which does not exceed CFAF 150,000 (about US$ 600).
9.        Temporary exemptions are granted for new buildings, reconstruc-
tions and additions to existing buildings. The period of exemption, which
starts the year after completion of construction, is as follows:
(i) twenty-five years, for houses belonging to real estate companies
qualifying for a priority agreement;
(ii)  twenty years for owner-occupied houses;
(iii) ten years for all other houses;
(iv)  five years for immovable property not used in housing; this applies
essentially to office buildings, but not to immovable property used
for industrial or commercial purposes.
10.       The same exemptions given to the land tax on built-up property hold
under the municipal surcharge. However, under the municipal tax on built-up
property (taxe sur le revenu net des propriét4s bâties), the temporary ex-
emptions cannot exceed two years.
il.       No temporary exemptions are given for the special contribution to
the National Investment Fund (Prélèvement FNI-B), but owner-occupied houses
are granted a permanent exemption. A yearly amount of 80,000 CFAF may be
deducted from the amounts due under this contribution.
Collection
12.       Up to 1968 the responsibility for collecting property taxes lay
with the Treasury in the Ministry of Finance; the collection rate, of about
30 o/o, was poor. After 1968 collection was transferred within the Ministry
of Finance to the General Directorate of Taxes, and although the collection
rate has shown substantial improvement, it is still only between 50 o/o -
6o o/o.
13.       Government officials recognize that non-payment of property tax
is widespread and consider that poor collection is mainly due to non-payment
by the more wealthy Ivorian taxpayers; the officials also contend that the
burden of property taxes on low income areas is excessive. Details of prop-
erty tax collection are given on the following page.



COILECTION OF PROPERTY TAXES AND CONTRIBUTIONS TO FNI (SECTION B) IN ABIDJAN
(in millions of CFAF)
Tax                   Amounts                Collection            Total        | Collection
bills  Abatements     to be          1970    1971   1972   1973   amount          ratio
issued                 collected                                    collected        o/o
by the end of 1973
1970
property taxes        2,224         301        1,923         828     151     82      37        1,101        57.3
FNI-B                   838          56          783        310       70     36     15           431       55.1
1971
property taxes        2,072         191        1,881                 881     96      47        1,025        54.5
FNI_B                   638          23          615                 315     39     17           372       60.6
1972
property taxes        2,081         188        1,893                   2    815    178           995        52.5
FNI-B                   719          17          702                        303    109           412       58.8
1973
property taxes        2,181                                                      i,o85         1,o85
FNI-B
O   t
October 14, 1974                                                                                                    0



IVORY COAST
SOCIETE DIEQUIPEMENT DES TERRAIS URBAINS (SETU)
SEWERAGE AND DRAINABE DEPARIMENT
Statements of Estimated Incose Fra 1975-12,8
(in millions of! CA Fratc)
Year ending September 30:          1975                    1976                  1977                  1978
Sewer-  Drain-         Sewer- Drain-         Sever- Drain-        Sewer- Drain-
age     age   Total  age                            age   Total  age aRe          Total
REVENUE
Water surcharge - public system      432             432   524       -     524   632       -     632  769         -      769
- private systeus    72       _      72   162       -     162   180       -      180  203        -      203
Property tax                            -    23h     234      -    31      310      -    471      471    -      717       17
TOTAL OPERATING REVENUE      504    234      73  686   31        0 996   812    471   i 283  972       77    1.689
EXPENSES
Subcontracted maintenance             99      80     179   135    101      236   183    126      309  246      159       405
SETU                                  il       4      15    12       4      16    13       4       17   14       5        19
Depreciation                          61    109      170    89    149      238   140    20144  198             266       464
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES    L   193                236    î                      â2      670 458 4               888
NET lNCCIiE (DEFICIT) before interest  333      41     374  1450      56     50o   476    137       613  514      287      801
Less: interest                         4       3       7    38      19            68      36      0IL 160       88       248
NET PROFIT  (LOSS)                      æ       3L4 4108   101
Estimated annual water consumption
- public system  - millions m3      39.3       -      -  44.0        -       - 49.3
- private system - millions u3      13.1       -      -   13.6       -       - 14.1        -        - 14.6
Operating ratio - %                       -      -      49      -      -      h9      -      -       52    -        -
Rate of return  - %                    16.7    1.2     6.9  14.2    1.1       6.2   8.7    1.9      4.8  6.4      3.0      4.5
y  Maintenance works undertaken by Societe de Distribution d'eau de la Cote d' Ivoire (SODECI) and other subcontractors.
December 18, 1974



ANNEX 15
IVORY COAST
SOCIETE D'EQUIPIEMNT DES TERRAINS UREJANS (SETU)
SEWERAGE AND DRAINAGE DEPARTM»NT
Estimated Balance Sheets  FIS 1275-1978
(in millions of CFA Francs)
As of September 30:           1975      1976     1977      1978
ASSETS
Sewerage
Gross fixed assets                        3,577    5,317    8,7Q5   11,106
Iesss:  depreciation                      1 142    1.397    1,712    2,098
Net fixed assets                            3.920    6.993
Work in progress                    424       720         _    1,466
Drainage
Gross fixed assets                        6,322    8,574   11,894   14,798
Less:  depreciation                       2,270    2,748    3.295    3923
Net fixed assets                  4_2                          0-wj7
Work in progress                     228      400         -      864
Current assets
Cash & bank                                 193      325       288        27
Other current assets                        126      1'71      203       2h3
Total current assets                319       24 *9177.
TOTAL ASSETS                 7,458   11,362   t6,o83   2
LIABILITIES
Capital                                     44,324    4,324   14,322    4,318
Trans±ers of vested assets                  1.,650    3,511    5,584    7,881
Revaluaticn reserve                           728    1,669    2,888   44,596
Contribution from Goverrment                    -         -        -        57
Surplus                                       3        818         9    1 886
Total equity                      7,069   1 0, 322   1 h  123
IBRD - proposed loan (lst phase)              339      977    1,879    1,863
Future borrowings    (2nd phase)                -         -        -    1,776
Total long-tern  debt               339 _   977    1,879    3,639
Current liabilities:
Sundry creditors - Sewerage                  28       37        49        65
t?     tt     - Drainage                  22       26        32       141
Total current liabilities                     861                1T
TOTAL LIABILITIES            7.145   1î,yf      6        22.483
Debt/equity ratio                                      9/91    12/b9    16/8â
Current ratio                               6.i:i    7.9:1    6.1 :1    2.6:1
December 18,1974



ANNEX 16
Page 1 of 3 pages
IVORY COAST
SOCIETE D'EQUIPEMENT  DES TERRAINS URBAINS (SETU)
SEWERAGE AND DRAINAGE DEPARTMENT
Notes and Assumptions on Financial Statements
1. General
SETU will establish separate accounts for its Sewerage and
Drainage Department as from October 1, 1974. As of that date existing
sewerage and storm drainage facilities in the Greater Abidjan area will
be inventoried, valued and an opening Balance Sheet established for the
Department. All revenues for the sewerage and drainage services in the
Abidjan area will be paid into a separate frnd with the Caisse
Autonome d'Amortissement who will be responsible for disbursing author-
ized expenditure. The following data relates to the main items of the
Sewerage and Drainage Department's estimated financial statements shown
in Annexes 13 and 14.
2.  Statements of Estimated Income - Annex 13
(i)  Water surcharge -_public system
Forecast of revenue from water surcharges have been
related to estimated water consumption; the latter take into
account forecast increases in population.   Water surcharges
have been increased by 10% in 1975 and 8%' per year thereafter.
(ii)  Water surcharge - private systems
This revenue relates to water surcharges from con-
sumers who pump their own water direct from the underground
water table; these consumers have not been paying water sur-
charges, since they are outside the SODECI billing system.
FY 1975 forecasts only provide for six months revenue from
this source. As in the case of public system consumers sur-
charges have been increased by 10% in 1975 and 8% per year
thereafter.
(iii) Property Tax
These amounts represent the sums required to be raised
through property taxes to meet the financial needs of the
storm water drainage service.



ANNEX 16
Page 2 of 3 pages
(iv)  Expenses - subcontracted and maintenance
These expenses cover maintenance works undertaken by
SODECI and other subcontractors and take into account the
backlog of maintenance, the additional sewerage and drainage
services to be provided, and an annual increase of 10% in
FY 1975 and 8% thereafter to cover inflation.
(y)  Expenses - SETU
These expenses relate to that part of SETU's expenses
which cover operational services.   Expenses on development
have been charged to investment.
(vi)  Depreciation
A composite rate of 2% per year on average gross
fixed assets has been assumed.
(vii) Interest - these charges include interest on the proposed Bank
loan0 Interest during construction has not been capitalized,
3o Estimated Balance Sheets - Annex 14
(i)  Gross Fixed Assets (Sewerage and Drainage) include the original
assets brought into SETUfs accounts as oF October 1, 1974,
newly constructed facilities brought into service by SETU, and
new secondary and tertiary facilities vested in SETU's Sewerage
and Drainage Department from development schemes. Gross fixed
assets have been revalued at an annual rate of 17% in FY 1975,
1405% in 1976, 12.5% in 1977 and 11% in 1978.
(ii) Depreciation - relates to the accumalated depreciation reserve
for the sewerage and drainage facilities; the reserve has been
revalued annually on the sem.e basis as the gross fixed assets.
(iii)  " orks in  rogress have been based on an engineering judgment
Of the uncompleted works at the end of each fiscal year.
(iv)  Cash and Bank relates to the funds deposited with the Caisse
Autonome diAmortissement (CAA),
(v) Other current assets - include suzs due either from consumxers
or the water concessionaire SODECI, and property taxes collected
but not transferred by the Government to SODECI at the end of
each fiscal year.
(vi)  Capital relates to the initial capital of the Sewerage and
Drainage Department, and is the balancing figure between the net
fixed and current assets and the current liabilities as of
October 1, 19740



ANNEX 16
Page 3 of 3 pages
(vii)  Transfer of vested assets
This item relates to the secondary and tertiary systems
constructed as part of land development schemes, financed by
the Government and private developers, and transferred to SETU's
Sewerage and Drainage Department as public sewers and drains0
(viii)  Revaluation reserve is the accumuiated net amounts arising from
the annual revaluation of the gross fixed assets and deprecia-
tion provisions.
(ix)  Surplus relates to the accwumlated net profit of the Sewerage
and Drainage Department.
November 20, 197>



IBRD 11200
MAL    <~~~~~~'  r. K,,,.,,  ,. ,,,  r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,,. j. .,  / ~~~~~~~~~~~7//'.                                                                                                                   OCTOBER 950~~~~~CMBR 97
ro~o        S     ""'""'»   -'''"""*'""                            ...         U     P EEB VO;rA   <  lil,   I>ftl/ /Xg IVORY  COAST
. '- -Ce $`u'u'7°' ?Fe 5rrows   `                                 _,X           , sc              Xy///XÀ »ABIDJAN SEWERAGE AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
a  1  f                                                                                                                                                    Existîno trunis seMers                   Poflufed  oser~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E,sia  ruk ewrsi Pol-edwae
'    0   y                                     0 A f     T                                                                                                                                            Pro osed  ,nks .                        Heavîly pollufed:  cier
"                                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~1975-76, 1st Project  7,   WeIi fields
i                                                               I.                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~      ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~1977- 81, 2,d Projecft  -  We I fields future extension
,,e,      2'    ,~                            .-1981 -'85, 3rd Projec¶                                                                                                                                                      »'\\rbndnlpretf7
2 ~ ~ -~     ; .i                              I                                                                                                                                          A  /   '    i .   `  Prope     pa ing stations  Urban d lP ppmenf 1975-'76
Sepfic tanks, s nk pits and             Ab djar mups apol boundory
-'>  fi, oraTlneS                                                                                                                                                                             Forent ur par, .,  , .    ,  .  .    .   .    '        .    O     3 F4o S
7.  i                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~[fjo cf sewerage and drainage
"  '   .                                                     I                                                                          W2'2'2'L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~main systero
«& rr   1  'AIfM,tLE: 0ceçF   _    %\  -dANL,O       NATtOM            .  PARK    :                                                                                                                             KILOMETERS
N.                                                                               -                                                                                             M ,    s,   r    2 _.    hl LES
k~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
k~~
f                 1''.                    r~~~~~~R     i RA
-~                                             ~~ ,~ `                                                                                          N     f     ;,1;                   -) s-
I M2
k                                                                                   k:41`f&                                        on
r~yYoPof.n             f                                                                                                      f \,       _          e
at\\>_"S'''e  k,k                                      0`   0y/                   /\  /DA                                                 W/A                                                            
/, \,k<tE5S-' )sr\ty 
_ _, >: 5iS (9lu// RîVIRAQ;/nct=-



