CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1076 IVC
Project Agreement
(Abidjan Sewerage and Drainage Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
SOCIETE D'EQUIPEMENT DES TERRAINS URBAINS
DATED JANUARY 17, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1076 IVC
Project Agreement
(Abidjan Sewerage and Drainage Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
SOCIETE D'EQUIPEMENT DES TERRAINS URBAINS
DATED JANUARY 17, 1975


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 17, 1975, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and SOCIETE D'EQUIPEMENT DES TERRAINS URBAINS (hereinafter
called SETU).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Republic
of the Ivory Coast (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent
to nine million dollars ($9,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Loan Agreement, but only on condition that SETU agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Bank as hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS SETU, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Loan Agreement and in the
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of Parts A, B, C, D, E, F, G and H
of the Project
Section 2.01. SETU shall carry out Parts A, B, C, D, E, F, G and H of
the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
engineering and public utility practices.
Section 2.02. SETU shall carry out Part G of the Project in accordance with
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and, for this purpose, shall employ
engineering consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿4
Section 2.03. In carrying out Parts A, B, C, D and E of the Project, SETU
shall employ contractors acceptable to the Bank upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.04. SETU shall: (a) not later than June 30, 1975, or such other
date as the Bank shall agree, enter into a contract for the maintenance of the
Greater Abidjan sewerage and drainage system with an agency acceptable to the
Bank and upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, and which shall
reflect the recommendations prepared by SETU in carrying out Part G.3 of the
Project; or (b) make other arrangements for this purpose satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, contracts for the
purchase of the goods, or for the carrying out of works or services (other than
consultants' services) for the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions of the Schedule to this
Agreement.
Section 2.06. (a) SETU undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision
for the insurance of, the imported. goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by SETU to replace or repair such
goods.
(b)   Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, SETU shall cause all goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated to Categories (1)
through (5) of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement to be used exclusively for Parts
A through H of the Project.
Section 2.07. (a) SETU shall furnish to the Bank, promptly upon their
preparation, the plans, specifications, contract documents and construction and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b)   SETU: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the progress of
Parts A through H of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated to Categories
(1) through (5) of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement, and to disclose the use
thereof in Parts A through H of the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon
the provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section, enable the Bank's representatives
to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of such proceeds and any relevant records and documents;


﻿5
and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request concerning Parts A through H of the Project, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Loan referred to in (i) above and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c)   SETU shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine all plants,
installations, sites, works, buildings, property and equipment of SETU and any
relevant records and documents.
Section 2.08. (a) SETU shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views
with the Bank with regard to the progress of Parts A through H of the Project,
the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating
to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)   SETU   shall promptly inform   the Bank of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of Parts A through H of
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance
by SETU of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.09. SETU shall take or propose to the Borrower to take all such
action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights
in respect of land as shall be required for the installation, construction and operation
of the facilities included in the Project, and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land and rights
in respect of land are available for purposes related to the Project.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SETU
Section 3.01. (a) SETU shall at all times maintain its corporate existence
and right to carry on its operations and shall take all steps necessary to acquire,
maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges, concessions and franchises which
are necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.
(b)   SETU shall operate and maintain its equipment and property and the
equipment and property held on behalf of the Borrower, public entities and local
collectivities, and from time to time make all necessary renewals and repairs thereof,
all in accordance with appropriate engineering and public utility practices.
Section 3.02. SETU shall at all times manage its affairs, plan the future
expansion of its operations and maintain its financial position, all in accordance


﻿6
with appropriate business, financial and public utility principles and practices and
under the supervision of experienced and competent management.
Section 3.03. SETU shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers,
or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate public utility practice.
Section 3.04. SETU shall not, without the prior approval of the Bank, lease,
transfer or otherwise dispose of any of the property or assets which shall be required
for the efficient operation of its sewerage and drainage services for Greater Abidjan.
Section 3.05. SETU shall establish and maintain a Sewerage and Drainage
Department, and provide such department with an adequate number of qualified
and ex: erienced staff.
Section 3.06. Whenever a vacancy occurs in the position of Director of the
Sewerage and Drainage Department established pursuant to Section 3.05, SETU
shall consult with the Bank prior to making a final decision on the person proposed
to fill any such vacancy.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants                                      7
Section 4.01. SETU shall maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations and
finaricial condition.
Section 4.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section
4.0 1 of this Agreement, SETU shall: (a) maintain separate accounts for its Urban
Infrastructure Development Department and Sewerage and Drainage Department;
and (b) follow such accounting practices as shall be required to reflect separately
the financial results of the sewerage and of the drainage operations in the accounts
of the Sewerage and Drainage Department.
Section 4.03. SETU shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish
to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such


﻿7
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of SETU and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 4.04. SETU's Sewerage and Drainage Department shall not undertake
capital expenditures for any major expansion which materially and adversely affects
SETU's carrying out of the Project. For purposes of this Section, the term "major
expansion" means a project or projects the aggregate expenditures for which are
expected to exceed five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000).
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of
SETU thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)        the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in
accordance with its terms; or
(ii)       a date 25 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Loan Agreement terminates in accordance with its terms before
the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the Bank shall promptly
notify SETU of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Loan
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated


﻿8
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For SETU:
B.P. 21181
Abidjan
Ivory Coast
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of SETU may be taken or executed by its Directeur Gneral or such other person
or persons as he shall designate in writing.
Section 6.03. SETU shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons who
will, on behalf of SETU, take any action or execute any documents required or
permitted to be taken or executed by SETU pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.


﻿9
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By   /s/ Roger Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa
SOCIETE D'EQUIPEMENT DES TERRAINS URBAINS
By /s / Timoth6e N'Guetta Ahoua
Authorized Representative


﻿10
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Except as provided in Part A.2 hereof, contracts shall be let under procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised
in October 1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
2.    Civil works for the construction of five sewers and drainage facilities in the
area of Abidjan known as Banco may be procured through the extension of existing
contracts, provided that such extension is satisfactory to the Bank; and vehicles
and equipment under Part F of the Project may be procured on the basis of
competitive bidding in accordance with the Borrower's ordinary procurement
procedures in effect on the date of this Agreement.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for Domestic
Manufacturers
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the
cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the
delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in Republic of the Ivory Coast may be granted a margin
of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
ind-cate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Republic of the
Ivory Coast if the bidder shall have established to the satisfaction


﻿1                                  11
of the Borrower and the Bank that the manufacturing cost of
such goods includes a value added in Republic of the Ivory
Coast equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in Republic
of the Ivory Coast.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bid of
each group shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;
if not, the lowest evaluated bid from group C shall be selected.
C.    Review of Procurement Decisions by Bank
1.    Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for pipes and civil works except for those
referred to in Part A hereof:
(a)   Before bids are invited, SETU shall furnish to the Bank for its
comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding
documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents or
procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further modification to the
bidding documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.


﻿12
(b)   Promptly after the bids have been received, SETU shall inform the
Bank of the names of the bidders and the respective amounts of the bids.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, SETU shall, before a final
decision on the award is made, inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to
which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the intended award
and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report
on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendation for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the SETU and
state the reasons for such determination.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the Bank's
concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the Bank
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract.
2.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph, SETU shall furnish to the
Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of
the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect
of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis
of bids, recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the contract
was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the SETU
and state the reasons for such determination.


