Docu
TheWa Wn                   ;
Report No. 9705
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
SECOND MANGORO FORESTRY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1161-MAG)
JUNE 21, 1991
Agricultural Operations Division
South-Central and Indian Ocean Department III
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



EXCHANGE RATES
Unit:  Malagasy franc (FMG)
Year                   US$1 equivalent
1982                        367.7
1983                       492.2
1984                        658.0
1985                        635.8
1986                       769.8
1987                      1234.9
1988                       1526.4
1989                      1532.5
1990 (March)              1538.9
ABBREVIATIONS
ABEDA            Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa
FANALAMANGA      Fanjarian' Ala Ambatondrazaka-Moramanga - Mangoro Forest
Company (Project Entity)
FAO              United Nations Food and Agricultural Organization
FOFIFA           Parastatal organization responsible for forestry and
agricultural research
GOM              Government of Madagascar
IFC              International Finance Corporation
NPK              Chemical fertilizer consisting of nitrogen, phosphorus and
potassium. Sometimes, zinc is added, in which case it is
referred to as NPKZn
SAR              Staff Appraisal Report
TPA              Tons of air-dried pulp per year
UNIDO            United Nations i.dustrial Development Organization
FISCAL YEAR OF THE GOVERNMENT OF MADAGASCAR: January 1 - December 31



THE WORLD SANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Offim of DIouecvmwtal
June 219 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECRSO_a AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on MADAGASCAR
Second Manaoro Forestry Proiect (Credit 1161-MAG)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Madagascar - Second Mangoro Forestry Project (Credit
1161-MAG)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office with Part II of the
report contributed by the Borrower. This project has not been audited by
the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT         FOR OmCIL USE ONLY
MADAGASCAR
SECOND MANGORO JORESTRY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1161-HAG)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
P E ACE  .     . .                          . .      .     . .     ... ......   ... .....................    .
EVALUATION SUMMRY  . . .                  ... ..  ..                    li .
PART I; PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Project Identity   . 1 . . . * . . .     . . .   .  .
B. Background   . . . . . . . .    .                 .1
C.  Project Objectives and Description   . . . . . . . . . . .      2
D.  Project Design and Organization  .                 . .          3
E.  Project Implementation   . . . . .     . . . . . . . . . .      3
Credit Effectiveness and Project Start-up  . . . . . . .      3
Implementation Schedule  * ..      .* .... *....              4
Project  Costs    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  4
Disbursements  . . .  . . . .   .  . .  . . .  . . .* ..      4
CreditAllocation  ........... ....... .                       4
F.  Project Results  . 4 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   .        4
G.  Sustainability  8 . . . . . . . . . .      * . . . . . . .      8
H. Performance of the Bank  ......... . . . .....                   9
1.  Performance of the Borrower      . . . .   . . .. .  . . ...   10
J.  Bank/Borrower Relations  . . o . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    10
K.  Performance of Consultants   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    10
L. Documentation and Files  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   .    10
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Analysis of Results  a . . -   . . . . . . . . . . . a .  .     11
B. Evaluation of Bank Performance and
Lessons to be Learned   ...... a.    .          ..           12
C. Evaluetion of Borrower Performance and
Lesk-us to be Learned  .... ..... .......                    12
PART III: STATISTICAL DATA
Table l:  Related Bank Loans   ........                            13
Table 2:  Project Timetable  . . . . a . . .                       14
Table 3:  Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements e          15
Table 4:  IDA Disbursements  . . o . . . . . . . . . . .           16
Table 5:  Project Implementation - Key Indicators      . .   &    17
Table 6:  Project Costs and Financing  . . . a . . . . .           18
Table 7: Project Results  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    19
Table 8:  Status of Covenants  . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . .      20
Table 9:  Use of Bank Resources                       ...  .       22
MAPS: IBRD 15290(PCR) and 15266(PCR)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
SECOND MANGORO FORESTRY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1161-MAG)
PREFACE
Tnis is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Mangoro
Forestry Project in Madagascar, for which Credit 1161-HAG in the amount of
SDR 16.3 million was approved on June 16, 1981. The credit was closed on
June 30,  1987,  three years behind schedule.   SDR 2.7 million were
cancelled, and the last disbursement was made on February 12, 1988.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Agriculture Operations Divi-
sion of the Africa Regional Office and the FAO Investment Center (FAO/World
Bank Cooperation Program) (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III),
and the Borrower (Part II).
This document is based on reports (particularly the Project Brief,
the Appraisal Report, supervision and/or back-to-office reports, studies
and internal Bank documents), discussions between the mission and respon-
sible officials, the mission's own knowledge of the local forestry sector,
and an on-site assessment of the results.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
SECOND MANGORO FORESTRY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1161-MAG)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
1.    Since the  1950s plans have existed  for manufacturing wood pulp  in
Madagascar.   Large plantations were established,  initially in Mahitsiatra
(Faritany 1/ of Fianarantsoa) and subsequently, when it became apparent that the
land available in that location was inadequate for new plantations, in Mangoro
(Faritany of Toamasina).
2.    In the early 1970s the Bank was asked by the Government of Madagascar to
help sustain and expand the efforts already made: a first credit (565-NAG) was
provided in 1974 and constituted the "First Forestry Project." It was understood
at the time that this was the first phase of a program that was to lead to the
construction of a pulp mill that would be competitive on the international
market.
3.    During preparation of the Second Mangoro Forestry Project,  the Bank
expressed doubts regarding the viability of the proposed pulp mill, with the
result that it was decided that this second phase would be a holding operation
during which, while the momentum achieved during the first project was preserved,
studies would be financed to identify as carefully as possible the silvo-
industrial potential of the Mangoro plantations. The Second Mangoro Forestry
Project was financed by an IDA credit of US$20.0 million (Cr. 1161-MAG),
cofinanced with ABEDA (US$4.2 million); the disbursement period was to be three
years and the objective was to maintain investments at the same rate as before,
including planting and related operations, and to carry out the studies referred
to above.
Implementation Experience
4.    The credit was signed on October 20, 1980 and the credit was declared
effective on July 1, 1981.   Fanalamanga, the mixed-economy company that had
successfully implemented the first project, continued to be responsible for
project implementation. Project implementation was hampered by two constraints:
(a) the initial inventory produced an average annual increment far below
appraisal projections, and (b) the studies, while ignoring for no very clear
reason the sawn wood outlet, failed to identify any remunerative silvo-industrial
activity.
5.    These constraints led to a reduction in the rate of new investment (in
particular, planting operations declined from 6,000 ha to 1,000 ha a year) and
1/    Faritany is Malagasy administrative equivalent of province.



- iv -
led to the large-scale use of fertilizers to raise yields and to a change in the
management of existing stands to reorient growth toward the production of sawn
wood; the Government of Madagascar acknowledged, in 1984, that the pulp objective
war not necessarily the only one. The sawn wood objective, however, required
huge pruning and thinning programs. Fertilization, pruning and thinning entailed
expert advice which had not initially been envisaged in the project, any more
than these operations themselves.
6.    The reduction in planting operations and the time needed to carry out the
tasks referred to above led to the postponement of the closing date from June 30,
1984 to June 30, 1987 (three successive postponements). Even so, the new program
could not be implemented in its entirety: in the end only about 11,000 ha were
planted compared to 18,000 ha foreseen at appraisal.   Fertilizer use was
sigrificantly below expectations, due to delivery delays, cumbersome procurement
procedures, and Fanalamanga's limited fertilizer application capacities.
Results
7.    Institutional Impact.   The First and Second Forestry Projects have
considerably strengthened the implementation capability of Fanalamanga.   In
additwo.an, it is clear that the technical difficulties encountered and training
provided by the project have greatly increased local technical icnowledge as
regards the cultivation of pine species.
8.    Economic and Financial Results.   The economic and financial analyses
presented in this report are based on two sets of scenarios: (a) an optimistic
scenario that assumes that sufficient market outlets can be found for all wood
that can theoretically be produced on the plantations; and (b) a pessimistic
scenario that assumes that market outlets can be found for only part of the
theoretical wood production.   The resulting financial rate of return ranges
between 2.6 percent and 8.1 percent, and the economic rate of return ranges
between 7.0 percent and '3.9 percent; the actual results will likely be toward
the lower end of the ranges.   This compares to appraisal estimates of 11.5
percent and 12.3 percent for the financial and economic rates of return
respectively.
Sustainabilitv
9.    The sustainability of the achievements of the two Mangoro projects is
questionable as it depends on decisions still to be taken. While a high portion
of sawn wood production is now a goal of the management program followed (as this
requires mature trees, only a small portion is presently marketed), the sawn wood
production potential is larger than the actual domestic sawn wood market can
absorb at the present. Madagascar's overall economic growth would therefore have
to accelerate strongly to achieve an absorptive capacity that would match
production, which is unlikely. Moreover, the economic justification of sawn wood
exports is equally doubtful; at present costs and market conditions, they
probably would not be. However, there is private sector interest in exporting
wood for processing into pulp and paper, and Fanalamanga has recently expressed
interest in participating in joint ventures with this objective in mind; a
Government decision is awaited. The implementing institution, Fanalamanga, has
gained a good reputation in project execution, showing an impressive capability
in adjusting itself toward changing objectives.



-v -
Findings and Lessong Learned
10.   The major lesson learned is that, once the initial market option becomes
unclear and no other markets have as yet been identified, a holding style
operation should only limit itself to maintaining existing plantations only.
Other lessons are t4at (a) terms of reference for marketing studies should be
clear, detailing all the alternative markets that should be resoarchad, domestic
as well as for export and not be loft open to liberal interpretation by
consultantsi and (b) a network of species growth trials and soil analyses should
be established prior to making investment decisions, and maintained during
project implementation to serve as an early warning system for problems later on.



PROJECT COMPLETION REtORT
MADAGASCAR
SECOND MANGORO FORESTRY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1161-MAG)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    Proiect identity
Name:                Secori Mangoro Forestry Project
credit No.           1161 r-AG
Region:              South-Central and Indian Ocean Department
Country:             Madagascar
Sectur:              Agriculture
Subsector:           Forestry
B.    Backoround
As part of its industrial development, Madagascar has since the
early 19603 envisaged the construction of a pulpmill in the Moramanga
region, and a mission from the PAO/World Bank Cooperation Program visited
Madagascar in 1967 to identify forestry projects that could potentially be
financed by the Bank. Following this mission, the Government of Madagascar
developed plantations on 18,)00 ha in this region while at the. same time
associated research and tests were undertaken within the framework of an
FAO/UNDP project.
2.         The establishment of 96,000 ha of plantations was required to
supply the raw material for a pulpmill with a planned initial output of
200,000 tons per annum (TPA), the minimum required to make it
internationally competitive. In 1974, the Government received a first
loan/credit (Loan 1065-MAGO Credit 525-MAG) from the World Bank to help
finance the First Mangoro Forestry Project, including the planting of 35,000
ha of fast-growing species. These plantations were to complement the 25,000
ha already existing. A little over 40,000 ha were planted by Fanalamanga.
3.         A supervision mission for this project recommended in January
1978 that the Bank continue its support for the planting operations and
appraise a second phase during 1978. The same report noted that, as a
result of changes in wood production costs and pulp prices on the world
market since the appraisal of the First Mangoro Project, the capacity of the
proposed plant should be increased from 200,000 TPA to 270,000 TPA. /
Hereinafter the word "pulpmill" refors to a unit of this size.
4.         The above-mentioned supervision mission report provoked much
discussion in the Bank, from which it emerged that the pulpmill would no
doubt be viable but that other market outlets should be sought for Mangoro
wood in case it were not built after all. This possibility had to be
considered for two reasons: (i) the rates of return calculated on the
project were not particularly attractive to foreign investors, and (ii) it
was not evident, in the context of Madagascar's economy as a whole, that
priority should ba given to investing several hundred million U.S. dollars
in a project of this type.
5.         The Bank therefore informed the Government of Madagascar that it
could not appraime a second planting program until it was more certain of
the viability of the pulpmill. With the United Nations Food and Agriculture
Organization (FAO) assistance, the Government then had the United Nations
Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO) carry out a prefeasibility study
i/   Back-to-office report by Messrs. Patorni and Wong You Choong, dated
December 12, 1979.



- 2 -
of a pulpmill producing 270,000 TPA (pro3ect DP/MAG/008). This stady, made
by the Sandwell Company, was delivered in September 1978 and concluded that
the plant was technically and financially viable. The Government sent to
the Bank a wPreparatory Report" prepared by Fanalamanga (May 1979).
6.         The results of this study were, however, merely theoretical;
apart from the fact that some reservations were expressed regarding rates of
return, the problem of the availability of the capital needed to construct
the pulpmill (the *etimates ranged from US$300 millio,     US$500 million)
wa  not addressed.  if this capital could not be mobilized, what financially
viablu outlets for Mangoro timber existed and what volumes could be
absorbed 4/?
7.         The Bank became concerned about the6e Issues in 19' and,
despite the Government's exclusive focus on the pulpmill 5/, regarded the
market outlet study now as the top priority. It would thus have been
logical to limit the project to maintaining the existing plantations and to
the studies in question. However, it was felt that to interrupt the
planting operations would have been interpreted at the international level
as a withdrawal by the Bank from the pulp project (thereby making its
execution even more problematical), and as a result, would have compromised
the return on the human and physical investments already made, because these
were geared towards the eventual construction of the pulp mill.
S.         The Bank therefore took the view that it was not desirable for
planting operations to be interrupted and, with the agreement of the
Government, an appraisal mission visited Madagascar in May/June 1980. The
resulting "Second Mangoro Poaestry Project" represented a compromise between
the need to expand the plantations (and maintain those already existing) in
order to supply the pulpmill if it were built, and the possibility that its
construction mlght be abandoned.
9.         The project supported IDA's development strategy.  It was
expected that industrlal and infrastructure investments would be generated
through the silvo-industrial development of the Mangoro valley. The project
was therefore designed to strengthen the links between agricultural,
infrastructure and industrial development activities in Madagascar.
C.    Proiect Ob_ectivea and RescriLtion
10.        Objectives.  The compromise nature of the project was reflected
ln its twofold objective:
(L)   to provide the Government with the necerdary information to
select the most approprLate market outltt for Mangoro wood;
(ii)   to continue planting operations and maintain existing
plantations as necessary, i.n order to plan for the future and
preserve and enhance the value of existing installations.
11.         25zjnGDs Ln .  It follows from the foregoing that the "Second
Mangoro Forestry Project" was a holding orsratlon designed to extend in both
4/   The potential production from the plantations existing at the end of
1980, although insufficient for a pulpmill of the size contemplated,
nonetheless posed marketing problems as regards other industrial
applications.
j/   This position would change in 1984 when the Government began to
acknowledge that the mill's dimensions could be reduced.



- 3 -
time and space the acti-ittes of the first project until such time as the
conclusions of the studies required to achieve objective (i) above were
available. The implementation period was estimated at three years,
(1981/82-1983/84).
The project components were as follows:
(i)   Maintenance and protection of the existing plantations (a1,out
70,000 ha); maintenance of roads end buildings in the project
zone.
(ii)   Establishment, maintenance and protection of about 18,000 ha of
pine and 500 ha of eucalyptuo.
(iii)   Construction and maintenance of new roads and structures.
(iv)   Pasture improvement (about 450 ha)
(v)   Reaearch and training.
(vi)   Studies for industrial development planning and preparation of
projects in the forestry and agriculture sector.
D.    Proiect Delign-and Qrganization
12.         The design of the project had to take account of the fact that,
at the time of appraisal, the Government did not wish to abandon the plan to
construct a pulpmill of international dimensions, despite the reservations
of Bank specialists. Necessarily, this situation adversely affected the
smooth progress of the studies, which would have produced more precise
coinclusions more quickly if more exact terms of reference could have been
dravm up right away.
13.         The oreanization of the project merits no special comments; the
choice of Fanalamanga as executing agency was obvious, more especially in
view of its excellent management of the first project. The company was also
able to adapt its structure to the new tasks devolving on it under the
second project (establishment of the ailvo-culture depar:ment).
B.    Proiect Im.leMentation
14.         Credit Effectiveness and Prolect Start-u,.  Although the Credit
Agreement was signed on October 29, 1981, the credit only b4icame effective
on July 1, 1982, after a delay ef five months.
15.         This interval was a consequence of the time required to fulfill
certain conditions for credit effectiveness; when the first supervision
mission visited Madagascar from April 2 through 12 1982:
-     the Government had not yet made the loan to Fanalamanga that
represented its contribution to the project (section 3.03a);
-     the recruitment of a General Manager for Fanalamanga with
qualifications acceptable to the Bank had not been
formalized 6/ (section 3.06);
§/    In practice this was a matter of confirming the functions of the
current General Manager.



-4-
the feasibility studies whose results were to be made available
by June 30, 1984 had not been started (section 3.08);
-     the documents pertaining to ratification of the credit by the
President of Madagascar had not yet been received by the Bank.
16.         Furthermore, there was some uncertainty regarding the objective
of the additional loan of US$4.2 million made by ABEDA to the Government of
Madagascar.
17.         Impleamntation Schedule:  The project was originally scheduled
to be completed by December 30, 1984. Effectiveness was delayed by five
months for the reasons cited in para. 14. In addition, project execution
was significantly delayed by specific factors jwilnng out of the
unfamiliarity with procurement procedures, which, in conjunction with supply
problems, considerably hampered the construction and fertilization programs.
Furthermore, the feasibility studies required a change in project focus,
which necessitated the lmplementation of a pruning and thinning program and
changes in the annual planting program (para. 24). As a result, the credit
closing date was extended three times. The credit closed on June 30, 1987.
18.         Pgoiect Costs:  Total project costs were estimated at US$ 30.2
million r- the time of appraisal (see part 3, table 6).  The final cost of
the proji   is about US$ 22.7 million.  The decrease in total costs of about
25 percent are the result of less than planned expenditures on civil works,
administration, studies and consultants in combination, with decreased local
expenditures in US$ terms due to the depreciation of the Malagasy Franc.
The lower than planned expenditures were to a large extent due to changes in
project objectives (para. 24-25).
19.         Disbursements:  The estimated disbursements of Cr. 1161-MAG are
given in Table 3 in Part SII. Disbursements were delayed due to delays in
pro3ect implementation. The original closing date was December 30, 1984,
but the credit was closed only on June 30, 1987. Disbursements against
commitments were made until February 12, 1988, and an outstanding balance of
SDR 2.66 million was cancelled, i.e. 16 percent of the original credit.
21.         Credit Allocation:  The original and actual disbursements for
cr. 1161-MAG are shown in Table 4 in Part III.
F.    Proget Results
22.         The project results were significantly different from the
p-ojections, as regards both silvi-cultural activities and the studies.
23.         The discrepancies regarding jLlvi-cultural ooerations are of two
kinds: those resulting from the change in project objectives and those
deriving from unforeseeable aspects of work site operations.
24.         The change in the initial objectives was a consequence of the
results of the survey carried out by the Sand 11 company as part of the
study contract sigzvad with the Government. This survey yielded an average
annual increment cf 4.9 m3/ha/year instead of the 12 m3/ha/year projected
during appraisal. 7/ As a result:
(i)   The Government of Madagascar finally admitted that the pulpmill
could not be the sole objective of the Mangoro project.
Consequently, plans could now be made for the production, among
2.1   These results have been contested by Fanalamanga, which is engaged in
verifying them.



- 5 -
other possibllities, of sawn wood, which, however, required a
pruning and thinning program for which no provision had been
made at appraisal (see below, para 30).
(ii)   From 1984/85 the annual planting programs were reduced from
6,000 ha to 1,000 ha, so that the overall planting program was
only 60% achieved (10,830/18,000). Thli decision in turn gave
rlse to changes in the objectives for tracks, firebreaks,
maintenance and fertilizers, all these being operations for
which the final results were also affected by the conditions
under which the work was carried out (particularly weather
conditions, topography, existing vegetation, and the supply of
spare parts and fertilizers). More details are given in
paragraph 25 below.
(iii)   At the same time, the poor performance of the plantations was
investigated. Experts were consulted, who recommen.ed a
fertilizer program both different and much larger than
originally planned (para. 28): starter application of
100 g/plant of NPK 12-10-30 (instead of 75 g of PK 20-20) and an
unplanned boosuer application of 200 to 400 kg/ha of NPKZn or
NPK, as appropriate, for all plantations insufficiently treated
up to that time and still capable of reacting to fertilization
to a degree that would make the operation financially and
economically viable (30,000 ha )
25.         The difficulties or random factors affecting implementation gave
rise to a series of deviations of project results from the initial and/or
modified program objectives.  The specific causes are as follows:
(i) Construction of roads and tracks: the initial program was based
on the average lengths of roads and tracks constructed for the
plantations in phase 1. These averages largely depended on the
topography of the zones in question; the terrain of the project
zones being considerably steeper, the complexity of the road
programs was underestimated.
(ii)   Construction of firebreaks; as above.
(iii)   Construction of buildings and accommodation:  about 900
buildings were constructed instead of an initial program of 300.
This considerable increase is explained by a catch-up in
construction from serious delays under the first project, due to
a lack of construction materials.
(iv)   Pasture improvement:  this component was only 40% achieved.
Since in a number of cases it was not possible to get users to
respect the rules for exploiting improved pastures, without
which the latter disappeared, Fanalamanga decided to intervene
only in regions where local authorities undertook to respect
these rules. Such commitments could only be obtained for
174 ha.
(v)   Starter and Booster fertilization programs.  The execution of
these programs was strongly delayed due to a combination of late
proctirement, late deliveries from the contractors, lack of
per ,nnel and transportation difficulties. Only from



- 6 -
1984/85 A/ onwards could starter fertilizer be applied to
plantations from the time of thelr establishment, and the
inltially envisaged program has never been fully completed.
(vi)   Pruning for acceos purposest  the delay was due to lack of
personnel and transportation resources.
(vii)   Thinning operations started more slowly than anticipated because
of a lack of adequate outlets for the timber felled.
26.         The program and content of the atudies did not follow the plans
any more closely than did tho silvi-cultural operations. 15/ There are
two reasons for the discrepancy: (i) the drafting of the program as
prepared (para 5.28 of the Appraisal Report) and (ii) changes in objectives,
as already indicated.
27.         The program as drafted implicitly assumed that phase II of the
studies would identify a silvo-industrial development option sufficiently
attractive from a financial standpoint, that it could be selected without
difficulty. This did not happen, and the priority focus of the studies was
toward exports 16/. As a result, at the end of the project, instead of
there being a comprehensive dossier on silvo-industrial investment
possibilities, the search for a remunerative investment option was still in
progress.
28.         The low average annual increment led to consultations with a
plant physiology specialist. Two experts were engaged in 1983; the first
identified the mineral deficiencies and madu general recommendations to
remedy the situation. The second converted these recommendations into
operational terms. From then on, the starter fertilization was to be 150
kg/ha of NPKZn, regardless of the pine species or soil types involved; the
earlier plantations, fertilized inadequately or not at all, were given
either 400 kg/ha (P. kesiva) or 200 kg/ha (other pines, viz. P. oocarna.
elliottii. cagibaea) of NPK 32/28/80 (the Zn was added to the mixture
later). It was estimated that Fanalamanga, provided it improved its truck
fleet, could apply 5,000 tons of fertilizer annually. The consultants
calculated that the incremental growth should be of the order of 1
m3/year/kg of potassium. A number of tests have been conducted but the
results are not yet available. However, figures taken from tests conducted
in conjunction with the National Agricultural Research Institute (FOFIFA)
indicate volume increments, five to six years after the bocster
fertilization, ranging from 17% to 245% compared to stands that had not
received the booster fertilization. Furthermore, FOFIFA believes that when,
as a result of this application, the trees achieve a better vegetation rate,
i.e., once they move into a higher fertility category, they retain it. In
other words, this fertilization is not a "one-time boost" but a permanent
enhancement of the stands so treated.
8/    The 600 ha projected for the year 1981/82 (675 ha treatedO benefited
from leftover Fanalamanga stocks.
15/   All the studies mentioned in this report were financed by UNDP (FO:
DP/MAG/80/002 and FL: DR/MAG/84/001). The mission was not able to
determine the extent to which these studies corresponded strictly to
UNDP's contribution to the project (US$900,000, Appraisal Report,
para. 6.03) or exceeded this figure.
16/   The terms of reference were not restrictive, although the choice of
consultants biased towards exports.



- 7 -
29.         Apart from the intensive fertilization programs, the
diappointlng average annual increment also led to survey operationes a
survey by Fanalamanga to verify the Sandwell results (see para. 24), and
then a general survey of the plantations; these were entrusted to a
consultant. For various reasons, particularly inappropriate computer
equipment and lack of appropriate supervision follow-up, the results of the
general inventory are not yet available.
30.         As already indicated (para. 24-i), the decision to produce sawn
wood made it necessary to plan for pruning and thinning operations. An
expert was recruited in 1985 to prepare a silvicultural scheme for P. kosiya
under Mangoro conditions; he visited Panalamanga twice for a total of six
months by mid-1986. Usinc the available documentation (age &nd quality of
stands, age category breakdown) the expert proposed a pynwnag and thinning
program that took into account the belated nature of the operatiors, and
also the fact that there was no certainty that the necessary work could be
undertaken in 1986. He used a felling rate of 22% and three different
hypotheses regarding the starting date for the work (1986, 1987, 1988).
31.         The research financed by the project was conducted by FOFIFA
either directly or in conjunction with the research unit set up under the
project within Fanalamanga. FOFIFA activities were formalized in agreements
signed with Panalamanga, which specified the topics, location of tests and
costs. More than 130 tests were carried out or monitored under the two
agreements signed (1/83 and 1/86) and some have already produced the
expected results. The tests included those anticipated in ths appraisal
report and others to meet new needs resulting from changes in - jectives
(para. 24). However, some of the tests A?peared to have gone Deyond the
scope (at least in geographical terms) of the Mangoro project (tests at
Toliary and Mahajanga); they pertain to agroforestry. Not all these tests
were carried out, although in general terms the program was fully
implemented.
32.         The trainin= program calls for no particular comment, except
that it too had to be modified to accommodate new needs (particularly as
regards pruning, thinning and carbonization).
33.         The question arises as to how far, and in what ways, it would
have been possible to avoid the difficulties and setbacks referred to in
paragraphs 24 and 27.
-     the unexpectedlv low yields may be partly due to poor
extrapolation of results obtained elsewhere, especially on
different soils. It would have been necessary to carry out a
soils study, which undoubtedly would have revealed the serious
mineral deficiencies of the soils in the project area, and would
have furnished precise local data for the appraisal of phase II.
Another reason for the poor performance of the plantations in
the early years is the lack of selected seeds; virtually any and
all seeds that were used, had been harvested locally. A supply
of selected seeds, whether locally p=oduced or imported, would
clearly have yielded better growth;
-     the lack of a comprehensive pruning and thinnino oroaram
resulting from the compromise nature imposed on the project
(paras. 7, 8 and 10);
-     the disappointing results of the studies were hard to foresee.
However, while nothing in either the appraisal report or the
terms of reference restricted the options to export-oriented
outlets, all the 12 options studied by Sandwell related to
international trade in varying degrees and 10 of theim involved
the pulp, paper and cardboard sector. The minutes of the



- 8 -
"Review Committee" for this study did not sufficiently emphasize
the fact that domestic market applications such as sawn wood and
carbonization were not mtudied despite the termm of reference,
which envimaged all the theoretically possible outletm.
34.         Economic Performance:  The overall economic and financial
results of the wood plantation investments are uncertain. While a high
portion of mawn wood production is now a goal of the management program
followed (as this requires mature trees, only a small portLon is presently
marketed), the sawn wood productlon potential is larger than the actual
domestic sawn wood market can absorb at the present. Madagascar's overall
economic growth would therefore have to accelerate strongly to achleve an
absorptive capacity that would match production. Moreover, the economic
justification of sawn wood exports is equally donbtful. at present costs and
market conditions, they probably would not be. However, there is private
sector interest in exporting wood for processing into pulp and paper, and
Fanalamanga has recently expressed interest in participating in joint
ventures with this objective in mind; a Government decision is awalted. The
implementing institution, Fanalamanga, has gained a good reputation in
project execution, showing an impressive capability in adjusting itself
towards changlng objectives.
8.          The economic and financial analyses presented in this report are
based on two sets of scenarios: (li) an optimistic scenario that assumes
that sufficient market outlets can be found for all wood that can
theoretically be produced on the plantations; and (ii) a pessimistic
scenario that assumes that market outlets can be found for only part of the
theoretical wood production. The resulting financial rate of return ranges
between 2.6% and 8.1%, and the economic rate of return ranges between 7.0%
and 13.9%. This compares to appraisal estimates of 11.5% and 12.3% for the
financial and economic rates of return respectively. The primary reasons
for the difference between the appraisal estimates for the rates of return
and the optimistic scenario are: (i) the need to implement a fertilizer
program - unforeseen at appraisal; and (ii) the switch in production
orientation towards a much higher share of the plantation to be harvested as
sawn wood, which has a higher value added.
36.         Despite the uncertainty about the economic and financial
results, the project led to the study of a whole series of silvo-industrial
developments whose results, even when they turned out to be negative,
nonetheless provided certain data and parameters which, as long as they are
kept updated, could be used later for marketing studies on construction
wood.
37.         Finally, it is clear that the technical difficulties encountered
have greatly increased local technical knowledge as regards the cultivation
of pine species.
G.    Sustainabilitv
38.         The sustainability of the second project can only be analyzed in
the context of the Mangoro operations as a whole. Specifically, it has
considerably augmented the overall value of the products involved (increase
in quantity and quality). Long-term sustainability is questionable, as it
depends on decisions still to be taken.



-9-
H.    Performance of the Bank
40.         At the time when the Bank began to study the Second Mangoro
Forestry Project it faced the prospect of pursuing major investment
expenditures in plantations which it had in fact already partially financed.
The second project was to support the production of inputs for a large
silvo-industrial complex about which the Bank had reservations not shared by
the Government of Madagascar, particularly attached to the project even
though it war becoming daily less defensible both in financial and economic
terms. Looking only at the Second Forestry Project, the question arises as
to whether the Bank should have done things differently. The following
analysis is chronological.
41.         Very early on the Bank had doubts regarding the viability of the
pulpmill (paras. 4 and 7), which led to the idea of conducting studies
intended to identify one or more alternative market outlets. Difficult
discussions took place with both the FAO and UNDP in order to determine who
would finance, and, above all, establish the terms of reference for, the
studies in question (office memoranda of August 7 and 11, 1980). While the
Bank was firm on the point that the studies should not be limited merely to
the hypothetical pulpmill, the fact remains that of the 12 silvo-industrial
development options in the Sandwell report, 10 involved the paper and
cardboard subsector and all revolved around exports to varying degrees. By
1982, the Bank had raised this omission (supervision report of May 18,
1982 - Annex 5, para. 3), but apparently it came up against the Government's
fixation on the pulpmill.
42.         The Staff Appraisal Report merits three comments:
(i)   it is not clear why the Bank's concerns regarding the viability
of the pulpmill were not reflected in a thinning program which,
while retaining the pulp option, would have enabled some stands
to be earmarked for other uses to be identified by the
studies. 1/
(ii)   the definition of the studies (para. 5.28 and following of the
staff Appraisal Report) is both vague (the results of the
Sandwell studies confirm this) and incomplete, since no thought
was given to exports of raw materials, or to the need to plan
for a number of different product lines, or to a situation in
which none of these might be financially attractive. In the
final analysis it oeems as though the Bank was unable to get its
ideas accepted by a government determined to pursue a nonviable
project which, indeed, the Bank had helped to prepare.
(iii)   the poseibility of using natural regeneration to reconstitute
the plantations after clearcutting was not considered (this
natural regeneration does not appear to have come up before the
consultants' management report of June 1989). However, Pinus
gesiyA's ability to regenerate naturally is well known, and the
serious fires of 1988 provided clear confirmation of this fact.
It is true that the know-how for taking advantage of this
ability is not available in Madagascar; nonetheless, given the
substantial impact that natural regeneration can have on the
return from plantations, the relevant research should have been
considered and undertaken as soon as appropriate stands were
available.
2J   Such thinning was, moreover, recommended in 1983 by the FAO/CP report
on the preparation of the third phase (Annex 3, para. 31(2)).



- 10 -
43.         In almost seven years (October 29, 1980 to June 20, 1987) there
were only seven supervision missions, which is markedly below normal levels.
I.    Performance of the Borrower
44.         Except for the six-month delay in project start-up for reasons
beyond the control of both of Fanalamanga and the Ministry of Animal
Production and Agrarian Reform, the project was executed in a notably
uatisfactory manner.
45.         The following points should be stressed:
-     without any pressure being brought to bear, Fanalamanga agreed
with the Bank on reducing the planting programs as soon as it
became apparent that yields would be below expectations;
-     Fanalamanga reorganized itself successfully to deal with the
consequences of the changes in the kinds of operations to be
executed (see para. 24);
-     finally, and above all, for almost three years the company was
remarkably successful in reconciling the technical imperatives
of managing the plantations with a view to other purposes than
pulp production, on the one hand, and the desire of the
Government to construct the pulpmill as initially planned on the
other.
J.    Bank/Borrower Relations
46.         On numerous occasions since 1983, missions have referred to the
Mangoro plantatiras in discussions both with forestry experts at the Bank
and with variou'4 authorities in Madagascar. Relations between project
personnel and the latter seem to have been excellent.  While certain
differences of view may have existed on specific technical points, the
harmonious execution of the project has never suffered.
K.   Performance of Consultants
47.         Although the results of the work performed by the consultants
financed by the project may not always have been up to expectations, the
studies were on the whole conducted in line with the terms of reference. In
particular, the contents of the reports from Sandwell, disappointing as they
may have been, have been sufficiently scrutinized from a technical
standpoint, especially by the Review Committee, for it to be considered that
these conoultants fulfilled their obligations. Moreover, these studies as a
whole did to a considerable extent impact upon the programs executed under
the project (paras. 28 and 30).
L.    Documentation and Files
48.         Gathering the information required to prepare this report
presented no particular difficulties for financial information, except that
it was not always easy to identify interactions among the first phase, the
Second Mangoro Forestry Project and the "Forest Management and Protection"
project which succeeded it. The availability of technical data was
prejudiced by the fact that the computerization of the survey and test
results has so far not yielded its expected benefits. Finally, the mission
did not :'8ave any timely information regarding project achievements in the
area of training.



- 11 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE
BORROWR 'S PERSPECTVE
A.   Analysis of Result.
This project was designed as an intermediate phase, to be used
to identify future project orientations hased on the results and
recommendations of existing studies and investigations and those to be
undertaken during that phase.
This being the case, the physical, and hence financial, data on
the project during that phase, reviewed with the mission in charge of the
PCR, did not always agree with those of the iYAtas3 objectives.  The revised
project orientations that gradually emerged during the second phase
resulted, on the one hand, in very substantial cuts in some of the
activities originally planned and, on the other hand, in the intensification
of other activities, and even in the creation of new ones, such as thinning
and supplemental fertilization (fertilisation de rattrapage).
The project started out rather slowly and indecisively, and it
was not until 1983/84, when the phase was supposed to end, that the new
orientations started to become clear. A two-year extension of the phase was
decided on, followed by a second one-year extension.
The reorientation consisted of a considerable downscaling of the
planting program, intensification of maintenance and protection activities,
a start on major forestry improvement works, and steps to ensure that the
quality and capacity of the infrastructure, paved roads, tracks, and housing
were adequate to this new situation.
With respect to housing, efforts have focused in particular on
making up for the delay experienced at the end of phase I and the start of
this phase, which came about as a result of the widespread shortage of
construction materials (cement, nails, sheet metal, etc.) during this neriod
(contracts signed but not completed) and of the time taken to replace the
original prefabricated and pise houses which, with the prevailing climate,
have a relatively short life (5-8 years). To ensure greater efficiency of
the operation, the Project aimed to settle its personnel in the area,
housing 60% of its employees in new low-cost but durable buildings, and in
existing dwellings following their rehabilitation.
With the exception of the following points:
-     incomplete processing of inventory date, due to the lack of
proper facilities (data processing equipment);
-     voluntary reduction of the area under improved pasture: problems
with the rational management of existing pasture not yet
satisfactorily solved;
-     lack of fertilizer, and supplemental fertilization, which was
intended to improve yields, of only part of the planted area;
-     cautious approach to thinning (density, method used, product
outlets);
it may be said that the project has satisfactorily initiated its
reorientation and has laid the essential bases for preparation and
implementation of the imminent forestry improvement plan, which aims at
diversified utilization of the products of this industrial pine forest.



- 12 -
B.    Evaluation of Bank Performance and Lessons to be Learned
The frequency of the Bank's supervision misaions and the mission
member profiles met the project's requirements. However, there were rather
frequent changes in the personnel assigned to supervision, which did not
always have a favorable impact on either the consistency of approach
regarding the line of conduct to be followed, or the promptness in decision
making and implementation.
Lessons to be Learned
The adoption of a jointly-prepared aide-m6moire at the end of
each mission helped solve a number of problems to highlight certain
important points already solved or to be solved later.
When a project component is being fully or partially cofinanced,
it would be desirable to identify the procedures concerning withdrawal of
the funds right at the beginning. During project implementation, certain
requests to purchase supplementary equipment and machinery were refused,
although the allocation was far from exhausted. These actions partially
handicapped project implementation.
Because of the interim nature of this project, the list of
materials and equipment to be procured could not be fully identified at the
start of the project, hence, procurement delays. The same goes for the
quantity and the nature of the inputs.
C.    Evaluation of Borrower Performance and Lessons to be Learned
Project execution suffered from a number of technical problems,
since new activities were grafted onto existing ones, requiring partial but
appreciable reorganization within the project and substantial training and
retraining of staff. These problems have gradually been solved.
Lessons to be Learned
In the case of a multi-phase project, it would be advisable,
when successive bid proceedings are held for the procurement of equipment
and machinery, that when subsequent contracts are awarded, account be taken
of the previous composition of the equipment pool in order to reduce the
cost of spare parts management (reduction of fixed assets) and make
maintenance more efficient (workers finding it easier to handle a
standardized pool of equipment).
Whenever a project's objectives undergo a major revision, care
should be taken to appraise the short and medium-term fallout likely to
result from such a revision, with a view to better assuring the project's
future, during and after project execution, on both the economic and the
social level.
The requirements in terms of protection were not carefully
estimated since, for instance, communications equipment, adequate at the
start, became very ineffective when the trees reached a certain height and
the forest cover had become more dense.



- 13 -
PM'  ,r: STATXSTCk>. "Ma
Table Is Related §ank Loans
Loan/CredLt          Tltle               Y*ar        ClosLng Date
Number                              Approved
Ln. 1065-MAG   FLrat Forestry            1974         12/31/1981
Cr. 0525-MAG   Project
Cr. 1878-MAG   Forest Management         1988         01/31/1996
and Protectlon
Cr. 2125-MAG   Environment Project 1   1990           06/30/1996



- 14 -
PART III1
TaDle 2: Proiect TlMtabl.e
oriainal Date     B      ved Rate   Actu&al DaI
Preparation )j                     -                 -           May 1979
Preappraisal                                         -           October 1979
Appraisal                          -                 -           May-June 1980
Credit Negotiation                 -                 -           04/20-24/1981
Board Approval                     -                 -           06/16/1981
Credit Agreement                   -                 -           10/29/1981
Credit Effectiveness               -                 -           07/01/1982
Completion                   06/30/ 1984             - 
Closing Date                 12/31/1984         12/31/1986       06/30/1987
Last Disbursement            06/30/1985         06/30/1986       02/12/1988
1/    Preparation document drafted by Fanalamanga.



- 15 -
PART-1II
Table 3s Cumu.ative EmtiMated and Actual DiUbursements
1"1-82  19J2-83  1983-84  1984-85  1985-86  1986-87  1987-88
............................ S-DR '000) ......... ' . .
Appralf a .,tImste ./          2,280   8,800  13,690  16,300
Actual                                 1,947   5,512   7,404  10,428  12,304  13,637
Actual as X of apprasl                   22.1   40.3   45.4   64.0   75.5   83.7
cancellaton                                                                  2,663
CQ2mntj:   Cancellation of SDR 2,663,229.17 on February 12, 1988.  Last disbursement
made on February 12, 1988. The main reason for the cancellation was the
necessity for re-identifying the purpose of the plantation, which was done
during the appraisal of the Forest Management and Protection Project
(Cr.1878-MAG), of which the Mangoro plantation is now a part of.
1J   SDR 1   US$1.227.



- 16 -
Table 4: I2A Lisbursements
Catawgry                                    Orlglnal
-----(SDR '000) 
1.  Clvll Zngineerlng-Affore9tatlon               7,320                  5,245
2.  Admlnistratlve costs                          2,440                  1,924
3.  Vehicles and Equlpment                        1.430                  2,577
4.  FartlIllzrz and Chemical Products              1,630                 3,647
5.  Research, Trainlng and Consultant Services    410                      185
6.  Consultants Part H of Project                    820                    59
7.  Pasture Improvement                              170                    -
S.  Klscellaneous                                  1,8Q_
TOTAL                  16,300                13,637



_ 17 _
Table 5: Prolect Implpmentat±n
Key rndicatore
Unit   . .                . Value    .                           X
At appraisal       Revised         At project     performwnce  J/
completion
1. Area planted                       he          18,500          14,150            10,830             59
2.  Nuber of plants (1000s)           No.         38,450          31,400           309010              80
3. Road construction
-service roads                      km             60               60                75            125
- secondary roads                   km             180             120                91             51
- trails                            la            360              240              690             192
4. Road mintenance
- servic  roads                     km            550              300                36              7
secondary rods                    km            600              400               745            124
traits                            km          2.000            1.000             1,172             59
5. Service buitdings
- semipermanent                     No.            42               -                .23             71
- permanent                         No.                             43               30
6. Housing
semipermenent                     No.           285               -                87             302
* permanent                         No.                            884              774
7. Firebreaks                         km            10              285               235            157
8. Pasture  tiprovement               ha             450             440               174             39
9. First prunfgI
Plantations Phase I               ha          12, UO           64"500          50,205             418
10. Maintenance                       ha          3,700             2,500           3,994             108
11. Fertilizatfon and
zinc application
Plantations Phase I               booster    30,000            50.250          27.000              90
(NPK-Zn)
Plantations Phase II              starter    18,000             5,600           4,964              28
)J/ In relation to appraisal.



-18 -
Table 6.?  P     costs acn   iaing
A. Proiect Costs
ppsnat                                      F-9t4gn&tc            -
(0,-<,.5 millions)----
1.    Civil Engineering and Afforestation              9.0               13.8
2.   Adminiotration                                    3.1                3.4
3.    Vehicles and Equipment                           4.1                3.6
4.    Fertilizers and Chemical Products I/             3.S
5.    Research and Training                            0.4                0.4
6.    Studies                                          2.0                1.0
7.    Pasture Improvement                              0.1
Total Base Cost                                 22.2               22.7
Physical contingencLes                           2.2                 -
Price contingencies                              S-ee< -
Total Project Cost                              30.2,              22.7
S. Pinaneina
IDA                        20.0                           15.1
ASEDP                       4.2                            4.2
VNDP                        0.9                            0.9
Government                 5E1                             2.5
Total                      30.2                           22.7
LJ  Included in Civll Engineering and Afforestation.



- 19 -
PART 1II
Table 7: Protect Results
A. Direct Benefits
Inidicators                   ADoraisal Estimates          Actual Reaults
Area plan 4  (ha)                       18,500                       10,830
Wood gro§_lqtion (M3'000)
Saw wood     )                                                   1,944
Pulp wood    )                      5,000                        1,944
Firewood     )                                                     441
i20
Permanent personnel 2]              1,600                        1,641
Temporary personnel                                                369
B. Economic Imoact
Economic-internal rate of return:        12.25%                        13.9%
C. Financial Impact
Financial internal rate of retjr_:
a)    Plantations                   11.5%                         8.1%
b)    Booster fertilizat.on          ---                          11.9%
2j    Considered au such by Fanalamanga.



- 20 -
Table Ss Status of Covenants
Section 3.01 Ca)                   *ectfon 2.01                      Borrower to carry out             GOneralty the Borrower
studies end FAMALUAKGA            has comptied with all
*ll other parts of tho            rclevant trrm  of the
Project.                          Credit Agreement nd the
ProJ ect has ben executed
satiesfctorlty by
PANALAUNANA.
(b)                         2.02                       Consultants to be                 Compifed with.
satisfactory to IDA.
2.03                      Procurement in accordnoce
with World Sank
Guidelines.
2.04 Ce)                  Insurewnc  of goods.
tb)                  Exclusive use for the                         U
Project of goods nd
services finenced out of
the Credit.
3.02 (a)                           2.05 Ca)                  Plns, spcifications,
contract docufmnts nd
-ocurement scheduto to
efurnu  hed to ICA on,
request.
Ob)                  Mainten  nce of records to
monitor progres of
project, enable visits by
IDA reprsntatives and
furnish informatfon to
IDA on request.
Cc)                  Pubticatfon of
Cd)                  Cotetion report.                  Being cotplid with.
C)                  PFANALANANGA to enable            Comptied with.
visits by IDA
repreosntative.
3.0  (a)                                                     Subsidiary Loan Agreent               S
CUA) betwen  Borrowr
nwd FANALANA
satisfactory to IDA.
(b)                                                     Any modifications of $LA,
stisfactory to IDA.
Cc)                                                     Funds to be made                  Compied with Calthoush
available by Borrower to          les  than required).
FANALANANGA.
3.04                                                         Borrower to determlne              Complied with.
afforestation beoudaries
In agreement with
vittagers.
2.04                      FANALAIiANGA to Inform IDA                     U
of  n advere condition
interfering with progres
of Project.



3.05                              2.07                      Icological nd W                                a
onfviro ntel factors to
be taken Into
consideration.
3.06                                                        Esplay" t of Ofrectr                  a 
Gdndral satisfactory to
IDA.
3.07                                                         IDA to be informed for               a         a
coment of any chwnge  fn
PAMALEANAGA's management
or capital structure.
3.0*  (a)                                                    feasibility study to be              a        a
carried out-b  Jum 30,
196k.
(b)                                                    Provfsion to IDA of                   a
reports wnd FefsIbility
Study.
(e)                                                    Exchang  of viwS with                 a        a
IDA regarding FesfibIlity
Study at tho end of oeah
phas.
(d)                                                    Invite IDA to participato             a        a
In meetings on
Feasibility Study.
3.01                      fANALAU ANGA to be insured            a        a
for its operations.
3.02                      FANALMIANGA to oaply                 a         a
appropriato
administrative and
finaneal practices.
3.03                      FANALAKANGA to follow                a         a
ppropriate enginering,
economicend w finaial
practfces.
4.01 (a)                  FANALANCGA to oirntain            Project accouting has
accounts  nd identify             been carried out
operations corresponding          coWpetently nd quite
to expenditures                   adequately.
cateories:
(1) civil engineering and
afforestation;
(2) Administrative costs;
aUd
(7) PaStur iWprovement
for which certificates of
pWnditures shatl be
kept.
(b)                  FANALAIANCA  hall retain,         Compied with.
until one year after the
closing dae, atll
rocords.
4.02                      FANALMAANA shatl have             Auditad accounits have
sil the accounts roferred         been submitted In a
to in Section 4.01 of             timely mwalier. The
this Agreement for each           accounting fromwor k of
fiscal year audited.              FAMALAUUNGA bas quite
stisfactory for project
Ipt ementatfon.



- 22 -
Table 9:   tim   of Bank _    u_rea_
A. Prsonnel
staaas-in oroicit cvcls
-       Up to  appraisal                                              Not available
-       From  Board  approval to  effectiveness:                      Not avallable
-       SupervLilon s ln Madagascar                                   76 sup-days
s at Headquartsrs                          Not available
S.   MiJ.azLons
stages In                 Months             No. of persoas  No. of days         Spelalties        Pentormanee        Types
project eyete                                                    In country         coneorned                        of problems
C1)               (2)              (3)
Appraisal t4)           May-June 1981               4                                   EF                 .. 
--ervision         March-April 1982            2                   10              f,E                2/3              T
ervisfon        December 1982                2                    4              F,E                 2              T,M
ervisfon         July 1983                   1                    7               E                  2               T
ervision        Jun  1984                    1 CS)                7 CS)           F CS)              2               T
ervision        DecOeer 198                  1                    3               PO                 2               T
envision        Aprlt 198                    2                    4               PO,F               2               T
-  *ervisfan       Oct-Nov 85                   1                   13               PO                 2               f
C1)     E: economist; F:  forestry specialist; PO:  project officer.
(2)     1:  problem-free or minor probliem; 2: mmdfui problems; 3:  serfous problems.
(3)     T:  technicaL; M: management; F:  finaneial.
(4)     No Identificatfon; preparatfon don  by Borroier.
(5)     Plus 4 days of a forestry Industries consultant.



IBRD  15266(PCR)
fO+ lSb       4i'1                         AR SEARIZA70                 4t7°20                        1                             4.[4flhv1981
N0~~~~~~~~~~~~
AN TANANAR'VO 7I
........ .....)aIAA6                                                                                                                
J   }                  BANOIL~~~~ANATOBY
ANALAKA TRANA
'9  /  (   \          )                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o Mwo,An,bI
Th. -p I,s b-) pi,pa,,d by, the
7040 v7ec Of,- 'ad-o of
1d-o.e,S   ShOWn 77 ,s vrv "O
(   f                  t  A                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~do ntot .,.7pl, 00 the 037r of the
Wor'd 8ook  d /
,dg-t Ah, ',he 'tI' St.A o'
1444( IteA  . ,   -7  -4  ' 'd- --7704
L                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.-pr-hJ'  49544 b-o.da-'e
S   t           \       t           (       y ~~~~~~~~NDAlNGO
W..N'\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'. t.,7 ,N ,71I'.4' 4
20'                                                                                    4   '    t                                  i
4A/ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~      47
lg'30                                                                                                                                               f IJ   !   A~
0  v   g .    /              .. 7          ,'                         'A.   A         Ac ft .^      
!   n  *n ( ,  !                   '8 9  \~~~~~~~~~~~~I, 
MANGORO FORESTRY PROJECT
M/lAr7llA. AZA                                                                         PA ROJT FORLEST1/5R DU AIANGORO
70,447 f | (  T .  Al, I  'I .    4
PR'-  It  I  ."      . 7 7 IS!
14' 44 l  I I ' I 'II I        IT I 74.'; II   
D[1   PAI4I .4 AI44IJAt,7 44'~I
y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~01-' AIN U JX                           l7'tP8A/l3:  
>  ,  >   / t_,                   1/                           L       111 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I'AElN 1711 I ' lls.I t'il  1.&i .
t)) J' \ --"efi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10IIA()<AY                                      "1t T':V ti ll I X 1'.1IN, 
G~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~144! 7, '.7 -441 444z/i)APtyrE1.4   oAl 
('      '."47  44.  . )4 'A''7i
7A747 440A), ' J    1) N tNI'.41.A 744
'W                                                                                                   "?,)I......  71 ......Ill /   . pto FI  I I)!  I IV  -- 1it  a, 
ROVITSIKA                                                         MAIIJ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~44) 7444(4 ''', ANI  44t I 7.44:,
I )4,1. I44 44  '', 144 1N', "
. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~It Il, IV
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 )'4)) h 4 , ,: '.T '11
I4 .  .......          -  _          '   . _
(AMA                              4      K - 1 (iN )   . I  I  ",
4'041                                                           "t''10')'
1  48 fln   r(;ANO1lSIV4                        447 44A,7) N



MADAGASCAR                                                                                                                                          I2
MANGORO  FORESTRY PROJECT                                                                                                                    Antseranana
PROJE FORESTIEfR DU MANGORO                                                                                                                 +
PROJECT LOCATION
LOCAL/SAr/ON DU PROJEIJT
r   Maongoro Forestry Project area                           Paved roads                                           NOSY                            e
Zone du Prolet Mangoro                              Routes goodronneWes                                       -8E            2   AmbIobe
Other forestry and related projects:              _ All-weather roads                                            '                                   Vohirrarina
Autres pro,ets forestrers:                          Routes occessibles en toute saison                  HeI-ile          _
Savoka                                      ,      Railways                                                          Ambania
1*    Savoka                                               Chemin de hr
2-    Cashewnut plantotions                       ,      Airports
2 0    Plantotions anocardes                               Aeroports                                                c
3    Chromite treatment - plantation                    Rivers 
T roatement ferro-chrome-plantation                Rivibres                                                                                           Sambavo
Transmission poles and railway ties-SIB            Forests                                                                 ea
*tU    Poteaux et traverses                                Forits                                                                  o
_    Cinchona                                           Foritany boundaries                      Analolova                                   1     dapa
5 V    Quinquina                                           Limntes des Fortany                          Antsohlhy
Training centers                        r           1Other mon-made pine plontotions                                                                    Antalaha
60    Centres de formotion                        I    J    Autres pl/ntotionS de pins                                                                    +
Befondr,ana
AAaroortsetra
Mahajanga                      t POr B  e
KILOMETERS 0       50       100      150     200
I                        I                                                                                             M -   af rdritsaro
MILES 0            50            100                         A^kSnjoo  Mits,        l2o
16       MILES 0             50            100               Soololo             MAarovoay                     !,mpikony                                 Monanora
i                                               ~~~~~~~ ~~~~Amb'o0 o
Boeni
Besolomby o
Movinaa ely  0Tsoratonana         Socrierono-lvongo       NOSY
Maevotonano      comy              °ndil                                BORAHA
Andriamena                   I          oarivoAtsinana
lB   sAndrlornena    /   /  Vavotenino
Morafenobe                   -.                                            Va( enn
Maintirono              0                                                     .ndrzak
Bemohotozona                                               l  :1
-18                                                               Berovno   '                                A r i;), -D
\  >    >   Ankozobeit  AnlozorEe                h4Toamasina
/Ambarovarornoo                   5       1           Fnandra
Antsoaova
0
Tsiroonomandidy         ANTANANARIVi tr iPerinhin
Fanpokamanro        OVohib,nany
S n   AK   -O    ki      ndrasin t   Mosbe      Vatomadari
Belo-Sur-         mlnno                 ovwo              °     ) rbatolCtmpy 2$nsb          /oonnr
Tsinlbihma tr   
20'                                              g)                  \       \          Antsjr      t           cwi a /Vi  <lMhkonoro
-V                                                                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20'
Morondvoa        Mohobo            Malambondy  --                                Marolmbo
oAmbotohinandrahno       /Abst5
Mor eNosy Varika
Vohilava  
Amb himohaso                      /)
Man~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ifa                                   O M     anonjory
Fianara nt_!-
Morombe                                                                     {73>k                                        
Berorono                  _amboavoo
-22           +                                               {<Fo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rt Camot  0                                                  22--
|         °~~~Arbkozoobo            lkosy  v                               Monakoro
Ivohibe             V                                          Th,s map has bee', prepared by the
Voh,peno                       ~~~~~~~~~World Sank's staff eaclusrely for
the convenrence of the readers of
'he report to wh,ch t s attached
/  Sokoroha  ,<~  > Vondrozo                           7 The denomnatnons used and the
I4J  7v Farafangana                         boundares showvn on rh,s map
Forafangana                     ~~~~~~~~~do not mplv, on the par of the
World Sank and -ts affhlates, any
ludgment on the legal status of
et,oko                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~any te-rroy or any endorsement
or acceptance of such boun dares
0  ~~~~an gondro no
M,dongy du Sud
Bet,oky       
-24-                                                                                                                                 '
\Bek,ly
\             ~~~~~~~Berokete    AAonontenino                                           A    F   R   I  C   A
Ampo   ,yv                                                     
C>~~~~~ Taola~~~~~~naro                                                                              Antnonrtrarivo m, 
m Amovormbe                                                                                                 >  
|        R         AMADAGASCAR  <
1.42-                                   4t4'                                    46'                                    48'                                                               OD= 



