Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3241-îAG
MADAGASCAR
SECOND MANGORO FORESTRY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
May 15, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officiai dutie. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit              =      Malagasy Francs (FMG)
US$1.00                     =     FMG 200
FMG 100                    =      US$0.50
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
Metric                                      British/US Equivalents
1 meter (m)      3                               3.3 feet
1 cubic meter (m  )                              35.31 cubic feet
1 hectare (ha)                                   2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)       2                         0.62 mile
1 square kilometer (km  )             =          0.39 square mile (sq. mi.)
1 kilogram (kg)                                  2.20 pounds (lb)
i liter (1)                                      0.26 U.S. gallon (gal)
0.22 British gallon (imp. gal)
I metric ton (m ton or t)             =          2,204 pounds (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS
ADMT                -  Air Dried Metric Ton
FANALAMANGA         -  Mangoro Forest Company (Project Entity)
FOFIFA/CENRADERU   -  Center for Agricultural Research and
Rural Development
MDRRA               -  Ministry of Rural Development and
Agrarian Reform
TPA                 -  Ton per annum
FISCAL YEAR
Government          January 1 - December 31
FANALAMANGA         July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MADAGASCAR
SECOND MANGORO FORESTRY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.       BACKGROUND ..........      ..................................   1
A.   Project Background ..............................         1
B.   The Agricultural Sector ..         .......................  2
C.   The Industrial Sector ...... .................           3
D.   The Institutional Environment ...............            4
II.      THE FORESTRY AND WOOD INDUSTRIES SUB-SECTORS .... ......        6
A.   Government Forest Services .....        .................  6
B.   Forest Resources       ................................  8
C.   Wood Uses .        ......................................  9
D.   Projects in the Forestry Subsector ....       ..........   il
III.     THE PROJECT AREA ......................................    12
IV.      THE MANGORO FORESTRY PROJECT ..........................   14
A.   Project Origin and Preparation ..................   14
B.   Summary Project Description ........       .............   15
C.   Project Implementation and Results ............   ..    15
D.   Planning for Silvo-industrial Development .......   15
V.       THE PROJECT ..................    16
A. Project Objective .16
B. General Description .16
C. Detailed Features .17
D.  Organization and Management .21
E. Accounts and Audit .22
F. Studies .23
G. Environmental Impact .24
VI.      PROJECT COST, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS.    24
A. Project Cost .24
B. Financing .26
C. Procurement .26
D. Disbursements .27
This report is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission composed of
Messrs. F.M. Patorni, N.R. Brouard, R. Chalk and H. Morice which visited
Madagascar in May/June 1980.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their officiai duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



- ii -
Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Page No.
VII.     PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES ............................    28
A.   General ........................................  28
B.   Production .................................. ... ..   28
C.   Markets and Prices ................  .................   29
VIII.    BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION   ............................ .....   31
A.   Methodology and Basic Assumptions ................... .   31
B.   Economic and Financial Evaluation ....................  32
C.   Project Uncertainties and Risks ...... ................  35
IX.      AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ................. ....  36
SUPPORTING TABLES, CHARTS AND MAPS
Table 1  -  Project Cost
Table 2 -  Main Vehicles and Equipment to be Procured
Table 3  - Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Table 4  -  Government Cash Flow - Plantation for Sawmilling
Table 5  -  Government Cash Flow - Plantation for Pulp Production
Table 6  -  Economic Rate of Return - Plantation for Sawmilling
Table 7  -  Economic Rate of Return - Plantation for Pulp Production
Table 8  -  Economic and Financial Rates of Return and
Sensitivity Analyses
Table 9 -  Physical Work Schedule of Phase I
Annex    -  Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project
File
Chart 1  - Ministry of Rural Development and Agrarian Reform
Chart 2 -  FANALAMANGA Organization Chart
Chart 3  -  Implementation Schedule
MAP IBRD 15290:   Forestry Projects in Madagascar
MAP IBRD 15266:   The Project Area



MADAGASCAR
SECOND MANGORO FORESTRY PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Project Background
1.01      In December 1974, the Bank/IDA approved the financing of a project
(Loan 1065-MAG, Credit 525-MAG) to establish 35,000 ha of pulpwood planta-
tions in the Mangoro Valley (in addition to 25,000 ha which had been planted
before 1974) as part of an afforestation program, which would ultimately reach
about 96,000 ha with the objective of providing raw material for a pulp mill
to be constructed in the mid 1980's (see Chapter IV for description of the
project). The project is expected to be completed in June 1981, at which
time the planting targets will have been exceeded by about 10,000 ha and the
total planted area will be about 70,000 ha. In June 1979, the Government of
Madagascar requested that the Bank consider financing a second phase project-
to continue the above afforestation program. The request was based on a
report prepared by FANALAMANGA, the entity in charge of implementing the first
phase project, and included the plantation of an additional 56,000 ha over
eight years, which would be necessary to provide pulpwood to a pulpmill larger
than that anticipated in 1974 (para 4.06). After extensive discussions with
Government and a pre-appraisal mission in October 1979, it was decided to
appraise a smaller plantation project to be implemented over about three
years. During the proposed Project period detailed planning for the silvo-
industrial development of the Mangoro forest resources would be carried out.
This report is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission composed of
Messrs. F. M. Patorni, N. R. Brouard, R. Chalk and H. Morice which visited
Madagascar in May/June 1980.
1.02      Because of the industrial and infrastructure investments which
would ultimately be part of the silvo-industrial development of the Mangoro
valley, the proposed forestry Project has close links with agricultural,
infrastructure and industrial development activities in Madagascar. Bank
Group financed projects in these sectors are described below.
1.03      Agriculture.  Four projects are under implementation:  the Mangoro
Forestry Project (US$13.5 million) which is almost completed; the Morondava
Irrigation and Rural Development Project (US$15.3 million); the Village
Livestock and Rural Development Project (US$9.6 million); and the Mangoky
Agricultural Development Project (US$12.0 million). An agricultural credit
project was approved by the Board in September 1980. Several other projects
are under preparation in the irrigation and crop production subsectors. A
technical assistance project for the development of the Plain of Antananarivo,
a livestock project and a project to strengthen accounting and auditing
services in Madagascar have been appraised. In the past, problems have arisen
in the course of execution of several projects. There were delays in execu-
tion, cost overruns and deficiencies in management and institution building.
The Morondava irrigation project signed in 1973 had to be substantially
reduced, and the Government has prepared a plan of action to deal with the
remaining problems. The main aspects of this plan include a redefinition of
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 2 -
the implementing agency's (SODEMO) responsibilities and financial structure,
completion and audit of overdue accounts, and preparation of an investment
program and budget for the development of the Morondava area. Implementation
of the plan of action has started and is being closely monitored by the
Government and the Association. The Village Livestock project signed in 1974
has improved substantially, although the disbursements remain slow. On the
other hand, the Mangoro Forstry project is ahead of schedule, and co0t esti-
mates are in line with forecasts. In the agriculture sector, two projects of
our program in Madagascar have been completed and audited by the Operations
Evaluation Department. The audit report No. 1622 of December 17, 1976 on the
Lac Alaotra project concluded that the project was generally quite successful.
However, the performance of Somalac, the project implementation agency, has
deteriorated considerably since the completion fo the project. An Impact
Ealuation Report is being prepared, and a project for rehabilitation and
reinforcement of agriculture and extension services in the Lake Alaotra area
is under preparation. The audit report No. 1559 of April 11, 1977 on the Beef
Cattle Development Project concluded that the Project ahd contributed little
to Madagascar. However, the lessons from the implementationof these two
projects are not directly applicable to the proposed Forestry Project.
1.04      Infrastructure.  Five projects are under implementation and progress
is overall satisfactory: the Fourth Highway Project (US$22.0 million) which
is almost completed, the Fifth Highway Project (US$24.0 million), the Andekaleka
Hydroelectric Project (US$43.0 million), the Second Railway Project (US$13.0
million) and the Antananarivo Water and Sanitation Project (US$20.5 million).
The first three highway projects have been completed. The audit report
No. 2143 of July 27, 1978 concluded that the Madagascar Third Highway Project
was well justified and had a good rate of return despite the substantial cost
overrun experienced by the project. The audit confirmed that training of
local staff and adequate provision of Government funds were essential factors
for a successful road mmaintenance program. Report No. 2299 of December 22,
1978 concluded that the physical objectives of the Tamatave Port Project were
satisfactorily achieved, but pointed out that the institutional objective was
not accomplished during project implementation because of inadequacies in the
staffing of the port authority. With the exception of the Port Project, the
technical assistance components of all four projects were executed satis-
factorily, and made a significant contribution to institution-building.
1.05      Industry.  IDA is supporting Madagascar's industrial sector by
providing Madagascar's Industrial Development Bank (BNI) with funds to
finance small and medium-scale projects (BNI Project, approved in May 1980,
US$5.0 million). IFC made a loan for the rehabilitation and expansion of a
textile mill (Loan US$11.0 million, equity US$290,000).
B. The Agricultural Sector
1.06      About 85% of Madagascar's roughly 9 million inhabitants live in
rural areas. Agriculture dominates the economy, contributing about 40% of
GDP, accounting for about 80% of export earnings, and directly supporting



- 3 -
over 80% of the population. Madagascar's agricultural sector is diverse.
The rural economy varies among several different geographic regions, producing
a wide range of crops and agricultural produce. A variety of production
systems is employed, ranging from some large-scale mechanized agriculture to
the small-scale traditional farming. This diversity has, to some extent,
protected Madagascar against the fluctuations of international commodity
prices and adverse climatic conditions (drought and cyclones are ever-present
hazards). It also contributes to wide disparities in wealth and level of
development among geographic regions. In many areas, the standard of living
is close to subsistence level, while in others the population is relatively
prosperous. Owing mainly to different ecological and social conditions, the
central highlands and particularly the area around Antananarivo are generally
more developed and prosperous than the coastal areas, while the south is
particularly poor.
1.07      The growth of Madagascar's agricultural production over the past
ten years has been slow, with the average rate of increase somewhat less than
the population growth rate of 2.8% a year. This performance largely reflects
the low growth rate of rice production and the stagnation of livestock produc-
tion. During this period, production of some crops increased significantly,
notably coffee, although production levels in general have been stagnating
over the last few years. The potential for agricultural development in
Madagascar is considerable. Many commodities now being produced offer scope
for expansion, while intensification of production in virtually all parts of
Madagascar could significantly increase output. Large areas of undeveloped
yet fertile land which can be brought into production are still available.
In many cases, as a result of research and trials, the technical base for
expansion or intensification already exists. In other areas, notably rice
production, promising high-yielding new varieties could be introduced based
on the results of applied research.
1.08      Madagascar's long-term goals for agriculture are:  (a) attainment of
self-sufficiency in food and development of basic industries, largely supplied
by the agricultural sector; and (b) increasing production of export crops
(mainly coffee). However, Government recognizes that employment possibilities
in agriculture will increase slowly, and considers that industrialization is
the only feasible long-term solution for the problem of unemployment. Govern-
ment therefore accords high priority to manufacturing, particularly basic
industries and processing of agricultural raw materials.
C. The Industrial Sector
1.09      Industry (including agro-industry) and mining contribute about 20%
of GDP, and account for about 10% of export earnings. The major industrial
activities are food industries, textiles and petroleum refining, and mining of
chromite and graphite. Industry is mainly concentrated in Antananarivo and
Toamasina, due largely to transport problems.
1.10      The development of the industrial sector after Independence in 1960
was encouraged by varlous measures, and value added by industry increased at
6% per annum in real terms from 1966 to 1971.  Industrial growth since 1972



- 4 -
has been erratic. After a marked rise in 1974, industrial production declined
and, despite a subsequent recovery, is not expected to exceed the 1974 level
by 1980.
1.11      According to Madagascar's Development Plan, Madagascar's broad
objectives for development of industry fall into three distinct phases.
During the first phase, emphasis would be on infrastructure, basic industry,
food processing and textiles, with little or no improvement in per capita
consumption levels. The second phase (1985-92) would be a period of consolida-
tion with the beginning of a capital goods industry, expansion and diversifica-
tion in other areas, declining unemployment and some increase in per capita
consumption. The final phase (1993-2000) is projected as one of growth and
expansion, ensuring all round industrial development, full employment and
rising living standards. The achievements expected from this long-term
strategy, however, might be optimistic, because of constraints in mobilizing
domestic and external resources. The proposed plantation Project and its
objective of establishing a silvo-industrial complex in the Mangoro Valley are
in line with Government's long-term strategy. The resources constraints
mentioned above would be taken into account in designing the Mangoro silvo-
industrial complex.
D. The Institutional Environment
General
1.12      Five institutions are mainly involved with the Mangoro afforestation
program and the creation of the Mangoro silvo-industrial complex: (i) the
Ministry of Finance and Planning (MFP); (ii) the Ministry of Rural Development
and Agrarian Reform (MDRRA); (iii) the Ministry of Economy and Commerce (MEC);
(iv) the Central Bank (BCRM); and (v) FANALAMANGA (the Project entity). MDRRA
and FANALAMANGA have a direct role in implementing the afforestation program,
while the other institutions are concerned with the planning, financial and
economic aspects of the silvo-industrial complex. The Secretary General of
MDRRA has been appointed as coordinator of all the activities related to the
planning and implementation of the silvo-industrial complex.
Agriculture
1.13      The Ministry of Rural Development and Agrarian Reform (MDRRA) is
the central institution dealing with the agricultural sector.  It is concerned
with extension services, plant protection, veterinary services, irrigation
systems, fisheries and forestry. It also deals with agricultural planning,
the control of semi-autonomous regional authorities and parastatal agencies,
and land reform. In addition to the Ministry's basic services and depart-
ments, several regional and parastatal agencies provide extension services to
farmers. Though they are part of the Ministry, they tend to function autono-
mously. About 30 parastatal agencies operate under the aegis of the Ministry,
including FANALAMANGA, the implementing agency of the Mangoro afforestation
program.



- 5 -
1.14      Up to 1979, the Ministry had four major operating departments, which
functioned quite autonomously and were organized separately at the regional
level. In 1979, a far-reaching reorganization of the MDRRA was introduced,
with the object of providing better support to the rural community through
decentralization. At the central level, only two departments remain: the
Department of Studies and Planning, responsible for general planning and
project preparation, and the Department of Rural Development which regroups
former operating departments and the Department of Agrarian Reform. Within
the new Department of Rural Development, the following seven services have
responsibility for defining general policies: (i) Agricultural Production
and Extension; (ii) Livestock Production; (iii) Agrarian Reform and Coopera-
tives; (iv) Waters and Forests; (v) Irrigation; (vi) Agricultural Industries;
and (vii) Agricultural Equipment. The first stage of the decentralization
process involves increased responsibilities for the local services of MDRRA
at the provincial (faritany) level; the Director of the Provincial Service
now has full authority over the operating services of MDRRA. Budgetary
procedures are being decentralized to the local level. Operating services
will eventually be completely decentralized to the district (fivondrona)
:Level, in order to use MDRRA staff to support village (fokonolona) institu-
tions, state farms, and cooperatives more effectively. The reorganization of
MDRRA began centrally in mid-1979 and is now progressing to the provincial
level. The present organization of the MDRRA is shown in Chart 1.
Agricultural Research and Training
:l.15     Before 1972 agricultural research was carried out by several semi-
autonomous agencies, most of them managed by external (largely French) insti-
tutions. All research now comes under the Ministry of Higher Education and
Scientific Research, and the research institutes have been merged under a
single organization, FOFIFA/CENRADERU. This is a semi-autonomous body respon-
sible for all agricultural research, including socioeconomic studies. It
carries out research in many fields, including forestry, some with direct
support from the Government budget, others on a contractual basis. FOFIFA is
over-burdened with the wide range of responsibilities and activities it has
iLnherited, and suffers from a severe lack of qualified staff and funds, as
well as from inadequate contacts with international research organizations.
The training of agricultural staff to the secondary level is the responsi-
bility of the MDRRA, which is considering plans for the rapid expansion of
facilities ranging from farmer centers to agricultural secondary schools
("lycees agricoles"). The Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific
Research is responsible for university level training and, there also, expan-
sion programs are being considered. In certain specialized fields, such as
veterinary science, training takes place abroad.
FANALAMANGA
1.16      FANALAMANGA was established to carry out the Mangoro Forestry
Project (Loan 1065-MAG, Credit 565-MAG) and the subsequent forestry and



-6-
silvo-industrial developments in the Mangoro Valley. FANALAMANGA would imple-
ment the proposed Project and is described in detail at paras. 5.22 to 5.26.
Socialist Enterprises
1.17      An important development in the institutional field is the emergence
of socialist enterprises. According to the Charter of the Socialist Revolu-
tion of 1975, one of the Government's objectives is to control the principal
means of production, including the nationalization of all mineral wealth.
The Charter of Socialist Enterprises of May 1978 allows the State to determine
the overall direction of the economy by means of the enterprises and corpora-
tions it controls, while granting sufficient autonomy for efficient manage-
ment. Socialist enterprises are defined as those of strategic importance in
which the State owns or controls, directly or through the holdings of other
State enterprises, 51% or more of the shares. Each enterprise is managed by
a committee composed of representatives of the State, of local institutions
(when appropriate), workers' representatives, and financial partners, such
as private investors and foreign firms. The managing director is nominated
by the Prime Minister on the advice of the Managing Committee.
1.18      Few socialist enterprises have been established so far, and then
only very recently. It is therefore premature to try to assess their effi-
ciency. The impact of a possible change in FANALAMANGA's management structure
Is further discussed in para. 5.26.
II. THE FORESTRY AND WOOD INDUSTRIES SUB-SECTORS
A. Government Forest Services
Structure
2.01      Until 1979, overall responsibility for forest organization and
management rested with the Directorate of Waters and Forests (Direction
des Eaux et Forets, DEF) in the Ministry of Rural Development and Agrarian
Reform (MDRRA). DEF enjoyed a large measure of autonomy and was responsible
for formulating forest policy, administering the State forests, and implement-
ing large-scale plantation programs. It was also responsible for national
parks and wildlife protection, inland fisheries and soil conservation.
2.02      In 1979 the MDRRA was reorganized with the principal objective
of providing better support to the regional and local institutions through
decentralization (para. 1.14). Responsibilities for inland fisheries and
for forest industries have been transferred to the Livestock Production and
the Agricultural Industries' services, respectively. The Waters and Forests
service has no direct control of the regional forestry services, except
for "national projects" which are financed with external assistance. Regional
operations, whiceh are under the direct responsibility of the regional forestry
services, include village forestry and soil conservation.



-7-
Staffing
2.03      Out of a total forestry staff of approximately 500, there are 20
professionally qualified foresters (Ingenieurs des Eaux et Forets), of whom
only four are at the central forestry service and eight are not performing
forestry functions, 46 forestry technicians (Ingenieurs des Travaux), many of
whom are not performing forestry functions, about 440 forestry assistants
(Adjoints Techniques et Agents Techniques) and 30 foremen. Forestry training
has been inadequate during the past few years, and there have been no new post
graduate level foresters since 1972. However, at the forestry senior technician
level there were 10 graduates in 1978, 6 in 1979 and 15 in 1980, all coming
out of ESSA, the "Ecole Superieure des Sciences Agronomiques," which is part
of the University. This output is adequate. At the forestry assistant level
there is no longer a full purely forestry training, but a general 2-year
agricultural training at one of the 6 agricultural colleges, followed by six
months of intensive forestry training at the agricultural college of Ambatobe.
With effect from 1980 an agricultural diploma (baccalaureat) course will be
available. So far promotion to the rank of forestry assistant has been by
means of a competitive examination, but henceforth a one year "second cycle"
course is available at the agricultural college of Ambatobe to train forestry
assistants. These changes should ensure an adequate supply of trained for-
esters at lower levels. It is however too early to assess the efficiency of
this new system.
Research
2.04      Since 1972, all research, including forestry research, has been
tLnder the Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research and the
research institutes have been regrouped under one organization, FOFIFA
(para. 1.15). Little research in the forestry sector is carried out at
present, and has been mainly concentrated on trials carried out under
contract in the context of the first phase Mangoro afforestation project
(para. 5.17).
Budget
2.05      In the 1980 investment budget forest operations account for about
FMG 480 million (16% of MDRRA total). These figures do not include the amounts
of foreign assistance on small specific projects. The Mangoro project alone has
represented more than 44% of total Government investment commitments in the
forestry sector over recent years.  From 1980 onwards, since the Directorate
of Waters and Forests no longer exists, it will be difficult to estimate what
part of the recurrent budget of MDRRA corresponds to forestry related activi-
ties. In 1979 total recurrent expenditure of the Directorate of Waters and
Forests amounted to FMG 866 million (US$4.3 million), of which FMG 671 million
(US$3.4 million) or 77% was for staff salaries. Some expenses financed under
the recurrent budget appear to correspond to investment operations, but their
aggregate amount is small.



- 8 -
B. Forest Resources
2.06      About 17.0 million ha (30% of the total land area) within Madagascar
is classified as forest land, of which about 4.0 million ha has been demarcated
as State forests. It is estimated that 12.4 million ha represent so-called
"productive" indigenous forests and about 300,000 ha, pine and eucalyptus
plantations. Over 4.0 million ha of the total potentially productive area is
degraded to such an extent that it has no effective productive function, and
the balance is stocked with a wide variety of hardwood species, most of which
are not commercially exploitable.
2.07      The breakdown of the forest areas can be suxmmarized as follows:
Forest land                                         '000 ha
State forests, non-demarcated                        7,800
State forests, demarcated                            2,700
Nature reserves and national parks                     700
Classified reserves                                    800
Area for afforestation and soil conservation           400
Area planted to pines                                  100
Area planted to eucalyptus                             200
Degraded forests ("savoka")                          4,300
TOTAL                                      17,000
2.08      The low standing volumes, the preponderance of non-marketable
species and the inaccessibility of most indigenous forests limit their eco-
nomic value. Nevertheless, the natural forests serve an important function
in providing domestic fuel and timber and maintaining water catchments.
2.09      The man-made forests in Madagascar are mainly pine and eucalyptus
plantations. As land clearing and plantation costs are high in natural
forest areas, plantations have been carried out in open grassland areas.  The
existing eucalyptus plantations have been established for fuelwood, originally
mainly for railway use. There are about 200,000 ha of eucalyptus, mostly in
small stands, often on private land, and managed under a coppice system,
providing mainly fuelwood (including charcoal) and poles. A continuation of
eucalyptus plantation on a large scale would be justified only as raw material
for industrial uses such as pulp and paper or chromite reduction. High-yielding
eucalyptus plantations have been successfully established, particularly
E. grandis in the Moramanga - Perinet area, but these require good soils,
preferably forest soils, for their best development.



-9-
2.10      Climatic conditions in Madagascar favor the establishment of pine
plantations, to which the Government gives high priority in order to utilize
land with low agricultural potential. The availability of such land in large
blocks relatively close to the sea gives Madagascar a comparative advantage
for the industrial production of wood-based products for export. By 1980 over
100,000 ha of commercial pine plantations, some of them poorly stocked or
failed, had been established: over 60,000 ha in the Mangoro area, over 30,000
ha in the Matsiatra area, and about 10,000 ha in the Antsirabe area.
2.11      Pine plantations ge erally produce a mean annual increment (MAI),
under bark (u.b.), of 12-15 m /ha, while most of the eucalyBtus plantations
(mostly E. robusta) do not produce an MAI of moïe than 10 m /ha. However,
on good sites pine may have a MAI of up to 20 m /ha (or sometimes eNen more)
u.b., while E. grandig frequently produces an MAI of well over 25 m /ha (some-
times even up to 50 m /ha). Taking into account the low productivity of the
natural forests and their general remoteness and inaccessibility, it is clear
that the future of forestry in Madagascar lies mostly in man-made forests.
C. Wood Uses
General
2.12      Information on wood uses in Madagascar is scanty, mainly because
the bulk of wood consumption is in the form of firewood and charcoal at
the village level, for which no reliable data exist. A survey on energy
consumption (wood, charcoal, gas, petroleum products, electricity) of urban
dwellers in Antananarivo has been conducted by the former Directorate of
Waters and Forests; this study would be a significant step forward in the
evaluation of wood and charcoal consumption in major cities, but the data
collected have not yet been fully analysed.
2.13      It is esti3mated that the total annual wood consumption in Madagascar
is abojt 7 million m (roundwood), which gives an average consumption of
0.75 m per head p.a.3 Fuelwood (including charcoal) represents almost 80% of
this amount, or 0.6 !  per head p.a.  Industrial wood represents about 20% of
the total, or 0.15 m  per head p.a.  Officially the volume of mechan cally sawn
wood has been going steadily down and is now probabày about 20,000 m  p.a.,
but pit-sawing may still acount for about 150,000 m p.a. Small volumes of
wood are also used for the production of pulp, hardboard, and matches.
2.14      Imports and exports of wood and wood-derived products have declined
considerably over the last few years and are now negligible. Exports of pre-
cious woods, such as Rosewood (Dalbergia spp.) have virtually stopped because
of Government regulations to conserve the species. Imports are now limited to
small quantities of pulp and paper products.



- 10 -
Firewood and Charcoal
2.15      Firewood is used mainly in rural areas, where it is generally avail-
able free of charge. It is estimated that half of urban dwellers also use
firewood, but because of high transport costs, this proportion is probably
decreasing in favor of charcoal.
2.16      Charcoal is widely used in urban areas, where it has been estimated
that half of the population consumes some 60 kg of charcoal per person p.a.
This would represent a total anngal consumption of about 60,000 t of charcoal
equivalent to almost 1 million m of fuelwood, or approximately 20% of the
total fuelwood consumed annually. Most of the charcoal is produced and
consumed in the highlands, where the main tree species is Eucalyptus robusta.
Government intends to review the firewood and charcoal situation in Madagascar
(para. 2.12) with UNDP/FAO assistance in order to define policies and prepare
a program of action to increase firewood and charcoal production while preserv-
ing natural wood resources.
Sawnwood
2.17      Most of the timber produced and consumed so far is converted manu-
ally in the forest, either by squaring with an axe (not an adze) or by pit-
sawing, which is extremely wasteful and produces squares and boards of uneven
quality, but saves on extraction and transport costs; in many cases, it is the
only practical way of exploiting the forest in inaccessible and mountainous
areas.
2.18      There are approximately 20 sawmills in Madagascar, most of which
carry out their own logging operations.  Their equipment is §enerally anti-
quated and their average production very low (around 1,000 m  p.a.).  The
total production of sawn lumber has3gone down dramatically over the past
10 years and is now around 20,000 m p.a. Demand is high and cannot be met,
though most mills are operating at less than 40% of their rated capacity,
for a variety of reasons: poor management, lack of trained staff, poor main-
tenance, lack of spare parts, logging and transport problems. One unit, how-
ever, HAZOVATO, Sn the capital, is planning to increase its productive capacity
to over 10,000 m p.a. The main species sawn are Pine (mostly Pinus patula)
and Eucalyptus (various species, but3mainly E. robusta), for which the selling
price is about FMG 30,000 (US$150)/m
Pulp and Paper
2.19      The production of paper for the local market is carried out by a
mixed-capital company, PAPMAD (Papeteries de Madagascar), located in
Antananarivo. PAPMAD supplies the entire local market, imports about 10,000 t
annually of chemical pulp and produces about 5,000 t of mechanical pulp from
local Pine wood (16,000 steres or 11,000 m ) and 3,000 t of semi-mechanical
pulp from local Eucalyptus wood (7,000 t). Its productive capacity is now
being increased to 19,000 t of paper, including newsprint. PAPMAD manufac-
tures 115 different lines of paper products.



- il -
Other Wood-derived Products
2.20      PANOMAD, a company located in Moramanga, produces about 1,200 t
p.a. of hardboard out of eucalyptus wood. Other small wood-processing indus-
tries include a small match factory (SNA) at Moramanga (50-60 million boxes
p.a.) and a small plywood factory at Antananarivo.
D. Projects in the Forestry Subsector
2.21      The first-phase Mangoro Forestry Project provided for the planting
of a further 35,000 ha of pine (in addition to 25,000 ha previously planted)
over a five-year period (1975-79), estimated to cost FMG 4,400 million, with
an IDA credit and a Bank loan of US$6.75 million each. In fact the planting
target has been exceeded and the project period extended, without cost overrun.
The project entity, FANALAMANGA, has achieved a remarkable record of competence
and efficiency.  The first-phase project is described in Chapter IV, and the
proposed second phase plantation project is described in Chapter V.
Matsiatra
2.22      Over the past 10 years or so, the Government has been investigating
the possibility of using the potential of the Matsiatra pine plantations near
Fianarantsoa, which total over 30,000 ha. Current plans include the creation
of an unbleached kraft pulpmill, a laminated wood mill with an intake capacity
of 15,000 m roundwood per year and a sawmill with an intake capacity of 12,000
m roundwood per year. Plans for the pulpmill and the laminated wood mill are
still vague, because of their doubtful economic viability but French bilateral
aid is financing the sawmill under a technical assistance and training program
through a newly-created Forestry Training Center at a total estimated cost of
FMG 700 million (about US$3.5 million).
Morondava
2.23      Another Forestry Training Center was created in 1979 in Morondava
with the object of training pe sonnel and producing, processing and marketing
products obtained from 2,000 m  roundwood per year from a 10,000 ha hardwood
natural forest. The project is financed by Swiss bilateral aid.
Chromite Project
2.24      The Government has been investigating the possibility of treating
the chromite ore north of the Moramanga area locally. The treatment'of
100,000 t of chromite per year would require 50,000 t of charcoal per year.
Ihe project includes the planting of 20,000 ha of eucalyptus and the building
of roads at Mahela, near Brickaville. Plantation activities are due to start
in 1980 with infrastructure works and the planting of 600 ha and to be com-
pleted in 1986. The total cost is estimated at FMG 2,600 million (about US$13



- 12 -
million). However, there are significant uncertainties regarding the viability
of the overall chromite project and the construction of a chromite treatment
plant might ultimately not materialize.
Other Projects
2.25      The Savoka project aims at improving the use and protection of
secondary natural forests ("savoka") at the village level, on an experimental
basis at first. Four villages in the faritanys of Antsiranana, Toamasina,
and Fianarantsoa have been selected for a 5-year pilot project (1980-84).
A UNDP grant of US$1 million has been secured for this purpose.
2.26      A cinchona project has been under way since 1973 in the Anjozorobe
area with a target of 700 ha and a possible extension to 2,500 ha. Other
forestry projects considered by MDRRA include the production of veneers from
valuable timber species, the production of transmission poles for the electric
company, JIRAMA, the planting of rubber trees (Hevea brasiliensis), and the
production of cashew nuts in the Mahajunga area.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
Location, Climate and Land Features
3.01      Project activities would be carried out in the Mangoro Valley,
some 75 km east of Antananarivo, on a gross area of about 300,000 ha, with
the approximate shape of a rectangle, about 150 km long (north-south) and
20 to 30 km wide (see MAP). The rainfall varies between 1,600 mm in the
south and 1,100 mm in the north. The main rainy season is from December
to March, but during the winter months (June - August) there are frequent
light drizzles, mist and dew.  The average temperature is about 200C, with
minima of 10 C and maxima of 30 C.  It does not usually freeze; hail occurs
occasionally, but is not a problem. The land is generally flat to gently
undulating in the south, but gets more broken up in the north. The altitude
varies between 900 m and 1,200 m. The area consists of numerous hills and
more or less broad valleys, with marshy valley bottoms and flat tops; the
slopes are severely eroded and sterile. Soils are generally ferralitic and
poor, but adequate for pine planting, particularly on flat sites.
Water Resources
3.02      The main river - the Mangoro - flows north to south across the
Project area, and has numerous tributaries. The water flow in the Mangoro
has been observed since 1956 at the village gf Mangoro, in the south of the
Project îrea; it has an average flow of 85 m /sec.  The lowest recorded flow
was 21 m /sec (in 1968), which is adequate to meet the water requirements of
a large pulpmill and to allow for effluent disposal, provided the mill is
equipped with appropriate effluent treatment facilities. However, further
hydrological and water quality measurements are necessary at various points



- 13-
of the Mangoro and of some of its tributaries to identify the most suitable
industrial site in relation to the wood resources and to select the type and
size of water treament facilities. FANALAMANGA, with the assistance of
Government's Department of Hydrology, started taking such measurements in
mid-1980.
Land Use and Population
:3.03     Out of the gross Project area of 300,000 ha, about 25,000 ha were
planted between 1969 and 1974 under Government financing and 40,000 ha between
:1975 and 1980 during the Phase I Project. A further area of about 18,500 ha
would be planted over three years under the proposed Phase II Project. The
land which would be planted under the Project is currently unoccupied and
unencumbered by land claims, and is considered Government land according to
Malagasy law. The vegetation consists mostly of grass, but there are exten-
sive areas of heath land in the northern part and a few scraps of forest
galleries along streams.  Most of the land is unsuitable for agricultural
production other than extensive poor-quality grazing.
3.04      There are now about 11,000 people living in 50 small villages
scattered within the Project area; these villages are, however, outside the
areas identified for afforestation under the Project. The villagers are
mainly subsistence farmers with an average of one to two hectares of cultiva-
ble land in valley bottoms, rice being the main crop. It is estimated that
there are currently 8,000 head of cattle in the area. Large grazing areas
have been set aside for cattle, and pastures have been improved in selected
locations under the Phase I Project; improvement of pastures would continue
under the proposed Project. There is a possibility that some marginal grazing
areas could be affected by the afforestation program, and should this happen,
the owners of the land would be compensated by Government in accordance with
Malagasy law. It is expected, however, that any interference with local land
use patterns as a result of the Project would continue to be minimal. Experi-
ence during the first phase project has shown that the improvement of pastures
and the provision of roads and services help to minimize conflicts with cattle
owners in the area. In addition to the above population, about 1,600 forest
workers' families have settled in the Project area.
Access to the Project Area
3.05      Roads and tracks in the plantation area are built and maintained
by FANALAMANGA and are in good condition.  The Project area is connected to
the port of Toamasina by road (250 km) and rail (270 km). The Moramanga-
Toamasina road goes through difficult terrain and is in very poor condition.
It is being reconstructed with the assistance of the People's Republic of China
and the works are expected to be completed in about 1985. The railway borders
on the Project area for about 150 km between Moramanga and Ambatondrazaka and
connects with the Antananarivo - Moramanga - Toamasina line. Repairs of the
railtrack and provision of rolling stock are being financed by IDA (Second
Railway Project, Credit 903-MAG) and the French Caisse Centrale de Cooperation
Economique. The size of the equipment which can be carried by rail is limited
by the cross-section of bridges and tunnels (3.60m x 3.22m).



- 14 -
Ports
3.06      The port of Toamasina is capable of handling the equipment which
would be necessary to establish a silvo-industrial complex, and the production
of such a complex (paper, pulp or wood products). However, arrangements for
storage may prove difficult, in particular if export of wood chips is contem-
plated. This question will be examined in detail as part of the studies to be
carried out under the Project (para. 5.28). Although it is much more distant
from the Project area than Toamasina and has few handling facilities, the port
of Mahajunga might be considered for the delivery of especially large pieces
of equipment which might not be transportable by the Toamasina-Moramanga
railway.
Power Supply
3.07      Electrical power is available at Moramanga through an Interconnected
System around Antananarivo, operated by JIRAMA, the national power supply
company. JIRAMA is currently increasing the capacity of the Interconnected
System, with the financial assistance of IDA (Credit 817-MAG) and of six
other external financing agencies. Under this expansion program, the Inter-
connected System would have an installed capacity of 107 MW by 1982. Govern-
ment is considering a number of projects which would draw power from the
Interconnected System. In the event that several of these projects were to
materialize (chromite treatment plant, 42 MW; steelmill, 41MW; pulpmill, 20MW;
supply of Antananarivo, 70MW; small industrial projects, llMW), the increased
generating capacity would be insufficient, and either some additional thermal
power would have to be produced for industrial use on site or else new hydro-
electric facilities would have to be built. The constraints in power supply
would be taken into account in planning for the silvo-industrial development
of the Mangoro Valley.
IV. THE MANGORO FORESTRY PROJECT
A. Project Origin and Preparation
4.01      In 1967 a Bank/FAO-CP mission visited Madagascar to identify forestry
projects which might be financed by the Bank. Following the mission's recom-
mendation, Government established over 18,000 ha of experimental plantations
in the Mangoro area between 1969 and 1973, with some assistance for research
from an FAO/UNDP forestry project and the French forest research organization
CTFT. In 1972 Government asked the Bank to assist in financing the continua-
tion of the afforestation program. A Bank/FAO-CP mission helped Government
draft the project preparation report in early 1973, and the project was
appraised by the Bank/IDA in late 1973.



- 15 -
B. Summary Project Description
4.02      The project provided for the planting of 35,000 ha of pine planta-
tions over the period 1974-1979 (in addition to the 25,000 ha which had been
planted by 1974), and for the development of forest services within the
Project area. The project was part of the Government-s afforestation program
which would ultimately reach about 100,000 ha with the objective of establish-
ing a pulp industry in Moramanga by 1985. The project cost was estimated at
US$17.2 million equivalent, of which 26% in foreign exchange, and was financed
by the Bank/IDA (US$13.5 million) and Government (US$3.7 million). The
economic rate of return was estimated at 13%, based on the cost and benefits
of the entire afforestation program including the construction and operation
of a bleached sulphate pulp mill with a capacity of 200,000 tons of pulp
per annum.
C. Project Implementation and Results
4.03      The project became effective in August 1975 and, after a slow
start-up due to delays in the procurement of equipment and spare parts,
progressed very satisfactorily. The project's planting and most other
targets were reached in mid-1979, and sufficient funds are likely to be
available under the loan and from Government funds to continue the afforesta-
tion program until about mid-1981. By mid 1980 over 41,000 ha had been
planted under the first phase project, thus exceeding the appraisal estimate
of 35,000 ha by nearly 20%, without cost overruns. A summary of the physical
achievements during the first phase project is given in Table 9.
4.04      The only major problem which arose during project implementation
was the dieback of Pinus kesiya when the stands reached the age of three or
four years. This was first reported in mid-1975. Following intensive research
by FANALAMANGA and CENRADERU (para. 1.15), in late 1977 it was clearly estab-
lished that the cause of the dieback was a soil deficiency in zinc and that
trees were responsive to treatment. The dieback problem is being brought
under control by aerial spraying of zinc compounds.  However, in late 1980, it
appeared that large areas of the plantation showed yellowing of the leaves, usually
a sign of stress, making the trees more susceptible to disease. The cause of the
stress has not yet been identified but it is probably due to a deficit in nutrients.
An expert to assist Fanalamanga to identify the remedy to this problem is expected
to visit the project area shortly.
D. Planning for Silvo-industrial Development
4.05      It was estimated at appraisal that the most suitable and the most
likely use of the Mangoro forest resources would be to establish a 200,000
TPA pulpmill. The project therefore did not provide for further study of
various silvo-industrial development alternatives; the appraisal report, how-
ever, noted that flexibility as to the type of pulp and paper products to be
manufactured would be retained until the beginning of the second phase of the
plantation program.



- 16 -
4.06      In 1977, UNDP approved the financing of a pre-feasibility study for
a pulpmill, which was carried out by the FAO under the aegis of UNIDO, and
completed in 1979. Its main conclusion was that investing in a bleached
sulphate pulpmill would be an economically and financially viable proposition,
provided that the pulpmill capacity was ralsed to 270,000 TPA. However, the
pre-feasibility study did not develop alternatives for the utilization of the
plantation resources, and therefore did not provide all the technical and
economic information required for designing an optimal industrial development
program. Analysing various industrial development scenarios corresponding to
a wide range of investment levels is particularly important in view of the
large investments that some of the programs would require (over US$500 million
in 1981 prices for a 270,000 TPA pulpmill) and of the economic and financial
constraints the Government is currently facing and might continue to face in
the coming years. Various studies, including the assessment of the alterna-
tive uses for the wood produced in the Mangoro plantations, would therefore be
carried out during the proposed Project (paras. 5.28 to 5.33).
V. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objective
5.01      The objective of the proposed Project would be to continue assisting
Government's efforts to establish a silvo-industrial complex in the Mangoro
Valley, thus developing land and resources which would not otherwise be econo-
mically utilized. As indicated earlier (para. 4.06), the industrial invest-
ment plans for the utilization of the wood produced by the Mangoro plantations
would be finalized during the proposed Project. Although the ultimate size of
the complete plantation program is not yet determined, continuing the planta-
tion program until industrial development studies are completed would be a
viable investment (para. 8.07). On the other hand, the interruption of the
plantation program until industrial development planning is completed would
not bring any advantages but would seriously disrupt the Project entity and
might jeopardize the success of the entire program. To continue the planta-
tion program is therefore the best strategy to preserve the viability of the
investments made until now in the program, and to complete planning for the
development of the Mangoro forest resources. The proposed Project would
continue the current plantation program, albeit at a reduced rate, (i) to
allow time for industrial development planning studies and (ii) to consolidate
the institution-building achievements of the first project by maintaining
FANALAMANGA's activities at a reasonable level.
B. General Description
5.02      The proposed Project would be implemented over a three year period
(1981/82-1983(84) and would include the following components:



- 17 -
(i) the maintenance and protection of the existing plantations
(about 70,000 ha) and the maintenance of roads, buildings
and infrastructure in the Project area;
(ii) the establishment, maintenance and protection of about
18,000 ha of pine and 500 ha of eucalyptus plantations;
(iii) the construction and maintenance of roads and buildings;
(iv) pasture improvement;
(v) research and training; and
(vi) studies for industrial development planning, and preparation
of projects in the forestry and agriculture sector.
The Project would be implemented by FANALAMANGA (para. 1.16), a Government-
owned company whose performance under the first phase project has been very
satisfactory.
5.03      During the Project implementation period, studies would be carried
out to assess the alternative uses of the wood produced in the Mangoro
plantations and, once a specific alternative has been selected, detailed
studies would be undertaken of its technical, financial and economic feasi-
bility. Financing of these studies is provided by UNDP, with FAO as the
executing agency. Details of these studies are given in paras. 5.28 to
5.33.
C. Detailed Features
Plantation Maintenance and Protection
5.04      Maintenance and protection of all existing plantations would continue
under the Project.  Maintenance would include:
(i) the pruning of all Pine trees up to a height of 2 m when
the trees reach an average height of 5-6 m (5-6 years),
mainly as a fire-protection measure; about 21,000 ha would
fall in this category during the Project implementation
period and 7,000 ha of trees would be pruned each year;
(ii) controlled burning (where possible and desirable),
particularly in the case of P. kesiya;
(iii) sanitary control of all plantations; and
(iv) treatment with trace-elements and/or fertilizers.



- 18 -
5.05      During the past ten years, on average less than 1% of the planted
area has been destroyed by fire annually, which is not unusual for this type
of plantation. Valleys, natural forest galleries and roade are used as
firebreaks, and are supplemented by a network of external and internal fire-
breaks which are left unplanted, cleared annually in winter (July-August)
and, if possible, control-burnt early during the dry season which extends from
September to December. The Project area is divided into fire-fighting units,
each of which controls approximately 10,000 ha and is well-equipped with
manned fire towers, fire-fighting vehicles, cisterns, tools, water points,
radios and fire-fighting teams. The total existing fire-break network of
about 800 km would continue to be maintained, and 150 km of additional
fire-breaks for the new plantations would be constructed and maintained under
the Project. Six additional fire towers would be constructed at intervals of
10-20 km in the new plantations, thus bringing the total number of fire towers
in the Project area to 12, or about one tower for 7-8,000 ha. Provision
would also be made for vehicles, fire-fighting tools and equipment.
Afforestation
5.06      Provision would be made for the afforestation of 18,500 ha over
the Project period; about 6,000 ha of pine would be planted in each of the
three years, and a total of 500 ha of eucalyptus on degraded forest sites
in the south of the Project area as large-scale trials. The afforestation
program would include surveying of the areas to be planted, the establishment
of nurseries, soil preparation, fertilization, planting, weeding and disease
control.
5.07      Surveys.  The general demarcation of the Project area and soil and
topographical surveys were done before and during the first phase project.
Detailed advance surveys would determine more precisely the areas to be
planted year by year, gather accurate information on the soil preparation
methods to be adopted, the choice of fertilizers and of species, indicate
the road alignments, and demarcate the areas reserved for crops and grazing.
The boundaries of the plantation would continue to be agreed upon with vil-
lagers now living in the Project area, as agreed during the negotiations of
the first project.
5.08      Species.  At present Pinus kesiya is the dominant species planted
in the Project area, and occupies about 85 percent of the plantation.  During
the latter part of the first phase project, P. elliottii and P. caribaea
hondurensis have increasingly been planted, particularly in the north, which
is too dry and unsuitable for P. kesiya. During the Project period the two
latter pine species would be the principal ones planted, in the ratio of
roughly 2/3 P. caribaea (particularly in the north) and 1/3 P. elliottii
(mostly in the south, on less well drained and on poor sandy soils). Some P.
kesiya would also be planted, but only on the most favorable and wettest
sites. Eucalyptus grandis would be planted in the extreme south, mostly on
secondary forest sites ("savoka"), as large-scale trials.
5.09      Nurseries.  The annual planting program would require 7 semi-
permanent and 3 temporary or depot nurseries, producing altogether about



- 19 -
12 million Pine and 100-200,000 Eucalyptus grandis plants. Most of the Pine
seed would be imported, but selected seed of P. kesiya and Eucalyptus grandis
would be available locally. The pine seedlings would be duly inoculated with
mycorrhiza and fertilized. Watering would be by sprinkler irrigation in the
semi-permanent nurseries. About 80% of the plants would be transplanted from
seed beds into earth balls, a well-proven technique in Madagascar, while
about 20% would be sown directly in polythene tubes to allow for safe planting
beyond the normal summer rainy season.
5.10      Soil Preparation.  Most of the soil preparation would continue to be
done mechanically, because this could not practically be carried out by hand
on a large scale. For pine the most common method of soil preparation would
consist of sub-soiling by means of a heavy double ripper, followed by spot-
preparation at the spacing of 2 m 50 x 2 m 50 (1,600/ha).  Some sites, par-
ticularly on sandy soil, would be disc-ploughed in strips. And finally,
some slopes might be pitted manually (less than 10% of the total). Some
heathland areas, particularly in the north, would have to be cut back by
means of a roller-chopper prior to proper soil preparation. Eucalyptus would
be planted mostly on "forest" sites (in the south), which would be cleared of
all vegetation, preferably by charcoal burners and woodcutters, prior to
pitting. Two spacings would be tried for Eucalyptus: 3 m x 3 m (1,100/ha)
and 4 m x 4 m (625/ha).
5.11      Fertilization.  All P. elliottii and P. kesiya plantations would
be fertilized at the rate of 75g of PK 20:20 per plant (about 120-140 kg/ha).
P. kesiya would also receive a starter application of zinc (10-12 kg/ha).
Existing plantations which never received a starter fertilizer treatment
would be given a booster dose of 260-300 g per tree. By the end of the first
phase project about 25,000 ha of the P. kesiya plantations should have been
treated with zinc by aerial spraying to prevent dieback. The remainder of the
P. kesiya plantations (about 30,000 ha) would be treated with zinc to complete
the operation.
5.12      Planting, Weeding and Disease Control.  Planting would be done by
hand and as far as possible would take place between December and March. The
replacing of failures would mostly take place during the light winter rains
(June-July). Normally failures do not exceed 10%. Weeding is not a major or
costly operation in the Project area, and generally less than 20% of the
plantation requires weeding, usually for only one year after planting. An
inspection team would continue to make regular inspections to identify and
control any unhealthy or unusual signs on growth, vigor, color of foliage,
disease, nutrient or trace-element deficiency, and insect attack.
Road Construction and Maintenance
5.13      There are four types of roads in the Project area:  service roads
and primary forest roads, which are allweather earthroads; secondary roads, of
a lower standard; and forest tracks which are temporary roads opened up mostly
for planting.



- 20 -
5.14      Under the proposed Project, the existing road network would continue
to be maintained. The network includes about 550 km of service and primary
roads, 600 km of secondary roads (of which about 120 km require annual
maintenance) and about 2,000 km of tracks (which require maintenance only at
sporadic intervals and on specific locations, usually after heavy rains).
About 60 km of new service and primary roads would be constructed and
maintained, as well as 180 km of secondary roads and 360 km of tracks.
Buildings and Housing
5.15      Before and during the first phase project, the Project headquarters
and 10 forest villages were built (see Map), providing housing and social
infrastructure (schools, stores, dispensaries, water supply) for about
1,600 plantation workers and FANALAMANGA staff families. These facilities
would continue to be maintained under the Project. In addition, three new
villages for a total of about 300 families would be established in the new
areas to be planted under the Project. These villages would accommodate
plantation workers at present living in temporary buildings in other parts of
the plantation.
Pasture Improvement
5.16      Pasture improvement activities started during the first phase pro-
ject have contributed to the establishment of good relationships with cattle
owners in the Project area by increasing the carrying capacity of the natural
pastures used for communal grazing. These activities would continue under the
Project; strips would be ploughed and planted with Stylosanthes and Melinis
over a total area of about 450 ha.
Research and Training
5.17      Research and trials have been carried out during the first phase
project under contract by CENRADERU/FOFIFA (paras. 1.14 and 2.04); this
arrangement is satisfactory and would continue during the proposed Project.
In addition to the continuation of the ongoing program the following research
and trials would be carried out for pines:
(a)  in silviculture:  for the various species, refining of
fertilizer dosages, both for main fertilizers and trace
elements; weeding and maintenance problems;
(b)  concerning yields:  rates of growth of the various species
according to site classes (yield tables, volume tables,
site classification); and
(c)  in genetics:  genetic improvement of the various species
(crossing, vegetative propagation, clonal orchards, seed
orchards for P. caribaea and P. elliottii).



- 21 -
Research and trials would also be started for Eucalyptus, particularly as
regards nursery techniques, genetic improvement, fertilizer trials and
plantation techniques. A small section would be created within FANALAMANGA
itself to carry out routine research and trials.
5.18      Apart from regular refresher courses which are needed by all the
staff in order to improve their skills and outputs and to learn new techiques
from trials and research, FANALAMANGA would continue to provide additional
training in specific fields, particularly concerning nurseries and fire con-
trol. Refresher courses and training would take place at the Project Training
Center or in other appropriate centers. Specialized staff would be invited to
run seminars and training sessions, and adequate equipment would be purchased
for training purposes. FANALAMANGA staff would also participate in study
tours and specialized courses.
Studies
5.19      Various studies would be carried out during the Project implementa-
tion period, (i) to gather additional information necessary for the planning
of the silvo-industrial development of the Mangoro Valley, (ii) to analyze
alternative scenarios for the industrial uses of the Mangoro forest resources,
and (iii) to analyze in detail selected development scenarios in view of
their future implementation. These studies are financed by UNDP, and are
described in more detail in section F of the present chapter.
5.20      The permanent forest inventory of the Mangoro plantations would be
continued and intensified. The rate of sampling would be 1%. As more informa-
tion becomes available on growth yields, a forest management plan would be
drawn up. Aerial photography and photointerpretation would be a necessary
adjunct of this work, and are also financed by UNDP.
5.21      Funds would be included in the Credit to finance consulting services
for the preparation of future projects in the forestry and agriculture sector.
Assurances were received at negotiations that the qualifications and expe-
rience of the consultants financed under the Project, and their terms of
reference, would be subject to the prior review and approval of the Asso-
ciation.
D. Organization and Management
5.22      FANALAMANGA was established in 1975 as a mixed capital company with
the objectives of (i) implementing the first phase Mangoro Forestry Project
(Ln 1065-MAG, Cr. 525-MAG) and (ii) thereafter continuing the plantation
program, establishing a forest industry and carrying out all activities re-
quired for the operation and maintenance of the plantation and the processing
and marketing of its products. So far almost all of FANALAMANGA-s shares
(99%) are held directly by Government, the remaining 1% being held by the
National Bank for Industrial Development (BNI), which is fully owned by
Government. FANALAMANGA's present statutes need to be amended for the
purpose of the execution of the Project. A condition of credit effectiveness
would be that these statutes have been revised in a manner satisfactory to the
Association.



- 22 -
5.23      FANALAMANGA's organization is shown in Chart 2.  FANALAMANGA
reports to the Ministries of Rural Development and Agrarian Reform and of
Finance and Planning. Its Board of Directors includes eleven members repre-
senting all sectors of the economy, and it meets on average about twice a
year.  The General Manager is appointed by decree at Cabinet level and has
overall responsibility for the management of all of FANALAMANGA's activities.
FANALAMANGA's professional staff is competent and adequate in numbers; total
staff number about 1,800 at present, of whom about 1,600 are skilled and
unskilled workers.
5.24      There are at present four central departments (plantations, civil
works and engineering, finance, and administration) based in FANALAMANGA's
headquarters in Antsirinala, near Moramanga. A small research department
would be established under the Project (para. 5.17), and later on when
exploitation of the plantation begins (after 1985), a department of plantation
management and exploitation would be created. The day-to-day operation of
the Project would continue to be under the direct supervision of the General
Manager and the Directors of the central departments.
5.25      For development purposes, the Project area is divided into three
geographical departments (northern, central and southern), each responsible
ultimately for about 30 to 35,000 ha of plantations, and each with its own
facilities, offices, and staff responsible respectively for plantations,
civil works, finance and administration, and mechanical engineering. Each
of these departments is divided into two divisions, and each division is
divided into two sections. On average each section will have approximately
9,000 ha of plantations at full development.
5.26      FANALAMANGA is well organized and efficiently managed, and this
favorable situation is expected to continue to prevail if no adverse changes
in FANALAMANGA's organization and staffing occur. In the context of the
Charter of the Socialist Revolution, Government is considering the possibility
of converting FANALAMANGA into a socialist enterprise (paras. 1.17 and 1.18),
but has not reached a final decision on this. This could constitute a major
change in FANALAMANGA's decision-making process. The impact of such a change
on FANALAMANGA's efficiency cannot be foreseen at this stage. Assurances
were received at negotiations that Government would inform the Association
of any intended changes in FANALAMANGA's management or capital structure
sufficiently in advance to give it the opportunity to comment on such changes,
and that Government would cause FANALAMANGA to continue to employ a General
Manager with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association.
E. Accounts and Audit
5.27      During the first phase project, FANALAMANGA's accounts were satis-
factorily kept and audited by an independent auditor designated by Government
("Commissaire aux Comptes"). Assurances were received at negotiations that
FANALAMANGA would continue to (i) maintain accounts which adequately reflect
its operations, resources and expenditures, (ii) keep separate accounts for
the Project, (iii) have its accounts audited each year by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association, such audit including a detailed review of the



- 23 -
statements of expenditure submitted to the Association (para 6.06) and (iv)
submit its accounts to the Association no later than nine months after the
close of the financial year.
F. Studies
Silvo-Industrial Development Study
5.28      In October 1980, UNDP approved the financing of a feasibility study
of the silvo-industrial development of the Mangoro Valley; the study is a
fundamental part of the proposed Project and is scheduled to be executed by
FAO during the first half of the Project period. The Secretary General of
MDRRA has been appointed as coordinator of all the activities related to the
implementation of the study and to the planning and implementation of the
silvo-industrial complex. The results of the study should enable the Govern-
ment to assess the best strategy for the development of the Mangoro forest
resources. The study would be carried out in three phases:
Phase 1 (up to 4 months): Definition and selection of
the industrial development alternatives to be studied;
Phase 2 (up to 4 months): Technical and economic
comparison of the options selected in Phase 1 with a
recommendation on the industrial development to be
studied in detail;
Phase 3 (up to 8 months): Detailed studies of the
technical, financial and economic feasibility of the
selected industrial development.
5.29      The study would be carried out by a firm of consultants specializing
in forest industries, selected according to UNDP procedures.  Its progress and
implementation would be periodically discussed between Government, UNDP, FAO
and IDA.  A firm of consultants was appointed in March 1981, with terms of
reference, qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association.
Assurances were received from Governnent at credit negotiations that Govern-
ment would discuss the progress and implementation of the study with the
Association whenever required, in particular at the end of each of the above
three phases, and that consultants with terms of reference, qualifications and
experience satisfactory to the Association would continue to be employed to
carry out the study.
5.30      During Phase 1 of the study, basic data would be gathered to define
the various possibilities of developing the Mangoro Valley forest resources.
These basic data would cover, inter alia, wood supply, markets for wood
products, industrial site alternatives, and infrastructure. Based on this
information and other pertinent inputs, the firm of consultants would prepare
a list of alternative industrial developments which may be studied in further
detail. Such industrial developments may be, for example, single mills of



- 24 -
various sizes, integrated developments, or time-phased combinations of
developments.
5.31      During Phase 2, the alternatives selected in Phase 1 would be ana-
lyzed in sufficient detail to allow Governnent to make a decision on which
program should be finally selected. At the end of Phase 2, a report would be
issued by the consultants presenting their analysis of each alternative and
recommending for detailed study an industrial development making the optimum
use of the Mangoro forest resources.
5.32      During Phase 3, the selected industrial development would be studied
in detail for its implementation. This would include site selection, wood
supply program, marketing plan, infrastructure studies, engineering, and
financial and economic analyses.
Aerial Photography and Mapping
5.33      UNDP has also approved the financing of preparatory studies neces-
sary for plantation inventory and management, and for the planning of logging
roads. These siudies would include (i) aerial photography of the Project area
(about 4,500 km ), and (ii) mapping of the plantation area. These preparatory
studies would be executed by FAO and carried out by consultants selected
according to UNDP procedures.
G. Environmental Impact
5.34      The Project plantation program would be of substantial benefit to
the Mangoro Valley. The areas selected for afforestation are degraded, and
the tree cover would reduce erosion and improve soil fertility and water
retention. The boundaries of the plantation areas would continue to be drawn
drawn so as to minimize land use conflicts. Assurances to this effect were
received at negotiations.
5.35      The ultimate environmental impact of the Mangoro afforestation
program would depend on the nature of the silvo-industrial development program
which would be selected. Assurances were received at negotiations that sound
environmental practices would continue to be followed under the Project, and
that adequate steps would be taken by Government to minimize any adverse
ecological effects resulting from silvo-industrial development.
VI. PROJECT COST, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS
A. Project Cost
6.01      Total Project cost is estimated at about US$ 30.2 million
equivalent; the foreign exchange component is about US$ 17.3 million, or
about 57%. As the goods imported under the Project would be imported free



- 25 -
of taxes and duties, these cost estimates include only negligible amounts
of taxes corresponding to sales taxes on locally procured goods and taxes
on staff salaries. The following Table is a summary of these costs, with a
more detailed breakdown appearing in Table 1.
F.   Base
Local  Foreign    Total    Local Foreign Total Exch  Cost
------(FMG million)------   ---(US$ million)--  (%)   (%)
Afforestation        506.6   272.8      779.4      2.5    1.4    3.9   35   17.5
Maintenance          252.2   448.4      700.6      1.3    2.2    3.5   64   15.5
Service and Plant-
ation Roads        127.7   511.0      638.7     0.6    2.6    3.2   80   14.5
Buildings and
Housing            272.7   116.9      389.6      1.3    0.6    1.9   30    9.0
Vehicles and
Equipment           41.2   781.8      823.0      0.2    3.9    4.1   95   18.5
Pasture Improve-
ment                 6.6    15.3       21.9      0.03   0.07   0.1   70    0.5
Staff and
Administration    538.0    80.4       618.4      2.7    0.4    3.1   13   14.0
Research and
Training            68.3     7.6       75.9      0.36   0.04   0.4   10    1.5
Studies-
Preparation of
Projects           80.0   120.0      200.0      0.4    0.6    1.0   60    4.5
r            Feasibility
Studies            20.0   180.0      200.0      0.1    0.9    1.0   90    4.5
TOTAL BASE COST   1,913.3 2,534.2   4,447.5        9.5   12.7   22.2   57  100.0
Physical
Contingencies      191.3   253.4      444.7      0.9    1.3    2.2   57   10.0
Price
Contingencies      502.4   666.0   1,168.4       2.5    3.3    5.8   57   26.0
TOTAL COST         2,607.0 3,453.6   6,060.6    12.9   17.3   30.2   57  136.0
6.02      Project costs are calculated at prices of March 1981.  A physical
contingency of 10% of all Project costs has been included. In view of the
experience of the first afforestation project and the strict management
standards of FANALAMANGA, this level of physical contingencies is adequate.
Price contingencies were calculated on a cumulative basis, at a weighted



- 26 -
average rate for domestic and international inflation of 12% for 1981 and 11%
thereafter. All costs, except studies, are based on FANALAMANGA's experience
during the first project and pro-forma invoices. The cost of the feasibility
studies for the silvo-industrial development of the Mangoro forest resources
was estimated on the basis of the "Project Document" established by UNDP for
their financing of these studies (UNDP Project Document MAG/80/002/C/01/12).
B.  Financing
6.03      The sources of funds to finance the Project are summarized below:
FMG Million    US$ Million       %
IDA                    4,000           20.0          66
BADEA                    850            4.2          14
UNDP                      180           0.9           3
Government             1,031            5.1          17
Total       6,061           30.2         100
6.04      The proposed IDA credit of US$2Q.0 million equivalent would be on
standard terms to Government. UNDP is providing US$900,000 as a grant to
finance the feasibility studies for silvo-industrial development (paras 5.28
to 5.33). Government's contribution and an amount equivalent to the proceeds
of the IDA credit (except the proceeds used for the financing of studies to
prepare projects in the agriculture and forestry sector) and of the BADEA
loan would be added to FANALAMANGA's equity capital. A Subsidiary Agreement to
be signed between the Government and FANALAMANGA would provide that the conversion
to equity take place at a date to be agreed upon and that interest at 12 percent
per annum on the funds transferred to FANALAMANGA be capitalized at the same time.
Conditions of the effectiveness of the IDA credit would be that (i) a subsidiary
agreement, satisfactory to the Association, between Government and FANALAMANGA,
has been executed, and that (ii) the BADEA loan agreement has been executed.
C. Procurement
6.05      Procurement of equipment and vehicles (US$ 5.7 million), and of
fertilizers and chemicals (US$ 3.0 million) in orders exceeding US$ 120,000
would be by international competitive bidding. Out of the US$5.7 million for
equipment and vehicles, about half would be financed by BADEA and procured
according to its international competitive bidding procedures. A list of the
main equipment and vehicles to be procured under the Project is given in Table
2. Most of the buildings and roads (US$7.0 million) would continue to be
constructed by force account by FANALAMANGA, because this arrangement was
successful during the first plantation project, and because local and inter-
national contractors would not be interested by this type of works, because of
their small size, and remote and scattered location. Some civil works,
however, are expected to be carried out by private contractors following
Government local competitive bidding procedures which are satisfactory.
Afforestation, maintenance of the plantation, and of roads and buildings, and
pasture improvement, valued at US$12.0 million equivalent (excluding the
procurement of fertilizers and chemicals) would be carried out by FANALAMANGA
on force account. Most of the research work (US$500,000), and the studies for



- 27 -
the preparation of projects (US$ 1.0 million) in the agriculture and forestry
sectors would be contracted to firms and consultants whose terms of reference,
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment would be
satisfactory to the Association (para 5.21).  The firm of consultants to carry
out the silvo-industrial development feasibility studies (US$ 1.0 million) was
selected following UNDP procedures (para 5.29).
D. Disbursements
6.06      The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed over four years on the
following basis:
Amount                               % of
Allocated                         Expenditures
(SDR million) 1/                   to be Financed 1/
(:l)  Civil works and       7,320,000       (US$ 9.0 m)    80% of foreign and
afforestation                                         65% of local expend-
itures
(2)  Administrative costs  2,440,000        (US$ 3.0 m)    80% of total expend-
itures
(3)  Vehicles and equip-   1,630,000        (US$ 2.0 m)    100 of foreign and
ment                                                  80% of local expend-
itures
(4)  Supply and applica-   1,630,000        (US$ 2.0 m)    100% of foreign and
tion of fertilizers                                   80% of local expend-
and chemicals                                          itures
(5)  Research, training        410,000      (US$ 0.5 m)    100% of foreign and
and consultant                                         80% of local expend-
services                                               itures
(6)  Consultant services       820,000      (US$ 1.0 m)    100% of foreign and
for the preparation                                    80% of local expend-
of agricultural                                        itures
projects
(7)  Pasture improvement       170,000      (US$ 0.2 m)    100% of foreign and
80% of local expend-
itures
(8)  Unallocated             1,880,000      (US$ 2.3 m)
Total Credit          16,300,000       (US$ 20.0 m)
1/   The BADEA Loan would be of US$4.2 m equivalent, and BADEA would jointly
finance with IDA category (1) in the ratio 20% (BADEA) to 80% (IDA), and
would finance in parallel category (3).



- 28 -
All disbursements for expenditures in foreign currencies would be fully docu-
mented. Disbursements for expenditures in local currency against categories
(1), (2), (5) and (7) would be made against statements of expenditure certi-
fied by the Financial Director of FANALAMANGA and approved by the Ministry of
Finance, because it would be impracticable to require full documentation; the
administrative and accounting capability of FANALAMANGA to prepare statements
of expenditure records is satisfactory, and there are adequate internal checks
and controls, the review of which would be reinforced during Project implemen-
tation (para 5.27). All other disbursements would be made against contracts
and would be fully documented. An.estimated schedule of disbursements is
given in Table 3.
VII. PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES
A. General
7.01      The mix of the forest products to be produced from the Mangoro
area will depend on the choice of the industrial development program which
will ultimately be selected. The definition and the selection of this
industrial development program are the object of the studies described at
paras. 5.28 to 5.33. The wood products which would be produced would be most
likely to include one or several of the following: bleached kraft pulp,
newsprint, sack kraft, sawnwood, linerboard, particle board and wood chips.
The above study would review in detail the expected market situation for
alternative and complementary products, with particular reference to export
and domestic markets, expected developments of these markets, prices and price
expectations.
7.02      The two main most likely forest products which can be derived from
the Project production are bleached pulp and sawn wood. The present chapter
discusses the production, markets and prices of these two products.
B. Production
Yields
7.03      The oldest plantations in the Project area are about ten years old,
and about half of the total 65,000 ha currently established is less than five
years old. Therefore limited yield data are available to calculate the ex-
pected production from the Project plantations during their growth period (18
years for pulpwood, 25 years for sawnwood). On the basis of experience.in
the Project area, and experience from similar plantations in Madagascar and
elsewhere, it is esjimated that a gross mean annual increment over bark (MAI
o.b.) of about 15 m /ha/year could be achieved. This growth is in line with
that of similar plantations elsewhere in Eastern Africa. With allowances for
the volume of 3bark and losses, the mean annual increment under bark (MAI u.b.)
would be 12 m /ha/year for the Project plantations. This yield appears realistic
as yields in similar plantations are about 15 cubie meters per ha at age 15 years,
and trials carried out in the Project area yielded over 13 cubie meters per ha
at 12 years. However, as the detailed inventory of the plantation is not yet
completed, there remain some uncertainties regarding the final yield to be
expected of the Mangoro Plantation.



- 29 -
Production
7.04      The ultimate size of the plantation program would depend on the
type of industrial development which will be selected. If the wood resources
are used mainly for sawmilling, it is probable that the total area of about
90,000 ha which would be expected to have been planted by the end of the
proposed Prgject in 1984 would not be extended. îood production would average
1 million m u.b. per annum, i.e. about 400,000 m of sawnwood and an equiva-
lent amount of by-products. If the wood resources are used mainly to provide
raw material to a large pulpmill with a capacity of 250-300,000 tons of
bleached sulphate pulp per annum, a total3area of 110-130,000 ha would be
required to produce the 1.3-1.6 million m of wood necessary for the pulpmill.
C. Markets and Prices
Wood Pulp
7.05      Woodpulp is used for the manufacture of paper and paperboard of
various types, the demand for which determines the demand for woodpulp.
Woodpulp is produced in various grades, depending on the source of the raw
material (softwood-long fiber and hardwood-short fiber) and on the industrial
process used to manufacture the pulp. Present world consumption of woodpulp
is about 190 million metric tons per annum and is expected to increase to
about 270 million tons by 1990. Of the latter figure, about one-third would
be bleached softwood sulfate pulp. However, most of the pulp produced in the
world is produced in integrated pulp and paper mills established in the
industrialized countries, and only about 25% of total woodpulp production is
traded internationally, mostly in the form of sulfate market pulp, softwood
pulp representing about 70% of the market.
7.06      Estimates of trade between regions in bleached softwood sulfate pulp
and price projections were prepared by the FAO and an Industry Working Party
organized by FAO's Advisory Committee on Pulp and Paper in 1978. The trade
projections are summarized below:
SOFTWOOD
1980                    1990
Region                     Export      Import       Export     Import
- --------------000 ADMT -----------
North America                     2,751        -          3,544         -
Western Europe                      -        1,328          -         1,652
Japan                               -           653         -         1,279
Latin America                       -           205         175         -
Other Eastern Hemisphere            -           565         -           785
Centrally Planned                   -           -           -           -
Total                  2,751       2,751        3,719      3,716



- 30 -
7.07      Although the price of pulp broadly follows general changes in
macroeconomic activity, short term variations occur with changes in market
conditions and in the level of inventories. During the 1970-1980 period,
prices fluctuated each year by about 12% under and above their yearly average
level. Average prices of softwood bleached sulphate pulp CIF Europe have
remained fairly stable in the range of US$ 530/ton - US$ 700/ton (in 1981
prices) since 1965, except in 1978 when prices dropped to US$ 470/ton on
average because of excess inventories. Pulp prices are expected to increase
slightly in real terms during the next five to ten years; in the economic
analyses included in the present report, an equilibrium long-term price
of pulp of US$ 665/ton CIF Market Area (in 1981 prices) has been used, corres-
ponding of an ex-mill price of US$ 565/ton.
7.08      Most of the woodpulp which might be produced from the Mangoro
plantations would be exported, as not more than an additional 10,000 tons of
pulp would be needed annually for domestic consumption during the next 15
years. It is expected that the major part of the pulp production would be
exported to European and Far-Eastern countries.
Sawnwood
7.09      Domestic production oi sawnwood is currently about 170,000 m , out
of which not more than 20,000 m come from sawmills. The annual demand for
mechanically sawn wood, mainly pine for construction and laminated wood,
which is Ilready larger than proquction, is expected to increase sharply, to
110>000 m in 1990 and 130,000 m in 1995.
7.10      World demand for sawn softwood is expgcted to grow by 1.6 perceet
p.a. over the next 20 pears, from 335 million m in 1977 to 405 million m in
1990 and 450 million m in the year 2000. It is expected that Canada and, to
a lesser extent, the United States will substantially increase their production
to meet this demand, but the share of developing countries in world trade should
increase significantly; althougM it will remain limited in absolute terms, it
should grow from 11.5 million m in 1975 to 30 million m by 2000. The bulk
of this increase would be provided by Chile and Brazil. Of particular inter-
est for Madagascar is the projection of a sustained demand for softwood from
Japan and the oil-producing countries of the Middle East. Japan currently
imports a substantial part of its softwood needs in the form of logs (mainly
from the USA and the USSR), but it is expected that sawnwood imports will 3ake
an increasing share 3of Japan's softwood imports, rising from 2.8 million m in
1975 to 6 million m  in 2900.  This could proviSe an outlet for the marketing
of about 250 to 300,000 m  out of the 400,000 m  of sawn sof5wood which could
be produced annually from the Mangoro area, 100 to 150,000 m being locally
consumed.
7.11      Among the softwoods currently traded internationally, US Southern
Pine most closely resembles the species which are grown in the Mangoro area,
and its prices can be applied to Mangoro sawnwood. The average price for US



- 31 -
Southern Pine sawnwood was about US$110/m  FOB in 1977; it is expected that
softwood lumber prices will rise in real terms at an average annual rate of
2 to 3% Intil the year 2000, which would result in a net ex-mill price of
US$158/m in Madagascar. This value has been used in the analyses. It
happens to correspond closely to the prices of FMG30,000-33,000/m ex-mill
paid for sawn pine on the local market in mid-1980.
7.12      During the thinning stage of the plantations, prices of sawnwood
would be slightly lower, since most of the sawlogs would be of smaller size
and of lower quality. It has therefore been assumed that the price of sawn-
wood from 12 to 15-year thinnings would be 30% lower than the base price for
sawnwood from 25-year logs.
VIII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Methodology and Basic Assumptions
General
8.01      The proposed plantation Project would provide part of the raw
material necessary for the operation of a silvo-industrial complex to be.
established in the Project area. The justification of the Project is based
on the entire Mangoro afforestation and silvo-industrial development program.
The detailed plans for the silvo-industrial development of the Managro forest
resources would be established as part of the UNDP-financed feasibility
studies to be carried under the proposed Project (paras 4.06 and 5.01). The
silvo-industrial development which would be finally retained would most
probably integrate the production of a variety of products in order to utilize
fully the available wood resources and to maximize the return on investment,
taking into account the economic and financial constraints that the Government
is currently facing and might continue to face in the coming years. The
silvo-industrial development program is therefore expected to provide for the
production of a mix of wood products of various sorts, such as woodpulp, sawn
wood and wood chips.
8.02      Preliminary economic and financial calculations have been made to
test the viability of the proposed Project, and of the overall program,
including sunk costs. Two silvo-industrial models have been developed,
corresponding respectively to the lower and upper ends of the spectrum of the
size of capital investments which could permit the full utilization of the
Mangoro forest resources. The least capital intensive model corresponds to
the establishment of a saw milling industry, requiring capital investments of
about US$75 million equivalent (in 1981 prices) phased over a 12 year period.
The most capital intensive model corresponds to the construction of a large
pulpmill with an annual capacity of 270,000 tons of pulp, requiring capital
investments of about US$500 million equivalent (in 1981 prices) phased over a
six year period. These two models, however, do not necessarily correspond to
optimal development scenarios under capital resources constraints; the defini-
tion of such optimal scenarios would be carried out as part of the silvo-
industrial development studies described earlier.



- 32 -
8.03      In order to show the economic rate of return of the proposed 3-year
plantation Project, the return on the incremental costs and benefits was
calculated; for the "without Project" situation, it was assumed for the sake
of simplicity that the entire existing plantations would be used for sawmilling.
All prices are expressed in mid-1981 prices, net of taxes and duties, and
include a physical contingency of about 10%. Market wage rates were used. In
the economic analyses, foreign exchange costs and benefits were valued at FMG
237/US$ (the exchange rate used in the financial calculations is FMG 200/US$)
to reflect more accurately the scarcity value of foreign exchange. Output
(sawn wood and woolpulp) was valued at export parity prices on the basis on
the data presented in Chapter VII. The Project life was assumed to be 40
years, without residual value on capital investments. In the financial
analyses, it was assumed for both models that silvo-industrial developments
would be financed by equity (40%) of which Government would hold 51%, and by
external debt (60%) at 12% interest rate per annum capitalized during con-
struction and repaid over 20 years.
Sawmilling Model
8.04      For the sawmilling model, it was assumed that plantation would stop
at the end of the proposed Project. The total planted area would be about
90,000 ha, and would be exploited on a 25 years rotation. The sawmilling
scheme is based on the construction of 12 id ntical sawmills, built over a
12-year Reriod, and each processing 80,000 m of roundwood annually (i.e.
35,000 m of sawn wood). Although by-products from felling and sawing waste
could also be exported as pulpwood chips, these benefits have not been included
in the analysis because the cost of chipping and exporting the chips could not
be quantified without detailed studies.
8.05      The estimate of the capital and operating costs of the sawmills
was derived from experience in other countries in East Africa, and from data
gathered by the appraisal mission. Plantation costs were estimated on the
basis of FANALAMANGA's experience during the ongoing first phase project. The
costs of logging, transport and infrastructure were calculated on the basis
of the FAO pre-feasibility study (para 4.06) and the mission's estimates.
Pulpmill Model
8.06      The pulpmill model assumes that a bleached sulphate pulpmill with a
capacity of 270,000 TPA would be established. The total planted area would be
about 118,000 ha, and would be exploited on an 18 years rotation. Assumptions
regarding pulpmill capacity, design, capital and operating costs are based on
the FAO pre-feasibility study (para 4.06), updated for inflation between 1978
and 1981. Capital expenses which might be required for specific equipment
for power supply, railway fixed infrastructure or port equipment have not been
included, but corresponding tariffs and fees take these into account.
B. Economic and Financial Evaluation
Summary
8.07      The proposed plantation Project appears economically viable.  The
economic rates of return for the establishment of sawmills and for the con-
struction of a pulpmill would be respectively about 12% and 11%. The annual



- 33 -
net incremental benefits, foreign exchange earning, and economic and financial
rates of return of these two options are shown below, with more detailed
discussions appearing at paras 8.10 to 8.16. A summary of the rates of return
and sensitivity analyses is at Table 8.
Invest. in   Net Annual       Net Annual       Economic  Financial
End Use             Processing   Incremental      Foreign Exch.   Rate of   Rate of
Option              Facilities   Benefits    1/  Earnings       1/ Return    Return
-----------US$ million equivalent---------                 (%)
Sawmills
(12 units 2of
80,000 m  o.b.)        75       13 (6)            19 (12)          12 1/4    Il 1/2
Pulpmill
(270,000 TPA)         500        80 (28)           97 (45)          10 3/4    10 1/4
1/   At full development in 92/93, before debt service and dividends, in 1981
prices. Figures in brackets show net benefits after debt service and
dividends under the assumptions at para 8.03.
8.08      The proposed three-years plantation Project would provide continued
employment to the 1,600 workers employed by FANALAMANGA. This figure would
increase in future phases to about 5,000 as a result of logging and industrial
operations. Unquantifiable benefits include the consolidation of the
institution-building achievements of the first forestry project, pasture
improvement, protection against soil erosion and benefits accruing to farmers
in adjacent areas who sell their produce to Project workers.
8.09      The economic rate of return of the overall Mangoro afforestation
program, including the proposed Project, was also calculated, taking into
account the sunk costs incurred between 1969 and 1974, and between 1975 and
1980 during the first phase project. The EER would be about 8% if the planta-
tion's production is used for sawmilling, and about 10% if it is used to
provide raw materials for a large pulpmill. These marginal rates of return do
not permit to draw firm conclusions regarding the appropriateness of the
original decision to proceed with the afforestation program. It should be
noted that the ERR on the overall afforestation program is quite sensitive to
assumptions made for output prices (woodpulp and sawnwood) and, to a lesser
extent, for mill capital and operating costs. A firmer judgement on the
economic viability of the overall afforestation program could only be made,
therefore, when the silvo-industrial development feasibility studies are
completed.



- 34 -
Sawmilling Model
8.10      The base economic rate of return of the plantation Project (ERR)
would be about 12%. It is not very sensitive to changes in capital and oper-
ating costs. If any of these costs varied by 20%, the ERR would change by
less than one percentage point in the opposite direction. The ERR is more
sensitive to sawnwood prices: if prices decreased by 10% over the entire
Project life, the ERR would fall to about 11%. If prices increased by 10%,
the ERR would be about 13%. The switching values, using an opportunity cost
of capital of 10%, are as follows: about 40% for afforestation and mainten-
ance, and for logging and transport, over 100% for sawmills capital and
operating costs, and about 20% for the benefits.
8.11      The base financial rate of return would be about 11.5%.  Like the
ERR, it is not sensitive to variations in costs and benefits. The Government
cash-flow is shown at Table 4. The period 1981/82 - 1983/84 corresponds
to the proposed plantation Project and shows a cumulative deficit of FMG 840
million (US$ 4.2 million) over the three-year period. The net cash flow
would become positive in Project Year 8. At full development in 1991/92,
Government's net annual cash flow would be FMG 2,600 million (US$ 13 million)
in 1981 prices before interest, debt service and distribution of dividends,
and FMG 1,200 million (US$ 6 million) after interest, debt service, and
distriblition of dividends under the assumptions made at para 8.03. Net
foreign exchange earnings would be about US$ 19 million equivalent before
interest, debt service, and distribution of dividends, and US$12 million after
these distributions.
Pulpmill Model
8.12      The base ERR would be about 11%.  It is moderately sensitive to
changes in capital and operating costs. A change of 20% in capital costs
would result in a change of the ERR by about two percentage points in the
opposite direction. A change of 20% in operating costs would change the ERR
by about one percentage point. The ERR is sensitive to pulp prices, which is
usual for this type of industry. A 10% decrease in pulp prices over the
entire Project life would result in a decrease of the ERR from about 11% to
9%. A delay of one year in pulp production after the pulpmill has been built
would lower the ERR to 10.5%. If production capacity decreased by 10% with
an accompanying decrease in variable costs, the ERR would be about 10%.
Because the cost of the afforestation program is small compared with the cost
of establishing a pulpmill, the viability of such investment would not be
significantly affected by delays in starting construction. The switching
values, using an opportunity cost of capital of 10%, are as follows: about
50% for afforestation and maintenance, and for logging and transport, 10% for
pulpmill capital costs, 15% for pulpmill operating costs, and 5% for the
benefits.
8.13      The base financial rate of return would be about 10%.  Like the
ERR, it is moderately sensitive to changes in costs and quite sensitive to
changes in benefits. The Government cash-flow is shown at Table 5. The net
cash-flow would show a cumulative deficit of US$ 4.2 million equivalent in
Project Year 3 as a result of the proposed three-year plantation Project.
The net cash flow would become positive in Project Year 9. At full develop-
ment in 1992/93, Government net cash-flow would be FMG 16,000 million
(US$ 80 million) before interest, debt service, and distribution of dividends,



- 35 -
and FMG 5,600 million (US$ 28 million) after interest, debt service and
dividends. Net annual foreign exchange earnings would be about US$ 97 million
equivalent (respectively US$ 45 million) before (respectively after) interest,
debt service, and distribution of dividends.
C. Project Uncertainties and Risks
Uncertainties
8.:l4    There are several uncertainties which may affect the above conclu-
sions on the economic and financial viability of the Mangoro afforestation
program. The industrial development plans for the utilization of the wood
produced by the Mangoro plantations are not finalized, and therefore the
nature and the scope of the future investments, and the organization and
management details of the future industrial operations are not known. The
basic data used in the two models (pulpmill and sawmills) examined above
mostly result from the updating of prefeasibility studies carried out in 1978,
and there is a significant margin of error in assessing the cost of the
various components. Finally, the forecasting of long term output prices
yields inherently uncertain results. Most of these uncertainties are expected
to be resolved by the feasibility studies included in the proposed affore-
station Project.
Risks
8.15     There are no unusual risks regarding the continuation of the affores-
tation program. Risks arising from forest fires would be reduced by the
provision of additional fire-fighting equipment, fire watching towers, pruning
of trees and controlled burning. Risks of disease outbreak would continue to
be controlled by systematic health monitoring of the plantations. Potential,
problems due to conflicts with farmers and cattle owners in the Project area
or to social unrest are reduced by the pasture improvement program and by
FANALAMANGA's management good relationships with its labor force and the local
community. FANALAMANGA might be converted into a socialist enterprise, and
the impact of such a change on FANALAMANGA's efficiency cannot be foreseen at
this stage (para 5.26). However, the risk of adverse developments within
FANALAMANGA is mitigated by Government's strong commitment to the Project.  Another
risk is that wood yields could be less than estimated which would delay implement-
ation of the silvo-industrial development of the Mangoro Valley, and somewhat reduce
its profitability.
8.16     The risks which might affect the success of the silvo-industrial
development program result from the uncertainties mentioned in para 8.13. If
the industrial development finally retained required large investments,
Government might not be able to raise sufficient funds, and the industrial
development program would be delayed. This, however, would not significantly
affect the viability of the afforestation program as a whole because the costs
of afforestation and plantation maintenance are small compared with the cost
of a silvo-industrial complex. However, interrupting the plantation program
until industrial development planning is completed would seriously disrupt the
Project entity and might jeopardize the success of the entire program (para
5.01). To continue the plantation program while completing the industrial
development studies is therefore the best strategy.



- 36 -
IX. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
9.02      Assurances were received at Credit negotiations that:
(i) the consultants employed to carry out research work and
to assist in the studies for the preparation of projects
in the agriculture and forestry sectors would have terms
of reference, qualifications, experience and conditions
of employment satisfactory to the Association (para 5.21);
(ii)  Government would inform the Association of any intended
changes in FANALAMANGA's management and capital structure
sufficiently in advance to give it the opportunity to
comment on such changes, and that Government would cause
FANALAMANGA to continue to employ a General Manager with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Associa-
tion (para 5.26);
(iii) FANALAMANGA would continue to follow the accounting,
auditing and reporting requirements satisfactory to the
Association (para 5.27);
(iv)  Government would discuss with the Association the progress
and implementation of the silvo-industrial development
study whenever required, and would continue to employ con-
sultants with terms of reference, qualifications and
experience satisfactory to the Association to carry out
such study (para 5.29);
(v) the boundaries of the plantation areas would continue to be
-   drawn so as to minimize any conflict with local land use
patterns (para 5.34); and that
(vi)  sound environmental practices would continue to be followed
under the Project, and that adequate steps would be taken
by Government to minimize any adverse ecological effects
resulting from silvo-industrial development (para 5.35).
9.03     Conditions of credit effectiveness would be that (i) the statutes of
FANALAMANGA have been revised in a manner satisfactory to the Association
(para 5.22) and that (ii) a subsidiary agreement, satisfactory to the Associa-
tion, between Government and FANALAMANGA, and the BADEA loan have been executed
(para 6.04).
9.04     Subject to the above conditions, the proposed Project would be
suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 16.3 million (US$ 20.0 million) to the
Government of Madagascar on standard terms.



TABLE 1
- 37 -
MADAGASCAR
MANGORO FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE II
Project Cost
(FMG Million)
Foreign
1981/82   1982/83   1983/84    Total   Exchange
1.  _Aforestation                                                                        ()
(a)  Surveys                               3.3        3.3        3.3        9.9      25
(b)  Pine                                241.0      241.0     241.0      723.0       35
(c)  Eucalytpus                            9.3       18.6      18.6       46.5       35
Subtotal                       253.6      262.9      262.9      779.4       35
2. Maintenance
(a)  Fire Control & Protection            60.9      60.9       60.9      182.7       25
(b)  Fertilization                       226.3       84.3      84.3      394.7       90
(c)  Roads Maintenance                    1.8.0      18.0      18.0       54.0       80
(d)  Buildings Maintenance                21.0       23.0      25.0       69.0       10
Subtotal                       326.2      186.2      188.2      700,6       64
3.  Raads                                    212.9      212.9      212.9      638.7       80
4.  Buildings and Housing                    140.1      124.7      124.8      389.6       30
5. Administration
(a)  Staff Salaries & Allowances         159.5      162.2     170.5      492.2       --
(b)  Vehicle Running Costs                30.9       31.8      32.5       95,2       80
(c)  Miscellaneous                        10.0       10.0      11,0       31.0       20
Subtotal                       200.4      204.0      214.0      618.4       13
6.  Vehicles & Eguipment                     164.6      576.1       82.3      823.0       95
7.  Pasture Improvement                         7.3       7.3        7.3       21.9       70
8.  Research and Training                     25.3       25.3       25.3       75.9       10
9. Studies
(a)  Preparation Other Projects           50.0       50.0      100.0      200.0       60
(b)  Feasibility Studies                 100.0       50.0       50.0      200.0       90
t                  Subtotal                        150.0      100.0      150.0      400.0       75
TOTAL BASE COST  1/                    1,480.4   1,699.4   l,267J7   4,447.5          57
Physical Contingencies                   148.0      169.9      126.8      444,7       57
Price Contingencies                      202.0      444.9      521.5   1,168.4        57
TOTAL PROJECT COST                     1,830.4   2,314.2   1,916.0    6060-6          57
1/ In 1981 constant prices.



- 38 -
TABLE 2
MADAGASCAR
MANGORO FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE Il                                        PROJET FORESTIER DU MANGORO - PHASE II
Main Vehicles and Equipment to be Procured                                  Principaux véhicules et équipement à acquérir
____--FMG '000------
Number/  Unit Cost/   Total Cost/
Items                        Nombre  Prix Unitaire Prix Total                           Articles
Bulldozer 140-160 HP, with shovel             2        26,400         52,800           Bulldozer 140 à 160 CV équipé de pelle
Grader 120-140 HP                             1        24,200         24,200           Niveleuse 120 à 140 CV
Grader with front shovel                      3        22,000         66,000           Niveleuse équipée de pelle frontal
100-120 HP                                                                             100 à 120 CV
Loader 80-100 HP                              4        17,600         70,400           Pelle chargeuse 80 a 100 CV
Tipper truck 4-4.5 t                         l0        14,000       140,000            Camion benne 4-4.5 T.
Tipper truck 2-4 t                            3         8,000         24,000           Camion benne 2 à 4 T.
Tipper truck 6-8 t                            5        11,000         55,000           Camion benne 6 à 8 T.
Flatbed truck 6-8 t                           2        10,000         20,000           Camion plateau de 6 à 8 T.
Covered truck 7-9 HP                         17         2,600         44,200           Camionnette bâchée de 7 à 9 CV
Trailer (boxed) 2-3 t                         3           900          2,700           Semi-remorque 2 à 3 T. à caisson
Disc plough (16)                              3         3,500         10,500           Charrue à disques (16)
Disc plough (20)                              3         1,200          3,600           Pulvériseur à disques (20)
Moped                                         9            220         ],980           Vélomoteur
Light truck 3-5 HP                            7         1,600         11,200           Fourgonnette 3 à 5 CV
Motorscraper                                  2        29,000         58,000           Motorscraper
Water truck (fixed) 4-6,000 1                 1        10,000         10,000            Camion citerne fixe 4 à 6,000 1
Roller                                        2        19,000         38,000           Autocompacteur
Van 7-9 HP                                    4         2,900         11,600           Break 7 à 9 CV
Automobile 8-10 HP                            1         3,500          3,500           Berline e à 1C CF
4WD vehicle 6-9 HP                            3          3,000         9,000           Voiture tout terrain vitrée 6 à 9 CV
Radio telephone, fixed                        3            960         2,880            Radio téléphone fixe
Walkie-talkie                                10            530         5,300            Poste émetteur-récepteur portatif
Water tank with pump, 4000 1                 il          3,000        33,000            Citerne avec moto-pompe, 4,000 1
Watering pump                                 7         1,050          7,350           Moto-pompe d'arrosage
Watering equipment                            7         2,000         14,000           Accessoire pour arrosage
Office equipment                              -           -            7,000           Equipement de bureau
Nursery equipment, misc.                      7            370         2,590           Autre équipement pépiniêre
Fire-fighting equipment                       -           -            6,000           Equipement peleton pompier
Inventory equiprent                           -           -            6,600           Equipement inventaire
Carage equipment                              -           -           20,000           Equipement atelier
Survey and road work equipment                -           -           28,000           Equipement topographique et route
Camping equipment                             -           -            3,500           Matériel de camping
Other equipment                               -            -          30,000           Autres matériels et équrpement
822,900
Phased as fotlows:
Proect Year:       1981    1982    1983    Total
20%     70%      10%      100%
FMG m.              164.6   576.1    82.3    823.0



TABLE 3
- 39 -
MADAGASCAR
MANGORO FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE II
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ Million)
Cumulative
IDA Fiscal Year                 Quarterly         Disbursements
and Quarter                 Disbursements    at End of Quarter
1981/82
September 30, 1981
December  31, 1981                 0.4                  0.4
March      31, 1982                1.2                  1.6
June      30, 1982                 1.2                  2.8
1982/83
September 30, 1982                 2.0                  4.8
December  31, 1982                 2.0                  6.8
March      31, 1983                2.0                  8.8
June      30, 1983                 2.0                 10.8
1983/84
September 30, 1983                 1.5                 12.3
December  31, 1983                 1.5                 13.8
March      31, 1984                1.5                 15.3
June      30, 1984                 1.5                 16.8
1984/85
September 30, 1984                 1.5                 18.3
December  31, 1984                 1.0                 19.3
March      31, 1985                0.7                 20.0
June       30, 1985



-40-                                                                    TABLE 4
MADAGASCAR
MANGORO FORESTRY PROJIECT - PHASE Il
Government Cash Flow - Plantation for Sawmilling 1/
(FMG billion)
81/82   82/83   83/84   84/85   85/86   86/87   87/88   88/89   89/90   90/91   91/92   92/93   99/00
SOURCES OF FUNDS
External   - Phase II Project              1.06    1.27    0.88
UNDP Grant - Studies                       0.09    0.05    0.05
Other External Financing:
Loans - Sawmills                          -       1.64     -        -      2.09      -      2.23      -        -      2.09
Equity - Sawmills                         -      0.54      -        -      0.68      -      0.73      -       -       0.68
Government:
Phase Il Project                         0.27    0.32    0.22       -            -       -        -       -        -       -            -        _
Equity - Sawmills                         -      0.56      -        -      0.71      -      0.76      -       -       0.71
Sawnwood Sales                            .          -      0.70    0.70    2.20    2.20    2.31    4.83    5.04    5.25    7.28    7.28    7.28
TOTAL SOURCES                            1.42    4.38    1.85    0.70    5.68    2.20    6.03    4.83    5.04    8.73    7.28    7.28    7.28
USES OF FUNDS
Afforestation and Studies                  1.42    1.64    1.15    0.40    0.40    0.40    0.40    0.40    0.40    0.40    0.40    0.40    0.55
Logging, Transport and Miec. Invest.        -       1.50    0.51    0.51    1.36    1.39    1.39    1.39    2.32    2.32    2.32    2.76    3.40
Sawmills Construction                       -       1.24     -        -      2.48      -      3.72      -        -      2.48      -       -        -
Sawmills Operation                          -        -      0.18    0.18    0.18    0.54    0.54    1.08    1.08    1.08    1.44    1.44    1,44
Interests and Principal                     -      0.09    0.23    0.21    0.27    0.37    0.40    0.48    0.45    0.42    0.46    0.41    0.15
Surplus Funds  2/                           -      (0.09)  (0.22)  (0.60)   0.99   (0.50)  (0.42)   1.48    0.79    2.03    2.66    2.27    1,74
TOTAL USES                                 1.42    4.38    1.85    0.70    5.68    2.20    6.03    4.83    5.04    8.73    7.28    7.28    7.28
GOVERNMENT CASH Fl.OW                        (0.27)  (0.97)  (0.44)  (0.60)   0.28   (0.50)  (1.18)   0.76    0.40    0.33    1.36    1.16    0.90
1/  In 1981 constant prices.  See assumuptions at para 8.03.  Figures may not exactly add up due to rounding.
:/  Of which 5l accrue to Government,



- 41 -                                                                   TABLE 5
MADAGASCAR
MANGORO FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE II
Government Cash Flow - Plantation for Pulp Production 1/
(FMG billion)
81/82   82/83   83/84   84/85   85/86   86/87   87/B8   88/89   89/90   90/91   91/92   92/93   99/00
SOURCES OF FUNDS
External   - Phase Il Project              1.06    1.27    0.88       -       -        -       -
UNDP Crant - Studies                       0.09    0.05    0.05       -       -        -       -
Other External Financing:
Plantacion 84/85-87/88                    -       -        -      0.92    0.93    0.94    0.95
Pulpmill Capital   Loans                  -       _        -      2.48    7.29   16.43   28.31    8.74    4.95
Pulpmill Capital - Equity                 -       -        -      0.11    2.38    5.37    9.25    2.86    1.61
Governmenit
Phase Il Project                         0.27    0.32    0.22      -        -       -        -       -        -       _        _                _
Plantation q4/85-87/88                    -       -        -      0.23    0.23    0.24    0.24       -        -
Equity Investment - Pulpmill              -       -        -      0.84    2.48    5.58    9.63    2.97    1.68
Woodpulp Sales                              -        -       -       -        -        -       -     11.99   19.54   23.98   26.97   30.51   30.51
TOTAL SOURCES                            1.42    1.64    1.15    5.28   13.31   28.56   48.38   26.56   27.77   23.98   26.97   30.51   30.51
USES OF FUNDS
Afforestation and Studies                  1.42    1.64    1.15    1.15    1.16    1.18    1.19    0,78    0.88    0.93    0.93    0.99    0.92
Logging, Transport and Mis-. invest.        -        -       -       -        -       -       7.19    3.78    4.00    4.56    5.04    5.18    3.49
Pulpmill Constructian                       -        -       -      4.13   12.15   27.38   40.00   10.97    4.24    0.94    0.94    0.94    0.94
Pulpmill ()peration                                 _-                        -       -        -      6.40    7.65    7.98    8.40    7.40    7.40
Interests and Principal                     -       -      0.01    0.01    0.01    0.01    0.01    0.01    0.01    6.60    5.69    5.10    1.70
Surplus Funds  2/                                   _      (0.01)  (0.01)  (0.01)  (0.01)  (0.01)   4.62   10.99    2.97    5.97   10.90   16.06
_oTAL USES                               1.42    1.64    1.15    5.28   13.31   28.56   48.38   26.56   27.77   23.98   26.97   30.51   30.51
NET COVERNÎMENT CASH FUW                    (0.27)  ç0.32)   0_.23)  çL08)  (2.72)  (5.83)  (9.88)  (0.62)   3.92    1.51    3.04    5.56    8.19
1/  in 1981 constant prices.  See .ssusmptions at para 8.03.  Figures may not e.actly add-up due to rounding.
2/  Of which 51" accrue to Cevernment



MADAGASC AR
MANGORO FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE II
Caicolation of Economic Rate oU Rntun - Plantation for Savmjlinj
(FMG million In 1981 pric-s)
81/82       82/83      83t84       84/85        85/86       86/e7       87/88       88/89      89/90        90/91      91/92        92/93       93/94       94/95       95/96       96/9r
Wll1H PROJECO
Cosis
Plantation. Rnd M.aint-n-nne                    1,421       1,627       1,135        400          400         400         400         400        400          400         400         400         400         400         400         545        57
Logging Rnd Transport                                         -           365        365          365       1,140       1,140       1,140      2,070        2,070       2,070       2,515       2,515       2,515       2,515       3,145        75
Sannill5 Capital Co-ts                                      1,240         -          -          2,480         -           -         3,720        -            -        2,480          -           -           -         4,960         -          80
Sannilit Operotimo Conns                          -           -           18'1       180          180         540         540         540      1,080        1,080       1,080      1,440        1,440       1,440       1,440       2,160        80
Minceli anenon Ienenent,                          -         1,500         150         150       1,000         250         250         250        250          250         250         250         250         250         250         250        80
Total Cnots                                  1.421      4.367        830                                             2           6050      3800          3.8          280       4,605       4.605        4.605       9.565       6.100
Benef its
Volume ni Saewnwoo  /000 eO  )                    -           -           35          35           35         105        15          105        210          210         210         280         280         280         280         420
Ave,a_g  Unit Pric- (FMC  GO /n )                 _          _             20         201          21          21          22          23         24           25          26          27          28          28          28          28
8ne-fits                                                              700         700          735       2.205       2.310       2,415     5f040        5.250       5.460       7,560        7.840       7.840       L8         11_760       100
Net Denefite                               (L.421)    (4,367)    (,130)          (395)      (3,690)       (125)        (20)    (3.635)    1,240         1.450        (820)      2,955        3,235      3.235      (1,725)    5660
WITIIOUT POOJECT
Maintenance                                       793         '52        559         324          324         324         324         324        324          324         324         324         324         324         324         324        57
Lnoging an-d Tro-spnri                            -           -          365         365          365       1,140       1,140       1,140     2,070        2,070       2,070       2,515        2,515       2,515       2,515       2,830        75
Sawmills Capital Co-s                             -        1,240         -           -          2,480         -           -         3,720        -            -        2,480          -           -           _         1,240         -          80
Saneili, Opnrating Costs                         -           -           180         180          180         540         540         540     1,080        1,080       1,080       1,440        1,440      1,440        1,440       1,620        80
Mi,celîaneooa Innenleents                         -        1,500         150         150        1,000         250         250         250        250          250        250          250         250         250         250         250        80
Total Costs                                   793       3*292       1254        L019         4,349       2J254      ,254        5.974      3,724        3.724       6.204       4.529       4.529       4.529       5.769        5.024
Henef tee
Vnln,e nf Sa.anwnnd ('000  I)                     -          -            35          35           35 135                 105         105        210          210        210          280         280         280         280         315
AnCrage Unit Price (FMC 'OS/n )                   -          _            20          20           21          21          22          23        24            25         26           27          28          28          28          28
BAnefits                                                              700         700          735 2-205            2.310       2S,1       5            5.250       5 460       7,560       7.840       7,840        7.840      8.820       100
Net 8ensfits                                 (793)    (3.292)        (554)       (319)      (3 614)        (49)         56     (_3559)    1.316         1.526        (744)      3,031       3.311                   2071        3.796
Net In-re -entl geneltsi                    (628)    (1,075)        (576)        (76)         1761        <761       (76)         762       <76)          (76)       <76)        (76)         (76)        (76)    (3,796)       1,864
toononie Rate nf Otetro:  12.257



MADAGASCAR
NeANGORO FORRSTRY PROJECT - PRASE II
Colo,lotion of ecoRromi Rote ai Retarn - flaotation for Falionill
(FMG million)
92/98
81/82     82/83      83/84      84/85      85/86     86/87      87/88      88/89      89/90      90/91      91/92      92/93      93/94      94/95      95/96      96/97       -.rds   F.K. %
WITH PROJOCT
Planting, RePîOnting  -ad Maite.nance                      1,421      1,631      1,149      1.147      1,162     1,177      1,191        784        878        927        927        992        992        976        931        923        923       57
Loogino and Transport                                         -         -          -          _          -         -        3,686      2,453      2,470      2,691      3,109      3,311      2,856      2,856      2,856      2,856      2,856       75
Roads anA driAgoo                                             -                    -          - '                  -        1,060      1,105      1,300      1,645      1,705      1,645      1,585      1,230        705        710        410       80
mi-celia-e-os Invertmonte                                     -         -          -          -          -                  2,442        227        227        227        227        227        227        227        227        227        227       80
PPID Mill - Capital Co-to                                     -         -          -       4,130    12,154    27,376    40,002    10,970          4,244        944        944        944        944        944        944        944        944       80
ReIp Mi1l - 0ne,Otîng Co-ta                                   -         -          -               -                -         -        6,400      7,650      7,975      8,406      7,400      7,400      7,400      7.400      7,400      7,400       80
TOTAL COSTS                                             1.421      1.631      1,149     5.277    13 316    28.553    49.381        21.939    16.769    14.409       15.318    14.519    14,004       13,633     13.063    13.060    12.760
BEOEFITS                                                                                                   -                   -      11.988    19.536    23.976       26,973    30.510    30,510    30.510    30,510    30.510    30.510            100
NET BENEF0TS                                               (1.421)   (1.631)   (1.149)   (5.277)  (13,316)  (28.553)  (48,381)   (9.951)    2.767            9.567    11.655    15.991    16.506    16,877    17,447    17,450    17.750
WlTliOUT 'ROJ2E-CT
COBTS
11ain1enonco                                                  793       552        559        324        324        324       324        324        324        324        324        324        324        324        324        324        324       57
Logging and Troo0oort                                         -         -          365        365        365     1,140      1,140      1,140      2,070      2,070      2,070      2,515      2,515      2,515      2,515      2,830      2,830       75
0a0o1lîn 0C05t0l Cortr                                        -       1,240                   -        2,48         -         -        3,720                   -        2,480        -          -          -        1,240        _          _         80
Setmill Op-erotiîg CosSt                                      -         -          180        180        180       540        540        540      1,080      1,080      1,080      1,440      1,440      1,440      1,440      1.620      1,620       80
Miscolloneoou  levestmenta                                    -       1,500        150        150      1,000        250        250       250        250        250        250        250        250        250        250        250        250       80
TOTAL COSTS                                               793      3.292      1,254      1.019     4,349      2,254      2.254      5,974      3.724      3,724      6.204      4.529      4.529      4,529      5,769      5,024      5.024
BENEFITS
Voltof 0 a n-ooo  ('000 e3)                                   -         -           35         35         35        105        105       105        210        210        210        280        280        280        280        315        315
Average UOit Prire (FNG 'Coo/-3)                              -         -           20         20         21         21         22         23        24         25         26         27         28         28         28          28         28
BENEFIT5                                                                        700        700        735     2.205       2,310     2.415      5.040      5.250      5.460      7.560      7.840      7,840      7,840      8.820      8.820      100
N8T BENEFITS                                              (793)   (3.292)      (554)      (319)   (3.614)       (49)        56    (3.559)    1.316        1,526       (744)    3.031       3.311      3,311      2.071      3.796      3.796
N8T INCRENENTAL BENEFITS                                  (628)    1,661       1595)   (4,958)   <9,702)  (28,504)  (48,437)   (6,392)    1,451           8,041     12,399    12,960    13,195    13,566        15,376                13,954
E-ofnto  Rate of RStre,   10.757,



- 44 -                               TABLE 8
MADAGASCAR
MANGORO FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE Il
Economic and Financial Rates of Return and Sensitivity Analyses   1/
Pulpmill       Sawmills
Model           Model
Change    Econ.RR        Econ.RR
Base Rate of Return                                    -         10.75          12.25
Afforestation and Maintenance                         +20        10.50          11.00
Afforestation and Maintenance                         -20        11.00          13.50
Capital Costs - Mill                                  +20         9.25          12.00
Capital Costs - Mill                                  -20        12.75          12.50
Operating Costs - Mill                                +20         9.75          12.00
Operating Costs - Mill                                -20        11.75          12.50
All Costs                                             +20         7.75          10.25
All Costs                                             -20        14.50          14.25
Value of Output                                       +10        12.25          13.00
Value of Output                                       -10         9.00          11.00
One Year Delay in Implementation                       -         10.50          11.50
1/ Rounded to the nearest 0.25%



- A, -
xR6oo  oSllIY  pFOJ8CT - PHEAS  Il                                                                                      P?ROJT FRESTMFl DIU NAIuGo  * PNASE Il
Physical Work Schedul. of Phase 7_"/                                                                                    Italiatlorm  Phv.iss,s de 1l  Phase ài/
73/74      74/75-/   75/76        76/77      77178       78179      791803/      Total
Planted Are. (ha)                                                                                                                            Surf-ce Pl.mtée  (h.)
Appraisal                                 -       7,000      7 000       7,000      7,000      7,000          -          35,000              Zvaluatiro
Actual                                    -       6,19O_'    5,470-1   6,200-/   8,000         s,800       6,590        41,250               RUalisi
Road$ (ku)                                                                                                                                   Route, (Or)
Appraisal; Service Roadu                  19         37          -          -          -           -          -              56              Evaluatiom: Principales
*                   Prisary-Second.ty            56         168        168         168        168        112          -            840                            Secondaires
Plantation Tr-cks            60        182         182        182         182        122         -             910                            Pistes
sob-Total                   135        387         350        350         350        234          -          1,806                            Sous-Total
Actual:    Prlaary Roeds6/                -          36        165          21         21          15         72            330               Réalisé:   Prinnipa1es-
Secosdary Roads              -           34         79         70          42         78         62            365                            Secondaires
Plantation Tracks            -         130         293        184        448         574        265          1,894                            Pistes
Sub-Total                    _         200         537        275        511         667        399          2,589                            Sous-Total
Firebreaks (ke)                                                                                                                             Pare-feu (k<)
Appraisal                                 20         58          58         58         58         38          -            290              ERalsation
Actual                                    -          34         256        179         51         88         202           810              Réalisé
Buildings aud Bouses                                                                                                                        Batisente  et Logements
Appraisal: Exploitatio-                    f         15         -                                             -              23              Evaluatln: Batiments
Houses-Hard                  15          29         -          -           -          -          -              44                            Lgts. Dur
Hosses-Prefa.hioated        370        740          -          -           _          _          _           1,110                           Lgts. Préfab.
Total Bouses                385        769          -          -           -          _          _           1,154                           Total Logements
Actual:    Eoploitatio:                                                                                                                     Réalise:      8ratimets:
Brick and Concrete           -           -          -            5         14         13         10             42                           Dur
daffle a-d Clay              -           19         18         34          32          5          9            117                            Semi-ilur
Louses:                                                                                                                                      Logements
Brick and Conorete           -           -          29         -          41         162        104            336                           Pur
Waffle and Clay              -          156        577       (574)Z/       74          7         41            860                           Semi-dur
Prefabricated                -          41         483       120657       (721-      _           29            555                           Préfabriqsé
Total Neu Hosses             -          197      1,091         -          120        169        174          1,751                           Total No-veou.  LgCs
Pasture Isprooemect (ha)                                                                                                                    Am,elioration de Pâturages (ho)
Appraisal                                 -         400        400         400        400        400          -          2,000             EBalaotio,
Aotoal                                    -          -           15         55        360        375         240         1,045              Réalisé
l/  Sovoce: FAllAVMANGA a.oual reports and missio's estibsate.                                                            1 S 0:r.e  Rapports annuels de la FAiALAINGA et estimatios
Rsportiog periods are July ; - Juns 30. Figures from the                                                                  de la sission    Les péri.des d'otivité vo-t do 1er juillet
a,praisal report referred te catender years and have been                                                                 au 30 juin.    es chiffres du rapport d'évaluatioo
3ijusted in this table to correspond to FANALAMAGA                                                                        corressondent aux annoées  alesdaires  rt ort Até ajustes
reportisg geriod.                                                                                                         dons ce tableau pour correspondre  s  gériodes d'ativités
d.e la FANALANCA.
2/  Astivitios started Ln November 1974.                                                                                  2/  Les ootioités ort oovonco  os novembre 1974
3/  Espcted.  See also the NBte b.oo.                                                                                     31  Prév.  Voir a-si le Nota Bens ci-dessous.
4/  Belo, taogot beca-se of old eqjipsnt in insufficient                                                                  4/  Es-dessous des objectifs à caà se de la  'ét.sté ot de
sumbero, diifficultieu in spare parts supply and                                                                          l'insuffisane es so-bre de l'éqoipemet,  la difficrte!
reorganisation of FAN4ALAMAGA.                                                                                            d'obtenir de. pièces détachies et la réorga.isation de la
FANAIAMAiNGA.
5/  BoI': torget becau..  of delais Os obtaining eqoipnot.                                                                5/  En-dessous ds objectifs à case des délais d'obreoron de
I O9i'ipes,set.
6/  Incles servcie rouis                                                                                                  6   Co     nd  On  routes doeric
7/  Already existin3 hous2s diisaosoebled aid rebuilt On other                                                            7/  Maiso^s déjà e-ista-tes denontios et remonteos dots do:treu
Places e-droits



- 46 -
ANNEX
MADAGASCAR
MANGORO FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE II
Selected Documents and Data Available in the ProJect File
A.   Selected Reports and Studies on the Sector or Sub-Sector
There is no sector or sub-sector report.
B.   Selected Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
Bi. Rapport préparatoire, Phase II, Projet forestier MANGORO,
FANALAMANGA, Mai 1979.
B2. Pulp Mill Project - Mangoro (2 Volumes), UNIDO Project DP/MAG/74/008,
FAO, Rome, September 1978.
C.   Selected Working Papers
Cl. Working papers (one volume), May 15, 1981.



-  47 -
MADAGASCAR
Ministry for Rural Development and Agrarian Raform
.
Cabinet~ ~ ~~~Mi |ie
_Scr{tary Generel I
| Administration and            andisoatons                          External Relations                 OPS
Finance                     Matters                         and Documentations                 Services
Director General of              :                              _Direetors of
Rural Oevelaprment,           _            irector of Studies                                         Rural Oevelopment
Agrarian Reform and            _and Programmning                                                        of the faritanies
Co operative Development                                                                                        16)
Agrari_n Reform                            Agriculturai                                               Rural Development
and Co-operative                            Statistics                                                 Services for the
Development                                                                                  _         Fivondronam
Managemetont 0          Regionai De-                        (Currentlv 181
H  Crop Produçt tan                      aof EnterPrises             veloprment
_________________________                              ~~~~~~~Authorities ~attl 
Programing                and Parastatas                      Local Extension
Irrigation      I                         Finance                                                   Services foar |
| ________________|___                                                                                     or the  Fokantany
I |  §        j         Studies and
H INterand Forestry                         Laboratories
Education and
Animal Production                          Agricultural
Training
!W Agricuitural
7      Equ ipment        |
Worid Bank -21863



MADAGASCAR
MANGORO FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE Il
FANALAMANGA ORGANIZATION CHART
|   OARD OF      l
|  DlFtECTOftS 
GENEHAL MANAGER                                                                          a
i I  AND~~~~~~~~~NGINEERING ~~~~~~~~~~~AND EXPLOITATION
PlANlAIlN            NDCIILINEERING             NANCI                 ADMINISTRATION     l       RESEANCR            A            G
r  NDRTttERN                                 |      CENTllAL                                 l      SOUTHERN       l
|    DEPARTMENT  w                        |    DEPARTMENT                                        DEPARTMENT
< 0 OtVtSi O        N I l l DIVISION 2  l
SECTION  SECTION   L~~O?~  SECTION  Jjj L 3[j~ 1             I~O~'hE~TION|SECTION                   2
Wcu Id Bank - 22099



MADAGASCAR
MANGORO FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE Il
Implementation Schedule
1981182                             1982V83                             1983/84
Activities
1        2       3        4         1         2       3        4        1        2         3        4
Afforestation                                                                                                    _______
Faasibility Study
Phase I
Review of Phase 1
Phase 2
Review of Phase 2
Phase 3                                                                      _
Review of Phase 3
Draft Final Report
Review                                                                                               - d
Final Report
Wo,ld Bank-22280



;



-12-                             MADAGASCAR                                                                                                                                    12t
MANGORO  FORESTRY PROJECT, PHASE il                                                                                                    Antseranano
PROJET FORES HEP DU MANGORO, PHASE if
PROJECT LOCATION
LOCATION DU PROJET
-l  Z one  u roiertryPronegorso                           Pasved roods                                        5055             'N    mbsE
_       m agon       en uro iec anea                      Routes gouedronrese a                              N       O
Othen forestîy -nd roioted projects     _         All-weather roads                                Heal-vi}   '              =               V.h, ir.
Autresprojts f-resîsers                           Routes accessibles en toute siso                  H
5- Svko                                            Raîl-ays                                                                                    VoAars
Saaalsa                                  +       4    Cmnrde/fers                                          >         aiu `  
Cashewnut plantations                    +      AIrpafts
10  Chro,ite treaetent - plontation                  Rivers
if    Traitement ferra-chrome -plantation    ~ -Rivières                                                     I Jt        -     5«-                    Samhass
TrannsiasionpaInsandrailwaayties-SlB            Forest=
-  Poteaus et traverses                             Forêts
C,nchiona                                   n--         desn: bou,aOeOrs                Ans.o.lns ]+ o                               néspa \
~iai   Tramai8 centers                                                                                                                              - Antoloha
i.  Centres de formation
Mahajanga                                                                 Mo-aitetra
KILOMETERS 0      50       100     150    2a0                   il: h`'t                                                          tisa                  J
MILES 0           50            500              ,        $ isîÇ;                                                                                -j
j~~~~~~~~ ikstaSasu~                                            J             IsApikon,5,                             Ilon soe,=\ in
e t ° l a n b Y > a ~ ~ ~       A  n b # ~  J2  0 ) } ) f                                       2
Bsosmr                                                Sîii                An  b n;l anna n &our     Feo ar tsinpronan
AVY o z r m b      i            cq
ÀaI \,nss        l) SAmshnlnls    lrrbntonil Csinîsu a
\-nsat                        _ «#o Anaîasaîsn ala                        aaeA                          Toomositia
Ch~~~~~ an  n Pi W -<4einJ
C h a n n e /                       W L6  a  J»          Fonjok sirna krooa                                                   ohibinony     /  N    D   /  A   N
-20=
MA.hsbs          Moarssrî2
;  ~  ~ ~~Mratrn?                    onoar-   -. -                                          Mpoîaolbo/                            C;;  C   F  A    N/
- -  rOrS sFiandrooao
0   0   rg;  Man cO            g %  ,VD ?,to            9      M ananiAry~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ssiianiaanini,sîrî
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~isis                                                                                   lOi .-s ons,aransosisi sO
-22Moro7A;$> '                                Berorobo  ~~~ °<          \à                        /    0                                                       22'F
g             '  <             <      ,qhibe    ~~~~ Yyishvoeno X i0                                   Wgr/d dn   tt Y/tVf 
dnsininyn  ilassn n
\\t   > J   ,i     *raifangdnai         doi  atma ai aîastsaoani
0       :       0           Â                                    w Be-aOIla/j                                                                  aacriaccstcsiisnsn iiiriism
iln,ssisd rois ~ ~       ~         W~ldÙr  r
0,11~~~~~~~~~~~~4
-24B'                                                                                                                        24'- 
____pamne f fi    ___  __   ___'                _*= _l _t-
@   t   _  ,olanar~~~~~o                                                   . >. n*<toarlvoJ
t                                   .,                .                                                                              $; ,tJ  ^94;--'hS>S_.g    to~~~~~~46
| 42'  44-        -            46'                                   a                .         ___                                 <0 oa~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C






I ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~                      B RD 126
Arz 1_ ~~~~~~~I                                  "A2 '
./ '                                                             A. \             -
'A'e-]                          ;t                                     5 -       or MMTAAM s.sARIA
r,0 9~~~~~ AA,IAIA1 A                                                             M n olc rsowdvo
'A,IU'          2)                                                           ' 'oA Mt"f              s-
A     i           k<                                                 - I
1     +   ni-..~~f                                        "%,Ml
k  r,              -'           171
<A  ,              '   'f                                                          IM'SA90na
f ~ ~~ ~ ~~ '<rg                            ASM tN'A                   ADAGA   
( 1"j Â\                                      AGROFRSR   RJC
NAA D- Z  \                  oe'>    bPAS  
X  Â-     1'$'    f        t^                  SROJfT fOfSTfR  D   AMAGOi
..\-..)r...    7E's  '   ETfE97 
s     ~  `   <>                  SP                               T w s   r E é O' °            D
lfAR  V       TIA  f                    "l ; -,  EI
f_   \       X                                          lyl~~~~~~FREESETRCY PR JC
>  ("  <G    MANGOROPHASÙE  Iln
-19°1Ù ~ ~~~~~~~~~~ ~  f         )A                               J , A AA 'I A   SA            'AA
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RAEAAM  A91' )ANSIV -a2o fA,



