Document of
The World Bank
FILE GOPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3073-MAG
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FOR A
SECOND MANGORO FORESTRY PROJECT
May 22, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnce of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.  l



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1980                     January 1981
Unit               Malagasy Franc (FMG)               Malagasy Franc (FMG)
US$1.00       =    FMG 212.72                  =      FMG 209.98
FMG 1,000     =    US$4.70                     =      US$4.76
FMG 1,000,000 -    US$4,701                    =      US$4,762
(The cost estimates are based on US$1 = FMG 200)
ABBREVIATIONS
FANALAMANGA         - Mangoro Forest Company (Project Entity)
FOFIFA/CENRADERU   -  Center for Agricultural Research and
Rural Development
MDRRA               - Ministry of Rural Development and
Agrarian Reform
FISCAL YEAR
Government       January 1 - December 31
FANALAMANGA      July 1    - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MADAGASCAR
SECOND MANGORO FORESTRY PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:         Democratic Republic of Madagascar
Beneficiaries:   Ministry of Rural Development and Agrarian Reform (MDRRA)
and Mangoro Forest Company (FANALAMANGA)
Amount:           SDR 16.3 million (US$20.0 million equivalent)
Terms:            Standard
Relending         Funds transferred to FANALAMANCA by Government will be
Terms:           converted to equity.
Project           (i)  Objective:  The project would continue assistance to
Description           development by the government of a silvo-industrial
complex in the Mangoro Valley.
(ii)  Main Project Components:  The project components are:
(a)  Establishment of about 18,000 ha of pine and 500 ha
of eucalyptus plantations, their maintenance and
protection;
(b)  Maintenance and protection of the existing plan-
tations (about 70,000 ha); and the maintenance of
roads, buildings and infrastructure in the Project
area;
(c)  The construction and maintenance of roads and
buildings;
(d)  Pasture improvement;
(e)  Research and training; and
(f)  Studies for industrial development planning, and
preparation of projects in the forestry and
agriculture sector.
(iii)  Benefits:  The project would assist the Government in
developing a silvo-industrial program, expected to
provide for the production of a mix of wood products
of various sorts, such as woodpulp, sawnwood and wood
chips. The proposed three-year plantation project
would provide employment to 1,600 workers employed by
FANALAMANGA, which is expected to increase after Project
completion to about 5,000 as a result of logging and
industrial operations. Unquantifiable benefits include
the consolidation of the institution-building achieve-
ments of the first forestry project, pasture improvement
and benefits accruing to farmers in adjacent areas who
sell their produce to Project workers.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without IFC authorization.



- ii -
(iv) Risks: Given the success of the first project there are
no unusual physical or managerial risks in the continua-
tion of the afforestation program. The exploitation of
the forests will require investments which Madagascar,
depending on the option chosen, may have difficulty
obtaining, thus delaying the industrial development.
However, such a delay would affect only marginally the
future return on the investment.
Estimated Costs:                                    Local    Foreign    Total
…-------(US$  000) …-------
Components
Maintenance and Protection of
Existing Plantations                               1.3        2.2        3.5
Afforestation                                        2.5        1.4        3.9
Road Construction & Maintenance                      0.6        2.6        3.2
Construction of Buildings and Infrastructure         1.3        0.6        1.9
Staff and Administration                             2.7        0.4        3.1
Vehicles and Equipment                               0.2        3.9        4.1
Pasture Improvement                                  0.03       0.07       0.1
Research and Training                                0.36       0.04       0.4
Studies                                              0.5        1.5        2.0
Baseline Costs                          9.5       12.7       22.2
Physical Contingencies (10%)                    0.9        1.3       2.2
Price Contingencies (12%)                       2.5        3.3       5.8
Total Contingencies                     3.4        4.6        8.0
Total Project Costs                            12.9      17.3       30.2
(No custom duties or taxes applicable)
Financing Plan:
IDA Credit                                      6.8      13.2       20.0
BADEA loan                                      1.0       3.2        4.2
Government                                      5.1         -        5.1
UNDP                                             -        0.9        0.9
Total                                          12.9      17.3       30.2
Estimated
Disbursements:      IDA FY       FY82    FY83    FY84    FY85
--------(US$ million)-------
Annual                        3.5    10.0      6.0     0.5
Cumulative                    3.5    13.5    19.5    20.0
Rate of Return:      12 percent (if used for sawing).
11 percent (if used for pulping).
Staff Appraisal
Report:            No. 3241-MAG, May 15, 1981
Maps:                IBRD 15266 and 15290



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FOR A SECOND MANGORO FORESTRY PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Democratic Republic of Madagascar for the equiva-
lent of SDR 16.3 million (US$20.0 million) on standard IDA terms to help
finance a Second Mangoro Forestry Project to be implemented by the Ministry
of Rural Development and Agrarian Reform and the Mangoro Forest Company,
known as FANALAMANGA. The Government would transfer the equivalent of US$19 million
of the proceeds of the IDA credit to FANALAMANGA and would convert such funds into
an equity contribution to the Company. The project would be co-financed with the
Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa (BADEA), with a loan of about
US$4.2 million on terms and conditions to be determined.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Madagascar - Recent Economic Developments and
Future Prospects was distributed to the Executive Directors on October 24,
1979. Country data sheets are provided in Annex 1 to this report. An eco-
nomic mission visited Madagascar in August 1980 and is currently preparing
its report. Its findings are included in the summary of recent economic
developments below.
3.        With a population of 8.5 million and a per capita GNP about US$290
in 1979, Madagascar is among the poorest countries in the world. It is
estimated that about 50 percent of the population subsists below the absolute
poverty level. Less than 20 percent of the population lives in urban areas
and about 85 percent of the national labor force is engaged in agricultural
activity. Although the country is sparsely populated (about 14 persons per
sq. km) and generally well endowed with natural resources and a variety of
soils, there are considerable regional variations in ecology and climate. The
highlands are more advanced economically than the coastal regions; the south
is the poorest region with an arid climate and infertile soils and the east
coast, which is rich agriculturally, is frequently devastated by cyclones.
Poor road communications are a major impediment to development both in terms
of domestic commerce and the transport of export and import goods to and from
the major seaports.
4.         The long-term trend of sluggish and erratic GDP growth, which failed
to keep pace with population expansion, continued up to 1978. Owing largely to
prolonged drought conditions, real GDP declined by about 3.5 percent in 1976,
increased by about 2 percent in 1977, and declined again by about 2.5 percent
in 1978. In 1978, real per capita GDP was about 20 percent below its 1970
level. With improved weather conditions and stimulated by a sharp increase in



- 2 -
investment, real GDP in 1979 grew by more than 10 percent. The rapid growth
in 1979 reflected a significant shift in the thrust of offical policy to a
more vigorous public investment effort and to a much greater dependence on
external sources for its financing. The share of investment in GDP, which had
been around 14 percent since the early 1970's, rose sharply to about 22 percent
in 1979. The increased investment thrust and its attendant import needs
coincided with sluggish exports and a deterioration in the terms of trade, so
that Madagascar's balance of payments position deteriorated sharply in 1979.
With general government and state enterprises accounting for virtually all of
the investment expenditures, there was a very rapid increase in budgeted
capital expenditures in 1979 and a dramatic increase in the budget deficit.
Preliminary information for 1980 indicates a further rapid growth of govern-
ment investment expenditures, with the consequence that the overall budget
deficit rose to the equivalent of about 19 percent of GDP. Owing mainly to
continued deterioration in the terms of trade, the current deficit on balance
of payments also increased in 1980 to a provisionally estimated level of about
$450 million equivalent to about 18 percent of GDP. Although detailed produc-
tion data is still not available, the level of economic activity appears to
have dropped sharply in 1980.
5.        The serious deterioration in Madagascar's economic and financial
situation which occurred in 1979 and 1980 has created serious strains in
Madagascar's external payments in 1980 and 1981. Furthermore, the Govern-
ment's heavy recourse to Central Bank borrowing to finance the budget deficits
has given rise to increasing inflationary pressures. Hence, the Government
has been confronted with the need to take strong corrective actions to restore
balance of payments and budgetary equilibrium. The undertaking of these
measures will limit the possibilities for rapid economic expansion, but if the
necessary short-term measures are accompanied by efforts to correct a number
of basic weaknesses in the country's production, export and resource use
performance, a more secure base for economic development can be attained.
6.        Agricultural output, which had generally shown little growth in
recent years, increased in 1979 with an overall volume growth of around 7
percent. Production of the main cash and export crops (coffee, cloves and
vanilla) all increased in 1979. Coffee production, which had declined sharply
in 1976 and 1977 mainly due to weather, increased by about 14 percent in 1978
and by about 5 percent in 1979 to just below its pre-1976 level. Production
of cloves increased sharply in 1979, but with falling world prices, export
receipts declined. Vanilla production, which has been seriously affected by
competition from synthetic substitutes, increased by about 75 percent in 1979
but was only about a third of the production level of the mid 1970's. Rice,
Madagascar's main food crop, showed a 6 percent production increase in 1979
to just over 2 million tons but was still below its 1977 level of 2.15 million
tons. Rice production has fallen below domestic demand in recent years and
this, together with serious transport problems impeding the domestic shipment
of rice, has resulted in a growing volume of rice imports. The volume of rice
imports is estimated to have increased by about 30 percent in 1979, reaching a
level of 210,000 tons compared to an import of some 64,000 tons in 1975. In
1979, rice imports accounted for about 9 percent of the value of total
merchandise imports.



- 3 -
7.         Industrial growth has been slow and erratic.  Within the manu-
facturing sector itself performance has, however, varied. The output of
processed foods and textiles followed a stagnant or a declining trend although
these commodities still account for about 70 percent of manufacturing output.
Among other minor industries such as chemicals, tobacco manufactures, rubber
and paper products, a fairly steady growth has been maintained. Development
of the sector has been encouraged by promotional measures such as fiscal
incentives, protection against competition from imports and growing involve-
ment of the state in ownership and control of manufacturing. Industrial
production now accounts for about 19 percent of GDP.
8.        Madagascar's fiscal situation has deteriorated since 1978, due
to sharply rising current expenditures and increased Government spending on
capital investment. The current budget surplus, which used to be substantial,
turned to a deficit as revenues failed to keep pace with the growth of
expenditures. Furthermore, as Government intensified its efforts to raise
investment levels and stimulate the economy, public investment expenditure
rose from 13.1 billion FMG in 1975 to 58 billion FMG (US$273 million) in 1979.
Outlays on the consumer rice subsidy increased from about 4 billion FMG
in 1975 to nearly 10 billion FMG (US$47 million) in 1979 and to about 12
billion FMG in 1980. The overall Treasury deficit increased dramatically in
1979 to about 14 percent of GDP. Preliminary information for 1980 indicates
that, although government current expenditures grew at a moderate rate (about
2 percent), there was a further rapid increase in government capital expendi-
tures of around 60 percent. While borrowing from external sources was greatly
expanded in both 1979 and 1980, the budget deficits were financed principally
by borrowing from the Central Bank, which provided about two thirds of the
financing of the 1980 deficit.
9.        Monetary and credit developments over recent years largely reflect
the government's deficit financing needs. Domestic credit increased from
about 102 billion FMG (US$427 million) at end 1976 to about 230 billion FMG
(US$1,080 million) at end 1979. Most of this expansion was accounted for by
Government borrowing from the Central Bank, whose share of domestic credit
rose from about 20 percent in 1976 to about 43 percent in 1979. Despite a
significant reduction in net foreign assets, money supply grew by over 20
percent per annum during the 1976-1979 period i.e. at almost twice the rate of
growth of nominal GDP over the same period. Government borrowing from the
Central Bank increased further in 1980, its share in domestic credit rising
to 50 percent, and money supply increased by about 18 percent. Available price
information for Madagascar is fragmentary. There is a wide-ranging system of
controlled prices which appears to have become inoperative with most goods
selling at prices well above control levels. A price index for low income
families shows an acceleration of price increases to about 14 percent in 1979
compared to an annual increase of around 7 percent for the two or three
preceeding years. Preliminary information for 1980 indicates a further
acceleration in the general price increase to about 20 percent.



- 4 -
10.       Madagascar's balance of payments position, which has been funda-
mentally weak over recent years, showed a significant deterioration in 1979.
Trade surpluses in 1976 and 1977 were due to a low level of imports and to
higher world export prices, particularly for coffee, since the volume of
exports remained stagnant throughout the period. Falling export prices
and a rising import volume eliminated the trade surplus in 1978 when the
current deficit reached about US$82 million compared to about US$18 million in
1977. The volume of total merchandise imports increased rapidly in 1979, and
with rising import prices (9 percent increase in 1978-79), the import bill
increased by about 55 percent. The volume of exports declined in 1979 and
with sluggish world prices, export receipts declined by about 4 percent. The
current deficit reached about US$440 million in 1979, equivalent to about 18
percent of GDP. Preliminary information for 1980 indicates that the volume of
imports decreased by about 12 percent while the volume of exports fell by
about 7 percent. With a continued deterioration in the terms of trade, the
current account deficit increased to about US$515 million.
11.       The development of the Malagasy economy has been constrained over
many years by a number of basic weaknesses, e.g. low productivity in agricul-
ture, slow growth in major primary exports and inadequate domestic savings.
The sharp deterioration in Madagascar's economic and financial situation in
1979 and 1980 reflects these continuing problems. The significant shifts in
government policy through a greater openness to external finance and, also, in
pushing vigorously for a higher level of investment has been accompanied by
continued sluggish export performance and deterioration in the terms of trade.
The import bill has been swollen not only by imports of capital goods but also
by a growing import of consumer goods, especially rice, for which domestic
production and distribution weaknesses are a serious problem. The country is
well endowed with natural resources and has a relatively efficient administra-
tive structure. A more effective use of these resources will depend, however,
on a lasting correction to the serious imbalances which exist on both balance
of payments and government budget accounts.
12.       In June 1980, the Government concluded a Stand-by agreement with the
IMF which aimed to restore balance of payments and budgetary equilibrium.
Some of the individual policy measures indicated in this program were imple-
mented, e.g., the measures to increase government revenues, but efforts to
contain government expenditures were not successful. Government then revised
its expenditure and budgetary programs for 1981 and resumed negotiations with
the IMF for a new Stand-by agreement. This agreement was signed in April
1981. The program upon which the agreement is based includes a number of
far-reaching policy measures, e.g. phased reduction of external arrears, limits
on the contracting of new external debt, limits on imports and their restruc-
turing to productive uses, and strict limits on government domestic borrowing.
The implementation of such a program should substantially contribute to
correcting imbalances.
13.       These stabilization measures also need to be complemented by measures
to enhance the long-term viability of the economy. A Plan for the period
1981-86 is currently in preparation. The Plan envisages a much more vigorous
effort in export expansion and an action program for greater self sufficiency



in food production. It also envisages much greater decentralization in
economic management and decision-making. Administrative steps have already
been taken to strengthen regional economic planning. Priority is to be
attached to productive investment, and an increased share of investment in
agriculture and transport is contemplated. These efforts will require a
careful appraisal, selection and monitoring of investment projects, since
domestic savings and external resource availabilities are likely to be import-
ant constraints.
14.       With the shift in government policy to a greater reliance on foreign
financing, Madagascar's external public debt has increased substantially over
recent years. According to Central Bank estimates, total external debt at end
1979 amounted to about US$720 million, compared to about US$330 million at end
1976. There has been a greater diversification in sources of external
financing but average terms have hardened significantly. Consequently, the
debt service ratio has risen from around 3 percent in 1976 to over 15 percent
in 1980 and is likely to be around 30 percent in 1981 (not accounting for debt
reschedulings arranged after March 1981). Madagascar now faces a rising debt
servicing burden in the next few years. A Paris Club meeting took place on
April 29-30, 1981, during which Madagascar obtained debt rescheduling of
about US$36 million covering the period January 1, 1981 to June 30, 1982.
15.       The World Bank group has provided about 45 percent of the conces-
sionary assistance which Madagascar received between 1975 and 1979. Over
the same period, however, around 40 percent of external public borrowing has
been from non-concessionary sources. Increased external financing on a
concessionary basis will be required to support the government's economic
restructuring and development efforts and to ensure a continued capacity to
service external debt. Given Madagascar's poverty and current resource
constraints, IDA should continue to contribute to local cost financing.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MADAGASCAR
16.       Outstanding IDA credits to Madagascar amount to US$263.74 million
and Bank loans total US$31.41 million. About 54 percent of Bank Group lending
has been for transport, 14 percent for electric power, 24 percent for agricul-
ture and 8 percent for education. IFC's first investment was made in March
1977 with an equity investment of US$290,000 and a loan of US$11.0 million for
the expansion of a textile mill. In May 1980, IFC made a US$1.25 million
loan for the Bata shoe manufacturing company in Antananarivo, and other
projects in leather and ferrochrome are under consideration. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments
as of March 31, 1981, as well as notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
17.       Bank Group assistance to Madagascar has been concentrated on the
following key areas: infrastructure (including urban and social infrastruc-
ture), agriculture, energy and industry. In infrastructure, four projects
have been for the construction of all-weather highway links between the
island's different regions; a fifth highway project for road maintenance was



- 6 -
signed in July 1979. There has been a project for improving Madagascars
main port of Toamasina (Tamatave) and one for modernizing the railway line
between Toamasina and Antananarivo; a second project supporting the railway's
modernization efforts was signed in June 1979. Urban infrastructure develop-
ment includes a first water supply and sanitation project for the capital
city of Antananarivo for which a US$20.5 million credit was approved in April
1980. In the social sector, education has been the major recipient of Bank
assistance with two projects totaling US$18.8 million. In addition, studies
for urban development financed by the UNDP with the Bank as Executing Agency
have started. Support for general industrial promotion is being provided
through a first credit of US$5.0 million for an industrial credit project
(BNI) approved by the Board in January 1980. Documents on a proposed credit
of SDR 9.4 million for an accounting and audit project were distributed to
the Executive Directors on May 14, 1981.
18.       Bank Group lending for agriculture consists of two livestock develop-
ment projects, three irrigation projects and a forestry project. The first
IDA-assisted agricultural credit project of US$11.5 million (BTM) was approved
by the Executive Directors in September 1980. A US$2.3 million credit for a
technical assistance project to study the Plain of Antananarivo area was
signed on January 31. 1981. In the future we expect agriculture to continue
to absorb a larger share of Bank Group lending, in line with Government
strategy to expand agricultural production. A third livestock project was
recently appraised, while an agricultural services project, two rural
development projects, and a small-scale irrigation project are being prepared.
19.       Energy projects have also received growing Bank Group attention:
IDA has provided financing for part of the cost of the large Andekaleka
hydroelectric project for a total of US$43 million. Substantial bilateral
assistance was also secured by the Government to meet the total cost of
the project estimated at about US$150 million. Furthermore, a petroleum
exploration promotion project signed in May 1980 provided a US$12.5 million
credit to the Government to support its efforts to develop a domestic supply
of hydrocarbons and improve planning of the energy sector. A second petroleum
exploration project is under preparation for further development of the
sector including financing of a feasibility study for heavy oil exploitation.
20.       In the past, problems have arisen in the course of execution of
several projects. There were delays, cost overruns and deficiencies in
management and institution building, especially in agriculture. The Morondava
irrigation project signed in 1973 had to be substantially reduced, and the
Government has prepared a plan of action to deal with the remaining institu-
tional problems. The Village Livestock project signed in 1974 has improved
substantially, although disbursements remain slow. On the other hand, the
first Mangoro Forestry project was very effectively executed and cost
estimates were in line with forecasts. The first three highway projects have
been completed. The fourth project is still being implemented. The road
construction component of the latter project is nearly completed and the
maintenance studies have been completed; however, there was a delay in the
start of the recommended highway maintenance training program for the Ministry
of Public Works personnel. Since training of local staff is essential, the



- 7 -
Government has agreed that training consultants be employed. The construction
of the necessary training facilities were begun in the first half of 1981.
Construction under the fifth highway project is now ready to start.
21.       Since the start of our program in Madagascar four projects, all of
which included technical assistance, have been completed and audited by the
Operations Evaluation Department. The audit report No. 1622 of December 17,
1976 on the Lac Alaotra project concluded that the project was generally quite
successful. However, the performance of Somalac, the project implementation
agency, has deteriorated considerably since the completion of the project and
more recent information indicates that the original assessments of project
success may have been overstated. The audit report No. 1559 of April 11, 1977
on the Beef Cattle Development Project concluded that the Project had
contributed little to Madagascar.
22.       The audit report No. 2143 of July 27, 1978 concluded that the
Madagascar Third Highway Project was well justified and had a good rate of
return despite the substantial cost overrun experienced by the project. The
audit confirmed that training of local staff and adequate provision of
Government funds were essential factors for a successful road maintenance
program. Report No. 2299 of December 22, 1978 concluded that the physical
objectives of the Tamatave Port Project were satisfactorily achieved, but
pointed out that the institutional objective was not accomplished during
project implementation because of inadequacies in the staffing of the port
authority. With the exception of the Port Project, the technical assistance
components of all four projects were executed satisfactorily.
PART III. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR IN MADAGASCAR
23.       About 85 percent of Madagascar's roughly 8.5 million inhabitants live
in rural areas. Agriculture dominates the economy, contributing about 40
percent of GDP, accounting for about 80 percent of export earnings, and
directly supporting over 80 percent of the population. The sector is diverse;
the rural economy varies among geographic regions; a wide range of crops is
grown and production systems vary from some large-scale mechanized agriculture
to small-scale traditional farming. The Government's long-term goals for
agriculture include: (a) attainment of self-sufficiency in food and develop-
ment of basic industries, largely supplied by the agricultural sector; and
(b) increasing production of export crops (mainly coffee). The Government
recognizes that employment possibilities in agriculture will increase only
slowly.
24.       The growth of Madagascar's agricultural production over the past
10 years has been slow, with the average rate of increase somewhat less than
the population growth rate of 2.8 percent a year. This largely reflects the
performance of the rice and livestock subsectors. Rice is grown throughout
Madagaacar and per capita consumption is among the highest in the world.
Rice production showed a 6 percent increase in 1979 to just over 2 million
tons but was still below its 1977 level. From being a net exporter of rice,



Madagascar has come to rely on imports of nearly 200,000 tons per year. The
national cattle herd is estimated to be about 10.1 million head and Madagascar
has important natural advantages for livestock production. Due, however, to
the low genetic potential of local stock and the lack of a national livestock
program, meat production is stagnating and, in the face of increasing domestic
demand, most exports to traditional markets are declining. The stagnation in
agricultural production has been offset, however, by favorable commodity
prices for other major exports, principally cloves and coffee.
25.       The Ministry of Rural Development and Agrarian Reform (MDRRA) is the
central institution dealing with the agriculture sector. It is concerned with
extension services, plant protection, veterinary services, irrigation systems,
fisheries and forestry. It also deals with agricultural planning, the control
of semi-autonomous regional authorities and parastatal agencies, and land
reform. In addition to the Ministry's basic services and departments, several
regional and parastatal agencies provide extension services to farmers; but,
although part of the Ministry they tend to function autonomously. Up to 1979,
the Ministry had four major departments which were autonomous and organized on
a regional basis. In 1979, the MDRRA was reorganized to provide more efficient
service to the rural community through two departments namely the Studies &
Planning Development and the Rural Development Departments. Within the
latter, seven services decide general policies: Agricultural Production
and Extension, Livestock Production, Agrarian Reform and Cooperatives, Water
and Forests, Irrigation, Agricultural Industries and Agricultural Equipment.
About 30 parastatal agencies operate under the aegis of the Ministry, including
the Mangoro Forestry Company, FANALAMANGA, which was established in 1975 as a
mixed capital company to implement the first phase Mangoro Forestry Project
and to oversee plantation management, maintenance and the processing and
marketing of plantation produce thereafter.
26.       Prior to 1972, agricultural research was carried on by numerous
institutes, mostly French. These have been merged under a single organization,
FOFIFA/CENRADERU, now a semi-autonomous body responsible for all agricultural
research, including forestry. Some research receives direct support from the
Government budget; and other research is on a contractual basis. The training
of agricultural staff at secondary level is the responsibility of the MDRRA,
which is considering plans for the rapid expansion of facilities ranging from
farmer centers to agricultural secondary schools. The Ministry of Higher
Education and Scientific Research is responsible for university level training
and, there also, expansion programs are being considered. For certain
specialized fields, such as veterinary training, students go abroad.
THE FOREST INDUSTRY SUB-SECTOR
Government Forest Services
27.       When the MDRRA was reorganized in 1979, responsibility for forest
industries was transferred to the Agricultural Industries Service. Regional
operations, which are under the direct responsibility of the regional forestry
services, include village forestry and soil conservation. Out of a total



- 9 -
forestry staff of approximately 500, there are 20 post graduate level fore-
sters, of whom four are at the central forestry service; 46 forestry techni-
cians, and about 440 forestry assistants and 30 foremen. A substantial number
of forestry technicians are not employed in the forest industry.
28.       Forestry training has been inadequate during the past few years and
no new higher level foresters have graduated since 1972. At the forestry
senior technician level there were, however, 10 graduates in 1978, six in 1979
and 15 in 1980, all coming out of the School of Agricultural Science. Training
of forestry assistant level personnel now consists of a general two-year
agricultural training course at one of the six agricultural colleges followed
by six months of intensive forestry training. There is thus an adequate
supply of trained foresters at the lower levels. It is, however, too early to
judge the efficacy of the new system. As to forest research, it is mainly
concentrated on trials carried out under contract in the context of the first
Mangoro afforestation project. About 16 percent of MDRRA's total budget in
1980 went to forest operations.
Forest Resources
29.       About 17.0 million ha (30 percent of Madagascar's area) is classified
as forest land, of which about 4.0 million ha has been demarcated as State
forests.  It is estimated that 12.4 million ha are "productive" indigenous
forests and about 300,000 ha, pine and eucalyptus plantations. Over 4.0
million ha of the potentially productive forests are degraded, and the balance
is stocked with a wide variety of hardwood species, most of which are not
commercially exploitable. The preponderance of non-marketable species and the
inaccessibility of most indigenous forests limit their economic value.
Nevertheless, the natural forests serve an important function in providing
domestic fuel and timber, and maintaining water catchments. The man-made
forests in Madagascar are mainly pine and eucalyptus plantations. There are
about 200,000 ha of eucalyptus, mostly in small stands, often on private land,
and managed under a coppice system, providing mainly fuelwood (including
charcoal) and poles.
Wood Uses
30.       Information on wood uses in Madagascar is scanty, mainly because
the bulk of wood consumption is in the form of firewood and charcoal at
the village level. it is estimated that total annual wood consumption
is aboit 7 million m (roundwood), which gives an average consumption of
0.75 m per head per annum. Fuelwogd (including charcoal) represents almost
80 percent of this amsunt, or 0.6 m per head per annum; industrial wood, about
20 percent, or 0.15 m per head per annum. Imports and exports of wood and
wood-derived products have declined considerably over the last few years and
are now negligible. Imports are now limited to small quantities of pulp and
paper products. Exports of precious woods, such as Rosewood have virtually
stopped because of Government regulations designed to conserve the species.



- 10 -
31.       Firewood is used mainly in rural areas, where it is generally avail-
able free of charge. It is estimated that half of urban dwellers also use
firewood but this proportion is probably decreasing in favor of charcoal.
It has been estimated that half of the population consumes some 60 kg of
charcoal per person per annum, equivalent to a total annual consumption of
about 60,000 tons of charcoal or approximately 20 percent of the total
fuelwood consumed annually. Most of the charcoal is produced and consumed
in the highlands, where the main tree species is Eucalyptus robusta.
32.       Most of the timber produced is converted manually in the forest,
either with an axe or by pitsawing, which is extremely wasteful and produces
squares and boards of uneven quality, but saves on extraction and transport
costs. In many cases, it is the only practical way of exploiting the forest
in inaccessible and mountainous areas. There are approximately 20 sawmills
in Madagascar, most of which carry out their own logging operations. Thsir
equipment is generally antiquated and average production (around 1,000 m
per annum) is low.  The total production of sawn lumber 3has decreased dramati-
cally over the past 10 years and is now around 20,000 m per annum. Demand
is high and cannot be met, though most mills are operating at less than 40
percent of their rated capacity, for a variety of reasons, such as poor
management and maintenance, lack of trained staff and spare parts, as well
as logging and transport problems.  One sawmill in the capital, HAZOVATO, is
planning to increase its productive capacity to over 10,000 m per annum.
33.       Paper for the local market is produced by PAPMAD (Papeteries de
Madagascar), a mixed capital company. It makes pulp from local wood and
imports chemical pulp. Another company called PANOMAD produces about 1,200
t.p.a. of hardboard from eucalyptus. Other small wood processing industries
include a match factory and a small plywood factory.
First Mangoro Forestry Project
34.       This Project (Loan 1065/Credit 525) signed in 1974 provided for the
establishment in the Mangoro area of 35,000 ha of pine plantations over the
period 1974-1979 in addition to 25,000 ha already planted for the development
of forest services within the area. After a slow start-up due to delays in
procurement of equipment and spare parts the project progressed very well
and will be completed ahead of schedule.
35.       By mid 1980 over 41,000 ha had been planted under the first phase
project, thus exceeding the appraisal estimate of 35,000 ha by nearly 20 per-
cent without cost overruns. The only major problem which arose during project
implementation was the dieback of Pinus kesiya when the stands reached the age
of three or four years. In late 1977 it was clearly established that the
cause of the dieback was a soil deficiency in zinc and that trees were respon-
sive to treatment. The dieback problem is being brought under control by
aerial spraying of zinc compounds. The project's planting and most other



- 11 -
targets were reached in mid-1979. Sufficient funds are available under the
loan and from Government to continue the tree planting program until about
mid-1981.
Project Area
36.       Project activities are carried out in the Mangoro Valley, some
75 km east of Antananarivo, on a gross area of about 300,000 ha. The
annual rainfall varies between 1,600 mm in the south and 1,100 mm in the
north.  The average temperature is about 20 0C, with minima of 10 C and maxima
of 300C. The altitude varies between 900 m and 1,200 m. The area consists of
numerous hills and more or less broad valleys, with marshy valley bottoms and
flat tops; the slopes are severely eroded and sterile. Soils are generally
ferralitic and poor, but adequate for pine planting, particularly on flat
sites. The main river - the Mangoro - flows north to south across the
Project area and has numerous tributaries. The water flow in the Mangoro
has been observed since 1956 and would be adequate to meet the water require-
ments of a large pulpmill and to allow for effluent disposal, provided the
mill were equipped with appropriate effluent treatment facilities.
37.       There are now about 11,000 people in the area, mostly subsistence
farm families, living in 50 small villages. These villages are outside the
areas identified for afforestation under the Project. In addition about 1,600
forest workers families have settled in the Project area. It is also esti-
mated that there are currently 8,000 head of cattle in the area. Large
grazing areas have been set aside for cattle, and pastures have been improved
in selected locations under the First Project; improvement of pastures would
continue under the proposed Project. It is expected that any interference
with local land use patterns as a result of the Project would continue to be
minimal. Experience during the first phase project has shown that the
improvement of pastures and the provision of roads and services help to
minimize conflicts with cattle owners in the area.
Access
38.       Roads and tracks in the plantation area are built and maintained by
FANALAMANGA and are in good condition. The Project area is connected to the
port of Toamasina by road (250 km) and rail (270 km).  The Moramanga-Toamasina
road goes through difficult terrain and is in very poor condition. It is
being reconstructed with the assistance of the People's Republic of China and
the works are expected to be completed in about 1985. The railway borders on
the Project area for about 150 km between Moramanga and Ambatondrazaka and
connects with the Antananarivo - Moramanga - Toamasina line. Repairs of the
railtrack and provision of rolling stock are being financed by IDA (Second
Railway Project, Credit 903-MAG) and the French Caisse Centrale de Cooperation
Economique. The size of the equipment which can be carried by rail is limited
by the dimensions of bridges and tunnels.
Ports
39.       The port of Toamasina is capable of handling the equipment
which would be necessary to establish a silvo-industrial complex, and the
production of such a complex (paper, pulp or wood products). However,



- 12 -
arrangements for storage may prove difficult, in particular if export of wood
chips is contemplated. This question will be examined in detail as part of
the studies to be carried out under the second Project.
Power Supply
40.       Electrical power is available at Moramanga through the Interconnected
System around Antananarivo, operated by JIRAMA, the national power supply
company. JIRAMA is currently increasing the capacity of the Interconnected
System, with the financial assistance of IDA (Credit 817-MAG) and of eight
other external financing agencies. Under this expansion program, the Inter-
connected system would have an installed capacity of 107 MW by 1982. Govern-
ment is considering a number of projects which would draw power from the
Interconnected System. In the event that at least two of these projects were
to materialize (chromite treatment plant, 42 MW; steelmill, 41 MW; pulpmill,
20MW) generating capacity would have to be increased. The constraints in
power supply would be taken into account in planning for the silvo-industrial
development of the Mangoro Valley.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
41.       In June 1979, the Government of Madagascar requested that IDA con-
sider financing a second Mangoro Forestry Project to continue the afforesta-
tion program begun under the first phase project. The request was based on a
report prepared by the Mangoro Forest Company, FANALAMANGA, the entity in
charge of implementing the first project. The project was appraised in
May/June, 1980. Negotiations were held in Washington from April 20-24, 1981;
the Malagasy delegation was headed by Mr. R. Andriamananjara, Director General
for Planning, and included Mr. Rabe, Secretary General of MDRRA and
Mr. Andrianjaohany, Director General of FANALAMANGA. A Staff Appraisal Report
entitled "Madagascar: Second Mangoro Forestry Project", No. 3241-MAG, dated
May 15, 1981, is being circulated separately.
Project Objectives and Description
42.       The objectives of the proposed Project would be to continue assist-
ing Government's efforts to establish a silvo-industrial complex in the
Mangoro Valley, thus developing land and resources which would not otherwise
be economically utilized. Industrial investment plans for the utilization
of the wood produced by the Mangoro plantations would be finalized during the
proposed Project. The proposed Project would continue the current plantation
program, albeit at a reduced rate, to allow time for industrial development
planning studies and to consolidate the institution-building achievements
of the first project by maintaining FANALAMANGA-s activities at a reasonable
level. Specifically, the project would consist of the following components:
43.       PART A:  Plantation Maintenance.  Maintenance and protection of all
existing plantations would continue under the Project and would include: (a)
the pruning of all pine trees up to a height of 2 m when the trees reach an



- 13 -
average height of 5-6 m (5-6 years), mainly as a fire-protection measure;
about 7,000 ha of trees would be pruned each year; (b) controlled burning
(where possible and desirable); (c) sanitary control of all plantations; and
(d) treatments with trace-elements or fertilizers.
44.       PART B:  Fire Protection and Control.  The existing fire-break
network of about 800 km would continue to be maintained, and 150 km of addi-
tional fire-breaks for the new plantations would be constructed and maintained
under the Project. Six additional fire towers would be constructed at intervals
of 10-20 km in the new plantations, thus bringing the total number of fire
towers in the Project area to 12, or about one tower for 7-8,000 ha. Provision
would also be made for vehicles, fire-fighting tools and equipment.
45.       PART C:  Afforestation.  Provision would be made for the afforesta-
tion of 18,500 ha over the Project period; about 6,000 ha of pine would be
planted in each of the three years, and a total of 500 ha of eucalyptus on
degraded forest sites in the south of the Project area as large-scale
trials. Soil and topographical surveys were done before and during the first
phase project. Detailed advance surveys would be made to determine more
precisely the areas to be planted year by year, appropriate soil preparation
methods, the choice of fertilizers and of species, the road alignments, and
the areas to be reserved for crops and grazing. At present Pinus kesiya is
the dominant species planted in the Project area, and occupies about 85
percent of the plantation. During the Project period the two other pine
species would be planted and Pinus kesiya would be planted only on the
most favorable and wettest sites. Eucalyptus grandis would be planted in the
extreme south, mostly on secondary forest sites.
46.        The annual planting program would require seven semi-permanent and
three temporary or depot nurseries, producing altogether about 12 million
pine and 100-200,000 Eucalyptus grandis plants. Most of the Pine seed would
be imported, but selected seed of Pinus kesiya and Eucalyptus grandis would be
available locally. The pine seedlings would be duly inoculated with mycorrhiza
and fertilized. Watering would be by sprinkler irrigation in the semi-
permanent nurseries. About 80 percent of the plants would be transplanted
from seed beds into earth balls, a well-proven technique in Madagascar, while
about 20 percent would be sown directly in polyethylene tubes to allow for
safe planting beyond the normal summer rainy season. Most soil preparation
would continue to be done mechanically, because this cannot be practically
carried out by hand on a large scale. For pine the most common method of
soil preparation would consist of sub-soiling by means of a heavy double
ripper, followed by spot-preparation.
47.        By the end of the first project about 25,000 ha of the Pinus kesiya
plantations should have been treated with zinc by aerial spraying to prevent
dieback. The remainder of the Pinus kesiya plantations (about 30,000 ha) would
be treated with zinc to complete the operation. Planting would be done by
hand and as far as possible would take place between December and March. The
replacing of failures would mostly take place during the light winter rains



- 14 -
in June and July. Normally failures do not exceed 10 percent. Weeding is not
a major or costly operation in the Project area, and generally less than 20
percent of the plantation requires weeding, usually for only one year after
planting. An inspection team would continue to make regular inspections to
identify and control any unhealthy or unusual signs in growth, vigor, color of
foliage, disease, nutrient or trace-element deficiency, and insect attack.
48.       PART D:  Construction and Maintenance of Roads.  The existing road
network in the Project area would continue to be maintained; it includes about
550 km of service and primary roads, 600 km of secondary roads (of which about
120 km require annual maintenance) and about 2,000 km of tracks (which require
maintenance only at sporadic intervals and on specific locations, usually
after heavy rains). About 60 km of new service and primary roads would be
constructed and maintained, as well as 180 km of secondary roads and 360 km of
tracks.
49.       PART E:  Construction and Maintenance of Buildings and Infrastructure.
Before and during the first project, a Project headquarters and 10 villages
were built for plantation workers. These facilities would be maintained and
three new villages for about 300 families each would be established in the new
areas to be planted. These villages would accommodate plantation workers at
present living in temporary buildings in other parts of the plantation.
50.       PART F:  Pasture Improvement.  Pasture improvement activities started
during the first phase have contributed to good relations with cattle owners
in the Project area. These activities would continue under the Project;
strips would be ploughed and planted with Stylosanthes and Melinis over a
total area of about 450 ha.
51.       PART G:  Research and Training.  Research and trials have been
carried out during the First Project under contract by CENRADERU/FOFIFA;
this arrangement was satisfactory and would continue during the proposed
Second Project. The existing research program would be continued and research
and trials would be carried out on pines: in silviculture, refining of
fertilizer dosages both for main fertilizers and trace elements and weeding
and maintenance problems; concerning yields, rates of growth of the various
species according to site classes; and genetic improvement of the various
species. Research and trials would also be started for Eucalyptus, particularly
as regards nursery techniques, genetic improvement, fertilizer trials and
plantation techniques. A small section would be created within FANALAMANGA
itself to carry out routine research and trials.
52.       Apart from regular refresher courses which are needed by all the
staff in order to improve their skills and to learn new techniques through
trials and research, FANALAMANGA would continue to provide additional training
in specific fields, particularly concerning nurseries and fire control.
Refresher courses and training would take place at the Project Training
Center or in other appropriate centers. Specialized staff would be invited to



- 15 -
operate seminars and training sessions, and equipment would be purchased for
training purposes. FANALAMANGA staff would also participate in study tours
and specialized courses.
53.       PART H:  IDA funds are included in the proposed Credit to finance
consulting services for the preparation of future projects in the forestry and
agriculture sector. The qualifications and experience of the consultants
financed under the Project, and their terms of reference, would be subject to
the prior review and approval of the Association (Section 3.01(b), draft
Development Credit Agreement).
54.       Studies.  In 1977, UNDP approved the financing of a prefeasibility
study for a pulpmill. Its main conclusion was that investing in a bleached
sulphate pulpmill would be economically and financially viable, provided the
pulpmill would have a capacity of 270,000 tons per annum. The prefeasibility
study did not, however, provide the technical and economic information required
for designing an optimal industrial development program. The Association
proposed, therefore, and the Government, UNDP and FAO agreed, that a study
including the assessment of the alternative uses for the wood produced in the
Mangoro plantations, would be undertaken during the proposed Second Project.
To this effect, UNDP approved in October 1980 the financing of a feasibility
study of the silvo-industrial development of the Mangoro Valley, for which FAO
is Executing Agency. A firm of consultants was selected in February 1981, its
contract was signed in March 1981, and the study team arrived in the field in
April 1981. Progress and implementation would be discussed periodically
between Government, UNDP, FAO and IDA in particular at the end of each phase
of the Study (Section 3.08, draft Development Credit Agreement).
55.       The study would have the following three phases:
Phase 1: basic data would be gathered on wood supply, markets
for wood products, industrial site alternatives, and infrastructure. Based on
this information and other pertinent inputs, the consultants would prepare a
list of options for industrial developments, such as saw mills of various
sizes, integrated development of sawmilling and pulping, and time-phased
combinations of these.
Phase 2: the alternatives selected in Phase 1 would be analyzed
in sufficient detail to allow the Government to decide which program should be
finally selected. At the end of Phase 2 the consultants would present their
analysis of each alternative and recommendations for a detailed study of an
industrial development scenario which would make optimum use of the Mangoro
forest resources. A study of the ecological effects resulting from sylvo-
industrial development in the Mangoro Valley will be included.
Phase 3: the selected industrial development would be studied
in detail for its implementation. This would include site selection, wood
supply program, marketing plan, infrastructure studies, engineering, and
financial and economic analyses.



- 16 -
56.       UNDP has also approved the financing of preparatory studies necessary
for plantation inventory and management, and for the planning of logging
roads. These studie9 would include (i) aerial photography of the Project
area (about 4,500 km ), and (ii) mapping of the plantation area. These
preparatory studies would be executed by FAO and carried out by consultants
selected in accordance with UNDP procedures.
57.       Implementation.  Except for the studies, the proposed Second Project
would be implemented by FANALAMANGA over a three year period. FANALAMANGA is
well organized and efficiently managed, and this is expected to continue if no
adverse changes in FANALAMANGA's organization and staffing occur. The Govern-
ment is considering the possibility of converting FANALAMANGA into a "socialist
enterprise", which would, under the Charter of Socialist Enterprises, bring
worker participation into management functions. No decision has been taken on
this. This could make a major change in FANALAMANGA's decision-making process,
but the impact of such a change cannot be foreseen at this stage. The Govern-
ment would inform the Association of any intended changes in FANALAMANGA-s
management and capital structure sufficiently in advance to give it the
opportunity to comment on such changes, and the Government would cause
FANALAMANGA to continue to employ a General Manager with qualifications and
experience satisfactory to the Association (Sections 3.06 and 3.07 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement). At negotiations, FANALAMANGA's present
statutes were reviewed and the Government confirmed that they needed to be
amended to provide authority and equity capital for this second project,
A condition of credit effectiveness would be that these statutes had been
revised in a manner satisfactory to the Association (Section 5.01(a), draft
Development Credit Agreement).
Project Costs
58.       Total project costs are estimated at about US$ 30.2 million equiva-
lent; the foreign exchange component is about US$ 17.3 million, or approximately
57 percent. As the goods imported under the Project would be imported free of
taxes and duties, these cost estimates include only negligible amounts of
taxes corresponding to sales taxes on locally procured goods and taxes on
staff salaries. Project costs are calculated at prices of March 1981. A
physical contingency of 10 percent of all Project costs has been included.
Price contingencies were calculated on a cumulative basis, at a weighted
average rate for domestic and international inflation of 12 percent for 1981
and 11 percent thereafter. All costs, except studies, are based on
FANALAMANGA's actual costs during the first project. The cost of the
feasibility studies for the silvo-industrial development of the Mangoro forest
resources was established on the basis of the "Project Document" established
by UNDP.
Financing Plan
59.       The proposed IDA Credit would finance US$13.2 million in foreign
exchange and US$6.8 million equivalent in local currency costs. BADEA will
finance about US$4.2 million for the project which it is expected to allocate



- 17 -
to the civil works and the vehicles and equipment. Together IDA and BADEA
would finance 80 percent of the total project cost, UNDP 3 percent, and the
Government 17 percent. IDA funds in an amount of US$19 million, the BADEA
loan, and the Government's contribution to the project would be added to
FANALAMANGA's equity capital (Section 3.03(a), draft Development Credit Agreement).
A Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be signed between the Government and FANALAMANGA
would provide that the conversion to equity take place at a date to be agreed upon
and that interest at 12 percent per annum on the funds transferred to FANALAMANGA
be capitalized at the same time. Conclusion of this agreement on terms and con-
ditions satisfactory to the Association is also a condition of effectiveness of the
IDA Credit (Section 5.01(b), draft Development Credit Agreement). Execution of
a Loan Agreement between the Government and BADEA is an additional condition of
effectiveness (Section 5.01(c), draft Development Credit Agreement).
Accounts and Audit
60.       During the first project, FANALAMANGA's accounts were satisfactorily
kept and audited by an independent auditor designated by Government("Commis-
saire aux Comptes"). FANALAMANGA would continue to (i) maintain accounts
which adequately reflect its operations, resources and expenditures, (ii) keep
separate accounts for the Project, (iii) have its accounts audited each year
by independent auditors acceptable to the Association, such audit including a
detailed review of the statements of expenditure submitted to the Association
and (iv) submit its accounts to the Association no later than six months after
the close of the financial year. (Section 4.02, draft Project Agreement.)
Procurement
61.       Procurement of a major share of the equipment and vehicles (US$ 5.7
million), and of fertilizers and chemicals (US$ 3.0 million) in orders
exceeding US$ 100,000 would be by international competitive bidding, in
accordance with Bank Guidelines. Most of the buildings and roads (US$7.0
million) would continue to be constructed on force account by FANALAMANGA.
Some civil works, however, are expected to be carried out by private
contractors following Government's local competitive bidding procedures which
are satisfactory. Afforestation, maintenance of the plantation, and of roads
and buildings, and pasture improvement, valued at US$12.0 million equivalent
(excluding the procurement of fertilizers and chemicals) would be carried out
by FANALAMANGA on force account. Most of the research work (US$500,000), and
the studies for the preparation of projects (US$ 1.0 million) in the
agriculture and forestry sectors would be contracted to firms and consultants
whose terms of reference, qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment would be satisfactory to IDA (Section 3.01(b), draft Development
Credit Agreement).
Disbursements
62.       The proceeds of the credit for supplies, research training, pasture
improvement, and consultant services would be disbursed over four years on
the basis of 100 percent of foreign and 80 percent of local expenditures.
Disbursements for civil works, to be financed jointly with BADEA, would be on
the basis of 80 percent of foreign and 65 percent of local expenditures, and
for vehicles and equipment, on the basis of 100 percent of foreign and 80



- 18 -
percent of local expenditures; the latter items would be financed on a parallel
basis with BADEA. All disbursements for expenditures in foreign currencies
would be fully documented. Disbursement for administrative costs would be on
the basis of 80 percent of total expenditures. Disbursement for these expendi-
tures in local currency and for research, training and pasture improvement
would be made against statements of expenditure certified by the Financial
Director of FANALAMANGA and approved by the Ministry of Finance. The adminis-
trative and accounting capability of FANALAMANGA to prepare statements of
expenditure is satisfactory, and there are adequate internal checks and
controls which would be reinforced during Project implementation. All other
disbursements would be made against contracts and would be fully documented.
Justification
63.       The justification of the project is based on the entire Mangoro
afforestation and silvo-industrial development program for which it would
supply raw material. Preliminary economic and financial calculations were
made to test the viability of the proposed project and they indicate it is
economically viable. Two silvo-industrial models were developed, correspond-
ing respectively to the lower and upper ends of the spectrum of capital
investments which could permit the full utilization of the Mangoro forest
resources. These two models, however, do not necessarily correspond to
optimal development scenarios under capital resource constraints; the defini-
tion of such optimal scenarios would be carried out as part of the silvo-
industrial development studies described earlier.
64.       The least capital intensive model corresponds to the establishment
of a saw milling industry, requiring capital investments of about US$75 million
equivalent (in 1981 prices) phased over a l-year period. The volume of sawn-
wood ultimately produced would be 420,000 m in 1995 as compared to a total
domestic demand of 130,000 m in that same year, the remainder is likely to
find markets in Japan and oil-producing countries in the Middle-East. The
economic rate of return (ERR) of the sawmill model would be about 12 per-
cent; this rate is not very sensitive to costs and sawnwood prices.
65.       The most capital intensive model corresponds to the construction of
a large pulpmill with an annual capacity of 270,000 tons of pulp, requiring
capital investments of about US$500 million equivalent (in 1981 prices)
phased over a six-year period. Most of the wood pulp would be exported to
European and far-eastern countries as not more than an additional 10,000 tons
of pulp would be needed annually for domestic consumption during the next 15
years. The ERR of the pulpmill model would be about 11 percent but is only
moderately sensitive to pulp prices: a 10 percent decrease in prices over the
entire Project life, would yield an ERR of nine percent.
66.       The economic rate of return of the overall Mangoro afforestation
program, including the proposed Project, was also calculated, taking into
account the sunk costs incurred before 1974, and between 1975 and 1980 during
the first phase project. The ERR would be about 8 percent if the plantation's



- 19 -
production is used for sawmilling, and about 10 percent if it is used to
provide raw materials for a large pulpmill. These marginal rates of return
do not permit to draw firm conclusions regarding the appropriateness of the
original decision to proceed with the afforestation program. It should be
noted that the ERR on the overall afforestation program is quite sensitive
to assumptions made for output prices (woodpulp and sawnwood) and, to a
lesser extent, for mill capital and operating costs. A firmer judgement on
the economic viability of the overall afforestation program could only be
made, therefore, when the silvo-industrial development feasibility studies
are completed.
67.       Benefits.  The project plantation program would be of substantial
benefit to the Mangoro Valley. The areas selected for afforestation are
degraded, and the tree cover would reduce erosion and improve soil fertility
and water retention. The boundaries of the plantation areas would continue
to be drawn so as to minimize any conflict with local land use patterns.
Assurances to this effect were received during negotiations (Section 3.04,
draft Development Credit Agreement). The ultimate environmental impact of the
Mangoro afforestation program would depend on the nature of the silvo-indus-
trial development program which would be selected. The Credit Agreement
provides that sound environmental practices would continue to be followed
under the Project, and that adequate steps would be taken by Government to
minimize any adverse ecological effects resulting from silvo-industrial
development (Section 3.05 of the draft Development Credit Agreement and
Section 2.07 of the draft Project Agreement).
68.       The proposed three-year plantation project would provide continued
employment to FANALAHANGA-s 1,600 workers. This figure would increase in
future phases to about 5,000 as a result of logging and industrial operations.
Unquantifiable benefits include the consolidation of the institution-building
achievements, pasture improvement, protection against soil erosion, and
benefits accruing to farmers in adjacent areas who sell their produce to
project workers.
Risks
69.       There are no unusual risks regarding the continuation of the affores-
tation program. Risks of forest fires would be reduced by the provision of
additional fire-fighting equipment, fire watching towers, pruning of trees and
controlled burning. Risks of disease outbreak would continue to be controlled
by systematic health monitoring of the plantations. Potential problems due to
conflicts with farmers and cattle owners in the project area or to social
unrest are reduced by the pasture improvement program and by FANALAMANGA's
good relationships with its labor force and the local community.
70.       FANALAMANGA might be converted into a "socialist enterprise" under
the provisions of the Charter of Socialist Enterprises, and the impact of such
a change on its efficiency cannot be foreseen at this stage, but the risk of
adverse developments within FANALAMANGA is mitigated by Government's strong
commitment to the Project. If the industrial development proposal finally



- 20 -
retained were to require large investments, Government might not be able to
raise sufficient funds, and the industrial development program would be
delayed. This, however, would not affect the physical execution of the
afforestation program. However, interrupting the plantation program until
industrial development planning is completed would seriously disrupt the
project entity and would jeopardize the future industrial development of the
valley's forest resources. To continue the plantation program while
completing the industrial development studies is, therefore, considered the
best strategy.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
71.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Democratic
Republic of Madagascar and the Association, the Project Agreement between the
Association and FANALAMANGA, and the Recommendations of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association
are being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
72.       The draft Development Credit Agreement and draft Project Agreement
include the usual requirements of agreements on forestry projects. Special
conditions of the Credit, including conditions of effectiveness, are listed in
Section III of Annex III of this Report.
73.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
74.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
By
Moeen A. Oureshi
Attachments
May 22, 1981



- 21 -
ANNEX1
PAX I
TABLE 3A
MADAGASCMA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
HADAGASCAR                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVFRAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM).)                                                             - MOST RECENT ESTIMATEm
TOTAL              587.0
AGRICULTURAL       369.3                                   tlOST RECENT             LOWI INCOHE              MIDDLE IIRCCME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIIIATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SANARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US1 )                    130.0        160.0      290.0                  260.0                      868.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOCRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)         38.0          71.0       78.0                   80.0                     699.4
POPULATION AND VlTAL STATISTICS                                         l/
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (NILLIONS)         5.5           6.8        8.5 -
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 10.6             14. 1      It.,                   17.3                       28. 9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                            14.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                             38.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                      2160
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                           9.0          12.0       14.0                   27.4                      61.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        15.0         18.0        22.0                   82.6                     126.0
P0PULATION ACE STRUCTURE (PERCFNT)
0-14 YES.                            41.6         42.8       43.4                    44.9                      45.5
15-64 YES.                            55. 2        53.9       53.3                    52.2                      S1.6
b5 YRS. AND ABOVE                      3.2          3.3         3.3                    2.8                       2.3
POPULATION GRCWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 1.8           2.2        2.8-                   2.7                       2.7
URBAN                                 5.0           5. 1       5.3                    6.8                       4.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        47.0          45.0       45.0                   47.4                      46.b
CEUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        27.0          22.0       19.0                   19.6                      16.4
GROSS REPROIEUCTION NATE                2.9           3.2        3.0                    3.2                        3.2
PAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNIIAL (THOUSANDS)         ..            ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..              ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF POOD FRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)             89.0        102.0       92.0                    01.8                      94.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     106.0        108.0      115.0                   90.2                       92.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)             60.0         60.0        60.0                   53.0                      53.0
OF 11ICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          18.0         17.0       15.0                   18.4                       15.6
CHILD (ACES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        41.0          32.0       27.0                   27.7                      21.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    37.0            42.0        46.0                   45.3                      50. 1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSANDI                                 ..        177.0/c
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..         11.0       26.0                    23.2                      31.n
URBAN                                  ..         67.0        76.0                   58.0                      66.R
RURAL                                  ..           L0       16.0                    16.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..         ..                    28.9
URBAN                                  ..         88.0          ..                   67.0
RURAL                                  ..           ..        9.0
POPLLATION PER PHYSICIAN             9619.0      10194.0   10301.0                 30910.4                    14508.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        3105.0       3361.0    3536.3                   5793.2                    3279. 0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               469.0        355.0      405.0                 1198.9                     1141.5
URUAS                               115.0        147.0
RURAL                               761.0        472.0
ADMISSIObS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..           ..          .
HOQUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLS
TOTAL                                  ..           5.8       4.7
URN                                                 0.3       S. A 
RURAL                                  ..           5. 9      4. 7
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOU
TOTSI                                  ..           ..
URBAN                                  ..           ..
RURAL                                  ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF LDWELLINGS)
OITAI.                                 ..           5. 0
'TRBAU                                 ..           .. .N.                             .
PRUAL                                  ..           .. .A.                             .
1/ lm   19979
2/ 1975-LT979



- 22 -
ANNEX 1
PaRe 2
TABLE 3A
MADAGASCAR - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MADAGASCAR                      REFFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTFD AVE   GES
- MOST RECENT F.STIMATE
MOST RECENT             LOW INCOHE                MIDDLE INCOMF
1960  Lb    1970 Lb ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOtUTH OF SAHAPA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAPAPA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLIENT RATIOS
PRUIARY:      TOTAL                   52.0         83.0        92.0                   57.7                        61. 7
HALE                   58.0          90.0       9P.0                    74.2                       69.2
FEMALE                 45.0          77.0       86.0                    54.1                       51.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                     4.0          11.0       12.0                    10.0                       20.6
HALE                     5.0         13.0       14.0                    13.7                       29.2
FEMALE                  3.0           8. 0      10.0                     7. 1                      14.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)   9.0               9.0        7.0                     6.8                        7. 0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                               70.0         65.0        61.0                   45.0                       36.6
SECONDARY                             24.0         20.0        24.0                   25. 2                      24.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)             ..          39.0       50.0                    25.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                             4. °         6.0         7. 1                   3. 6                      39.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            15.0         78. 0       74.0                   31. 5                      83. 5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                              ..          0. 5        1.0                    1.98
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                      8.0           8. 0       9. 0                    4. 6                     24. 2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.5               0. 7       0.4                      ..                        0. 7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)         3046.1       3627.6    4258.4
FEMALE (PERCENT)                      46.2         45.7       45.0                    33.5                       38.1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                 92.8         89.4        86.0                   80. 7                      54.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                     2.5          3.4         4.0                    8. 1                      17.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                   53.7          52.3       51.3                    42.2                       38.8
MALE                                    58. 7         57. 7      56.6                    55. 1                      48.4
FEMALE                                  48.9          47.0       46.0                    29.5                       29.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                  0. 9          0.9        0.9                     1.2                        1. 3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   41. /d              .
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT CF HOUSEHOLDS  60. ljd
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    5. 2/d
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    13.0/d
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..            ..      150.0                  138.2
RURAL                                   ..           ..       86.0                    86.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..           ..       135.0                  107.0
RURAL                                   ..           ..        86.0                   65.0
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                   ..           ..        50.0 
RURAL-                                  ..           ..        50.0                   96.9
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
Lb   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   1965-66;  /d Population.
Most recent estinate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



0- ~    ~       - -- ---                            0                                                                                                   o                                        0    fl
O  00.00.  00-c                                                      000         -0    0   0                '_ 
K                W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    -
00  010000                0  00   oOoOo'-oO~~~~~~. .0. . 0'.        00.00. ..-0. 0.1I0 .0                                           0
I~~~~~~~~~~~~I0
00000.00  00            0 00 00 00.'    000-'00 04 00-00 00.0                                           00                      0000000000-00.00 00                                                                   00        0
~~  00   vooo   0.0-  oO    00   0000.0   0-00-00-0   0.10-000  ~ ~  ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~      ~     ~        ~,..   o.~
00-000-    .00             00000-00-            000000 0000    0'   0   0                   000000000    .   0                 0        o0o000I000                   0-00I              00I000 000.0-0                          0
0  0  00000-00 - 0 -000 000     000-00    0   000   0                0'      0000    0-00000-   0 000                        0-0000        0000 000                 0'      0     000   000.0-00I0                  0
0 000000000000000    0-0000.00 0...00000000-0' 0w.ooo0.  00'  0-  0000   0-  0  .000   0-  0-    0.000000-   000   oo0-00-0-0-                    00                          00000   0.0-0~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 24 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4
ECONCMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1979                                          ANNUAL RATES OF GROWTH-
US$ Mln        x                      1975-79
GNP at market prices                      2,768.0       100.0                     1.5
Gross domestic investment                   619.1        22.4                     4.6
Gross domestic saving                       281.6        10.2                   -17.5
Current account balance                    -434.8       -15.7                      -
Exports of goods, NFS                       482.3        17.4                    -7.3
Imports of goods, NFS                       819.9        29.6                     5.4
OUTPUT LABOUR FORCE AND                         2
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1979              Value Added-/         Labour Force3          VA Per Worker
US$Mln       %       MIn         _          US$           X
Agriculture                         961.4      34.2      3.79        88.8       253.7       38.5
Industry                            551.0      19.6      0.19         4.4    2,900.0      440.2
Services                          1,134.8      40.3      0.29         6.8    3,913.1      594.0
Unallocated                         165.9 4/   5.9
2,813.1    100.0      4.27       100.0       658.8      100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE                          Central Government
FMG Bln              % of GDP
1979    1980        1979      1977-79
Current receipts                   114.1   126.3        19.1        20.1
Current expenditure                131.8   148.8        21.6        20.5
Current deficit                    -17.7   -22.5        -2.5        -0.4
Capital expenditures                55.0   105.7         9.6         6.1
Foreign financing (net)             30.9    42.3         5.2         2.8
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                 1976     1977      1978      1979      1980
(Billion FMG Outstanding at the End of the Period)
Money and quasi money                    100.2    122.0    143.0    180.6    207.8
Bank credit to public sector              19.5     29.0      49.9    100.5    186.0
Bank credit to state enterprises
and private sector                       82.2     95.8    100.7    120.6    139.2
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and quasi money as % of GDP         23.7      26.5     29.8      30.1      -
GDP deflator (1978=100)                   88.1     93.7    100.0    112.9        -
Annual percentage changes in:
GDP deflator                              11.4      6.4       6.7      12.9     -
Bank credit to public sector              58.5     48.7      72.1    100.4       85.1
Bank credit to state enterprises
and private sector                       4.8     16.5       5.1      19.8     15.4
NOTE:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate
prevailing during the period covered.
1/ Based on 1978 prices series
2/ At market prices
3/ Total labour force
4/ Import duties
April 30, 1981



- Z5 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
(US$ MILION)
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS         1976    1977    1978~1-  1979-    MERCHANDISE EXPORTS
(ANNUAL AVERAGE 1976-79)
Export of goods, f.o.b.   288.7   350.9   405.5   411.8                             US$ Mln.       7
Import of goods, f.o.b.   261.5   311.8   404.2   674.1                             -
Resource Balance              27.2    39.1      1.3  -262.3    Coffee                156.1       44.8
Services (net)             -107.1  -109.5  -144.4  -248.2    Vanilla                  27.1        7.8
Freight and insurance    - 46.4  - 68.0  - 81.1  -137.7    Cloves                     46.2       13.2
Others                     - 55.7  - 36.2  - 54.4  - 87.9          products            9,8        2.8
Investment income          -  5.0  -  5.3  -  8.9  - 22.6    Fish and
Transfers (net)               52.3    52.1    60.7    70.0         shellfish          15.6        4.5
-  -        -       ~~~Sugar               7.3        2.1
Private                        3.3     0.8      8.4      7.0    Petroleum
Public                       49.0    51.3    52.3    63.0          products           11.2        3.2
Current account balance   -27.6   -18.3   -82.4  -440.5    Chronite                               3.1
Direct foreign investment  -2.5   - 4.1   - 6.2   - 6.6            commodities        64.7       18.5
Net MLT borrowing:           17.2    18.3    22.6   145.2              Total         348.7      100.0
Disbursements              19.7    21.6    27.5   155.1    EXTERNAL DEBT,
Amortization      2/      - 2.5   - 3.3   - 4.9   - 9.0         DECEMBER 31, 1979         US$ Mln.
Other capital (net)-         10.5    16.3    59.0    95.9    Public debt
Change in reserves             2.4   -12.2      7.1   206.0       including Guaranteed         (577)
(increase   -                                                 Non-Guaranteed
MEMO ITEMS                                                       No-Gateed
SDR allocation        3       -        -        -        4.7      Private Debt a
Foreign assets (net)-        62.0    64.1    64.0        -       Total Outstandng &            (577)1/
RATE OF EXCHiANGE                                                DEBT SERVICE RATIO
1976            1977                1978                  IN 1979   4/
US$l=FMG238.98    US$1-FMG245.67    US$1=FMG225.64               P
FMG1-US$0.0042    FMG1=US$0.0041    FMGIlUS$0.0044               Public debt,
including Guaranteed        (10.0)
1979            1980                                     Non-Guaranteed Private
US$1=FMG212.72    1IS$l=FMG2ll.30                                 Debt                           -
FMG1=US$0.0047    FMG1US$0.0047                                 Total Outstanding &                  1/
Disbursed                   (10.0)-
IBRD/IDA LENDING
March 31, 1981           US$ Mln
IBRD    IDA
Outstanding & Disb.    29.76   128.70
Undisbursed               1.65   135.04
Outstanding incl.
1/  Provisional estimates from the Central                            Undisbursed         31.41   263.74
Bank of Madagascar.
2/  Includes SDR allocations, state and private short
term capital, and errors and omissions.
3/  Net foreign assets of the banking system.
4/  Debt service payments as 7 of exports of goods.
April 30, 1981



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of March 31, 1981) 1/
Loan or                                                              US$ Million
Credit                                                          (net of cancellations)
Number       Year      Borrower       Purpose        Bank         IDA     Undisbursed
Seven Credits and four Loans
have been fully disbursed                          25.83      64.25         -
322-MAG  1972       Madagascar Morondava Irrig.               15.30         1.61
506-MAG  1974                   Village Livestock              9.60        4.57
1065-MAG  1974                   Forestry            6.75                   1.65
641-MAG  1976                   Highways IV                   22.00       10.63
663-MAG  1976                   Education II                  14.00 2/    7.32
817-MAG  1978                   Andekaleka
Hydroelectric               43.00 3/   24.67
881-MAG  1979                   Mangoky - Agriculture         12.00        8.05
903-MAG  1979                   Railways II                   13.00        3.04
938-MAG  1979                   Highways V                    24.00       24.00
977-MAG  1980                   Industrial Bank - BNI          5.00        5.00
1002-MAG  1980                   Water/Sanitation              20.50       20.50
1016-MAG  1980                   Petroleum Exploration         12.50       11.85
TOTAL                                    32.58    255.15       122.89
of which has been repaid                1.17       5.21
TOTAL now outstanding                    31.41    249.94
Amount sold
of which has been repaid                 -          -
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA           31.41    249.94
TOTAL Undisbursed                         1.65    121.24       122.89
B. SDR denominated IDA Credits (as of March 31, 1981)
Amount less cancellation
(SDR million)
Credit number   Year    Borrower    Purpose    amount             Undisbursed
1064-MAG        1981    Madagascar                 8.7 4/             8.7
1086-MAG        1981    Madagascar                 1.8 4/             1.8
Total                                  10.5               10.5
of which has been repaid               -                 _
Total now outstanding                  10.5               10.5
amount sold
of which has been repaid             -
Total now held                     10.5              10.5
Total undisbursed                    -               10.5
C.  Statement of IFC Investments (as of March 31, 1981)
Loan        Equity      Total
(US$ Million)
1977      Sotema - Textile Mill at Majunga    11.00             0.29      11.29
1980      Bata - Shoe Manufacturing in
Antananarivo                           1.25          -         1.25
1/   Prior to exchange adjustments.
2/   Including a Norwegian grant participation of US$7.0 million.
3/   Including a supplemental credit of US$10.0 million of 1980.
4/   Not yet effective.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit No. 322-MAG:      Morondava Irrigation and Rural Development Project;
US$15.3 million credit of June 30, 1972; Date of
Effectiveness: April 30, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Initially, the project was to rehabilitate and extend, in the
Morondava area, existing irrigation systems, and develop 9,300 ha (4,700 ha
for smallholder rice, 2,700 ha for a tobacco state farm and 1,900 ha for a
cotton state farm); village development, roads, schools and health facilities
were included. The project as revised and substantially reduced in February
1976 will complete major civil works envisaged at appraisal, implement on-
farm development works on 2,500 ha of rice areas, establish an applied
research station, and provide agricultural support services, roads and
health facilities.
Major civil works (including construction of a diversion weir at
Dabara, rehabilitation of the Dabara Canal and the North Canal, construction
of secondary irrigation and drainage canals, and construction of the 8.1 km
road between Mahabo and Ankilivalo) are completed satisfactorily. However,
SODEMO, the agency responsible for on-farm development and agricultural
services, faces serious management and financial problems and as a result,
on-farm development and construction works have lagged behind schedule,
agricultural production is poorly organized, and yields are very low. The
Government and IDA have agreed on a plan of action to clarify SODEMO's respon-
sibilities and financial plan and to improve overall management, but this will
require careful monitoring in the coming months. Significant progress has
been made in updating of accounts. Audit of past accounts by consultants has
been completed and is expected to be submitted to the government this month.
The closing date was extended to allow SODEMO time to carry out the project as
revised and to permit land development, of which less than 50 percent has been
completed.
Credit No. 506-MAG:      Village Livestock and Rural Development Project:
US$9.6 million credit of August 21, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness: June 17, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The project encountered serious problems in the initial years
and, principally because of legal and organizational difficulties, little
progress was made. Following significant changes in institutional and
management arrangements, the credit agreement was extensively amended; the
Amended Agreement became effective September 1, 1977.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors about
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
The project-s situation is much improved. FAFIFAMA, the principal
project implementing agency, is now well-established, fully staffed and
operational. Implementation of the project's most important component - the
development of veterinary and livestock services for village producers - is
proceeding well. Pasture improvement experiments are being undertaken.
Schools and health centers are being constructed, and the Ministry of Health
is preparing a utilization plan for the health centers. The development of
water points and road improvement continue satisfactorily. Cooperation with
fokonolona institutions in all aspects of FAFIFAMA's work is good. In the
middle west, OMBY continues to provide services to villages surrounding the
ranches established under the IBRD-financed Beef Cattle Development Project.
The pilot pig program and cattle share fattening programs have begun, but
action is limited to construction of some buildings. Financing and adminis-
tration arrangements have been worked out. The study of cattle marketing and
meat prices has been completed and submitted to government for review. A
second phase livestock project was appraised in June 1980.
Loan No. 1065-MAG:       Mangoro Forestry Project; US$6.75 million loan and
Credit No. 525-MAG       US$6.75 million credit both of December 23, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: July 8, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The project assists in the planting of 35,000 ha of pine plantations
as part of an overall planting program of 96,000 ha, which will eventually
supply a future pulp mill for export. The planting program is ahead of
schedule and cost estimates are in line with forecasts, despite a reorganiza-
tion of the project which entails more building and infrastructure than
originally estimated, and the need for more intensive soil preparation than
foreseen at appraisal. Technical difficulties which occurred in the early
stages of the project have been resolved.
Credit No. 641-MAG:      Fourth Highway Project; US$22.0 million credit of
June 23, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: August 19,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project assists the Government in the construction of two major
roads with a view to reducing transport costs and providing access to areas
with a high agricultural potential. It also includes training and strengthen-
ing of the country s road maintenance administration. Project implementation
is satisfactory. However, start of the training program for personnel in the
Ministry of Public Works on highway maintenance has been delayed due to lack
of training facilities. Bids for construction of these facilities were
received and the contract has been awarded to the lowest bidder, SARD. Con-
struction works are expected to start shortly. Part of consultant's team
(Louis Berger) has already arrived and training has already started, although
at a reduced scale at the existing training facilities.



- 29 -                         ANNEX II
Page 4
Credit No. 663-MAG:      Second Education Project; US$14.0 million credit of
December 10, 1976; DatE of Effectiveness: August 15,
1977; Closing Date: DEcember 31, 1981
The project is designed to assist the Government in decentralizing
the educational system and to improve the quality of basic education. It
includes five Regional Education Centres and vehicles for school inspectorate,
one Teaching Materials Production Centre and funds for textbook development,
technical assistance and fellowships. Norway took a 50 percent participation
in the project under an agreement signed on December 16, 1977.
Architectural design work on all project institutions is now com-
plete. Detailed operational planning for the Teaching Materials Production
Centre is being carried out. The two key technical advisors for this Centre,
provided by the Organization for Rehabilitation through Training have been in
Madagascar since September 1977. The second phase of the ORT program is under
active preparation. Architectural work has generally been well e'xecuted
although this has taken much longer than expected. Construction of one of the
project's regional education centers is now completed and the remaining four
centers are also nearing completion. The teaching aid production center is
expected to be completed within six months. Progress has also been made with
respect to the software components of the project including the completion of
evaluation of the educational system, decentralization of education administra-
tion and a sector survey.
Credit No. 817-MAG:      Andekaleka Hydroelectric Project; US$43.0 million
credit of June 19, 1978 (including a Supplementary
Credit of US$10 million of May 8, 1980); Date of
Effectiveness: May 30, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The project would meet the growth in electricity demand until
1992 in the Antananarivo area and provide for the strengthening of JIRAMA,
Madagascar's national electricity and water corporation. It includes a
concrete diversion dam and an intake structure; a 4-km tunnel, underground
power house, tailrace and access tunnels; two turbines and two generators;
electrical and mechanical equipment; a transmission line to Antananarivo;
engineering services; preliminary investigation and design for a storage
reservoir; and technical assistance and training for JIRAMA staff.
Contracts have been awarded for the civil works and all major
equipment and supplies. Total project costs are now estimated at about 20
percent higher than at appraisal. However, even at the higher cost, the
project is still the least-cost solution for the supply of power in
Madagascar. The civil works were temporarily halted in March of this year
by Skanska due to a lack of supplies caused by the unreliability of the
railways. An interim Co-Lender's meeting was held on May 4, 1981 during
which an emergency plan of action was adopted.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Credit No. 903-MAG:        Second Railway Project; US$13.0 million credit
of June 25, 1979; Date of Effectiveness:
April 30, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
The objectives of the project are to help the Malagasy railway
company renew and modernize its facilities, improve the reliability and
efficiency of its operations and improve its financial management and
accounting methods. The French Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
provided US$20.5 million in co-financing.
The Railway has been experiencing major difficulties for some
time, due to: i) fuel problems; ii) Government intervention in Railway
operations; (iii) increased derailments; iv) deteriorating financial situa-
tion; and most recently, v) Government dismissal of the Director General of
RNCFM and the Technical Director.
A recovery program including short-term technical assistance for
the Railway has been adopted, following discussions with Malagasy officials.
Credit No. 977-MAG:        Bankin'ny Indostria (BNI) Project;
US$5.0 million Credit of May 8, 1980;
Date of Effectiveness: February 24, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The project will support Madagascar's growing industrial sector
and BNI's crucial development role by providing BNI with part of its foreign
exchange requirements to finance projects in the artisanal/small-scale and
medium-scale enterprise sectors and by strengthening BNI itself through
technical assistance.
Credit No. 1002-MAG:      Antananarivo Water and Sanitation Project;
US$20.5 million Credit of May 8, 1980;
Date of Effectiveness: December 17, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
The project will increase access to treated water for the Antananarivo
urban population and improve sanitation conditions. Detailed design of the
water supply works has been completed and tender documents have been issued.
Detailed design of the sanitation component is expected to be completed by the
end of 1981. Construction work on the water supply component will commence as
soon as bid evaluation is completed and the contract awarded.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 7
Credit No. 1016-MAG.      Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project;
US$12.5 million Credit of May 8, 1980;
Date of Effectiveness: August 20, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project will support the Government-s efforts to develop a
domestic supply of hydrocarbons and improve planning of the energy sector.
Implementation of the project is progressing satisfactorily. Geological and
legal consultants were employed to assist the Government in preparing
data with a view to promoting exploration by interested oil companies. Bids
from oil companies to undertake exploration have now been received and are
being evaluated. Other studies and technical assistance provided in the
project are proceeding satisfactorily, including preparation of a second
project to study the feasibility of exploiting the Tsimiroro heavy oil
deposits.
Credit No. 1065-MAG:      National Bank for Rural Development (BTM) Project;
US$11.5 million Credit of January 7, 1981; Expected
Date of Effectiveness: July 7, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
The project would support the Government's policy to extend credit for
smallholder agricultural development through BTM: Credit effectiveness is
awaiting submission of legal opinions by the Government.
Credit No. 1086-MAG:      Plain of Antananarivo (Technical Assistance) Project;
US$2.3 million Credit of January 30, 1981; Expected
Date of Effectiveness: June 30, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project would support the Government's efforts to institute
a multisectoral approach to an integrated flood control and development program
for the Plain of Antananarivo area; it would also contribute to strengthening
the coordinating role of the Directorate General of Planning of the Ministry
of Finance in the development of the Plain of Antananarivo. Credit effective-
ness is awaiting submission of the legal opinion.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
Credit No. 881-MAG:       Mangoky Agricultural Development Project;
US$12.0 million credit of May 17, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness: March 11, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The project will support the development of about 3,700 ha for
production of rice and cotton, to be farmed by about 3,200 families. It will
complete an irrigation system serving about 10,000 ha in the Lower Mangoky
Valley which has been under development since the early 1960s. These invest-
ments are based on a long-term master plan for the region which aims ultimately
to bring about 100,000 ha of land into production. The project will be imple-
mented over a five-year period and will comprise: development of irrigation
and drainage networks, and road infrastructure for 3,300 ha including produc-
tion of concrete canal segments; improvement of water supply for about 400 ha
of traditional rice fields; consultant services for design and supervision;
applied agricultural research; social infrastructure; training and project
preparation for agriculture and rural development projects. IFAD is financing
about 25 percent of the total project cost.
Civil works have been delayed because of lack of cement, delays in
land-levelling and grading due to breakdown of equipment, and lack of spare
parts; low output of the concrete canal factory is due to poor management,
past cement shortage and lack of reinforcement steel. The quality of SAMANGOKY
management has deteriorated, due to strikes and other labor problems, preci-
pitating the resignation of the General Manager, who left in December
1980. SAMANGOKY has been unable to obtain a foreign exchange allocation for
importation of equipment and materials due to shortage of Government foreign
exchange. However, a new Director General and a Technical Director for the
project have been appointed. Both are acceptable to IDA.
Credit No. 938-MAG:        Fifth Highway Project; US$24.0 million credit of
July 30, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: March 17,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The project will help prevent further deterioration of the paved
highway network, thus reducing transport cost and avoiding early and costly
reconstruction works. It would also increase the maintenance capacity of
the Ministry of Public Works and provide for an all-weather road connection
between the regional district of Antomboka and the capital, Antananarivo.
Co-financing is provided by a European Economic Community Special Action
Account credit of US$10 million. Progress so far has been rather slow.
However, the contract for construction of bridges and approaches is about to
be awarded. High bids for this contract have resulted in a cost overrun of
US$6 million. Government with assistance from the Bank is attempting to find
additional financing for the project from co-financing sources.



- 33 -
ANNEX III
MADAGASCAR
SECOND MANGORO FORESTRY PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events:
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:           6 months
(b)  Project prepared by:                    Government and IDA
(c)  Initial discussion with IDA:            September 1979
(d)  Departure of appraisal mission:         June 1980
(e)  Negotiations:                           April 1981
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:          September 1981
Section II - Special IDA Implementation Action:
None
Section III - Special Conditions:
Conditions of Effectiveness:
(i)  Amendment of FANALAMANGA's Statutes (para. 57).
(ii) Signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government
and FANALAMANGA (para. 59).
(iii) Signing of Loan Agreement between the Government and BADEA
(para. 59).
Other Conditions:
The Government will undertake a study assessing alternative
uses of the wood produced in the Mangoro plantations
(para. 54).






MADAGASCAR 
MANGORO  FORESTRY PROJECT, PHASE TInsratn
PROIFT FOREST/ER DUI MAIANORO, -PHASEE '
PROJECT LOCATION
LOCATION D'U PROJET
MogoForesty Project area     ___  P'ored roads                                  Ncttbn
LI]Zoo dv u/t Mfongoo                     Routes goudro,osdeo                                           m, 
0ther forestry and related watet-mi ___  AtI-iveother roads                                          +Vlroo
Aufres orwetx loreoder                  Routes accessdb/es soptosse saisoo                                      +
A    tZSov'osr                                                                                     1      '
ia CSavok,pantins-
2    ofentntat'e-o-sosepotoi         +    A                                          
Cinchorso                    ~~~~~~~Forestsn bodfeBoa  
40    Pbettaux &0A=wwi            Fords oW fodoa                                                   II
th.#05 ofof faritawy ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ elnoron
KILOMETE&$L" 9  0      oO   190   2(*
Sodo  ,  Morron    2
9 6 i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
-                   Mooo,sholo~~~~~A~'b           N--9  
Ckg~~~~n it  - ~~~T iroanomandidy                   ANTANANARIV       n         Pee
~~~;7~ ~ ~~- pt)unSnn AP                                      4    iA
rno,onjokaFrrosr,rn             inboD n   yA-
ang~~~~~~~~Z
Antsirab(~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~teepororSittooosSt
Fian`6rantso~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~WrdSoeo4ofhoeo o
2t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2-
'Ank-  f --'OA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- '
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __-Av   0



