RETURN TO
REPORTS DESK                       T                            RESTRICTED
WITHIN                  IL                                  Report No. PA-142a
ONE WEEK
This report is for official use only by the Bank Group and specifically authorized organizations
or persons. It may not be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The
Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMET
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
THE GAMBIA
August 8, 1972
Agriculture Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit        a    Gambian Dalasi
DI                   -    US$0.52
US$1                 a    D 1.92
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 acre (ac)          -    0.45 hectares (ha)
1 mile               e    1.61 kilometer (kn)
1 square mile        -    640 acres - 259 ha
1 ton                -    2,240 pounds (lb.) - 1.093 kilograms (kg)
1 cusec              m    1 cubic foot per second
ABBREVIATIONS
cif            -    Cost, insurance and freight
fob            -    Free on board
GPMB            -    Gambia Produce Marketing Board
LEA                  Licensed Buying Agent
MANR            -    Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
UNDP                 United Nations Development Programme
MID                  MacCarthy Island Division
MDW             -    Ministry of Works
ODA                  United Kingdom's Overseas Development
Administration
PHU             5    Project Management Unit
PMWA            -    Bank's Permanent Mission in West Africa
U. K.           -    United Kingdom
CONVERSION RATIOS
Paddy to Milled Rice              = 66%
Unshelled to Shelled Groundnuts - 70%
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



THE GAMBIA
APPRAISAL OF AN
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMKARY                                      ..i -ii
I. INTRODUCTION                                         ..                                    1
II.    BACKGROUND ................................................   1
A.    General ..............................................   1
B.    Agricultural Sector ..................................  2
C.    Agricultural Strategy ................................  5
III. THE PROJECT AREA                                         ..                                 6
IV.    THE  PROJECT ...............................................  8
A.    Project Description ..................................  8
B.    Detailed  Features ....................................  9
V.    COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL  ARRANGEMENTS ................. 13
A.    Project  Costs ........................................ 13
B.    Proposed  Financing ................................... 15
C.    Procurement .......................................... 16
D.    Disbursement ......................................... 16
E.    Accounts  and Audit ................................... 16
VI.    ORGANIZATION  AND MANAGEMENT ............................... 17
A.    General .............................................. 17
B.    Staffing ............................................. 17
C.    Pump  Irrigation ...................................... 18
D.     Preparation  of  an  Integrated Agricultural  Development
Project  for MID .................................... 19
VII.      YIELDS,  PRODUCTION,  MARKETS,  PRICES  AND  FINANCIAL  RESULTS.  19
A.    Yields  and Production ................................ 19
B.    Markets  and Prices ................................... 20
C.    Farmer's  Benefits .................................... 20
D.    Impact  on Government  Budget .......................... 21
This  report  is based  on  the  findings  of an  IDA mission  composed of Messrs.
A.  Storrar,  A.  Cole  and  A.  Duncan  (PMWA)  which  visited The  Gambia in
February 1972.



-2-
Page No.
VIII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ................................ 21
A.  Pump Irrigation ...................................... 21
B.   Preparation of an Integrated Development Project for
MID ................................................ 22
IX.   RECOMMENDATIONS ........................................... 22
ANNEXES
1.  The Cooperative Societies
2.  Gambia Produce Marketing Board
Table 1 - Increase in net worth of GPMB
Table 2 - Profit and Loss Account GMPB
Table 3 - GPMB Produce Purchases and Sales
3.  Agriculture and Land Tenure in the Project Area
4.  Hydrological and Topographical Studies of the Gambia River Basin
5.  Land Resource Development Project Study
6.  Irrigation and Pumping Requirements
7.  Draft Terms of Reference for Consultants
8.  Project Costs
Table 1 - Summary of Project Costs
Table 2 - Rice Component - Administration
Table 3 - Rice Component - On-farm Costs
Table 4 - Studies on Swamps
Table 5 - Agricultural Experiments
9.  IDA Credit Disbursements
10.   Farmer Benefits
Table 1 - Labor Requirements per acre
Table 2 - Farm Plans
Table 3 - 1 Acre Budget for Irrigated Rice
Table 4 - Profit Per Acre
Table 5 - Economic Value of Paddy
Table 6 - Economic Value of Groundnuts
Table 7 - Cash Flow for Project Farm Plan
11.  Table 1 - Impact on Government Budget
Table 2 - Farm Credit Disbursements & Repayments
12.  Economic Rate of Return Calculations
Table - Economic Rate of Return
MAPS
1.  The Gambia
2.  The MacCarthy Island Division of The Gambia



THE GAMBIA
APPRAISAL OF AN
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises an agricultural development project in the
MacCarthy Island Division (MID) of The Gambia for which an IDA Credit of
US$1.30 million is proposed. The principal objectives of the project
are twofold; to reduce The Gambia's present substantial rice imports by
increasing local ptoduction; and to prepare an integrated agricultural develop-
ment project based on ongoing and new studies, and on improved agricultural
experimentation. This would be the first agricultural project financed by
the Bank group in The Gambia.
ii.       The project would be carried out in the period 1972 - 1975 and
would involve:
(a) developing 3,000 acres of land in MID for double
cropping rice under pump irrigation, using existing
successful techniques; selecting suitable land and providing
security of tenure to about 3,000 participants; forming
managed cooperatives and providing credit for irrigation
equipment as well as seed and fertilizer for the first crop;
training and strengthening field staff; and constructing
staff housing and offices.
(b) preparing an integrated agricultural development project
for MID by the end of 1974. The future project would be
based on a study of the utilization of swamp areas for
intensive rice production and subsequent development of
pilot flood control works; a transport study including
road designs and cost estimates for a feeder road system;
and experimental work on rainfed crops, swamp rice and
alternative crops for the present irrigated rice schemes.
iii.      Project costs are estimated at US$1.48 million.  Principal components
are on farm investments US$0.33 million; vehicles, equipment and civil works
US$0.20 million; staff and services US$0.42 million; consultants US$0.12
million; training US$0.09 million; and contingencies US$0.32 million. The
foreign exchange component is US$0.81 million. The proposed credit of US$1.30
million would finance 88% of project costs; the balance would be met from
Government budgetary allocations. Not included in project costs is the sub-
stantial amount of labor provided by farmers to clear and level the land
and to tend the crops; at the current wage rate, this is valued at US$0.74
million during the development period. Project farmers would also purchase
seasonal inputs valued at US$0.21.
iv.       The project would be managed by a Project Management Unit (PMU)
within the Department of Agriculture. The PMU would be advised by



- ii -
a committee, made up of government representatives and the managing director
of The Gambia Produce Marketing Board (GPMB), under the chairmanship of the
Secretary for Development. Ten supervisors from the Republic of China,
presently employed on the successful ongoing project, would be made available
for in-service training of Gambian project field staff. GPMB would supply
farmers' seasonal inputs in kind, purchase the paddy and own and run the
rice milling operations. Credit would be made available through cooperatives
managed by PMU and the interest rate (10%) on farmers' loans would be unsub-
sidised.
v.        International competitive bidding would be employed to procure
pumps, vehicles, equipment, (US$0.16 million). The small civil works program
(US$0.16 million) would be carried out by force account, and consultant
services (US$0.12 million) would be obtained under the Bank group's normal
procedures.
Vi.       Project-induced rice production would rise to 5,000 tons of milled
rice by project year 4 (1976) and would substantially reduce The Gambia's
dependence on imported rice which amounted to 10,000 tons in 1971. The
development of pump irrigation would provide fuller employment for 3,000
participating families and would increase their annual income from US$270 to
US$340. The economic return on the project is calculated at 30%.
vii.      The Gambia's agriculture is poorly developed and is traditionally
dependent on rainfed crops grown by hand under shifting cultivation.
Groundnuts are the main cash crop and account for about 70% of agriculture's
contribution to GDP. Rice, sorghum, and millet are the main subsistence
crops. Groundnut marketing is efficient, but other services to agriculture,
including extension and credit are restricted. Agriculture in MID, as in
the rest of The Gambia, is dominated by groundnuts, but MID has reasonable
potential for rainfed and irrigated crops. Rural incomes are low, about
US$45 per capita, and cash earnings are sensitive to fluctuations of the
world market price. The project's pre-investment activities, together with
ongoing resource studies, would enable Government to prepare detailed plans
by the end of 1974 to further develop MID's agricultural potential.
viii.     The project is suitable for an IDA Credit of US$1.30 million to
the Republic of The Gambia.



THE GAMBIA
APPRAISAL OF AN
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of The Gambia has asked IDA to help finance an
irrigated rice project in its MacCarthy Island Administrative Division (MID).
Water for irrigation would be pumped from the Gambia River.  A PMWA 1/
mission identified the project in February 1969, and the FAO/IBRD Cooperative
Program completed project preparation for Government in July 1971.
1.02      The project proposed by the preparation mission included developing
6,500 acres of irrigated rice over four years at a cost of US$3.7 million.
It was intended that The Gambia Produce Marketing Board (GPMB) would be
responsible for field operations and that the Ministry of Agriculture and
Natural Resources (MANR) would play no part in direct project operations.
1.03      During appraisal in 1972, a number of changes were made in agreement
with Government. These changes took account of Government's restricted finan-
cial resources; MANR's ability to implement projects on a limited scale; the
maximum use of existing facilities and services in the project, as well as
on-going bilateral and UNDP technical assistance. The revised project, which
is the subject of this report, is estimated to cost US$1.63 million. Its
principal features would be developing 3,000 acres of irrigated land, assisting
farmers to grow rice on this land, as well as carrying out studies and experiments
to allow preparation of an integrated agricultural development project in the
MID. The project would be carried out over three years and would be manag-
ed by MANR as it is the appropriate Government agency responsible for agricul-
tural extension and planning. The project would be the Bank Group's first
agricultural lending operation in The Gambia.
1.04      This report is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission
composed of Messrs. A. Storrar, A. Cole, and A. Duncan (PMWA), which visited
The Gambia in February 1972.
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      The Gambia is a small country on the West African Coast, with a
land area of only 4,000 square miles. It consists of a 20 to 30 mile wide
strip of land, 240 miles long, straddling the Gambia River. Except for its
short coastline, The Gambia is surrounded by Senegal (Map).
1/   Bank's Permanent Mission in West Africa.



-2-
2.02      Population totals about 375,000, and is estimated to be growing
at about 2% per year. GDP, which is growing annually at between 2 and 3%,
was US$44.5 million or US$120 per capita in 1970/71. Agriculture accounts
for about 56% of GDP, trade and tourism 19%. Agriculture provides employ-
ment for about 85% of the population, and the average per capita income of
rural Gamibians is estimated at about US$45 (cash plus subsistence).
2.03      Groundnuts, and groundnut oil and cake are The Gambia's main exports
(95%); textiles and foodstuffs the main imports (55%). Rice comprised 8%
of imports over the period 1968-1971, with an average annual value of US$1.6
million. Foreign trade deficits average about 20% of the value of imports
and were US$4.0 million in 1970/1971. These deficits are offset in the
balance of payments by foreign aid, mostly from Britain.
B. Agricultural Sector
2.04      Cash crop production is dominated by groundnuts, which account for
about 70% of agriculture's contribution to GDP. In the period 1965/66 to
1970/71, the sales varied from 110,000 to 126,000 tons of unshelled nuts.
Groundnut and groundnut-derived exports in 1970/71 were valued at about
US$15.0 million; annual exports of palm kernels, the only other significant
cash crop, average about 2,000 tons and in 1970/71 were valued at US$0.4
million. Some effort is being made to develop a lime juice export industry,
but so far only 30 acres have been planted for comnercial production.
2.05      Subsistence crops include sorghum, millet, rice and cassava.
Traditionally sorghum and millet were the main food crops, but over the
last twenty years rice has become more important. The latest estimates
indicate that about 30,000 tons of millet and sorghum and 40,000 tons of
paddy are grown annually. Small quantities of cassava are grown to supplement
cereal supplies.
2.06      Livestock are kept, more as a status symbol than for meat and milk,
although some cattle are now being used as draught animals. Since animal
health campaigns began in the 1950's, the cattle population has doubled
and the national herd of cattle, sheep, and goats is now equivalent to
about 200,000 adult cattle units. The present annual offtake for the domestic
commercial market is about 13,000 head of cattle, mostly for the capital
city, Bathurst; this market is growing slowly and consequently present
stocking rates are high. Government is studying ways to export meat to
increase offtake.
2.07      Rural services and infrastructure are almost non-existent, except
for road and river transport. The number of schools is increasing, but
school enrolment is low (15-20% of primary, and 5-10% of secondary school-
age children). Electricity is not supplied to rural areas, and water is
drawn by hand either from village wells or rivers. Medical facilities



- 3 -
are poor but the population is relatively healthy; bilharzia which is
normally prevalent in tropical riverine and swamp areas is not a major
health problem. Only one commercial bank operates an office outside Bathurst
and, except for agricultural produce, trading is limited to a small range of
imported consumer goods, mostly textiles.  Apart from hand tools, traders do
not stock agricultural inputs, and the small amounts of fertilizer, seed, and
farm equipment that reach farmers are supplied through Government agencies.
Rural areas have no commercial servicing facilities for vehicles and machi-
nery, and only a few sales outlets for motor fuels and lubricants.
2.08      The national road network consists of about 500 miles of main
road (180 miles paved) and 300 miles of minor roads. Good all-weather roads
run along both sides of the river, but access from these to the hinterland
is restricted by a limited feeder road network. All river crossings
are by ferry, but the Governments of The Gambia and Senegal are planning a
bridge at Mansa Konko for a highway, which will link North and South Senegal.
2.09      The River is an important means of communication, and is navigable
throughout the year for about 240 miles eastwards as far as Basse (Map).
About three-quarters of the groundnut crop is carried by boat, either to
Bathurst or to Kaur, 140 miles upstream from the sea; 40% of the crop is
shipped directly overseas from Kaur, and the remainder from Bathurst after
processing into oil and cake. Government runs a weekly mail and passenger
service between Bathurst and Georgetown, about 200 miles upstream, and
The Gambia River Transport Company handles most of the groundnut river
transport. Despite its cost advantage and all-year facility, the River
has lost most of its general cargo and passenger traffic to faster road
transport.
2.10      The main institutions serving farmers are the MANR and the
GPMB. MANR is responsible for agricultural policies and development plans,
agricultural extension and research. It consists of a small headquarters
administration at Bathurst and three main technical departments -- Agricul-
ture, Veterinary, and Cooperative.
2.11      MANR is handicapped by shortages of finance and trained technical
staff. In 1970/71 the Ministry received US$850,000 or 7% of the Government's
total budget. Technical departments lack trained staff, and are short of
agricultural graduates. This is particularly serious for the agricultural
extension service, which employs only three Gambian graduate officers and
seven sub-professional officers; locally-trained technicians (agricultural
assistants) do most of the field work. Consequently, the service lacks
technical direction, particularly in the field. Agricultural research,
though better supplied with trained staff (mainly expatriates), is very
limited. Research work is concentrated at Bathurst (the Yundum Station),
but, because of different ecological conditions, the experimental results are
not applicable to much of the rest of the country. The Cooperative Depart-
ment also suffers staff shortages, especially trained accountants and
auditors.



- 4 -
2.12      The national Cooperative Movement comprises The Gambia Coopera-
tive Union (GCU), 49 primary marketing societies, and two thrift societies.
Total membership is about 50,000, most of whom are farmers, and its main
activity is groundnut marketing; in 1970/71 cooperatives handled about a
third of the crop. Cooperatives are the only source of institutional
credit, and mostly make short term cash loans that amount to about US$800,000
annually. While Cooperatives were reasonably efficient until the late 1960's,
in recent years bad management, increasing produce losses, and misuse of
funds have led to loss of farmer confidence. The report of a Government
Commission set up to investigate the movement highlighted GCU and society
management weakness, and recommended that the audit unit of the Cooperative
Department should be strengthened. Since the Commission reported, senior
officials of GCU and the Cooperative Department have been replaced, and
the department's audit unit has been strengthened (Annex 1).
2.13      The Gambia Produce Marketing Board (GPMB) is a statutory organi-
zation established in 1948 (as the Gambia Oilseeds Marketing Board), with
responsibility for marketing groundnuts and palm kernels. The scope of
GPMB activities was enlarged by Government in 1970 to allow it to handle
all agricultural produce. While the full extent of GPMB responsibilities
is yet to be defined by new legislation now in preparation, GPMPB has
already taken over responsibility for rice importing, marketing, milling and
pricing under the Rice Control Act of 1966.
2.14      GPMB purchases groundnuts and palm kernels through seven licensed
buying agents (LBArs), six private companies and the GCU.  It pays its
LBA's a transport fee and an allowance to cover buying costs. Sub-agents,
appointed by LBA's, operate about 70 buying stations where farmers deliver
produce. The LBA's ensure that their sub-agents pay the minimum producer
priceu set annually by GPMB and Government. GPMB exports all its palm
kernels, and about 40% of its groundnut purchases as shelled nuts; the
remaining groundnuts are delivered to Bathurst and sold to two private millers
for processing prior to export. Overseas sales and shipping are handled by
the London-based Gambia Oilseeds Company, which is wholly owned by GPMB.
2.15      Before 1971, a consortium of three private companies imported about
10,000 tons of rice annually for Government, and arranged for distribution
througl about 80 licensed traders.  When GPMB took over responsibility for
such imports it continued to use most of these traders, but it now plans to
streamltne distribution and improve enforcement of price controls by reducing
the number of licensed distributors.
2.16      Marketing of locally-grown paddy was not organized before the
1971/72 harvest season when, with the prospect of increased domestic rice
supplies, ! 3PMB undertook to purchase and mill locally-grown paddy. GPMB
has taken over 600 tons of silo storage and a 2,500 ton/annum mill at Sapu,
it is also installing a new 5,000 ton a year mill at Kuntaur (Map).
2.17      GPMB is well managed and operates efficiently.  Operating profits
average-1 US$3.2 million for the three years ending 1970/71; reserves, together



- 5 -
with the surplus for 1970/71, total about US$11.0 million. Annex 2 gives
further details of GPMB 's operations and financial position.
C. Agricultural Strategy
2.18      As vet, The Gambia has no known commercially exploitable minerals,
and the only sectors of the economy with development potential at present
are agriculture and tourism. Although tourism is growing rapidly, its
impact on the economy is limited to the coastal district, and seasonally
limited to the seven-month dry season. Consequently, the agricultural
sector remains the main vehicle to provide employment and income for most
Gambians.
2.19      Past Governments have concentrated on increasing groundnut exports,
and over the last 20 years the marketed crop has risen from 60,000 to 110,000
tons a year. This increase has come mainly from improveu marketing
efficiency and prices; these measures encouraged additional cultivation in
The Gambia and the movement of produce into the country from the border
areas of Senegal. Agricultural extension and research have had only a limited
impact on yields, which remain low at about 1,000 lb/acre.
2.20      In recent years Government has tried to help farmers increase the
production of food crops; it has encouraged ox plowing and the use of
improved seed with some success; but its promotion of subsidized tractor
plowing for swamp rice and fertilizer for groundnuts has had poor results.
These programs lacked the sound planning, finance, and experienced supervision
necessary to have an impact on productivity. One recent project has been
successful; in 1966, Government obtained technical assistance from the
Republic of China to develop a project of irrigated rice cultivation (para
3.08 and Annex 3).
2.21      More recently, the urgency to develop agriculture has increased.
The United Kingdom's support of the Government's recurrent budget has been
phased out; and although the UK continues to provide assistance for development,
continuation of such assistance cannot be guaranteed. The Gambia needs more
agricultural earnings to provide a stronger revenue base to meet Government's
increasing recurrent expenditures and for investment in development. The
Gambia also requires more agricultural output to earn and save foreign exchange
if it is to achieve a favorable trade balance.
2.22      The main objective of the Government's present agricultural policy
is to increase agricultural production and efficiency, and to diversify
output. In particular, Government intends to replace rice imports with
local rice, to increase yields of traditional cash and subsistence crops, and
to introduce new cash crops. In pursuit of these objectives MANR is carrying
out field experiments on dry land crops including groundnuts, sorghum, millet,
maize and cotton; and on irrigated crops including rice, vegetables, and
citrus. It is also strengthening and integrating the work of technical



-6-
services and institutions supporting agriculture, particularly extension
and research.
2.23      Since adequately trained and experienced Gambian staff are not
readily available to carry out its plans, Government is obtaining technical
assistance for this purpose. The Republic of China is presently providing
30 rice specialists and technicians, and the UK about 10 research and
extension specialists. In addition, UNDP and the UK are undertaking studies
of The Gambia's natural resources (Annexes 4 and 5). These studies should
provide the information needed for sound national agricultural planning,
as well as for the preparation of development projects. The UK study
has concentrated initially on the MID and is directed towards selecting
areas suitable for rice and cash crops and exploring ways of improving
traditional farming systems. The main study findings for MID will be
available by the middle of 1973.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
3.01      The project area comprises the MacCarthy Island Division -- MID --
(Map), which extends to about 1,100 square miles or a quarter of the total area
of The Gambia. The western boundary of MID is about 100 miles from Bathurst
and the division extends eastwards for about 100 miles along both banks of
the River. Population of the project area is about 80,000 and of Georgetown,
the administrative headquarters, about 2,000.
3.02      Climate.  About 90% of rainfall, which averages 40 inches per year,
falls in the five months of June through October. Rainfall incidence is very
variable, especially in September and October when an assured rainfall is
critical for satisfactory yields in the case of most rainfed crops. Mean
maximum temperatures range from about 90'F in August/September to 104°F
in March/April, and the mean minimum from 76'F in December to 87°F in
April (Annex 3). Although rainfed crops can be grown only in the period June
through October, the climate is suitable for year-round cropping under
irrigation.
3.03      Topographyis determined by the River; about 20% of the area is
flats and swamps along the river banks; 40% is a transitional zone, the
so-called lower and upper benches that rise between the flats and the upland
plateaus. The latter comprise the remaining 40% of the land area, but their
maximum elevation does not exceed 40 ft. above sea level. On the eastern
boundary of MID the River cuts through upland plateaus and its banks are
30-40 ft high, but in most of MID below Bansang (see map), the banks are
only about 6 ft high.
3.04      Soils in the project area are variable.  The upland plateau soils,
which are sandy, well drained and often contain lateritic gravel, are
infertile and unsuitable for intensive agriculture.  The upper and lower
bench scils are hydromorphic and sandy; and though more fertile than the
uplands, are low in plant nutrients. Alluvial river flat and swamp soils are



-7-
loamy and heavy clays; they are fertile and suitable for intensive agriculture
and irrigation.
3.05      The Gambia River is tidal for about 180 miles from its mouth,
including 80 miles in MID. Its catchment area is 30,000 square miles, of
which 90% is outside The Gambia in Senegal and Guinea. A UNDP financed study
to plan water management for the whole River basin began in 1971 and will be
completed in 1974 (Annex 4). It involves collecting hydrological and topographi-
cal information over the length of the river; training local personnel in
data collection; and preliminary studies of storage dam sites in Senegal
to regulate the River flow. Since The Gambia, Senegal, and Guinea have no
agreement on water rights, The Gambia Government has forwarded to the governments
of Senegal and Guinea notes informing them of the development of the proDosed
project.
3.06      River flows are recorded at Goulomba (Senegal), about 70 miles east
of MID. Records show an average flow of about 1,000 cusecs 1/ at the beginning
of the dry season, declining to about 350 cusecs by the end of the dry season.
Even at its lowest flow, the river would more than meet present irrigation
requirements of the MID, as well as the additional irrigation proposed in
this project, a total of 100 cusecs. The river flow is supplemented below
Goulomba by groundwater supplies. There are no known development plans for
the river basin, which would adversely affect the proposed project during its
economic life, but the use of large quantities of river water for irrigation
in the future will nonetheless require careful planning, and cooperation of
the three Governments. The ongoing UNDP study should provide the data needed
for this purpose (para 2.23 and Annex 4).
3.07      Agriculture in MID, as in the whole of The Gambia, is dominated by
groundnuts, which are grown on the uplands and benches; the marketed crop
is about 30,000 tons per year (30% of the country's total production).
MID also produces about 25% of The Gambia's rice, mostly on river flats and
swamps, but increasingly under pump irrigation on the river flats above
flood level (para 3.08). Groundnuts are grown under shifting cultivation
in rotation with food crops, mainly millet and sorghum; the land is cropped
for two to three years and then allowed to revert to bush fallow for at least
three years. Most cultivation is by hand.
3.08      The Republic of China rice project started in 1966 and, of 2,500
acres now under cultivation, 1,700 acres are in MID. The project headquarters
is at Yori-Beri-Kunda in MID, where the Chinese team carry out experiments
and train Gambian agricultural assistants and field demonstrators. The
Republic of China provides agronomists, engineers, extension workers,
motorized pumps and power tillers to participants free of charge; and for
subsequent crops participants pay the cost of fertilizers, fuels and pump
operators. Informal farmers' associations have been established in each area
of development to settle local problems and to provide a channel for distri-
buting seasonal inputs. Paddy yields average about 4,300 lb/acre/crop, and
1/   One cusec represents a flow of one cubic foot (6-1/4 gallons) per second.



- 8 -
two crops are obtained annually; these compare with yields of about 900
lb/acre for one crop of paddy grown under the traditional system in the swamps.
3.09      Land distribution and tenure are governed by customary law.  The
land in each district is vested in the district council composed of the
district and village chiefs. Each village has recognized boundaries and
within these boundaries land is held by family groups (compounds) who are
descendants of the original settlers of the area. Within compounds, land
is distributed to adult males, but individual rights to land exist only as
long as the land is cultivated. The laws of The Gambia also provide for
communal land to be leased to individuals with the agreement of village and
local authorities (Annex 3, paras 24 to 26).
IV. THE PROJECT
A. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
4.01      The aims of the project would be twofold; to reduce The Gambia's
present substantial rice imports by increasing the local production of pump
irrigated rice; and to prepare an integrated agricultural development
project based on ongoing and additional studies, and on the results of
improved agricultural experimentation.
4.02      The MANR would carry out project development with a Project
IManagement Unit (PMU) which would include a cadre of experienced field
officers provided under a Republic of China technical assistance program
(para 6.04). The project would involve the following:
(a)  Pump irrigation - Developing over three years, about 3,000
acres of land in MID for double cropping rice under
irrigation. Suitable land, which is readily available,
would be selected and alloted with security of tenure to
qualified participants. The land would be developed mainly
by hand labor provided by participants, and credit would be
provided for irrigation equipment as well as the seed and
fertilizer needed for the first crop. Extension staff
would be trained and strengthened and suitable staff
housing constructed.
(b)  Preparation of an integrated agricultural development
project - Carrying out the following feasibility studies
and research, precedent to the preparation of an integrated
agricultural development project in MID, by the end of 1974:
(i) identification of areas suitable for swamp rice
production in MID, ground survey of selected swamps,
design of flood control works and related costs



9-
estimates, and the implementation of such works in
one or two swamps to test the proposals in practice;
(ii)  improvement of agricultural experimental facilities at
Sapu and research on rainfed crops, swamp rice, and alternative
crops for cultivation under irrigation; and
(iii)  preparing designs and cost estimates for a feeder
road system in MID.
B. Detailed Features
Pump Irrigation
4.03      Phasing - The project would develop and bring into cultivation
about 3,000 acres of irrigated land at a rate of about 1,000 acres a year.
This represents a feasible increase over the rate of development achieved by
the ongoing pump schemes which have established 2,500 acres of irrigated
rice over five years, culminating with 750 acres developed in 1971.
4.04      Project field headquarters would be at the MANR Sapu agricultural
station which at present is under utilized. Existing facilities at Sapu
include a well equipped mechanical workshop and garage space which serves
Government's tractor hire pool of 26 tractors; about 150,000 cubic feet of
general stores; a 2,500 ton per year rice mill and 600 tons of silo storage;
office space and staff housing; a rice seed multiplication farm and about
50 acres of land suitable for experimentation on rainfed and irrigated crops.
Adequate labor housing and storage space are available for the project.
Under the project, 16 new houses would be built mainly for project field
staff, and existing office space would be enlarged; additional vehicles,
survey and office equipment would be purchased.
4.05      Selection of areas and land tenure arrangements - Project staff
would select suitable sites for development in units of not less than 20 ac.
Sites within about 20 miles of Sapu would be selected and developed first. All
units would be adjacent to the Gambia River or its tributaries and above
flood level; each unit would be within the boundaries of a village, and the
village authority's agreement would be sought to set the land aside for the
project under customary law (Annex 3, paras 24 to 26). A rice growing coopera-
tive would be formed and would obtain a 20-year lease for the land from the
village and local administration authorities. Each cooperative member would
develop and cultivate about one acre of land. No difficulty is anticipated
in obtaining suitable land or participants. The proposed activities would
not adversely affect the ecological balance in the area.
4.06      Land development - The successful techniques used by the Chinese
mission (Annex 3) would be followed. The PMU would survey the area to be
irrigated, draw up necessary plans and mark out these plans on the ground.



- 10 -
Under supervision and with hand equipment supplied by the PMU, participants
would clear and level land and construct bunds. Prior to planting the first
crop, and using equipment from the machinery pool at Sapu, the land would
be deep plowed and finally levelled.
4.07      Pumping - Each 20-acre scheme would be irrigated by a 5" centri-
fugal pump driven by a 7 hp air cooled or water cooled diesel motor. The
pump unit would discharge 30 litres per second (108 m3/hour), sufficient for
irrigating 20 acres (Annex 6). Based on 11 hours of operation per day,
pumping would be required for 100 days in the dry season and for about half
this time in the wet season; this is well within the capacity of the unit.
The pumps would be purchased by PMU and installed on concrete platforms
constructed by participants under close supervision. PMU would hold in
Sapu spare engines (10% of total purchases) as reserves for major breakdowns,
as well as spare parts required for normal servicing.
4.08      Crop development - The basic agricultural techniques developed
under the ongoing pump schemes would be followed (Annex 3). Imported
Indica rice varieties such as Taichung 1 and Taichung 2 would be used;
these are now being multiplied for seed at Sapu. Participants would raise
seedlings in nurseries and transplant them when about three weeks old. Two
crops would be grown each year, one from January to May and the other from
July to November. Each crop would receive about 440 lb/acre of compound
fertilizer (equivalent to 110 lb of nitrogen and 44 lb of phosporous).
The fertilizer would be applied by hand and divided into three applications;
the first application would be ten days after planting and subsequently
at two week intervals, immediately after weeding. Following the second
weeding, no further labor would be required until harvest when the crop
would be cut by sickle and stacked on the edge of each field to dry for
about one month; thereafter the crop would be mechanically threshed and
bagged ready for dispatch. The only mechanical aids provided under the
project would be crop sprayers and pedal-operated threshers. Power tillers
for land preparation have been provided under the present scheme, but the
continuation of this policy was deemed to be unwise because of high cost
and problems of maintenance; also there is adequate labor available to
carry out the cultivation operations by hand.
4.09      Seasonal inputs - The PMU would make improved rice seed available
to farmers. GPMB would be responsible for supplying fuel and fertilizers
from its depot at Sapu and PMU would arrange delivery to the cooperatives.
Government now subsidizes fertilizers, but it is reviewing this policy and
intends to withdraw the subsidy. The present cost of compound fertilizer
delivered to the project area is about D 220 per ton and this is sold to
farmers at D 90 per ton. By reorganizing shipping and internal handling
methods the cost could be lowered to D 170 per ton in the project area; at
this price the use of fertilizer by farmers is economic. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that fertilizer supplied to project farmers
would be unsubsidized.



- 1 1 -
4.10      Training - The Director of Agriculture would select two Gambians
who would receive overseas training fellowships in irrigation during the first
two project years; they would be appointed to the project as agricultural
superintendents on the satisfactory completion of their training. The
Director of Agriculture would also select about 30 suitably qualified candi-
dates for overseas training in general agriculture; the traJnees would attend
a 2-year certificate or diploma course at appropriate educational institu-
tions, particularly in Nigeria, Ghana and Sierra Leone. The deputy project
manager would select prolect staff for in-service training courses and
trainees voula be appointed as demonstrators on the satisfactory completion
of their courses.
Preparation of an Integrated Agricultural Development Project
4.11      Government has decided to broaden its approach to agricultural
development and intends to prepare an integrated development project for
MID. Studies by UN.DP will provide data on river water flows (Annex 4) and
those by ODA on so-ls, land use, agricultural systems, marketing and other
socio-economic aspects of rural life (Annex 5). Partly through the use
of consultants and partly by improving operational facilities for existing
MANR staff, additional informatiorn required for project preparation would
be obtained under this project as follows:
4.12      Swamp studies -- The riverine swamps, because of their fertility
and location, appear to be highly suitable for intensive rice cultivation;
at present, the main constraint on their use is uncontrolled flooding.
Rice yields are low (about 900 lb/ac) as fertilizers and improved seed
cannot be usecr economically without flood control. Through the development
of high yielding rice crops or. the swamps, which are not suited for other
crops, the existing irrigated areas could be released for alternative crops
presently imported into The Gambia. The British ODA team will complete
soil and topographic surveys of the swamp areas by the middle of 1973,
aided by aerial photography which has recently been completed. These surveys
would be followed up under the project through the preparation of detailed
feasibility studies for flood control. A suitably experienced irrigation
engineer would be engaged during the first two years of the project. Typical
swamps would he selected and ground surveys made of these swamps. Plans
for flood control and the installation of irrigation equipment would be made
and costs estimated. Based on the information provided by the engineer and
from results at the Sapu experimental station, PMU would assess whether it
would be physically and economically feasible to develop efficient rice
production in swamp areas. If the assessment is positive, works would be
carried out in one or two small swamps to demonstrate their practicability.
Draft terms of reference for the irrigation engineer are at Annex 7.
4.13      Agricultural experimentation - The main agricultural research
station at Yundum, near Bathurst, is quite well staffed and has reasonable
facilities, but the experimental program has been orientated to coastal
conditions and has contributed little suitable information for MID.



- 12 -
4.14      Under the project three areas on the Sapu station would
be developed and used for experimentation; for swamp rice under flood
controlled conditions (20 acres); for alternative crops to rice under pump
irrigation (10 acres); and for rainfed crops (20 acres). A qualified
agronomist responsible to the project manager would be appointed for this
work; he would develop the experimental areas in project year one and draw
up a four-year program to include:
(a)  the introduction and testing of varieties of maize,
sorghum, and millet;
(b)  rainfed crop variety trials, particularly on maize and
groundnuts, in association with fertilizers and insecticides;
(c)  high value alternative crops for irrigated rice, particularly
onions, tomatoes and limes; and
(d)  rice variety and fertilizer trials under flood controlled
swamp conditions.
4.15      Transport study - The appraisal mission was unable to recommend
financing of the roads proposed in the original project because basic
economic and engineering data were lacking. Nevertheless, the feeder
road network and consequently access to main roads from cultivated areas
is limited; new crop evacuation roads will be essential to handle any increased
agricultural development anticipated under the integrated development project
planned for 1975.
4.16      During the second year of project implementation, a road engineer
(four months) and a transport economist (two months) would be engaged to
study the feeder road requirements of MID. Based on information supplied
by the ODA survey and by project management, they would prepare a road
development program suitable for the area after examining:
(a) estimates of goods and passenger traffic, present and
future;
(b)  proposed road alignments;
(c)  availability and location of laterite;
(d)  the relative economics of road and river transport between
the project and Bathurst.
The consultants, assisted by MDW staff, would then prepare road specifications,
related cost estimates, and suitable contract documents for construction.
Draft terms of reference for the transport study are set out at Annex 7.



- 13 -
4.17      Preparation of an integrated agricultural development project -
The project manager would collate the information from the various ongoing
bnd proposed studies and would thereafter prepare an integrated agricultural
development project for MID. The project would be prepared in a form suitable
for international financing and would be ready at the end of 1974.
V. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGENENTS
A. Project Costs
5.01      Over the three-year development period, project costs are estimated
at US$1.48 million, with a foreign exchange component of US$0.81 million,
or 55% of total costs. Costs are detailed in Annex 8 and summarized in
the following table:



- 14 -
Summary of Project Cost Estimates
Dalasies '000                      US$'000
Local   Foreign   Total         Local  Foreign    Total
Rice Component
On-farm costs        177.3    465.7    643.0         92.2   242.2        334.4
Staff                403.5      71.0    474.5       209.8    36.9        246.7
Vehicles &
Equipment            4.4     40.1      44.5         2.3    20.9         23.2
Houses and Offices  93.6        62.4    156.0        48.7    32.4         81.1
Services              23.0      17.3      40.3       12.0      9.0        21.0
Subtotal         701.8    656.5  1,358.3        365.0   341.4        706.4
Studies and Surveys
Consultants            2.0    237.0    239.0          1.0   123.2        124.2
Civil Works           26.0      14.0      40.0       13.5      7.3        20.8
Services               5.7      15.3      21.0        3.0      8.0        11.0
Training Program    12.6    167.4    180.0            6.6    87.0         93.6
Subtotal          46.3    433.7    480.0         24.1   225.5        249.6
Agricultural
Experiments
Staff                 91.5      52.5    144.0        47.6    27.3         74.9
Houses and Offices  62.4        41.6    104.0        32.4    21.6         54.0
Vehicles, Equip-
ment Materials       7.9      32.1     40.0         4.1     16.7        20.8
Services              52.3      52.3    104.6        27.2    27.2         54.4
Subtotal         214.1     178.5    392.6       111.3    92.8        204.1
Contingencies
Physical
(Special)/         135.0    135.0    270.0         70.2    70.2        140.4
Physical              59.3      41.7    101.0        30.8    21.7         52.5
Price                116.5    120.0    236.5         60.6    62.4        123.0
Subtotal         310.8    296.7    607.5        161.6   154.3        315.9
TOTAL PROJECT
COST              1,273.0  1,565.4  2,838.4        662.0   814.0    1,476.0
/1   Provision for field staff in case of termination of bilateral assistance
(Annex 8, Table 2 and para 5.02).



- 15 -
5.02      Project costs include a special contingency of US$140,000 to
cover the cost of field superintendents in case the Republic of China's
bilateral assistance program is terminated. If this contingency is not
required for this purpose, Government would agree with IDA a suitable use
for these funds under the project. Project costs also include a
physical contingency of 5%, and a price contingency of 5% compounded
annually. Estimates are based on up to date building costs; suppliers'
quotations for materials and vehicles; Government salary scales; and
consultants' charges for studies similar to those that would be carried out
under this project. Project costs do not include import taxes, with the
exception of fuel provided on credit to participants. The incremental family
labor required to develop the project is not included in costs as there are
no alternative employment opportunities for project participants; at current
wage rates the value of this labor is estimated at US$0.16 million. Project
farmers would also purchase seasonal inputs valued at US$0.21 million, which
are also excluded from project costs.
B. Proposed Financing
5.03      The project would be financed as follows:
Government           IDA              Total
US$ 000s       %    US$ QOOs   %      US$ oOOs    %
Farm loans                   23.4        7      311.0   93       344.4      23
Vehicles and equipment        -          -       44.0  100        44.0       3
Civil works                  10.9        7      145.0   93       155.9      11
Staff                        22.6        7      299.0   93       321.6      22
Services                     86.4      100        0       -       86.4       6
Training                      6.8        7       86.8   93         93.6      6
Consultants                   -          -      124.2  100       124.2       8
Contingencies                25.9               290.0             315.9     21
176.0      12    1,300.0   88    1,476.0    100
5.04      A credit of US$1.3 million would be made to Government on standard
IDA terms to meet 88% of total project costs. US$814,000 or 63% of the
credit would cover project foreign exchange costs; the balance of US$486,000
(37% of the credit) would finance 74% of local currency costs. The
remaining 12% of project costs, totalling US$176,000, would be met
from Government budgetary allocations. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that funds for the project unit (PMU) would be made available
on a quarterly basis in order to maintain balances sufficient to meet
expenditures expected in the following 3 months.



- 16 -
C. Procurement
5.05      International competitive bidding would be used to procure pumps,
vehicles, and equipment valued at US$161,000. Assurances to this effect were
obtained from Government during credit negotiations. GPMB would supply
fertilizers and sprays valued at US$50,000, which would be procured together
with Gambia's other fertilizer requirements according to competitive bidding
procedures that are acceptable to the Association. Civil works, house and
office construction valued at US$156,000 would be carried out by PMU or
Ministry of Works on force account. Consultant services totalling US$124,000
would be obtained under the World Bank Group's normal procedures. The
Gambia has some preferential tariffs for British Commonwealth countries, but
these would not influence project procurement as items procured by interna-
tional competitive bidding under the project would not be liable to import
taxes.
D. Disbursement
5.06      Disbursement of the credit would be against 100% of the cif cost
of imported irrigation pumps, PMU vehicles and equipment, and of consultant
services (US$285,200); 93% of staff salaries and allowances (US$311,000)
and of civil works (US$133,000); and 93% of loans issued to farmers other
than irrigation pumps (US$194,000). Contingencies amounting to US$290,000
would be unallocated. The estimated rate of disbursement of the proposed
IDA credit is at Annex 9. Expenditure would be evidenced by contracts and
certified records of expenditure. Disbursements against farmers loans and
staff salaries would be made against a certificate of expenditure, the docu-
mentation for which would not be submitted for review, but would be retained
by the borrower and available for inspection by the Association during the
course of project supervision. Any savings would be subject to cancellation.
E. Accounts and Audit
5.07      The PMU would be responsible for maintaining project and farmer
loan accounts. All accounts would be kept in accordance with established
accounting principles and with due regard to Government regulations and
would be audited by an auditor satisfactory to the Association. The present
government regulations and audit system carried out by the Office of the
Auditor General are acceptable to the Association. The audited accounts for
PMU and for participating cooperative societies, together with copies of
the auditor's report, would be submitted to IDA within four months of the
closing of each financial year. During negotiations, assurances to these
effects were obtained from Government.



- 17 -
VI. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. General
6.01      The Ministry of Agriculture would establish a project management
unit (PMU) within the Department of Agriculture headed by a project manager
stationed in Bathurst (see para 6.02). He would be responsible for all
project operations and would coordinate project activities with Government
Departments and Technical Assistance Agencies. To advise the project
manager, Government would establish a committee comprising permanent secre-
taries from relevant Ministries, and the Manager of GPMB, under the chairman-
ship of the Development Secretary. Assurances were obtained during negotia-
tions that the advisory committee would be set up with memberships and terms
of reference mutually acceptable to Government and IDA. Project field
headquarters would be at Sapu, where a deputy manager would be responsible
for daily project operations and for supervising ongoing extension activities
of MANR in MID during the development period; a committee chaired by the
Commissioner of MID, and including divisional government officers and
representatives of local farmers, would advise the deputy manager.
B. Staffing
6.02      The project manager would be a person qualified and experienced
in agricultural field work and planning. The deputy manager would be an
experienced Gambian agricultural officer. The project manager and his
deputy, their terms of reference and conditions of service, would be
mutually acceptable to Government and IDA; assurances to this effect were
obtained from Government during negotiations. It is also a condition of
effectiveness that they will have been appointed.
6.03      Government would appoint a senior accountant, and an experienced
cooperative inspector and auditor, to the project unit at Sapu. The Republic
of China would provide ten supervisors for rice irrigation under its technical
assistance program; however, project costs include finance for alternative
staff (para 5.02) in the unlikely event that the program is terminated.
Agricultural assistants and rice demonstrators would be obtained partly from
existing schemes and partly from new recruits for in-service training. The
Director of Surveys would assign two locally-trained Gambian levellers to
the project, and would arrange for their supervision by a qualified surveyor.
Field staff requirements during the development period would be as follows:
Year 1 Year 2  Year 3   Total
Chinese supervisors                5        5       -       10
Agricultural assistants           10        -       -       10
Demonstrators                     17       17      17       51
Levellers                          2        -       -        2



- 18 -
An assurance was obtained during credit negotiations that the Government
would appoint the staff to the project as scheduled above.
C. Pump Irrigation
6.04      Field Operations.  Chinese supervisors and Gambian agricultural
assistants, working together, would oversee the agricultural demonstrators
and would surprvise participants levelling land and building bunds in
accordance with the survey plans. They would also instruct participants
in cultivating rice, and in the installation and maintenance of the
irrigation pumps.
6.05      Cooperatives.  A cooperative inspector, assigned to the project
by the Cooperative Department, would assist the agricultural assistants and
demonstrators in forming rice growing cooperatives; each cooperative would
have at least 20 members and would include all participants on a pumping
scheme site. Since cooperatives have suffered recently from poor manage-
ment (para 2.12), under the Cooperative Amendment Act of 1968 the Minister
of Agriculture would appoint PMU staff members to cooperative management
committees to assist with management until the cooperatives prove competent
to run their own affairs. The PMU staff would organize the work of cooperatives
in the supply and payment of seasonal inputs, the operation of the pumps and
the delivery of the crop to GPMB. Cooperatives from their second year under
the project would also employ and pay for an agricultural demonstrator who
would perform. the duties of secretary of the cooperatives in his area; it
would be a condition for participating in the project that a cooperative had
agreed to employ a demonstrator selected by the project unit for this purpose.
An auditor assigned to the project by the Cooperative Department of MANR
would audit cooperative accounts annually.
6.06      Credit.  The Gambia does not have an established agricultural
credit institution, but Government intends to set up a Commercial and Develop-
ment Bank. However, since the credit required under the project would be
small (US$334,400) and the new Bank has not been established, PMU would
disburse project credit. Loan repayments would be paid to central Government
revenues also through PMU.
6.57      Only one loan would be made under the project, which would include
the initial cost of pumps, equipment, and final levelling; and first plowing,
fertilizers, and seed for the first crop (Annex 8, Table 3). Loans would be
channelled in kind through cooperatives and would be repaid over five years
in ten equal installments, beginning with the second harvest. The loans would
bear interest at 10%, the current on-lending rate of GCU to cooperative
societies in The Gambia.
6.08      Under the terms of the loan agreements, participants would
undertake to sell paddy to the GPMB, which would be authorized to deduct
loan repavments and transport costs from the proceeds of sales, and to



- 19 -
pay these deductions to the PMU. It is a condition of effectiveness
that Government will have agreed with IDA the form of loan agreements.
D. Preparation of an Integrated Agricultural
Development Project for MID
6.09      The project manager would be responsible for preparing the
project during the first two project years. He would be assisted by PMWA
and consultants employed for the studies under this project.
6.10      Swamp Development Feasibility Study.  Government would employ a
qualified consultant irrigation engineer to undertake the study during the
first two project years.  He would be assisted by project survey staff
and would be responsible to the project manager.  During credit negotiations
assurances were obtained from Government that the engineer, his terms of
reference, and conditions of service would be mutually acceptable to Government
and IDA.
6.11      Agricultural Experiments.  Government would appoint a qualified
agronomist, responsible to the deputy project manager, to carry out the
crop experimental program. Specialist research officers (rainfed and
irrigated crops) at the Ministry's Yundum research station would assist
the agronomist to draw up and carry out a four-year research program.
The agronomist and the research program would be mutually acceptable to
Government and IDA; assurances to this effect were obtained from Government
during credit negotiations.
6.12      Transport Study.  Government would obtain a qualified consultant
road engineer and a transport economist to undertake this study. They
would be responsible to the project manager. During credit negotiations
assurances were obtained from Government that the consultants, their terms
of reference, and conditions of service would be mutually acceptable
to Government and IDA.
VI. YIELDS, PRODUCTION, MARKET, PRICES
AND FINANCIAL RESULTS
A. Yields and Production
7.01      Experiments with fertilizer on irrigated rice in the project
area have shown that paddy yields as high as 9,400 lb/acre can be obtained
from a single crop (Annex 3), and that 20 varieties yielded an average of
7,000 lb/acre. Farm yields from the on-going scheme have averaged 4,400
lb/acre in the wet season and 4,300 lb/acre in the dry season. For
the project, an annual paddy yield of 7,000 lb/acre from two crops has
been assumed. The annual incremental production from the project would
be 7,800 tons of paddy, equivalent to about 5,000 tons of milled rice.



- 20 -
B. Markets and Prices
7.02      All project paddy would be sold and consumed on the domestic
market thereby helping to reduce imports of rice. Imports averaged 10,000
tons per year in the period 1965/66 - 1970/71, aind without increased
domestic output would increase by about 2-3% annually. The Bank's Economics
Department's forecast of world prices, for rice of similar grade (42%
brokens) during the next decade, is US$81.45/ton fob Rangoon; equivalent
to US$104.47 per ton (D. 207) cif Bathurst. The wholesale price of such
imported rice after handling, transportation and storage costs are added
would be D 217 (Annex 10, Table 1). With a 66% milling outturn of rice to
paddy, a milling cost of D 13 per ton and a storage and handling cost
of about D 12 per ton, the import substitution value of paddy at farm gate
is calculated to be D 118/ton (US$61) which is D 16/ton (US$9) below the
present producer price (Annex 2). For economic analysis a price of US$61
(D 118) has therefore been used. Since Government does not intend to support
domestic paddy prices in future, farmer returns have also been calculated at
this import substitution price; at this value, US$9 per ton less than
present prices, returns are satisfactory to the farmer.
C. Farmers' Benefits
7.03      Irrigated rice cultivation is labor intensive and most participants
in the project would have either to reduce the area of swamp they now farm,
or hire labor. There is no accurate information on project area farming
patterns, however, observations and available data on crop labor require-
ments indicate that the average farm family of six could cultivate about
4 acres of groundnuts, sorghum, and millet, and 1.8 ac of swamp rice
(traditional farm plan, Anex 10, Table 2). One acre of irrigated rice
requires about 170 man-days annually; and to accommodate the labor needs
of this crop the family, participating in the project and employing no
hired labor, would have to reduce its traditional activities. For the
purpose of this report, it is assumed that the average project participant
would retain the present area under groundnuts and give up about one acre
of swamp rice (the project plan, Annex 10, Table 2).
7.04      Net farm family income (including US$10.0 per capita from annual
subsistence production of fish and animal products) from the traditional
plan is about US$270 or US$45 per capita. Net farm family income from the
project plan would be about US$340 or US$57 per capita, (Annex 10, Table 7),
an increase of 26% over present incomes. Such increased returns are adequate
to attract farmers to participate in the project as demonstrated by the
ongoing scheme (para 3.08). While the project would increase incomes substan-
tially, beneficiaries would still have relatively low incomes compared with
the present per capita GDP of US$120.



- 21 -
D. Impact of Project on Government Budget
7.05      During the 3-year project development and IDA credit disbursement
period, Government would provide some D 380,000 (US$180,000) to meet costs
not covered by the IDA credit. Thereafter it would provide about D 60,000
(US$30,000) annually to cover the recurrent costs of project administration
and extension services.
7.06      Currently project participants pay annual taxes at a rate of
D 12.50 per compound and, in addition, poll taxes on cattle of D 0.5 per
head. Participants are not liable for income tax and would not become so as
a result of increased cash earnings induced by the project. Consequently,
the project would not increase Government revenues from direct taxation
(Annex 11). As the project would cause a reduction in rice imports, on
which taxes are levied, there would be a small reduction (D 144,000 at full
development) in Government revenues. This could be offset, for example,
by reduced fertilizer subsidies or imposing a compensatory tax on consumers
of domestic rice. The effect of this project on Government's financial
situation indicates that the budget implications of future development projects
involving large scale import substitution should be examined carefully.
Therefore the project manager would review the issue with Government
officials, and would include proposals for the collection of Government
revenue for the Integrated Agricultural Development Project that would be
prepared under this project (para 4.11) should this be necessary.
VIII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Pump Irrigation
8.01      The principal benefit of the project would be the incremental
production of about 5,000 tons of milled rice annually at full development,
as from project year 5. Participating farm families would be more fully
employed in the dry season when alternative employment is virtually non-
existent. It is estimated that 3,000 families will each be able to work
about 400 days per year, compared with a maximum of about 357 days at
present. Consequently, the incomes of a poor section of the population
would be increased by about 27% above present levels (para 7.04).
8.02      The economic rate of return of the project is about 30%.  Details
of the analysis are at Annex 12. Major assumptions include:
(a) a project life of 16 years, which is approximately the
life of the irrigation works and buildings; the project
cost stream includes the replacement of pumps after
7 years;



- 22 -
(b) the rice yields, production and prices given in
Chapter VII; and
(c) an opportunity cost of zero for the incremental family
labor required for the project; this incremental labor
would be needed only in the dry season when alternative
employment opportunities are virtually nonexistent.
8.03      Sensitivity Analysis.  The project is particularly sensitive to
the shadow price used for incremental family labor. If incremental family
labor requirements were costed at the official wage rate of D 1.4/manday
for unskilled labor, the rate of return would be 13%. The project is also
sensitive to any decline in benefits, which might occur through declines in
yields or in prices, or a combination of both; a 10% decline would reduce
the rate of return from 30% to 19%. The return is somewhat less sensitive
to increases in costs, a 10% increase resulting in a fall in the rate of
return to about 22%. A combination of a 10% increase in costs, and a 10%
decline in benefits would reduce the return to about 11%; however, costs
and yields used in the analysis are considered conservative and such a
combination of adverse factors is highly improbable.
8.04      The rate of return has been tested also for the impact of a year's
delay in the accrual of benefits without a commensurate delay in project
expenditures; this would reduce the rate of return to about 19%.
B. Preparation of an Integrated Agricultural Project
for the MacCarthy Island Division
8.05      The project's preinvestment activities, together with ongoing
resource studies, would enable Government to prepare detailed plans for
much needed development in MID. These plans would include improvements
in rural services, institutions and infrastructure needed to improve land
use farming systems and cropping patterns; diversify output; increase per
capita incomes; and reduce the sensitivity of incomes to changes in world
market prices for groundnuts. Without such improvements agriculture in
MID will at best stagnate, and due to increasing population pressure and
unfavorable terms of trades for the principal cash crop - groundnuts - per
capita incomes may in fact decline.
IX.  RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01      During negotiations assurances were obtained that:
(a) fertilizer supplied to project farmers would be
unsubsidized (para 4.09);
(b) funds for PMU would be made available
on a quarterly basis, in order to maintain balances



-23 -
sufficient to meet expenditures expected in the
following 3 months (para 5.04);
(c) international competitive bidding would be used
to procure pumps, vehicles and equipment (para 5.05);
(d) audited accounts for the project unit and participating
cooperatives, together with copies of the auditor's
report, would be submitted to IDA within four months of
the closing of each financial year (para 5.07);
(e)  an advisory coamittee would be set vp with memberships
and terms of reference acceptable to Government and IDA
(para 6.01);
(f) the project manager, and his deputy, their terms of
reference and conditions of service would be mutually
acceptable to Government and IDA (para 6.02);
(g) Government would appoint the Gambian to the project
as scheduled in para 6.03;
(h) the engineer for swamp studies, his terms of reference,
and conditions of service would be mutually acceptable
to Government and IDA (para 6.10);
(i)  the agronomist and the agricultural research program
would be mutually acceptable to Government and IDA
(para 6.11); and
(j) the consultants for the transport study, their terms of
reference and conditions of service would be mutually
acceptable to Government and IDA (para 6.12).
9.02      Conditions of effectiveness are that the:
(a) project director and his deputy will have been appointed
and with terms of reference and conditions of service
mutually acceptable to Government and IDA (para 6.02);
(b) Government will have agrped with IDA the form of loan
agreements for cooperative societies (para 6.08).
9.03      The project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$1.3 million.
August 3, 1972






ANNEX 1
Page 1
TiE GAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMIENT PROJECT
The Cooperative Societies
1.        The Cooperative Movement is controlled by the 1965 Cooperative
Societies Act, and the Amendment Act of 1968. There is one Cooperative
Union, The Gambia Cooperative Union, Ltd. (GCU) and 51 primary marketing
societies, of which 11 are in McCarthy Island Division (MID). The total
membershiip of cooperative societies is about 50,000.
2.        The Cooperative Department of the Ministry of Agriculture is
responsible for enforcing the law. It has a small headquarters staff,
including tiue Registrar and his assistant, and an audit unit with two
expatriate auditors and four Gambian trainees. Field staff include 4 assis-
tant registrars and 27 inspectors.
3.        Groundnut marketing is the main cooperative activity.  In 1970/71
cooperatives delivered 32,000 tons of groundnuts to GPYIB, accounting for
about 23%Z of the total crop. The GCU is a licensed buying agent (LBA) for
the Gambia Produce Marketing Board (GP1IB) and the societies are appointed
sub-agents. The LBA allowance is divided equally between GCU and societies.
4.        The cooperative movement is the only source of farmer credit.
!lost loans are short-term cash credits for members' subsistence, amounting
to about D 1.5 million annually. Cooperative societies have also issued a
total of about D 300,000 in loans for fertilizers, tractor ploughing, boats
and trucks. Loan funds and crop finance are provided to the GCU by the
Central Bank and guaranteed by Government. The Central Bank's current
interest rate is 6%, and funds are provided to GCU at 7%; GCU on-lends funds
to individual societies at 10%.
5.        The repayment record for subsistence loans was good, until the
late 1960's, wlhen overdue debts of cooperative societies to GCU were about 13%
of annual lending, and overdue repayments of members to their societies about
20% of annual lending. The repayment position of other cooperative loans was
very poor and overdue debts amounted to about 50%.
6.        The movement operated efficiently and grew rapidly during the early
1960's. By 1970, however, management at the Union and society level had
weakened and the Cooperative Department was not enforcing the cooperative law.
Although the GCU received a large income from groundnut marketing, it lost
money on its banking and lending activities. Trading profits were mismanaged
and sometimes used illegally; funds were misused at the society level, loans
were made to non-members often received low and delayed payments for their
produce. Consequently, both farmers and Government lost confidence in the
movement and, in 1970, Government set up a commission of enquiry into the
cooperative movement. The Commission's report highlighted management weakness



ANNEX 1
Page 2
in the Cooperative Department, the GCU and in individual societies; it noted
that society accounts were not audited annually as required by law, and that
the GCU accounts were not audited in time for scrutiny at annual meetings.
Since the Commission reported, senior staff of the Cooperative Department
and the GCU have been replaced, the audit unit has been strengthened, and the
GCU has relinquished its banking activities. Lending throughout the movement
has been brought under tighter control; both cooperative societies and members
defaulting on credit repayments are now refused new loans. Farmers are
regaining confidence in the movement under new leadership, and former weakness
and abuses are gradually being corrected.
June 21, 1972



ANNEX 2
Page 1
THE GAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Gambia Produce Marketing Board
1.        A Gambia Oilseeds Marketing Board (GOMB) was established in 1966
under the act were:
(a)  to fix prices to be paid to producers of oilseeds, subject
to ministerial approval;
(b)  to purchase and dispose of oilseeds;
(c)  to appoint licensed buying agents (LBAs);
(d)  to fix price to be paid to LBAs: and
(e)  with the approval of the Minister, to assist development
of the oilseed industry for the benefit of producers.
2.        In November 1970 the scope of the GOMB's activities was enlarged
by thle Cabinet to allow it to handle other agricultural produce, although
the full extent of its new role will be defined by legislation now under
preparation. Immediate results of the 1970 Cabinet decision are that GOMB
has talcen on responsibility for importing, milling, and marketing rice, and
is now known as the Gambia Produce Marketing Board (GPMB.).
3.        In 1971, GPEB purchased 113,000 tons of groundnuts valued at D 19.2
million, and sold 78,000 tons of decorticated and undecorticated nuts valued
at D 38.3 million; purchases and sales of palm kernels amounted to about
2,000 tons.  GPMB purchases oilseeds tihrough 7 LBAs (six private companies,
and Thie Gambia Cooperative Union); LB,As appoint and finance sub-agents, whto
purchase oilseeds for farmers. The LBAs main functions are to bulk the
farmers' produce and to deliver it to GPMB at Kaur and Bathurst; they receive
an allowance and transportation fee for this service. Payment to producers
and to LbAs for the 1971/72 buying season were:
Palm Kernels    Groundnuts
(Tons)           (Tons)
Producer Price               D 180.0         D 180.0
Buying Agents Allowance    D  27.0           D  13.99
Sub Agents Allowance            -            D  17.14
Est. Average Transport
Cost                        D  14.95        D  14.95



ANNEX 2
Page 2
4.        GPMB exports all palm kernels and about 40% of its groundnut
purchases for export groundnuts are decorticated at Kaur, and shipped to
Europe as shelled nuts. The remaining groundnuts are delivered to Batlhurst
and sold to two private milling companies for processing and export as oil
and cattle cake. Overseas sales and shipping are handled by the London based
Gambia Oilseeds Iarketing Company, which is a wholly owned GPMB subsidiary.
5.        The Rice Control Act regulates and controls arrangements for rice
importation, marketing, and wholesale and retail prices. (Rice imports for
the last five years have averaged 10,000 tons). Before 1971, rice was
imported by a consortium of three private companies, and distributed through
about 80 licensed distributors. When GPMB took over responsibility for
importing rice, it inherited most of the rice distributors from the conisor-
tium, but it intends to reduce the number to streamline sales and distribu-
tion arrangements. Only limited amounts of locally produced rice are marketed
through GPMB because most of the present production is used for subsistence
or bartered in local markets. With the prospect of increased production,
however, GPMB has arranged to purchase and mill locally grown paddy.
6.        For the 1971/72 season, paddy is being purchased at Sapu where
GPMB has 600 tons of silo storage and a 2,500 ton/year rice mill; by February
1972, GPMB had milled 240 tons of paddy at Sapu. Additional milling capacity
of 5,000 ton/year is being installed at Kuntaur (MID) to mill paddy produced
on the North bank of the river; this extra capacity will absorb thc increased
production resulting from this project. The Paddy must not have a moisture
content above 12%, and foreign matter and damaged grain must be less than 2%.:
it is purchased at D 134.40/ton and LABs receive an allowance of D 16.5/ton,
plus a transport payment determined by the location of the buying station
but not exceeding D 12.5/ton.
7.        GPMB, which has a small headquarters staff, is well managed and
operates efficiently. At September 30, 1971, its assets were valued at
D 22.7 million of which fixed assets amounted to D 3.0 million and the
renAainder cash, short term bank deposits and well placed investments (see
Table 1). Trading profits for the year were D 9.7 million (Table 2).
Details of produce turnover for the last three years are shown in Table 3.
June 21, 1972



ANNEX 2
THE GAP1BIA                          Table 1
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOP14NT PROJECT
GA BIA PRODUCE LARKIEMTIG BOARD
Statement Showing Increase in 1Net Wlorth of The Gambia Produce
M4arketing Board for the Year Ended 30th September 1971
1969/70     1970/71        Increase    Decrease
D.          D.               D.           D.
Assets
Fixed Assets                2,564,375    2,950,223        385,848
Investments                1,233,690    1,233,690            -            -
Stocks                        867,310    1,149,880        282,570         -
Sunday Debtors and
accrued Char-ges         1,604,570    2,597,650        993,080          -
Short Term Deposits
with Bankers              5,750,000   13,711,823    7,961,823           -
Cash at Banks and
in Hand                    947,560    1,106,039        158,039          -
D.12,967 5,5  n2,7fj9,305
Liabilities
Sundry Creditors and
accrued chargos            623,975        718,733          _           94,758
General. Reserve            5,539,814o    5,359,84o          _            -
Price Stabilizat, cln
Reserve                   6,983,       690 6 ?-3V'90
13,0'2,203
1970/71 Profit                            9,68'7,0l,2   9_687____!_9
12'L7,0                                _ _ _ _ _~ 
1 2   70     2~O~b ~    ~ 7 31, t5C'0    9 _/~Tz hi 
Ilotes
(1)  The i.nrrease in Fi.xed3 Asset;s rcnresent cxDenditure on storaje.
(2)  Thiucr'sr:- e in Lt"ocks reprc,vt a lar-er than usual carry ovel,
of Palm Kernels and Rice.
(3)  The increase i.n DebLors is due on I'illers Accounts.
(4)  The increase in Cas' and D.-posit Accounts reflect the profit on
the year's trading,



ANNEX 2
THE GAMBIA                          Table 2
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
GAMBIA PRODUCE MARKETING BOARD
Trading Profit for the Year Ended September 30, 1971
(per ton figures based on 113,230 tons of produce purchased)
Actual
Producer Price                               D. 170.00      D. 19,249,100
Buying Agents Allowance                           13.77         1,559,177
Trader's allowance                               16.43          1,860,369
Zonal freight                                     14.73         1,667,742
Transit Handling                                   3.41           386,002
Pest control - Produce Inspection                  1.04           118,065
Seednut improvement                                0.76        _    86,250
Basic Delivered Cost                         D. 220.14      D. 24,926,705
Crop Finance                                       0.49            55,897
Crop Insurance                                     0.10        _   10,950
Basic Instore Cost                           D. 220.73      D. 24,993,552
Milling Overheads - GPMB            6.17)          5.50           345,417
Milling Overheads Allowed Millers  5.87)                          277,381
Bags: Sacks - GPMB                  3.93)          5.46           220,845
Bags: Sacks Allowed Millers         8.41)                         397,406
Office Overheads                                   1.48           168,040
Workshop Overheads                                 0.37            42,106
Membership African G/Nuts Council                  0.56            62,984
Grants: Agriculture Department                     2.50            283,650
D. 236.60     D. 26,791,381
Converted to Decorticated Basis                   70.95%
D. 333.48
Sales Tax                                         27.15     D.  2,181,278
Harbour Dues - GPMIB                               1.25             41,351
Harbour Dues allowed to Millers                                    58,067
Other Allowances to Millers                        2.35           189,016
F.O.B. Cost Bathurst                         D. 364.23      D. 29,262,093
SALES FOB BATHURST
Tonnage                                       D/Ton            D.
80,339.                                      476.80         38,305,654
Profit on Groundnut Trading                  D. 112.57          9,043,561
Profit on Palm Kerne'l Trading                                     12,000
Profit on Rice Marketing                                           297,863
Sunday Investment Incone and Unused
Provisions Less Sundry Expenditure                                 333,618
D. 9,687,042



ANNEX 2
Table 3
THE GAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
GAMBIA PR4OWUCE MARKETING BOARD,
Produce Purchases and Sales 1968/69-1970/71
---------------Purchases---------------
('000 tons
1968/69         1969/70         1970/71
Undecorticated Groundnuts           124.0           112.2           113.2
Palm Kernels                          2.2             2.2             2.0
___-S_ales------
('000 tons)
1968/69         1969/70         1970/71
Groundnut Kernels
(a) Overseas Sales                49.5             33.2            25.0
(b) Local Millers                   1.9            10.9            11.0
Undecorticated Groundnmts
(a)  Senegalese Buyers              8.0              _               _
(b)  Local Millers                 43.5            47.9            36.3
(c) Other                            -              0.4             1.6
Palm Kernels                          2.4             1.6             2.3
June 21, 1972






ANNEX 3
Page 1
THE GAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AGRICULTURE AND LAND TENURE IN THE PROJECT AREA
Climate
1.        The project area has a five-month rainy season (June to October)
and a seven-month dry season. The average rainfall is 38 inches, but there
are considerable annual variations. The standard deviation, when expressed
as a percentage of the mean for September and October (critical months
for rainfed crops), is 37%.  Average monthly rainfall figures for 1960-70 were:
Montii        Inches         Month       Inches
Jan.           0.00          July         7.82
Feb.           0.10          Aug.        10.93
March          1.00          Sept.        9.88
April          0.04          Oct.         3.57
May            0.30          Nov.         0.08
June           4.96          Dec.         0.03
2.        Mean maximum temperatures range from 89°F in August/September to
104'F in March/April and the mean minimum for 76°F in December to 87°F in
April. The average monthly temperatures in Georgetown for 1960-70 were:
Jan.   Feb.  Mar.  Apr.  May  June  Juy  Aug.  Sept.  Oct.  Nov. Dec.
Max.(°F)  95      100   104   104    93   97    91    89    89    92    96   93
Min.(°F)  59       63    66    70    67   74    73    76    73    73    66   59
Mean       77      82    85    87    80   86    82    81    81    82    81   72
Pan evaporation is about 75 inches per year.
Soils
3.        A 1958 land use survey is the only source of general information
on soils. The Overseas Development Administration (ODA) of the British
Government, however, is carrying out a new land use and soil survey (Annex 5).
Soil maps at 1":125,000 scales are being made for the whole country, maps at
1":5-10,001) scale for swamps selected for rice development, and maps at
1:50,000 scale for areas suitable for cotton and groundnut production.
4.        Project area soils fall into two major associations:  upland and
low-lying alluvial soils. Upland soils are usually sandy, well leached,
low in plant nutrient, and contain a lateritic hard pan. The alluvial



ANNEX 3
Page 2
soils vary in character, but are rich in organic matter and high in plant
nutrients; river bank soils are mostly loamy clays with a gley layer, while
swamp soils are heavy clays.
5.        The Gambia River flows for about 100 miles through MID; in
several places it divides into separate channels, and there are about
300 miles of river bank in the Division. The irrigable area within 1,000
yards of the river (the practical limit for small pump irrigation), extends
to about 100,000 acres. Existing land use maps indicate that half of this
land area is a loamy clay and the balance heavy clays; both are suitable
for intensive irrigated rice production.
Agriculture
6.        Sorghum and millet are the traditional food crops but, since the
early 1940's, rice has gained in importance and is now an important part
of the diet. Groundnuts, which are the main crop, were the only significant
cashi crop until intensive rice production was introduced in 1966.
7.        Traditionally, work on crop production is divided between men
and women within a 'compound' (family group eating together). Men are
responsible for the growing of millet and sorghum for subsistence and the
production of groundnuts as a cash crop. Women are normally solely responsi-
ble for growing subsistence rice and divide their time between swamp and
upland cultivation. As rice gains importance, both as a subsistence and
cash crop, the traditional division of labor is changing and men are now
participating in the production of rice.
8.        Agricultural techniques are simple.  Rain fed crops are grown
on a bush fallow system, with fallow periods limited to between 3 and 7
years.  Most cultivation is by hand but, over the last five year, Government
has encouraged the use of ox-drawn implements for rainfed crops; by 1971,
farmers thought Gambia had purchased about 1,500 ox plows. Plowing of swamp
rice land by Government tractors has reached about 4,500 acres annually but
the financial aspects of the operation have not been successful; many
farmers have not repaid their credit and annual operation costs have been
much higher than anticipated; government losses amount to D 70,000 annually.
9.        Some improved seeds and seasonal inputs have been introduced for
groundnut cultivation, and the demand for fertilizers is growing only slowly
althougii heavily subsidized. Most food crops are grown from unselected
seed and without artificial fertilizers. Animals, however, are sometimes
tethered to apply manure to the land.
10.       The most significant breakthrough in introducing modern techniques
for food crop production has been made by a scheme of intensive rice produc-
tion under irrigation. A Republic of China technical assistance team is
supervising the scheme. By 1972, about 2,500 acres for double cropping rice
had been developed, and of this, 1,700 acres were in MID.  The scheme breaks
away from traditional agricultural practices, and familiarizes farmers with
macihines (pump engines and small cultivators), improved seeds, fertilizers,
and water control for irrigation.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
11.       Under the scheme, farmers cultivate about one acre of rice.  Each
farmer is provided with small tools for land clearing. Clearing is done in
September and October wghen stumping is easy; the felled material is subse-
quentlv burned during the next dry season.  After burning, the area is
surveyed and laid out for irrigation; farmers do most of the levelling and
bund construction by hand, although a small amount of final land clearing
is done by tractors. Before the first crop is planted, the land is deep
plowed, anid a pump and engine is installed to lift water from the river.
12.       Improved rice seed is given to the farmer in the first year and
every second year thereafter at the rate of 40-50 lb/acre. The seed is
first planted in nurseries of about one-tenth of an acre. Seedlings are
transplanted at 9" x 8" intervals, with 5 per hole, when they are about
2 - 3 weeks old and 4" high.
13.       'No rice crops are grown annually; the dry season crop is sown
mid-January and harvested in May wlhile the rainy season crop is sown by mid-
July and harvested in November.  Each crop receives 440 lb/acre of compound
fertilizer (110 lb N and 44 lb P equivalent). Three dressings are applied;
thc first 10 days after transplanting followed by two at fortnightly intervals.
The rice is weeded immediately before each fertilizer dressing.
14.       Initial plowing is done by tractor, and subsequent plowing is
by power tillers, imported and serviced by the Chinese team. Harvesting
is by hand, and the paddy is threshed in small pedal-operated machines.
15.       Pests and diseases have not yet effected the Chinese varieties to
any extent. There has been some blast, but this does not seem to be a
serious problem, and light infestation of stem borers have been controlled
by insecticides. The most serious cause of crop loss is grain-eating birds,
but they can be controlled by children.
16.       Labor requirements to develop and cultivate an acre of rice under
the Chiinese scheme are estimated to be: 100 days for initial land clearing
and levelling, 30 days for land cultivation, 5 days for the nursery, 20
days for transplanting, 15 days for weeding and fertilizing, and 20 days
for harvesting and threshing.
17.       The average yields obtained on the present scheme are shown below:
1968   1969   1970    Average
lb Paddy/Acre
Dry Season                4,510  3,857  4,500      4,300
Rainy Season              4,203  4,453  4,500      4,400
Research
18.       The majority of experiments on rainfed crops in the past five years
have been at the Ministry of Agriculture's Yundum Research Station, ten miles
from Bathurst, and 100 miles from the project area. The results have been of



ANNEX 3
Page 4
little value for application in the project area, where the climate and soils
are different.
19.       The Senegal 28/206 groundnut, however, has been established in
trials as superior to all other varieties. Yield increases of about 30%
have been achieved by treating seed against insect pests with Gamma BHC
and Aldrin.
20.       Several maize and sorghum varieties have been imported and have
achieved yields of about 3,700 lb/acre; these compare favorably with the
local sorghum control yield of 1,400 lb/acre. Nevertheless, there is in-
sufficient information on the new varieties to make field recommendations.
21.       Experiments have been carried out in the project area on imported
rice varieties, and the effect of fertilizer on irrigated rice. Under
standard experimental conditions the best imported rice (Kaoshiung I No. 4)
yielded 9,400 lb/acre compared with 2,000 lb/acre for local varieties; about
20 imported varieties exceeded 7,000 lb/acre. Fertilizer trials on imported
varieties have shown that yields can be increased from 3,700 lb/acre to
7,600 lb/acre by applying 120 lb nitrogen (N) and 54 lb phosphate (P)/acre.
Fertilizer trials on traditional swamp rice areas have been impossible due to
lack of water control.
Future Agricultural Policy
22.       Although population pressure on the land is not critical, there
is evidence that it is increasing and that it would become critical unless
the level of technology is raised and farming systems improved. Cattle
are already overstocked and fallow periods under shifting cultivation are
short. Before the position gets worse, Government is anxious to increase
productivity and to make the best use of agricultural land. It has
initiated studies (Annexes 4 and 5), and is strengthening its extension
and research services for these purposes.
23.       Since the project area has good potential for rice, groundnuts,
sorghum, millets, maize, horticultural crops, and livestock, Government intends
to develop agriculture on a broad front.  It plans to experiment on rainfed
and irrigated crops to increase yields and to develop improved farming systems,
including greater use of ox plows. Until infornation from these experimnents
and Government's ongoing resource studies is available, hiowever, Governrment
is concentrating on irrigated rice on the soils above flood level.  The returns
from this are well known already. In the long term, however, this may not be
tne optimum land use as rice may be best suited to the swamps, and alternative
irrigated crops better suited to the lighter soils. Government experiments
would provide essential information on alternative crops, while the potential
of the swamps for rice is determined.
Land Tenure
24.       Land is vested in, and administered by, the District authority.
The distribution of rights to use land among the local people, however, is



ANNEX 3
Page 5
governed and regulated by local customary laws, and is usually the responsi-
bility of thie village chief. Each village has recognized boundaries and
within these boundaries land is normally held by compounds descended from
original settlers. Compound land is distributed to adult members and
individual rights exist as long as the land is cultivated. There is also
a long-standing tradition of migratory farming, whereby a village allows
"range farmers," mostly from Senegal and Guinea, to grow crops on communally
held village land in exchange for help with land preparation.
25.       The irrigated land under the Chinese project has been ceded by
agreement of the villagers, and there is good reason to believe that the
participants' tenure will be secure. Government, however, is considering
arrangements for leases under the laws of Gambia to provide participants
with greater security of tenure. The Solicitor General of Gambia has advised:
"The relevant law is in Chapter 103. In its preamble, it states that it is
expedient that existing customary rights of the indigenous inhabitants of
the provinces to use and enjoy lands of the provinces and the natural fruits
thereof should be preserved; and that it is necessary to regulate the interests
in land in the provinces, which can be acquired by non-indigenous persons,
wihilst at the same time preserving existing customary laws regarding use and
occupation of such land wherever possible.  The law vests all provinces' land
in tic authorities for the districts in which such lands are situated, held,
administered for the use of provinces land by indigenes shall be governed
and regulated by the customary laws obtaining in the localities in which such
lands are situated, provided that, wlhere in the opinion of the authority
concerned (and of the Minister) it is expedient so to do, a lease may be
granted to indigene in accordance with the following provisions:
(a) consent of the Authority for the District must be obtained;
(b)  approval of the Commissioner and Minister follow;
(c) every tenancy of provinces land for a term exceeding
three years shall be created by an arrangement in
wvriting; and
(cl) a written agreement about provincial land shall be voidable
by either party unless it is properly executed and registered."
26.       Thc Solicitor General also points out, "Although each individual
piece of land on an irrigated scheme could be registered it is possible
withiin the lawf to grant leases to Cooperative Societies." This method of
lease-hold is being developed by Government.
June 21, 1972






ANNEX 4
THE GAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Hydrological and Topographical Studies of the Gambia
River Basin (UNDP SF)
1.        This is a joint project between the UNDP (Special Fund) and the
Governments of The Gambia and Senegal that will cost about US$600,000.
Its object is to provide for the establishment and continued collection of
hydrological, topographical and meterological data on the Gambia river
basin, to assist in agricultural and other development planning. It is
particularly necessary for irrigation, flood control and reservoir con-
struction projects, and is precursory to possible integrated Governmental
plans for the systematic development of the basin. Project activities
include:
(a) a study of the river's regimen and of other related
hydrological characteristics;
(b) a study of the tidal movement and of salinity in the
river's estuary, and of their influence on the use of
water for irrigation;
(c) a study of sedimentation and siltation;
(d) a study of the stability of the estuary bed and of
the sills which hinder navigation;
(e) preliminary studies of reservoir sites; and
(f) training counterpart personnel.
2.        These' kctivities will be followed by surveys on the use of col-
lected data for project planning and analysis, and on ways of adapting
existing meteorological recording stations to meet better the needs of
agriculture. The project, which will extend over three years, began opera-
tions in 1971. So far 6 automatic water level recorders have been installed
in the Gambia at Bathurst, Kerewan, Balingho, Georgetown (2) and Santa Su,
and eleven outside the Gambia. Two additional recorders will be installed
at Kaur and Kuntaur. The recorders are read twice daily and records are
available for one year. Preliminary results on the river's flow and
behaviour should be available in 1973, and will produce valuable information
for planning Gambia's agricultural development.
June 21, 1972






ANNEX 5
Page  1
THE GAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Land Resource Development Project Study
1.        This study is being undertaken by the Land Resources Division of
the British Government's Overseas Development Administration (ODA). It will
provide information to speed up agricultural developmental planning in the
Gambia, and is conceived as the first phase of the larger study of The
Gambia river basin described in Annex 4. The project has three parts:
(a) An ecological survey, to identify and describe the
natural ecological units of The Gambia as prescribed
by geology, land form, soil (to which special attention
will be paid), climate, hydrological conditions and
vegetation.
(b) A land use and economic study, to analyse by reference
to the ecologucal units, the tribes and the administrative
divisions in The Gambia, the distribution and structure of
the human and livestock populations, and of the present
agricultural systems and marketing facilities, and so to
establish the economic base of local agricultural
production.
(c)  A development analysis, based on the above results, will
draw up plans appropriate to the development of the
different ecological units (agricultural zones), covering
production and protection of forestry; the intensification
of the existing agriculture and its integration with
livestock production; the introduction of new crops; the
development of irrigation, wildlife, tourism, and
supporting services such as roads and social facilities.
2.        Aerial photography for the whole country at 1"25,000 scale, and
for selected areas, which include the MID swamps, at 1"10,000 scale was
completed in February 1972. Detailed surveys will be made of swamps with
good potential for rice, and soil surveys at 1":10,000 scale will be
made for those selected for development. Studies will also be made to
determine the exLentc of land potentially irrigable by gravity, and land
requiring pump irrigation. If some of the agricultural zones identified by
the study are suitable for cotton growing, areas will be selected and a
marketing plan prepared for cotton to be included in the farming calendar.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
3.        The findings of this study will provide the Gambian government with
sound basic information. The project management would arrange, in close
collaboration with ODA, the collection of any supplementary information
(particularly on village populations) required for the preparation of an
agricultural project in MID; the basic photography carried out by ODA would
be most useful for this work.
4.        The final study report will be available in mid-1974, but assurances
have been obtained from Government and ODA that priority will be given to
completing work in MID by the middle of 1973.
June 21, 1972



ANNEX 6
Page 1
THE GAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Irrigation and Pumping Requirements
1.        The sties selected in the project area would be multiples of
20 acres and each site would be irrigated by 5" centrifugal water pump
driven by an air cooled or water cooled diesel motor running at 1,500
revolution per minute( r.p.m.). The five-inch pumps already installed on
the Chinese project, driven by diesel engines generating 7 housepower (H.P.)
at 1,500 r.p.m., discharge 30 litres per second (108 m3/hour) and have
proved adequate for 20 acres of irrigated land in the dry season.
Power requirements
2.        The suction lift and power requirements are computed in the fol-
lowing manner:
Discharge (litres/second)                 30
Velocity (metres/second)                   1.6
Friction losses (metres)                   1.3
Maximum static lift (metres)               4.5
Velocity head (metres)                     0.2
Total suction lift (metres)                6.0
HP required (pump and drive)               4.8
HP of motors (at 1,500 rpm)                7
Thus the motors will not be required to work at more than 70% of available
power.
Water requirements
3.        The water requirements and number of hours of pumping per acre
for a 5-inch pump are as follows:
Pumping        No. of hours of
Crop                   requirements       pumping per acre
Dry season                   14,700 m /ha            54.5
Wet season                    6,250 m3/ha            23.2



ANNEX 6
Page 2
During the dry season the pump would have to work, on average, about
11 hours a day for 100 days and in the wet season about half of this
amount. Thus there will not be a great strain placed on the equipment.
Servicing
4.        The pumps and engines are easy to mount and to remove.  Spare
engines and pumps (10% of total purchased) will be held by P.M.U. at Sapu
for replacing equipment with a major breakdown. Spare parts will also be
held at Sapu for normal servicing requirements.
June 21, 1972



ANNEX 7
Page 1
THE GAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for Consultants
1.        The MacCarthy Island Division has about 140,000 acres of swamps
liable to flooding by the Gambia River. Swamp soils are suitable for
irrigated crops, particularly rice; in practice, improved varieties and
fertilizers cannot be used because of flooding. Present cultivation methods
give paddy yields of about 900 lb/acre; with flood control, yields of
5,000 lb/acre have been obtained from a single crop. Aerial photography
at 1"10,000 scale was completed of all MID's swamps in February 1972. The
British Overseas Development Administration (ODA) study (Annex 5), using
these maps together with ground surveys, will identify swamps with high
agricultural potential.
2.        Using the ODA's information, a consultant irrigation engineer
would be required to:
(a) select eight or ten representative swamps;
(b) survey and map the selected swamps at 1":1,000 scale with
assistance from project survey team;
(c) determine the flood control and irrigation measures
required to double crop in the swamps (local experience
and the UNDP River Basin Study would provide information
on river level fluctuations);
(d) Prepare plans and cost estimates for flood control and
installation of irrigation equipment;
(e) Test the proposed flood control and irrigation measures
of one or two selected small swamps, after the project
manager had determined that these measures appeared
practical and viable; and
(f) Complete a feasibility study for developing the swamp
areas in MID.
3.        The surveys and studies would be completed in the first two
project years and would require an experienced irrigation engineer for
24 months.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
B. Transport Study
4.        The appraisal mission was unable to recommend financing for the
proposed road component in the original project proposal because of the lack
of basic economic and engineering information. The information required
for future planning would be obtained from the ODA survey and by employing
a consultant road engineer for six months and a transport economist for
two months in the second year of the project; support staff, particularly
surveyors, would be made available by project management. Parts of the
feeder roads to be designed and built would be contiguous to irrigated areas
and would run along bunds and dykes, so they would have to be engineered
along with the civil works required for water control. In many instances,
low-lying areas subject to flooding would be crossed by road embankments
provided with suitable drainage structures such as sluices and culverts/flat-
valves for one-way flow. Also, the scattered escarpments which delimit the
Gambia River floodplain would be crossed to reach the rich bottom lands.
These factors, taken in combination, indicate that survey and engineering
needs to be carried out to avoid misdirected effort and design errors;
improvisation would be costly under the particular set of circumstances
described above. The mileage of feeder roads (120) suggested for construction
by the FAO/IBRD preparation report seems a reasonable order of magnitude for
the project area.
5.        The Ministry of Works does not have the staff to carry out the
study and thus consultants would be engaged. The consultants would first
discuss with project management the proposed development of Mid and, based
on the information received, would draw up a road program suitable for the
area. In particular they would:
(a) plan road alignment taking into account flood control
civil works;
(b) select the best itineraries for feeder roads based on
simple surveys and the availability of river transport;
(c) locate road building material;
(d)  prepare detailed cost estimates;
(e) project passenger and goods traffic; and
(f) calculate economic returns on the proposed investment.
6.        It is expected that most feeder roads would be built to low
standards: their width would be 14 to 16 feet, the laterite surface would
be 4 to 6 inches deep, and earthworks would be minimal. Simple specifica-
tions and contract documents would be prepared by the consultants; these
would be based on previous contracts for road works.
June 21, 1972



THE GAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
(Dalasies)
Year        Year         Year                      Foreign        - Foreign
1           2            3         Total         Exchange         Exchange              Local
1973        1974         1975        Cost             %              Total                Cost
1. Rice Component
a)  Administration j                                462,600     262,100      260,600      985,300 1/        19              325,700           659,600
b)  On Farm Costs                                   229,000     207,000      207,000      643,000           72              465,750           177,250
Subtotal                                                691,600      469,100     467,600    1,628,300           40              791,450           836,850
2.  Agricultural Experiments                            235,200      78,700       78,700      392,600           45              178,460           214,140
3.  Consultants Studies
Swamp Survey and Engineering                        120,000     120,000         --        240,000           87              207,800            32,200
Road Study and Engineering                             --        60,000         --          60,000          98               58,500             1,500
4. Special training program                              45,000      90,000       45,000      180.000          291              167.o100
Subtotal                                                165,000     270,000       45,000      480,000           89              433,700            46,300
Total                                                 1,091,800     817,800      591,300    2,500,900           51            1,403,610         1,097,900
5.  Physical Contingencies
Rice Component
a)  Administration                                   23,130      13,105       13,030       49,265           19                9,535            39,730
b)  On Farm Costs                                    11,450      10,350       10,350       32,150           72               23,Z78&            8,862
Agricultural Experiments                             11,760        3,935       3,935        19,630          45                8,923            10,707
Total                                                    46,340       27,390      27,315      101,045          141               41,746            59,299
6.  Price Contingencies
Rice Component
a)  Administration                                   24,287      27,521       41,045        92,853           ;9              17,642            75,211
b)  On Farm Costs                                    12,023      22,278       34,254       68,555            72              49,360            19,195
Agricultural Experiments                             12,348        8,264      12,395        33,007          45                14,853            18,154
Consultant Studies                                    6,000       18,000        --          24,000           89              91,360             2,6140
Special training program                              2,250       9,000        6 750       18.000            93               16,740             1,260
Total                                                    56,908      85,063       94,444       236,415           51              119,955           116,X460
GRAND TOTAL Project Cost                              1.1 9   8       02         713,059     2,38,360                                             2 1,565,31173049 
1/   Includes D 270,000 for Agricultural Superintendents likely to be financed by the Republic of China; this has been transferred to
Special Contingency   in Project Cost Estimates  (para 5.01).
August 2, 1972



IHE GA3BIA
AGRIC LTURAL DEVEIOPMENT PROJECT
72172 i2< 1'21C2  - eI'I Ii 7<7217
Anooal                          Year         Year          Year                         Forcigo             For-Lgn
alary and "        rIt            1            2              3          Total          Exchange            Exchange                 Local
Alloa . cee      Coaca          1973         1974           1975          Cost           _                    Total                   Cost
1.  Personnel
a salarlia  e-d Allov3nces
Project Di-ettr                                             40,000                       40 000       40,000         40, oo       120,000              50                60,000                60,000
Depoty Project Dirtcoto                                      12,000                      12,000       12,000         12,000        36,000              --                  --                  36,000
hAglootatl   O.aIperle-e-t-ttti/                            9,00                        90,000OM)  90,00O(10)   90,000(10)  230,000                   50               135,OI10              135,000
Agrtt_Ltoral AOtsrate n    (Rice Den.)                       3,500                       35,000(10)  35,000(10)   33.              O50(10)  105,00     --                  --                 105,000
Agri-clc-ra1 Aaitaca-ce 1cR       e Ott)                     3,500                        3,500(1)    3,500(1)        3,500(1)      L0,'00              _                  __                  10, 5o
Deonetrotort                                                  1,000                      17,000(17)  17,000(17)   17,000(17)   51,000                  --                  --                  51,000
Coop-ra-ive Officer                                          9,000                        9,000(1)    9,000(1)        9,000(1)    27,000               2- 17,000
Cooperativo Auditor                                          7,000                        7,000(1)    7,000(1)        7,000(1)    21,000               --                  -                   21,000
Aoc-oon7,000                                                                             7,000(l)    7,000(l)        7,000(1)    21,000               -                                       21,000
Seerstary                                                    5 000                        5,000(1)    5,000(1)        3,000(1)    13,000               --                  --                  15,000
Clerka                                                       2,000                        4,000(2)    4,000(2)        4,000(2)    12,000               --                  --                  12,070
Leyell.r1                                                    3,500                        70,000(7)    0,000(2)       7,000(2)    21 000               -_                  __                  21,000
Labor fCr Levelle-                                             0oo                        3,000(6)    3,000(6)        3,000(6)      9,000                                                       9,000
DInnat                                                        1,000                       3,000(3)    3,000(3)        3,000(3)      9,000               --                                      9,000
OfMico Blya                                                  1,000                        2,000(2)    2,000(2)        2,000(2)      6,000              --                  --                   6,000
Sobtotl                                                                                244,500      344,500       244,500        733,500                               195,000               053,500
4 Tealolo  Palecwhita
Agric-lt-oal Irrigation Traoitee                                            2,750         5,500(2)    5,500 '2)                    11,000             100                11,000                  __
2. C-cital
o Noassa sad Officta
Depoty Project Manager                                                     30 000        30,000(1)      --             --          30,000             40                 12,000                18,000
CooperatIve Officer                                                        180000        18,000(1)      --             --          10,000              40                 7,200                10,830
Ac.on. at.   t  and Citricala                                               7,000        28,000(4)      --             --          28,000              40                11,200                16,800
AOrgcalatra_  asis tants                                                    7,000        70,000(10)    --              --          70,000              40                28,000                42,000
Sap.  Office Extoosions                                                                  10,000         --            --           10 ,10              40                 4,000                 6,000
Sobtoltl                                                                                156,000                                   156,000              40               62,400                 93,600
VOhicloa anO EeAlneent
Fooc Wheel Drive                                                            6,500        19,500(3)      --             --          19,500              90                17,550                 1,950
Mo.r, yclee                                                                 1,500        I8,000(12)    --              --          18,000              90                16 200                 1,800
Bicyclea                                                                      150         1,500(10)    --              --           1,500              90                 1,350                   150
Office Eqotpeent                                         2,500         --             --           3,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2500  90     2,250                   250
2 Levela, 4 Staff., 8 ChaIns, Sotrey Eqcipen-t                                            3T000                                     3,000              90                 2,700                   300
Sobc-cal                                                                                 44,500         --             --          44,900              90               40,050                  4,450
2. Oernlco  and A4oiait-ration
Hoaae ad Office Misnten-n-e                                    --             --           --           __           4,000          4,000              --                  --                   4,0oo
Offin R_oonag lep-oar                                          I-             -            ,0          1,000          1,000         3,000              20                   600                 2,400
Oreatioo and Maintenance - 011 V hill                                       2,000         6,000(3)    6,000(3)        6,000(3)    1,000                50                 9,0OO                 9,000
Ntotorcyelee                                                    -_            400         4,800(12)   4,800(12)    4,800(12)   14,400                  50                 7,200                 7,200
Olcyolee                                                                       30           300(10)       300(10)       300(10)        900             50                   450                   450
Sabtatal                                                                                 12,100       12,100         00,100        40,300                                17,230                23,050
TOTAL                                                                                   462,600      262,100       260,600        985,300              33               3?5,700               6@i0660
PhynOcel Contiegency 5%                                                                    23,130        13,105        13,030        49,265              33                16,257                33,038
T485,730     275,205       273,630      1,034,565              33              341,957                692,608
Price Cofatlgeecy 5%/pa.                                                                   24,287        27,521        41,045        92,053              33                30,642                62,211
GCAN10 TOTAL                                                                              1          302.726        31_4675     1,127,418              33               372,5997
I/  Tr..aferred to Specia1 Coetige.eny in Project Coat E.ti,etea (para 5.01) 00 this portian is likely to ba finaeead cedar bilteral oid fram the Repablic of Chi-a
May 31, 1972



THE GAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVPLOPMENT PROJECT
RICE CMPONENT - FARM COSTS
Year                 Year                 Year                Total             Foreign            Foreign                Local
1                    P ?                  3                 Cost              Exchange          ExCost
Area Developed (acres)                            1,000                1,000                 1,000
Cumulative Area Developed (acres)                 1,000                2,000                 3,000
(Salaries)
Capital Costs
Final Land Clearing                            21,000               21,000                21,000               63,000              50                31,500               31,500
Hand Tools                                     22,000                  -                    -                  22,000              90                19,800                2,200
Irrigation Equipment                          100,000              100,000              100,000               300,000              75              225,000                75,000
Spraying and Threshing Equipment               26,000               26,000                26,000               78,000              75                58,500               19,500
Subtotal                                      169,000              147,000              147,000               463,000              72               334,800              128,200
First Crop Establishment Costs
Pump Spares and Repairs                         5,000                5,000                 5,000               15,000              50                 7,500                7,500
Fuel                                           16,000               16,000               16.ooo                L8,000              50                24,000               24,000
Fertilizer                                     34,000               34,000                34,000              102,000              85                86,700                15,300
Spraying Material                               5,00°                5,000                 5,000               15,000              85                12,750                 2,250
Subtotal                                       60,000               60,000                60,000              180,000              73               130,950                49,050
Total                                         2P9,000              207,000               207,000              643,000              72               465,750               177,250
Physical Contingencies 5%                      11,450               10,350               10,350                32,150              72                23,288                 ,862
Total                                         Pb0o,50               217,350              217,350              675,150               72              189,038               186,112
Price Contingencies 5% per annum               12,023               22,278                34,254               68,555              72                49,360               19,195
Grand Total                                   ?52,473              239,628               251,604              743,705               72              535,468              208,237
June 16, 1972



THE GAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ST1rDTIES AND SURVEYS
(Dalasies
Year           Year           Year                          Foreign             Foreign
Annual         Unit               1               2              3          Total            Exchange           Exchange            Local
Cost          Cost             1973           1974           1975           Cost              %                 Total               Cost
1.  Swamp Surveys and Engineering
Irrigation Engineer                                        92,000            -           92,000         92,000             -          184,000            100                184,000              --
Driver                                                      1,000            -             1,000          1,000            -            2,000             --                  --                2,000
Four Wheel Drive Vehicle O/M                                             2,000             2,000          2,000            -            4,000             50                  2,000             2,000
Maps, Photograph Materials                                                                 2,000          2,000            -            4,000             50                  2,000             2,000
Office Running                                                                             1,000          1,000            -            2,000             90                  1,800               200
Flood Control Works                                                                                     20,000             -           20,000             20                  4,000           16,000
Field Accommodation                                                                      20,000                                        20,000             50                 10,000            10,000
Air Fares                                                                                 2,000           2,000            -            4,000            100                  4,000              --
Subtotal                                                                                120,000        120,000                        240,000             87                207,800           32,200
2.  Road Developnent Study and Engineerin&
Road Engineer                                              92,000                           --          38,000            --           38,000            100                 38,000              --
Transport Economist                                        92,000                           --           15,000           __           15,000            100                 15,000              --
Air Fares                                                                                   --           4,000            --            4,000            100                  4,000              --
Supporting Services                                                                         --            3,000           --            3,000             50                  1,500             1,500
Subtotal                                                                                   --           60,000            --           60,000             98                 58,500             1,500
Total                                                                                   120,000         180,000           --          300,000              9                266,300           33,700
Price Contingency 5%/p.a.                                                                 6,000          18,000                        24,000             89                21,360             L,64o
GRAND TOTAL                                                                             126,000         198.000           _32 0                           _                 287 890           36,340
May 11, 1972



THE GAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL EXPERIMENTS
(Dalasies)
Annual                             Year          Year          Year                         Foreign            Foreign
Salary and         Unit              1             2             3          Total           Exchange           Exchange        Local
Allowances         Costs           1973          1974          1975          Cost              %                Total           Cost
1.  Personnel
Agronomist                                                        35,000                         35,000(1)    35,000(1)    35,000(1)   105,000                50               52,500        52,500
Agricultural Assistants                                           3,500                           7,000(2)      7,000(2)      7,000(2)    21,000              --                 --          21,000
Recorder                                                           2,000                          2,000(1)      2,000(I)      2,000(1)      6,000            --                  __           6,000
Clerk                                                              2,000                          2,000(1)      2,000(1)      2,000(1)      6,000            --                  __           6,000
Driver                                                             1,000                          2,000(2)      2,000(2)      2,000(2)      6,000            --                  --           6,000
Subtotal                                                                                             48,000        48,000        48,000       144,000                              52,500        91,500
2.  Capital Costs
a Houses and Offices
Agronomist                                                                        30,000         30,000(1)       --            --          30,000            40                12,000        18,000
Agricultural Assistants                                                            7,000         14,000(2)       --            --          14,000            40                 5,600         8,400
Sapu Office                                                                                       5,000          --            --           5,000            40                 2,000         3,000
Pump House and Field Shelters Sapu                                                                1,000          --            --           1,000            40                   400           600
Mixed Farming Center Houses                                                        7,000         42,000(6)       -_                        42,000            40                16,800        25,200
Mixed Farming Center Buildings and Stores                                          2,000         12,000(6)       --            --          12,000            40                 4,800         7,200
Subtotal                                                                                            104,000          __            __         104,000             40               41,600        62,400
b Vehicles. Equipment, Materials
Four Wheel Drive                                                                   6,500         13,000(2)       --            --          13,000            90                11,700         1,300
Pumps (2) Rotovater (1)
Spraying Equipment and Piping                                                                    12,000          --            --          12,000            90                10,800         1,200
Motorcycles                                                                        1,500          1,500          --            --           1,500            90                 1,350           150
Fencing                                                                                          4,500           --            --           4,500            60                 2,700         1,800
Office Equipment Spu                                                                              2,500          --            --           2,500            90                 2,250           250
Land Clearing Sapu (10 acres)                                                                       500          --            --             500            50                   250           250
Mixed Farming Center Water Supplies                                                1,000          6,000(6)       --            --           6,000             50                3,000         3,000
Subtotal                                                                                             40,000                                   40,000              80               32,050          7,950
3.  Services and Administration
Four Wheel Drive Vehicles                                                          2,000          4,000(2)      4,000(2)      4,000(2)   12,000               50                6,000         6,000
Motorcycles                                                                                       2,400(6)      2,400(6)      2,400(6)    7,200               50                3,600         3,600
Pump Running                                                                        400           1,000         1,000         1,000        3,000              50                1,500          1,500
Seeds ard Plant Material                                                                          1,000         1,000         1,000        3,000              90                2,700            300
Fertilizer and Insecticide                                                                        4,550         4,550         4,550       13,650              90               12,285          1,365
Field Tcols, Equipment and Materials                                                              5,750         3,250         3,250       12,250              90               11,025          1,225
Surveys                                                                                          10,000          --            --         10,000              20                2,000          8,000
Labor                                                                                            10,000        10,000        10,000       30,000              --                  --          30,000
Overseas Travel                                                                                   3,50o         3,500         3,500       10,500             100               10,500          --
Office Running                                                                                    1,000         1,000         1,000        3,000              90                2,700            300
Subtotal                                                                                             43,200        30,700        30,700      l04,0                50                52,310        52,290
Total                                                                                               235,200        78,700        28,700       392,600             45               178,460       214,140
Physical Contingencies  5% p.a.                                                                      11,760         3,935          3,935       19,630             45                 8,923        10,707
Total                                                                                               246,960        82,635        82,635      412,230              45               187,383       224,847
I>
Price Contingencies 57, p.a.                                                                         12,348         8,264        12,395        33,007             45                14,853        18,154              z
GRAND TOTAL                                                                                         259,308         90,899        95.03       4                   45               202.236       2                  u, m






ANNEX 9
THE GAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
QUARTERLY ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
Quarterly                 Cumulative
IBRD/IDA                               Disbursements              Disbursements
Financial Year and Quarter                US$ 000                    US$ 000
1972/73
March 31
June 30                                     80                          80
1973/74
September 30                                80                         160
December 31                                130                         290
March 31                                   200                          490
June 30                                     90                         580
1974/75
September 30                                90                         670
December 31                                130                         800
March 31                                    90                         890
June 30                                     70                         960
1975/76
September 30                                70                       1,030
December 31                                100                       1,130
March 31                                    85                       1,215
June 30                                     85                       1,300
August 2, 1972






ANNEX 10
Page 1
THE GAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farmer Benefits
1.        There is only limited information available on cropping patterns
in the project area. Most farmers grow groundnuts for cash sale, and millet
and sorghum for subsistence on upland soils and, in addition, rice for sub-
sistence in the riverine swamps. It is generally accepted by Gambian autho-
rities that the average family comprises six persons and can provide about 2.2
adult worker labor equivalents annually. By using the labor requirements for
the different crops shown on Table 1, it would appear that the average family
using its labor efficiently could grow four acres of upland crops (groundnuts,
millet and sorghum, all of which have similar requirements) and 1.8 acres of
swamp rice each year (Table 2). Since such a pattern is in line with the
information on actual cropping patterns in The Gambia, it is used in project
analyses as the pre-project farm plan.
2.        Under the project, participating families would be restricted to
growing one acre of double-cropped irrigated rice. Table 3 gives details of
costs and returns. Participating families would not alter to any extent their
pre-project activities in the wet season, as they would substitute the
irrigated rice for swamp rice; in the dry season, farmers would be able to
employ their time profitably as there are normally no other agricultural
activities (Table 2).
3.        Farmers would have the choice of growing less upland crops or less
swamp rice. The upland crops have similar labor requirements and often are
intercropped. Since farm labor and land are interchangeable between ground-
nuts, sorghum and millet, it is assumed that these crops have similar values
to the farmer, although normally only groundnuts are sold for cash. Table 4
shows that the annual profit (or net income) from growing upland crops is
about D80/acre compared with D47/acre from swamp rice. Under the project,
the average family's subsistence requirements of rice would be more than met
from their irrigated land, consequently it would appear that they would give
up their traditional swamp rice cultivation entirely and devote the net
saving in labor to the more profitable upland cultivation. On the pre-project
plan, swamp rice requires 100 man-days and of this some 15 man-days would be
available for additional upland cultivation. Since farmers may not change
quickly and suitable upland soils are not in unlimited supply, it is believed
that in practice the majority of farmers will continue with some swamp rice
cultivation and not increase the area under upland crops. Thus in the project
analysis it is assumed that the project farm plan would be 4 acres upland, 1
acre irrigated rice and 0.5 acre swamp rice.
4.        In comparing net farm incomes, producer prices of DO.053/lb for
paddy and DO.08/lb for unshelled groundnuts are used. These are in line with
Bank forecast prices (Tables 5 and 6). Using these prices, the net value of



ANNEX 10
Page 2
production per family under the pre-project farm plan from upland crops and
rice is D406 and under the project farm plan D537, an increase of 27%. Returns
to labor per man-day under the two plans would be D1.1 and D1.4 respectively.
A cash flow for the project farm plan is at Table 7.
June 21, 1972



ANNEX 10
Table 1
THE GAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Labor 1Recuirements Per Acre
Groundnuts/hllet &
Sorghum (Upland Crops)    SwamD Rice           Irrigated Rice
6 hr/day            6 hr/day              6 hr/day
January                        --                  26.6                  --
February                                           --                   30
March                          --                  --                    20
April                          --                  --                   10
May                           1.8                  13.3                   5
June                          5.5                   2.9                 20
July                         12.4                   1.0                  --
August                        5.2                   8.7                 30
September                     1.3                  19.3                 20
October                      10.9                   2.2                 10
November                      1.1                   4.8                  5
December                      4.9                  22.1                 20
Total Days                43.1                 100.9                170
June 20, 1972



ANNE  10
Table 2
THE GAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Prolect and Pre-Project Farm Plans
Project Plan      Pre-Project Plan
Upland Crops (acres)                             4.0                  4.0
Swamp Rice (acres)                               0.5                  1.8
Irrigated Rice (acres)                           1.0                   -
Total Acres                            5.5                  5.8
Labor Profile (man-days)
January                                        13                    48
February                                       30                     1
March                                          20                     _
April                                          10                     -
May                                            19                    31
June                                           44                    28
July                                           50                    52
August                                         55                    37
September                                      35                    40
October                                        55                    48
November                                       12                    13
December                                       51                    59
Total Labor Man-Days
June 20, 1972



THE GAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RICE COMPONENT - 1 ACRE FARM BUDGET
(Dalasies)
Year                 Year                 Year                 Year                 Year
1                    2                  3-6                    7                  8-13
Family Labor (man days)
Land clearing and levelling                   100                   _                   _                    _                     _
Land preparation                               25                  50                  50                   50                     50
Rursery                                         5                  10                  10                   10                    10
Transplanting                                  20                  40                  40                   40                     40
Fertilizing and Weeding                        15                  30                  30                   30                     30
Harvesting                                     20                  40                  40                   40                     4o
Total                                         15                  T70                 170                  170                    170
Capital Costs1                                                     (Dalasies)
Final Land Clearing                            21.0                 _                   _                    _                     _
Hand Tools                                      7.3
Irrigation Equipment                          100.0                 -                   -                  100.0                   _
Spraying and Harvesting Equipment              26.0                 _                   -                   26.0                    _
Subtotal                                     1T.73                  _                   -                  126.0                   -
Recurrent Costs
Pomp Spares and Repairs                         5 01               10.0                10.0                  -                    10.0
Fuel                                           16.                 32.0                32.0                 32.0                   32.0
Fertilizer                                     34-01               68.o                68.o                 68.0                   68.o
Spraying Material                               5.0'               10.0                10.0                 10.0                   10.0
Demonstrator                                                       17.0                17.0                 17.0                   17.0
Subtotal                                       60.0               137.0               137.0                127.0                 137.0
Total                                         214.3               137.0               137.0                253.0                  137.0
Income
Paddy Production ( b)                       3,500.0             7,000.0             7,000 0              7,000.0               7,000.0
Value (D 0.053/lb,                            185,5               371.0               371.0                371                    371.0
Net Income                                     (29.3)              233.0               233.0                117.0                  233.0
1 Iterrms issued on credit under the project.
June 20, 1972



ANIEX 10
,Table 4
nE GAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Profit/Acre (Groundnuts. Swamp Rice. Irrigated Rice)
Unshelled
Groundnuts
(Upland Crops)   Swamp Paddy      Irrigated Paddy
Yield                      1,000 lb        900 lb           7,000 lb
Price                      D 0.08/lb       D 0.053/lb       D 0.053/lb
output                     D 80.0           4~7.7           371.0
Costs
Depreciation                --             --                  22
Spares and Repairs          --             --                  10
Fuel                        __             __                  32
Fertilizer                  --             --                  68
Sprays                      __             _                  10
Demonstrator                --             --                 17
Interest                    --             --                 11
Contingencies               --             9-
Total                       --             --                179
Profit                     D 80.0          D 47.7            D 192
June 20, 1972



ANNEX 1
,Table 5
THE GAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DWELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Value of Paddy
(Ton)
US $              Dalasies
FOB Rangoon                  81.45               156.63
Freight                      22.88                44.00
Insurance                     0.28                 0.45
Harbor Dues                   0.78                 1.50
Fumigation                     .52                 1.00
Handling, etc.                1.56                 3.00
Landed Bathurst             107.47               206.58
GPMB Storage Costs            5.63                10.82
Total Wholesale Cost of
Imported Rice             113.10               217.40
Value of Paddy
(66% Conversion)             74.65               143.48
GPMB Milling Costs            6.76                13.00
Transport                     2.00                 3.85
GPMB Storage Costs            4.49                 8.63
Producer Price                L.o                118.00
June 20, 1972



ANNEX 10
Table 6
THE GAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Value of Groundnuts
(Ton)
'US$                Dalasies
Cif Europe                                 187.20                 360.00
Freight and Insurance                       1h.95                  28.75
Fob Gambia                                 172.25                 332.25
Harbor Dues                                    065                  1.25
171.60                331.00
Value of Shelled Nuts
(70% Conversion Rate)                      120.12                231.70
GPMB Overhead/Decorticating                  6.66                  12.81
Transport                                    7.66                  14.73
Market Cost                                 15.60                  30.00
Producer Price                              1.20
June 20, 1972



ANMX 10
Table 7
TEO GAMIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cash Flow for Project Famu Plan
(Dalasies)
Year 1  Year 2-6  Year 7    Year 8   Year 9  Year 10-13
Sources
Upland Crops j/          320      320       320       320      320       320
Irrigated Paddy 1/       185      370       370      370       370       370
Swamp Paddy 1/            24        24       24        24       24        24
Loans /                  214        -       126        -        -         -
Total Sources            743       714      840       714      714       714
Application
Capital Costs            154        -       126        -
Recurrent Costs           60      137       127      137       137       3,
Total                    214       137      253       137      137       137
Debt  Service            -          64       64        64       32
Net Cash Flow            529      513       523       513      545       577
/ See Table 2 for acreages and Table 3 for returns/acre.
2 See footnote at Table 3.
June 20, 1972






THE GAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPACT ON THE GOVERNMENT'S BUDGEJ
Dalasies '000
Year 1           2          3           4           5         6           7           8           9           10
APPLICATIONS
Government Contribution to Development
Costs of Pump Irrigation Scheme                        762.5      700.0       895.5         -           -         -           -           -           -
Recurrent Costs of Administration
and Extension (post development)                         -          -           -         240.6       79.5       60.0        60.0        60.0        60.0         60.0
Import Duties Foregone I                                  19.0        67.0      115.0       144.0       144.0     144.0       144.0       144.0       144.0        144.0
Agricultural Experiments                                 259.3        90.7       95.0        69.0         -          -          -           -           -            -
Surveys and Studies                                      126.0       198.0        -           -           -          -          -           -           -
Training program                                          47.2        99.0       51.8         -          -          -           -           -          -
Total Applications                         1,214.n    1,154.7    1,i57.3         453.6      223.5      204.0       204.o       2e4.e      2o4.O        204.
SOURCES
Fuel Taxes2/                                               6.3        18.8       31,3        37,5        37.5       37.5       37.5        37.5        37.5         37.5
Suirplus Credit Fund (Table 2)                             -          64.0      128.0       192.0       192.0      192.0       66.0        66.0        34.o         96.0
Total Sources                                   6.3        82.8       159.3       229.5      229.5      229.5       103.5       103.5       71.5        133.5
To be met from Government Budget                      (l,-u7-7)   (1,17l.J)   (998.0)    (224.1)          6.0       25.5      (100.5)    (100.5)    (132.5)        (70.5)
IDA Credit Disbursements                                 966.6       725.9      615.2         --                     -
Net to be met from Gojernment Revenues                   (241.1)    (346.0)    (382.8)    (224.1)         6.0       25.5      (100.5)    (100.5)    (132.5)        (70.5)
Cumulative Deficits to be met from Government
Revenues                                              (241.1)    (587-1)    (969.9)  (1,194.0)  (1,188.0) (1,162.5)  (1,273.0)  (1,373.5)  (1,406.0)   (1,476.5)
1/  Incremental production of 1.7 ton rice/acre substituting for imports taxed at D 28/ton.                                                                                 fx
2/  Estimated consumption of 40 gallons/acre at present import tax rate of D 0.3125/gallon.                                                                                ' 
August 2, 1972



THE GAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS AND REPAYMENTS
(Dalasies '000)
Year 1         2        3         4         5        6         7         8         9         10        11         12
SOURCES
Disbursement of IDA Credit         214       214      214         -         -         -        -         -         -         -          -         -
Repayments                           -        64      128       192       192       192      192       192       160         96         64        32
Total                        214      278       342       192      192       192       192       192      160         96         64         32
APPLICATIONS
Farm loans                         214       214      214         -         -         -      126       126       126          -          -          -
Net                                -        64      128       192       192      192        66        66        34         96         64        32
CUMULATIVE                         -        64      192       384       576      768       834       900       934     1,030      1,094      1,126
May 31, 1972
D z
X >c
M- m
N)



ANNEX 12
Page   1
TRE GAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Pump Irrigation Schemes
1.        Economic Rate of Return Calculation
The economic costs and benefits of the project are shown in the
table at the end of this Annex. The following main assumptions have been used
in the calculations.
(a) Project Life
Irrigation pumps which account for about 60% of on-farm
development costs, have to be replaced every seven years.
However, since the remaining irrigation infrastructure,
such as housing and office, have a much longer economic
life, the project life has been assumed as 16 years; this
allows for all pumps to be replaced once and allows for
the three year phasing of project development. lWhile
16 years is considered as the best estimate of the
projects' life the rate of return has also been calculated
over 9 years, i.e., a single pump life and allowing for
the 3 year phasing of development.
(b) Costs
Except for 50% of the project manager's salary, which is
attributed to other project activities, all costs in Annex 8,
Tables 2 and 3, together with seasonal inputs purchased by
participants, are included in the calculation. After year 3,
project administration costs are based on one extension
worker (agricultural assistant) for 300 acres. Since there
is no hired labor required under the project, no cost is
included for such labor. The project would involve a greater
use of family labor than under present farming systems; but
this would be required in the dry season when alternative
employment possibilities would be zero, consequently, no
economic cost is attributed to such additional family labor.
All costs include a 5% physical contingency.
(c)  Benefits
Benefits are based on incremental production derived from the
project based on the farm plans described in Annex 10. They
are calculated by deducting the gross value of participants
production before they join the project from the gross value
Of their production under the project.



ANNEX 12
Page 2
2.        Sensitivity Analysis
A sensitivity analysis shows that the following rates of return
would result from the most probable changes in costs and benefits for
project lives of 16 and 9 years:
% of Original Estimates             16 Years          9 Years
Costs       Benefits           Rate of Return %  Rate of Return %
100           100                   30                 22
110           100                   22                 12
100            90                   19                 11
A year's delay in the accrual of benefits without a commensurate
delay in project expenditures would reduce the rate of return over 16 years
from 30% to about 18%. This is unlikely to occur since it would be brought
about only by a total crop failure in the first year. The sensitivity
analysis shows that the project's economic return would be reduced 11% by a
10% decrease in benefits, the most probable unfavorable result. When in-
cremental family labor is charged at D1.4/man-day, the official wage for
unskilled labor, the rate of return is 13%.
June 22, 1972



THE GAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELO?5E14T PROJECT
NICE COMPOMEOJT - ECONIOMIC RATE OF RETU3II
(Dalasies '000)
Year1          2          3         4          5         6          7          8         9          10          11          12         13          14          15          16
APPiLICA)T'3.:S
Orm Farm Costs
Developrment                128.3     1128.3       28.3        _         _          -      126.0      126.0     126.0
Fec-rrel t           60.0      197.0     334.o    41:.0       411.0      411.0     411.0      411.0      411.0      411.0       411.0       411.0       411.0      411.0       2'74.0      137.0
Subtotal                 188.3      325.3     462.3    41i.0       411.0      411.0     537.0      537.0      537.0      411.0       411.0       41i.o       611.0      611.0       274.o       137.0
Project Adsministration
Equipmen .                   46. 5         -         -                                         -          -          -          __          _           _           _           _          _           _
BThildinLe'                 156.0          - o                 -          -          -         -          -          -          -           -           -           -           _          _           _
Serviees -                  242.2      242.2     240.6    240.6        60.o       60.0      60.0       60.0       60.o       60.0        60.0        60.0        60.0        60.0       40.0        20.0
S,b-otal                  664.7      242.2     240.6    240.6        60.o       60.0      60.0       60.0       60.o       60.0        60.0        60.0        60.0       60.0        40.0        20.0
:otal                     633.0      567.5      702.9    651.6      471.0      471.0     597.0      597.0      597.0      471.0       471.0       471.0       471.0       471.0      3146o       157.0
't cr n'eneces/                31.7      28.4       35.1      32.6       23.6      23.6       29.9       29.9      29.9        23.6        23.6        23.6       23.6        23.6        15.7         7.9
I.ce e-ent 1 r,, -        664.7      595.9     738.0    684.2       494.6      494.6     626.9      626.9      626.9      494.6       494.6       494.6       494.6       494.6       329.7      164.9
tines fal: i c, re .o. ei
o529.0   1,243.0   l,oL.7.O  2,142.0   2,142.0   2,142.0   2,142.0   2,142.0   2,142.0    2,142.0    2,142.0    2,142.0    2,142.o'  2,142.o    1,628.0                714.0
fr-s fa, incu-ie before
Ilo jt                    6o, 406.4.    81P.0   1,218.0  1,218.0   1,218.0  1,218.0    1,218.0   1,218.0   l,218.0       1,218.0    1,218.0    1,213.0    1,218.0    1,218.0          812.0      406.o
Incre.m.enta Income       123.0      431.0     739.0)    2-4.0      524.0        924.0              9224. 6     26.0          . 924.0             924.0       924.0       024.0       616.o       308..u
Tlet Incremental Income    (541.7)   (164.9)     1.0    239.8       429.4    429.4       297.1      297.1      297.1       429.4      429.4       429.4       429.4       429.4       286.3      143.1
Econromic rate  f ctur, 306
9' Include. contingencies for Agricultural Superintendents, see Annex 8, Table 2 footnote.
9' 56 pthysiral on all capital inputs.
Annez: 10, ellse 7, goo- f,- n i-eome = toctl zL-rces - loans.
/ Prr'e- 10, able 2 gives fanrr plan - anuroal income per fasily ia D406.
,-0x
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 






AOLACK  61K,E-ANE ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~UIE
[ -  t    t+' =-:: -   '  e                   >         <  L             :, i~~~ARICULTURAL DEVELO)PMENT PROJECT                                        k    .A M A L               3
-4-      0    \           _5 )          /              1\              /               l              t          -        UNGHUL                    \           - _               T(GUINEA G  L  -e f
t t / $ l \ t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E                                                                                        NEG, "A   \                      QdIVOR
,.;N!9  j-// \"C~ f  t    j \  /                                                   t _COAST !-GANA
N', /   . \,  s   X>ORD DU tP  4    /   Z  s  r H hAy5 X P  .                                                         Sow2 AfIart,o O'ren
~~ KEREWAr'  -4   -~~~~" '>~~ /   /MANSAY                            -~~~,                                             AWEL><&/ R  _
0,1 V DIAF-pAKOU1A 2 S 0 \ ,(S.AMB155ARAM y \< X <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~kAA 
GUNJUFf / | j~~~~~~~~~~~~I           A V R           F      A F E N U7P K OU RU   N GF 6DNA GNS
KARTiJNL;t~~~~~~~~~U "          ,                                                    ;~                                                                             . '  ?,   0
/ tt t; \ [ f C>- f<-- X l IIKE UNDARES 
UX  Su                         -                                                         =                                                           / J -.'/O-DARY ROADS oA-   A      .   m A9
APRIL 19t2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~12)30
49W 97'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K 






0   15 1£             T5!1S'                           IS10'         7                  ,6!,!                             Uvl '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1445  W3
THE GAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Area
t                    .- _<                                  '                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S   E   N   E   G   A  L  
13-45'                                                                                                                                        IP 45! -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l~4
.0                  / S A LO U  NIAMINA          -   JAR1ENG                 t              FJLAKUNDA .L.-A MARW-
f f    :               / B~~~~~~~~~~~ALAGO / Att       a    //  AAL    KUDANG    KUMU!NKUMK
; _t 7 JE SADI o;& =vN ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I A                                          W ^HNARFR< 
j iti i4ER+~4TO DAKAR                                        r                                           IMN-°AST\-'*FULJ>-'  
A ._ . . . . -   - - - ---DANKUNKU NIAMINA A                                                                 I
BA<NG31                                                                                                                                                                    --'_K
CENTRAL~~~~ EAS                                                                     \              B   ETA   /E N i   A  UL L             A w  \AMTI  f
_ 1    . 3   B A LI G D                                             .U                                                    N  O >\\r \t
V   ANIA                             JARRAYOIE  U                                                                    >i       \    I
i   R :   :                                              TECWNICAE  ASSISTANCE
5-3a °~~~~~~~~ PROJECt HEADQUARTER5 0:+    ( SAAs
A  TPROJECT AREA E;OUNDARY                                               >                    S<- /H            S
/   M A L R I T A N   A                a-IN              --315  - --- V|V SIONAL 8QOUNDARIES                                                                                          1'
c   (                                                             .......   DISTRICT BOUINDARIES                                         A               =
Vlde2                    _,                    b                     -i  r  -v-INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES           3                         l'ci: 
SENROAL  SPAt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s                                                               
11113 5    fI 9E AN D  E                      G                        R SL,  0  IPR O J   C L AS S  R O AD S : R:
GAMA      E=- tA     1                                                        SECOt  : u :0ND)ARY ROADS R   BOUNDARY
-v~~~~~~~~ '                                                        TRACK 1,4 -_ /        tVsNLAlos7t dl,aS hwsldlsdt1                                         0           2j3     N
P=        A U R J   T A N       t A                            -     DIVSISONAL CPOLSr                                                                                                   13ile
°r Zr (<                                                         -    . C (  - '  BRI DGE S  |
E     N    EVtBR          C OAST A    tS'                      1Ftt                                                  14C4A                            140A'
A PRIL   19372                                                                                                                                                                                 1  39
DIVISONAL CAPITOLS                                        210          1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lR 30



