CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 333 GM
Development Credit
Agreement
(Agricultural Development Project)
BETWEEN
THE REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED SEPTEMBER 29, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 333 GM
Development Credit
Agreement
(Agricultural Development Project)
BETWEEN
THE REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED SEPTEMBER 29, 1972


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 29, 1972, between THE REPUBLIC OF
THE GAMBIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Development Credit Agreement, unless
the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions
have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
(a)   "Project Area" means an area adjacent to the Gambia River or its
tributaries, above flood level and within the MacCarthy Island Division.
(b)   "GPMB" means the Gambia Produce Marketing Board; and
(c)   "PMU" means the Project Management Unit referred to in Section
3.01(b) of this Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in this Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to,
an amount in various currencies equivalent to one million three hundred thousand
dollars ($1,300,000).


﻿4
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Development
Credit Agreement, as such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for
exper -tures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Development Credit Agreement and to be financed under
this Development Credit Agreement, provided, however, that, except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of
expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank
(other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such
territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all irrigation
pumps, vehicles and equipment required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured on the basis of international
competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank in April 1972, and
in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Development Credit Agreement. All goods and services relating to on-farm
development (other than irrigation pumps) required for the Project shall be procured
on a competitive basis under such procedures and in accordance with such terms
and conditions as the Association shall approve. All goods and services relating
to civil wlorks required for the Project shall be procured through normal
governmental or commercial channels.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1976 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on January I
and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each January 1 and July 1 commencing
January 1, 1983 and ending July 1, 2022, each installment to and including the
installment payable on July 1, 1992 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and one-half
per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.


﻿5
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with sound agricultural, engineering, administrative
and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purpose of carrying out the Project,
establish and maintain a Project Management Unit (PMU) with such responsibilities,
powers and staff as are specified in Schedule 4 to this Development Credit
Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by further
agreement between the Borrower and the Association.
(c)   Without limitation upon its obligations under paragraph (a) of this
Section, the Borrower shall provide PMU on a quarterly basis funds of such amounts
as shall be necessary for the adequate and timely carrying out of its functions
hereunder during the three months next following each such provision of funds.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of Part
B of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants acceptable to the
Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and


﻿6
work and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to inspect
the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action
as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in
respect of land as shall be required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the
Association that such land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes
related to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the PMU and the cooperatives
participating in the Project to maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices their respective operations
and financial condition.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause the PMU and the cooperatives participating
in the Project to: (i) have their accounts and financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by,
respectively, the Borrower's Office of the Auditor General and by an auditor
assigned to the Project by the Department of Cooperation of the Borrower's
Ministry of Agriculture, or, alternatively, by independent auditors acceptable to
the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any
case not later than four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of their financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report
of such audits by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association


﻿7
shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of the PMU and the
cooperatives participating in the Project and the audit thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall, and shall cause the cooperatives
participating in the Project to, take out and maintain with responsible insurers,
or to make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against
such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with sound practice.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such measures
as shall be necessary to ensure that the fertilizer supplied to the cooperatives
participating in the Project shall be sold to such cooperatives at a price at least
sufficient to cover the purchase of such fertilizer and the cost of its handling and
delivery to the Project Area; such price to be free from, and not associated with,
any subsidy, rebate, discount or reimbursement allowance which might directly
or indirectly lower such price below the level required to cover the abovementioned
costs.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause the cooperatives participating in the
Project at all times to operate, renew, repair and maintain all irrigation works and
equipment, drainage works and associated facilities financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit in accordance with sound agricultural and technical practices.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views thrcugh their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition of the PMU and
the cooperatives participating in the Project and, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part
of the Project, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and


﻿8
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and ecoiomic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations and financial condition of the PMU and
the cooperatives participating in the Project and, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part
of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them of its obligations under this
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. This Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.


﻿9
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at
any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option,
may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding
to be due and payable immediately together with the service charges thereon and
upon any such declaration such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the Development Credit
Agreement notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of this Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the project manager of the PMU and his deputy shall have been
appointed in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Development Credit Agreement; and
(b)   the terms of a standard loan agreement between the PMU and the
cooperatives participating in the Project referred to in Schedule 5 to
this Development Credit Agreement shall have been agreed between
the Borrower and the Association.
Section 8.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the
meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the standard
loan agreements referred to in Section 8.01(b) of this Development Credit
Agreement shall constitute, when executed and delivered by the parties thereto,
valid and binding obligations of such parties in accordance with their terms.
Section  8.03.  The   date   of  December    29,   1972   is  hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section 3.01(a) and
under Article IV of this Development Credit Agreement shall cease and determine


﻿10
on the date on which this Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on
a date twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Minister of Finance
The Quadrangle
Bathurst
The Republic of The Gambia
Cable address:
MINFIN
The Republic of The Gambia
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Development Credit


﻿11
Agreement to be signed in their respective names and to be delivered in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
THE REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
By /s / S. M. Dibba
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Simon Aldewereld
Vice President


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated              % of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
I.         Civil Works               145,000           93% of total ex-
penditures
II.        Irrigation                117,000            100% of foreign
Pumps for Co-                               expenditures
operatives
III.       Loans to Co-              194,000           90% of total ex-
operatives for                              penditures
on-farm devel-
opment (other
than Irrigation
Pumps)
IV.        Vehicles and               44,000            100% of foreign
Equipment for                               expenditures
PMU
V.    (i)  Staff Salaries            299,000      (    93% of total ex-
and Allowances                         (    penditures
(ii)  Training                   87,000     (
VI.        Consultants'              124,000            100% of foreign
Services                                    expenditures
VII.       Unallocated               290,000
TOTAL         1,300,000


﻿13
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower; and
(b)   the term   "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign
expenditures and of expenditures for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
the territories of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Development Credit Agreement;
and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed directly under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount
represented by the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph
I above in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all
such taxes, such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the
Credit will be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association  shall have reasonably   determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set


﻿14
forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Development Credit Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
and the Association may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other
right, power or remedy of the Association under this Development Credit
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in
the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Credit.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category I, III
or V shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation
to such Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
A.    Rice Cultivation
The development, cultivation and harvesting of about 3,000 acres of land
in the Project Area for double-cropping rice cultivation under pump irrigation,
including, inter alia:
1.    Recruitment and selection of about 3,000 farmers and their families
to participate in the Project.
2.    The organization    of such   participating farmers into   about 150
cooperatives.
3.    The granting to each such cooperative, by the village and local
administrative authorities, of 20-year leases over a plot of about 20
acres.
4.    The granting to each such cooperative, by the Borrower, of credit for
the acquisition, repair or replacement of irrigation equipment, final
levelling, first plowing, seed and fertilizer for the first crop and such
other additional imputs as may be agreed from time to time between
the Borrower and the Association, under such terms and conditions
as are set forth in Schedule 5 to this Development Credit Agreement.
5.    The provision to each such cooperative of agricultural extension
services and the organization and carrying out of marketing services
for the cooperatives and overseas and in-service training of additional
extension staff.
6.    The construction    of about 16 houses for field extension staff,
enlargement of office facilities and acquisition of vehicles and survey
and office equipment.
B.    Preparation of an Integrated Agricultural Development Project
The carrying out, in the MacCarthy Island Division of the Borrower, of
feasibility studies and research including, but without limitation:


﻿16
1.    Identification of areas suitable for swamp rice cultivation.
2.    Ground survey of selected swamps.
3.    Design of flood control works and preparation of cost estimates
therefor.
4.    Carrying out of flood control works in one or two swamps, to test
such works in practice, if so justified by the work done under Part
B.3.
5.    Improvement of agricultural experimental facilities at Sapu and
carrying out research satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association,
for rainfed crops, swamp rice and alternative crops for cultivation under
irrigation.
6.    Determination of the economic justification of, and preparation of
designs and cost estimates for, a feeder road system.
C.    Training
The overseas training of approximately 30 suitably qualified candidates,
selected by the Director of Agriculture, Ministry of Agriculture and Natural
Resources, under two-year certificate or diploma courses in general agriculture to
be provided by appropriate educational institutions acceptable to the Borrower
and the Association.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1975.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
With respect to any contract for the supply and delivery of irrigation pumps
and vehicles and equipment:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the recommendations for award
of the said consultants, and the reasons for the intended award. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Development Credit
Agreement, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit A ount
in respect of any such contract.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 4
The Project Management Unit
1.    The PMU shall be established within the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture
and shall have direct responsibility for the execution of the Project. Without
limitation, the PMU shall:
(a)   organize and supervise the execution of the Project;
(b)   coordinate the services required from all ministries and departments
of the Borrower for the carrying out of the Project;
(c)   supervise the provision of extension services within the Project Area
and manage the Project cooperatives; and
(d)   act as the Borrower's agent for the granting of credit to cooperatives
participating in the Project, in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to
this Development Credit Agreement.
2.    The PMU shall consist of:
(a)   a full-time project manager, whose qualifications and experience in
agricultural field work and planning are acceptable to the Borrower and the
Association, who shall have his headquarters at Bathurst and whose terms of
reference and conditions of service shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Association;
(b)   a full-time Gambian deputy project manager, whose qualifications and
experience in the field of agriculture are acceptable to the Borrower and the
Association, who shall have his headquarters at Sapu, shall be responsible for the
daily execution of the Project and whose terms of reference and conditions of
service shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association;
(c)   an agronomist whose qualifications and experience are acceptable to
the Borrower and the Association who shall undertake an agricultural research
program in respect of Part B.5 of the Project satisfactory to the Borrower and
the Association.
(d)   a senior accountant and an experienced cooperative inspector and
auditor, both attached to the PMU's headquarters at Sapu;


﻿19
(e)   ten supervisors for rice irrigation works to be obtained by the Borrower
under (i) the current technical assistance program between the Borrower and the
Republic of China or (ii) alternative sources, acceptable to the Borrower and the
Association, whose staff salaries and allowances shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit in the latter instance only;
(f)   ten agricultural assistants, about fifty rice demonstrators and two
levellers supervised by a qualified surveyor;
(g)   a committee composed of the manager of the GPMB and the permanent
secretaries of such ministries of the Borrower as shall be agreed between the
Borrower and the Association, under the chairmanship of the Development
Secretary of the Borrower, to advise the project manager concerning project
implementation; and
(h)   a committee composed of such divisional government officers and
representatives of local farmers, under the chairmanship of the Commissioner of
the MacCarthy Island Division of the Borrower, to advise the deputy project
manager concerning project implementation.
3.    The persons and committees referred to in sub-paragraph (c) through (h)
of paragraph 2 of this Schedule shall be appointed at such times as shall be required
for the efficient implementation of the Project.


﻿20
SCHEDULE 5
Lending Policies and Procedures for
Cooperatives Participating in the Project
Unless otherwise agreed from time to time between the Borrower and the
Association, loans to cooperatives participating in the Project shall be granted under
the following terms and conditions:
A.    Eligibility
Each cooperative shall be eligible to receive loans under Part A.4 of the
Project provided it:
1.    has been duly organized, registered and authorized to do business, for
the main purpose of cultivating rice in the Project Area, in accordance
with the Cooperative Societies Act and all applicable regulations of
the Department of Cooperation of the Ministry of Agriculture and
Natural Resources of the Borrower;
2.    has at least twenty members;
3.    has been granted a lease as described under Part A.3 of the Project
and has caused such lease to be properly executed in writing, registered,
and in all other material respects in accordance with the applicable
laws and regulations of the Borrower; and
4.    has undertaken with the PMU that it shall (i) employ, and pay for,
beginning with the second year of participation in the Project, an
agricultural demonstrator, selected by the PMU for the purpose, who
shall, inter alia, act as the cooperative's secretary; (ii) set up and
maintain its accounts as directed by the Department of Cooperation
of the Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources of the Borrower;
and (iii) submit such accounts to an annual audit by an auditor
designated by such Department.
B.    Loans
Loans, in such amount as shall be consistent with Part A.4 of the Project,
shall be made by the PMU, acting as agent for the Borrower, under a standard
loan agreement which shall include adequate provisions for:


﻿21
1.   disbursements and repayment in kind as provided in paragraphs C. 1
and C.3 of this Schedule;
2.    repayment within six years, including one year of grace;
3.    interest at the rate of ten per cent (10%) per annum on the balance
of the loan outstanding from time to time;
4.    good husbandry undertakings on the part of the cooperative;
5.    adequate rights for the suspension of disbursements, the acceleration
of maturity and the foreclosure or other enforcement of security, in
favor of the PMU; and
6.    such other terms and conditions as shall be agreed from time to time
between the Borrower and the Association.
C.   Disbursements and Repayments
1.   The PMU shall organize the procurement of the goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit on-lent to cooperatives, shall deliver
to each cooperative such goods in such quantities and at such times
as shall be required to carry out the Project and shall charge to the
loan account of each cooperative the goods so delivered.
2.    Each cooperative shall sell its entire rice crop (excluding subsistence
requirements of members of the cooperative and their families) to
GPMB and GPMB shall undertake to market such crops.
3.    Each cooperative shall authorize GPMB to withhold, for PMU's
account, from any amounts payable by GPMB to such cooperative
pursuant to paragraph C.2 above, such part thereof as shall be
established by PMU as amortization of the principal of, and interest
on, loans made by PMU to such cooperative, such withholding not
to exceed forty per cent (40%) of any amounts so payable to such
cooperative.
4.    PMU shall furnish semi-annual statements to each cooperative showing
the amounts drawn on the cooperative's loan account, including
interest, payments made on its behalf and the outstanding balance of
the loan. PMU shall keep adequate invoices and receipts for goods


﻿delivered to each cooperative to support the charges made to such
cooperative's loan  account and available for such cooperative's
inspection.
D.    Loan Aldminiistration and Superrisvion
1.    PMU shall ensure that amounts drawn on cooperatives' loan accounts
are applied exclusively to Cxpenditures on Part A of the Project.
2.    PMUJ's staff shall visit the cooper.itives' land regularly, to ensure that
the cooperatives are complying with the terms of their loan agreements.
3.    PMUL shall promptly and reasonably exercise its powers. right, and
remedies under the loan agreements with the cooperatives.
4.    PMU and the Department of Cooperation of the Ministry of Agriculture
and Natural Resources of the Borrower shall satisfy themselves that
the rights and obligations of the cooperatives are clCarlV dIrawn to their
attention.


