Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 25261
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(PPFI-Q2430; IDA-35510)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$50 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FOR A
FOURTH STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENf CREDIT
(Credit 3551-0 GUI)
December 27, 2002
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 18, 2002)
Curncy Unit -    Guinet franc (GNF)
0.0005 = US$ 1.00
US$ 1.00     GNF1971
FISCAL YEAR
January I-December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL            Adaptable Program Lcnding
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CBSDP          Capacity Building for Service Dehvery Program
CFAA           Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CFU            Real Estate Tax (Contrbution Fonciere Unique)
CNLC           National Anti-Corruption Committee (Comit6 Nationale de Lutte
contre la Corruption)
CPAR           Country Procurement Asscssment Report
CPI            Consume: Pnce Index
CPFA           Country Profile of Financial Accountability
CRDs           Corinmunauts rurles de developpeement (Rural development cornmunities)
CTS            Coritd techiiuque de suivi (Techmcal Implementation Comminttee)
DEC            Development Economics Group (of the World Bank)
DNB            Direction nationale du Budget (Directorate of the Budget, MEF)
DNCF           Direction rationale du Contr6lejnaisncler
(Directorate of Financial ControL MEF)
DNMP           Direction nratonale des Marches publics (Procurement Directorate, MEF)
DNP            Direcaion rationale du Portefeuille
DNT           Direction rationale du Ttesor (Directorate of Treasury Operations, MEF)
ECOMOG         ECOWAS peacekeeping wing
ECOWAS         Economic Community of West African States
ESW            Economic and sector work
FINEX          Fmnancer,ent Ext&neur
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
HIPC           Heavily Indebted Poor Countres
IDF            Institutional Development Fund (of the World Bank Group)
IFC            Intenationrl Finance Coiporation
IGE            Inspection genirale d'itat (Government inspection/auditing agency)
IGF            Inspection geinirale des Finances (Inspection/Auditing Directorate of MEF)
IMDL           Head Tax (Impot P4iminurm du D&ielppement Rural)
IPRSP          Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
M&E            Monitonrg and Evaluation
MEF            Ministry of Economy and Finance
MTEF           Medium-teTm Expenditure Framework
NGO            Non-governmental Organization
NPV            Net Present Value
OED            Operations Evaluation Departnent
PEMAC          Public Expenditure Management Adjustment Credit
PEIR           Public Expenditure and Institutional Review
PEs            Public Enterprises
PFP            Policy Frmewow Papr
PPF            Project Frepration Facility
PREM           Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Network of the World Banrd
PRGF           Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PRSP          Poverty Reduction Support Strategy Paper
PRSC           Poveaty Reduction Support Credit
SAC rV        Fourth Strictural Adjustmen't Credit
TPU            Tax on Liberal Profesioins (Taxetion professio,anc unique)
QAG            Qwlity Assurance Gzoup
VCSP           Village Community Support Program
Vice President:   Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director^   1amadou Dia
Sector Manager.    Emmanuel Akpa
Task Team Leader:     Ezzeddine Larbi



GUINEA
FOURTH STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                    1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                             12
6. Sustainability                                                                 12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                  13
8. Lessons Learned                                                                15
9. Partner Comments                                                               16
10. Additional Information                                                        16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                              17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                              23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                              24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                              25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components              26
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                 27
Annex 7 List of Supporting Documents                                              28
Annex 8: Borrower Contribution                                                    29






Project ID: P065128                                       Project Name: SAC IV
Team Leader: Ezzeddine Larbi                             I TL Unit: AFTP4
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: December 27, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: SAC IV                                        LIC/TFNumber: PPFI-Q2430;
IDA-35510
Country/Department: GUINEA                                              Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector. Central government administration (20%);
Sub-national government administration (80%).
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   10/13/1999                             Effective: 07/01/2001         08/09/2001
Appraisal:  04/26/2001                               MTR:
Approval:  07/24/2001                              Closing: 06/30/2003         06/30/2001
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: The Republic of Guinea/Ministry of Economy and Finance
Other Partners: N/A
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto E. Madavo                        Callisto E. Madavo
Country Manager:     Mamadou Dia                               Mamadou Dia
Sector Manager:      Emmanuel Akpa                             Emmanuel Akpa
Team Leader at ICR:  Ezzeddine Larbi                           Brian Ngo
ICR Primary Author:  Kevin Lumbila; Michael Wilson;
Ezzeddine Larbi
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H-High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Per.formance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry: S                      S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Background. In the period of 1999-2000 Guinea was adversely affected by external shocks, including
negative terms of trade, repeated incursions of rebel forces from both Sierra Leone and Liberia, and a



substantial inflow of refugees. As a result, Guinea experienced slippages in its macroeconomic framework
in 1999 and early 2000. Given limited budgetary resources and no external budgetary assistance for over
two years, the external shocks put a temporary halt on economic and social policy reforns, particularly
those supported by IMF's Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF). However, by September 2000,
the authorities brought the PRGF programn back on track, met most of the country's external debt service
obligations, and implemented a catch-up program of expenditures for priority sectors (through temporary
borrowings from the Central Bank). On the social front, Guinea has made significant progress, particularly
in education where it has almost doubled the gross primary enrollment rate (from 29 percent in 1990 to 56
percent in 1999). During the same period, the Government implemented a comprehensive set of institutional
and policy reforns in support of poverty reduction. Government's long-term goal is to reduce the incidence
of poverty from its estimated level of 40.3 percent in 1995 to 30 percent by 2010. The poverty reduction
strategy is based on three main pillars: (i) sustained faster economic growth and creation of income-earning
and employment opportunities, particularly for the rural poor; (ii) improved and extended access to basic
services; and (iii) improved govemance and strengthened institutional and human capacity. The Bank
decided to assist Guinea's reform agenda through a fourth structural adjustment credit (SAC IV) with a
view to helping the country consolidate the results it has already achieved and to preparing the ground for
longer-term reforns.
SAC IV was designed to carry forward the poverty reduction policies as laid out in the Country Assistance
Strategy (1998-2000) by making more resources available on a timely basis to the balance of payments,
with the counterpart proceeds going to health, education, justice, rural development, road maintenance and
social affairs (the priority sectors) and by promoting more efficient delivery of quality service to the
decentralized level. SAC IV responded to an identified financing gap which, if not met, would have likely
led to a compression of expenditures, with a negative effect on non-wage resources available at the
decentralized level for the implementation of basic services. At a time when the center was beginning for
the first time to respond to the needs expressed at the grassroots such a failure could have destroyed
carefully built trust and made the extensive consultative process seem cosrnetic. Enhanced service delivery
was recognized as a priority structural reform by the CAS, together with improved public expenditure
management and the need for a more proactive program to privauze or re-structure the large and inefficient
public enterprise sector.
Objectives. SAC IV was designed to support the three pillars of Guinea's poverty reduction strategy,
covering reforns that would improve public services, strengthen governance and, as a result, enhance the
environment for investment and growth. SAC IV focused on public sector management reforns, with the
objective of: (i) enhancing accountability and efficiency in the use of public resources through improved
public expenditure analysis and management; (ii) promoting effectiveness in the Government through
decentralization of decision making and service delivery; and (iii) improving public sector management and
the environment for private sector-led growth through divestiture.
Design and justification for a single-tranche release. The choice of an adjustrnent operation to address
ongoing public expenditure management and decentralization issues, launched under SAC IH Public
Expenditure Management Adjustment Credit (PEMAC) was appropriate, given the strong institutional
commitment of the government and the strong public pressure to giving momentum to the reforms. The
adjustment credit focused on public sector reform aimed at strengthening Guinea's ability to implement its
poverty strategy at both national and decentralized levels. SAC IV builds on the PEMAC's introduction of
budgetary reforrns, in particular the channeling of resources to priority sectors at the sub-national levels,
and is complemented by the Village Community Support Program (VCSP) in terms of local management of
resources and empowerment of local leaders and by the Capacity Building for Service Delivery Program
(CBSP) which provides capacity to local governments and communities, aimed at improving the quality of
-2-



basic services for the poor. The decision to opt for a single tranche was based on Government strong
commitment shown by the actions taken prior to the approval of the Credit, as well as the need to remove
uncertainty about financing. Despite the absence of any external financing for a two year period, leading to
an accumulated financing gap of $US118 million, Government had kept the economy on track and
maintained the flow of resources to the priority sectors. With regard to the public enterprises (PEs), the
thrust of the SAC IV was the establishment of an enabling institutional, legal and regulatory framework to
underpin Government's PE strategy. Government's disengagement from eight enterprises was included as a
SAC IV measure because the enterprises had been already evaluated and awaited only a presidential decree
to implement their liquidation/privatization, sending an appropriate signal to potential investors.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Objectives were not revised.
3.3 Orginal Components:
The SAC IV lent its support to Guinea's poverty reduction strategy. To bring about pro-poor growth, the
Government of Guinea has pursued a three-pronged strategy based on: (i) improving public expenditure
management; (ii) promoting effective and accountable governance through decentralization of basic
services, identified as priorities through extensive grass roots consultation; and (iii) creating incentives for
investment and economic growth through privatization. SAC IV supported Guinea's strategy through the
following components: (a) accountability and efficiency in the use of public resources through
strengthening of public expenditure management; (b) accountability and effectiveness in government
through decentralization of budget resources, decision making, and improved service delivery; and (c) an
improved public sector management and environment for private sector-led growth through divestiture.
3.3.a More accountable and efficient use of public resources through strengthening of public
expenditure management.
This component of SAC IV covered public expenditure management including: (i) budget formulation; (ii)
budget execution; and (iii) public expenditure auditing, monitoring, and reporting. The aim of this
component was to enhance effectiveness, efficiency, transparency and accountability in the use of public
resources.
(i) Budget Formulation.  To address weaknesses in budget formulation, the Govermnent adopted a
multi-year reform process. The key elements of the reform included: (a) adopting a medium-term approach
to budget formulation; (b) providing line ministries with three-year, indicative ceilings linked to annual
budgets; (c) working with stakeholders, to carry out public expenditure and institutional reviews for key
sectors, to help set priorities; and (d) engaging the donors in building a coherent policy framework and
investment program, with greater attention to the recurrent budget implications of externally financed
projects.
The medium-term frameworkfor the FY02 budget. The Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) issued
a budget circular, with multi-year financing thresholds to priority ministries and agencies. Ministries were
requested to prepare a two-year budget, starting in 2002. Special emphasis was placed on linking sector
strategies to program objectives and budget allocations. Consequently, all ministries and departments were
asked to review their sector strategies, program objectives, policy frameworks and spending priorities, as a
preliminary to preparation of the 2002 budget. To improve budget preparation in the two priority sectors of
education and health, key staff were trained in the organization and implementation of institutional and
- 3-



expenditure reviews. Specific SAC IV goals were to: (i) increase the non-wage recurrent expenditures
allocated to priority sectors from the current level of 35 percent of the total; (ii) enforce sector budget
ceilings through careful monitoring of commitments; (iii) complete institutional and public expenditure
reviews for education and health, and adopt the strategy-based program budgets required by the MTEF.
(ii) Budget Execution. The Government identified the following key measures for improving budget
implementation: (a) quarterly cabinet-level reviews of budget execution, with dissemination of key findings
to the National Assembly, the general public via the media, and to donor representatives; (b) reduction of
delays in commitments, authorizations and payments through the timely availability of information
generated by the public expenditure management system (developed with assistance from the EU),
pernitting the monitoring of budget implementation with regard to allocations and spending plans; (c)
ex-post audits of investment projects, to assess outcomes and budgetary impact, notably with regard to
recurrent costs; (d) ex-post audits of all procurement contracts exceeding GNF150 million to assess their
conformity with procedures and to verify the quantity and quality of the goods and services provided and
the overall perfornance of the contractor; (e) adoption and application of sanctions designed to discourage
illegal practices, by both contractors and public officials; and (f) proper application of tender procedures to
ensure that only technically and financially qualified suppliers and contractors participate.
(iii) Public Expenditure Auditing and Monitoring. To strengthen auditing and monitoring capacity, the
Government pursued three key areas of reform: (a) the production and dissemination of audited budget
accounts on a timely basis; (b) reassessment of the roles of various oversight agencies such as the Chambre
des Comptes; and (c) capacity building. The Government audited its budget accounts for FY98 and FY99.
Additionally, the following SAC IV measures were agreed: (a) audited accounts for FY00 were to be
submitted to the National Assembly together with the budget proposal for FY02, citizens' guide on the
FY02 budget; and (b) the results of FY00 audited accounts were to be made available to the public.
3.3.b More accountable and effective Government through decentralization of budget resources,
decision making, and service delivery
Government has implemented a decentralization policy comprising important budget reforms. A
comprehensive set of measures was launched in FYOI aimed at: (i) enhancing the role of decentralized
structures in priority sectors by increasing their budgetary allocations and removing arbitrary practices of
budget execution observed in the past; (ii) promoting transparency by making budgetary allocations
directly to schools and health clinics; (iii) initiating tracking of expenditures in priority sectors to assess the
efficiency of budget execution; and (iv) strengthening budget management at the local level. In addition,
Govemrnment allowed communities to retain a significantly larger share of locally raised taxes which had
previously been transferred to the regional or perfectoral authorities.
SAC IV supported the following measures: (a) increasing the share of non-wage recurrent budget resources
allocated to lower tiers of government to at least 80 percent of the total for priority sectors; (b) making
allocations directly to schools and health clinics in Conakry and the administrative region of Kindia which
covers five prefectures; and (c) increasing the resource base of local government through fiscal transfers
and local revenue mobilization. In 2000/01, Government sharply increased the rural development
communities' (CRDs) shares of these taxes. For the head tax (IMDL), this share jumped from 50 to 75
percent; for the real estate tax, from 22 to 68 percent; and for the tax on liberal professions (TPU), from 14
to 68 percent. Allowing the CRDs to keep a greater share of taxes at the local level works to improve tax
collection and at the same time promotes greater citizen participation in the allocation and management of
local tax revenues, in the evaluation of the quality of locally provided public services and in setting
priorities through participation.
-4 -



3.3.c Improved public sector management and environment for private sector led growth through
divestiture program
The divestiture program supported by SAC IV was based on a comprehensive PE strategy, accompanied
by support for developing an institutional, legal and regulatory framework, which would inspire investor
confidence. SAC IV measures consisted of: (i) adoption of a comprehensive reform strategy for the public
enterprise (PE) sector, (ii) adoption of a program to mitigate the social cost of divestiture and liquidation,
together with a communications strategy; (iii) promulgation of a new privatization law; (iv) creation of a
privatization unit with the required expertise and reporting mechanisms, to implement the privatization
process; (v) liquidation/privatization of eight insolvent public enterprises; and (vi) updating of cross-debts
and adoption of measures to settle these arrears and prevent their recurrence.
3.4 Revised Components:
Components were not revised.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry is rated satisfactory. SAC IV's objectives and components are fully consistent with the
government's public sector reform. Although focused on public sector reform, this operation was designed
as a first of a sequence of reforms preparing the foundation for broad based private sector-led economic
growth. The program was also consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for Guinea for the
1998-2000, which addresses largely the same strategic objectives, namely: (a) the promotion of a
broad-based, private sector-led, and equitable growth with an emphasis on the rural sector; (b) a
decentralized public service delivery; and (c) an improved governance and institutional capacity. Quality
Enhancement Review (QER) carried out in March, 2001 found the objectives and content of the operation
to be consistent with the VCSP and the CBSDP, which seek to improve the quality of basic services and to
promote capacity building improvement at the local level, as well as with the previous adjustment
operation, the PEMAC which sought to channel more resources to priority sectors at the sub-national level.
In addition, the program complemented the economic and financial programs supported by the IM's
Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility. However, it is worth noting that some objectives of this operation
such as strengthening the budget management system and the privatization process require longer time
horizon, while SAC IV was designed to prepare the ground for long-term reforms, its time fiame' (less than
one year) was inadequate for the implementation of structural reforns.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
SAC IV has contributed to macroeconomic stability and structural reforms: Output grew consecutively
from 2.1 percent in 2000 to 4.2 percent in 2002. Inflation was kept in check. Average CPI was almost
reduced by half from 6.8 percent in 2000 to an estimated 3.6 percent in 2002. The overall fiscal balance is
expected to improve in 2002, after a slight deterioration in 2001. However, the external current account
deficit is expected to deteriorate, despite significant improvement in 2001 (Table 1).
The time frame was even shorter as the credit was disbursed only in August 2001 and closed on June 30, 2002.
-5-



Table 1: Selected Economic and Financial Indicators, 2000-2004
___ _ __ _ 2000  2001   12002      1 2003    12004
I  Estimation  Projection I Projection
(Annual percentage changes)
Real GDP                       j.2.1 3.   4.2   X      93.2
CPI (average)           6.8     5.4       3.6         3.5       3.0
(1 n percent of G    DP)
Primary fiscal balance  4.9     0.7       2.1         1.2       2.0
Overall budget balance
Including grants        -3.2    -4.0      -2.5       -4.5       -4.7
Excluding grants        -5.6    -7.6      -6.4        -7.8      -7.9
External current account
balance (including grants)  -7.4  -3.7    -6.9       -9.1       -8.1
Source: IMF, Staff Report, May 28, 2002
Moreover, SAC IV has helped implement measures which prepare the way for reform in the medium to
long term. These include (a) strengthening budget formulation and execution; (b) support to the CNLC to
improve governance by fighting cormiption; and (c) direct budget transfers to sectors and clinics in Conakxy
and the Kindia Region, preparing the way for country wide extension; and (d) establishment of a legal and
regulatory framework to encourage the private sector to play a greater role in the economy. Through these
measures, SAC IV contributed to the foundations for long-term growth and poverty reduction.
Outcome/Achievement:
SAC IV has helped drive Guinea's reforms forward. With regard to the management of public expenditures
and governance, work on the MTEF moved ahead, with significant progress in allocating and monitoring
expenditures. The Credit helped improve budget execution in priority sectors by introducing monthly
monitoring of budget implementation by the Council of Ministries. The Government's 2001-2002
accelerated spending program of GNP 27.3 billion was 88 percent implemented by end-March 2002.
Government maintained this rhythm of expenditure and by end-October 2002, implementation attained 61
percent versus 53 percent for the entire twelve months of 2001. The campaign against coruption became
operational, resulting in public prosecutions (November 2002). The improvements in the management of
public expenditures set the scene for increased transfer of resources to the sub-national level, with a view to
improving basic services, in response to priorities identified by local populations through extensive
consultation. This process, once initiated, has created strong public pressure for effective follow through by
regional and local authorities. Increasingly, communities know the budgets they have been allocated,
particularly for education and health, and they are quick to react to delays or errors in purchasing. With
regard to the public enterprises, SAC IV focused on establishing an appropriate institutional, legal, and
regulatory framework, including the Privatization Unit, and the liquidation/privatization of eight PEs
necessary for the pursuit of the agreed public enterprise reform strategy. However, the Government did not
formalize the decrees for disengagement from the eight enterprises. In retrospect, more might have been
achieved in PE reform. if funds to support the reform by providing advice and carrying out company
valuations had been included in the budget or made available through a parallel credit.
- 6-



4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.a More accountable and efficient use of public resources through the strengthening of public
expenditure management
SAC IV squarely addressed the two major obstacles to improved management of public expenditures: the
concentration of resources at the center and the lack of transparency in their management.
(i) Budget formulation. The sub-component is rated satisfactory. Building on the experience of PEMAC in
introducing program budgeting to the priority sectors within the MTEF, SAC IV encouraged the
development of sector strategies, developed mechanisms for the realistic projection and programming of
annual resource flows, and established arbitration procedures for budget allocation in periods of scarce
resources or uncertainty.
Budgets of the priority sectors have been prepared since FY02 using these MTEF building blocks.
Government now plans to expand the use of the MTEF approach to other sectors. The Guinean MTEF
however, presents some weaknesses. First, it is based on a fiscal framework subject to continuing
variations in government revenue, in large part due to changing termns of trade for bauxite and alumina.
Second, direct transfers by externally financed projects to decentralized services or to NGOs are not
recorded in the computer budget information system and can only be entered after the fact. This is a
delicate matter, given the differences in the donors' financial management practices, but it does leave
loopholes for the misuse of funds. In this regard, the newly created Directorate of Public Investment and
Debt is expected to help in the timely collection of data related to external financed projects through better
donor coordination. The planning and programming of investment has been put on a sounder footing, with
estimation of implied recurrent costs. While such an initiative may seem relatively straightforward, it is
worth noting that previous, technical assistance-led efforts financed by IDA (the establishment of a system
of "fiches de projet" 1991-92) failed to take root. Quantification of recurrent costs imposed bv investment
projects is important since there is the risk that resources are channeled away from recognized non-wage
priority expenditures such as school books and materials, medical supplies and vaccines. Finally, public
expenditure and institutional reviews in education and health are expected to improve budget preparation in
these sectors and their budgets have been planned for the medium-term framework.
(ii) Budget Execution: The sub-component is rated satisfactory. Budget execution has imnproved with the
introduction of the computer-based accounting and monitoring system, thanks to rapidity and simplification
in budgetary procedures brought by the system. Government is also providing training of financial
management personnel, aimed at helping them identify obstacles to efficient budget execution and to
monitor divergences between actual spending and original allocations. Government is extending the system
to cover budgetary implementation at the decentralized level. While an effective, user-friendly budget
management system, with simple procedures and timely reporting, has been successfully established, it
cannot compensate for a lack of funds due to overspending on unprogrammed expenditures. On several
occasions (FY99, FY2001), unprogranmmed expenditures for regional and domestic security have placed a
serious strain on government's financial resources, particularly since they have been entered into the system
ex post facto, obliging the Government to move currently re-allocate available resources. SAC IV has
helped protect the priority sectors by introducing monthly monitoring of budget execution by the Council of
Ministers based on timely reporting of commitments and expenditures by department heads, with special
attention to the priority sectors and to allocations to decentralized services and allocations to rural and
urban communes. As a result, the sudden shortages of funds which threatened to undermine priority sector
-7 -



allocations and, above all, service delivery at the grassroots, key to poverty reduction, have been corrected
through an accelerated spending plan for the priority sectors. Despite resource constraints, Government
made a particular effort to catch up with budget spending on priority sectors in 2001. At end-March 2002,
total actual spending for non-wage recurrent expenditures in the priority sectors reached GNF 23.7 billion,
as against the allocated amount of GNF 27.3 billion, a rate of execution of around 87 percent. In May 2002
the Government published the first quarterly reports on budget execution in the local media (SAC IV
measure) as a way of infonning the key government decisions in budget and public expenditure
management The dissemination of budget infonration at the prefectoral level has been extended to the
entire country and a "citizens' guide" to the budget has been published and distributed.
Table 2. Budget Execution in Priority Sectors (including catching up program in billion of GNF)
Budget years 2000, 2001 and 2002 (end-October 2002)
TId 3 (Opeations and Midntanance) and Tlte 4 (Transfers and  .bsibtes)
Cwey0a6 1V%                    o 260             '85 14 W  Or 0a84  a
.)  -     (Ut                       (C)             (C)
A    &2A       734,7"   5,40  313.71  -41    mo  .  t   m  II.M.30  11.   001  aaw  51%
nn1.4 ~   4(pe41 ,~0  34  0.    1  4*1   41t  4 4V%  34mWN  A1.   8  *. m
oai 3.1       01%       0%              1  201%      £844.77 .  gm1  4.23.01 43
r 50%     . v  r   13.  1  86% "Sf14   13.750. I  17  I_   13,4&*  28%
Ats a             0' 0k        1,    ( 51 ,5 7l  7.  4 .  _  _ %_   1.84a.54a  1.701  SOttW  1.3.4  e%
OTAL ~    ..' -* B' 57%  ..   411  1% * . 3  0% ,_ .7J 5  _ *,  (1.   1,33fi1491.31 # 1551  7384.  5
3001A _ 50. ao0a-o  ot5.d  w                               37 .,, ,8  , %t.1  87% ,
* Becaro, Ps soy  ctdo drarng from 2001
Budget 2002 inrcidng HIPC r rsoumes em Jenuary to Odober. 2002
(iii) Budget auditing and reporting. The sub-component is rated satisfactory. Significant improvements in
goverance were achieved.
Audits. An audit fund and related procedures were established, with a view to examining at least 15 % of
large contracts, with monitoring by the Direction Nationale des Marches Publics (DNMP). Agreement was
reached that the responsible private auditors would identify cases of misappropriation and fraud and then
follow up on the application of sanctions. An audit monitoring unit has been established, together with a
committee for examining a sample of contracts let without competition. (The audit fund is also a powerful
mechanism for deepening sector audits such as the 2000 audit of institutional expenditures in higher
education, given its independent mandate. In this sector, the rationalization and control of expenditures is
an indispensable prerequisite to granting greater institutional autonomy in the programniing and
management of resources.). In terms of procurement, responsibilities for tenders, bid evaluation, contracts
and supervision have been transferred to the regions (for contracts between GNF 100 and 300 million) and
to the prefectures (up to GNF 100 million) in support of the decentralization effort supported by the
Capacity Building for Service Delivery project (CBSD).
Corruption. A national anti-corruption committee has been established with Bank support. This committee
has developed an anti-corruption strategy and action plan, leading to the questioning of staff of departments
-8 -



concerned with revenue collection and to the recovery of misappropriated funds from major enterprises.
The first criminal prosecutions were launched in November 2002, with major press coverage. Most
importantly, the Governance and Corruption Survey has been implemented and its results should be
available at the same time as those of the public expenditure review. This fortuitous timing makes for
greater impact on the public and raises the possibility of useful "cross-referencing" between these activities,
particularly if the results of the Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) (also planned for
2003) are also forthcoming. To the extent possible, these exercises should be conducted in parallel in the
future, to maximize the obvious synergies. The anti-corruption initiative clearly strengthens the SAC IV
objective of enhanced governance and transparency in the management of public expenditure.
Financial controls. Progress has been achieved in the ex-post verification of budget expenditures. Because
of lack of capacity, the Directorate of Treasury Operations (DNT) had been unable to process the 80,000
or more invoices, bills and receipts ("pieces justificatives") generated annually by budget implementation,
with the result that in only one year of the last nine has a report reached the Chambre des Comnptes, with
subsequent approval of the "Loi de Rfglement' (Law certifying budget expenditures) by the National
Assembly, as required annually under Guinean law. Annual budgets are now to be audited not more than
six months after the close of the budget year, in harmony with the auditing of many externally financed
projects (FINEX), including IDA's. Measures are also underway to strengthen the government agencies
involved in budgetary oversight and accountability, including the state inspectorate (Inspection Generale de
l'Etat - President's Office), the finance inspectorate (Inspection Generale des Finances - MEF) and the
Chamber of Accounts (Chambre des Comptes - National Assembly).
The Chamber has made some progress. It is now preparing the certification of 2001 expenditures prior to
submission of its report to the National Assembly. However, there is a backlog of fiscal years and
processing them at this stage may add little value to governance. The Chamber, while motivated, is still not
fully staffed and lacks the competencies in economics and accounting required to conduct analysis of
annual expenditure (one important task is to produce a bi-annual report on the impact of public expenditure
on the economy). The Chamber also lacks the most basic equipment
The Supreme Court (of which the Chamber is an organ) had been promised a tripling of its budget in 2002
to remedy these problems. That has not yet been implemented despite the fact that justice is a priority
sector. This neglect reflects the lack of priority in past years given to the examination of public expenditure
and to its annual certification by the passage of the Loi de Reglement.
The finance commission of the National Assembly which is the recipient of the Chamber's certified report
also lacks the qualified technical staff and physical means that are required if it is to do more than "rubber
stamp" the reports. This last link in. the internal control of public expenditures is, it can be argued, the most
important in terms of democratic process, a process ahready enhanced by the ongoing effort to make
information about budget allocations and implementation freely available to the public. The CFAA (a rapid
CFAA was conducted in 2001) should develop an action plan for the institutional development of the
"corps de controle", seek to optimize their interactions, in particular how anomalies in the public accounts
are explored and, if necessary, brought to public attention and subjected to the judiciary process. In terms
of fiscal measures, SAC IV reduced revenue losses attributable to generous and uncontrolled tax
exemptions. In particular, the mining companies and projects had been able to import larger quantities of
goods and materials than required by their operations, opening up the possibility of untaxed re-sale on the
local market. These companies' practices of marking up the cost of materials used in production, with
subsequent lowering of royalties to government, was also curtailed.
Guinea is clearly making good progress in public finance management. Until very recently, external
-9-



auditing and monitoring was non-existent in Guinea. As in most other French-speaking countries, public
expenditure management relies heavily on ex-ante financial control, with commitments and payments
treated as separate functions. Ex-post controls are traditionally less comprehensive in these countries and
focus primarily on compliance with procedures. Therefore, auditing of budget accounts, with a focus on
whether public funds have been spent for the purposes for which they were designated, is relatively new to
Guinea In addition, auditing accounts requires a considerable amount of supporting documents. Prior to
the establishment of the computer-based system, there was no systematic basis for monitoring payments in
a timely fashion. These factors explain delays that were experienced in producing 1996 and 1997 draft
budget accounts, that were not certified by the Accounts Chamber and therefore not approved by the
National Assembly. Guinea is making a significant effort towards strengthening its auditing and monitoring
organs. Reports on the audited accounts for 1999 and 2000 budgets have been sent to Chamber of
Accounts for certification and are expected to be submitted to the National Assembly by end 2002.
4.2.b More accountable and efficient use of public resources through decentralization
The decentralization component is rated highly satisfactory. The Government has made significant and
steady progress in the area of budget decentralization by allocating an increased amount of public funds to
lower levels of govemment since FY01. Unlike in the past when most of the resources were held at the
central level, over 80 percent of the non-wage recurrent budget is now channeled to the sub-national level.
Budgets are also being transferred directly to schools and primary health centers in the regions of Kindia,
Mamou, Dabola, and Kankan. This direct transfer of resources to schools and health centers promotes
transparency and efficiency in the budgetary management system. It is expected that in the next two years
direct allocations to schools and health centers will expand to cover the entire country. Further efforts to
promote decentralized spending by local administrations (delegations de credits) and training for
administrators at the local level, is underway. Work is also underway to access MEF data bases which will
enable commitments and expenditures at the sub-national level to be captured and monitored by the
financial management system.
The decentralization process, along with community-driven development efforts to strengthen the capaciLy
of local communities through the VCSP and CBSP projects, is enhancing the performance of the public
sector and bringing service delivery closer to the people, combating corruption in the public sector, and
helping Guinea in its fight against poverty. Special attention should be given to evaluating the pilot
program of direct budget transfers to school and clinics. Recognizing that the pilot program could prove an
effective vehicle for channeling "fast track" resources to the community level, it is important to conduct an
early evaluation of the efficiency and impact of these transfers, with a view to refining systems, procedures
and financial controls. It is recommended that, the public expenditure review (covering education and
health sectors) be extended to include a preliminary field survey in selected regions which could guide a
more in-depth inquiry, with the goal of tracking actual expenditures by category on site, examining the
outcomes (increased spending per student for books or materials; increased per patient spending for basic
medication), assessing management procedures, financial controls, verification of quantities (for supplies
and materials) as well local ownership and involvement It will be important to involve the staff of the
village support and capacity building projects in this exercise. Failure could mean significant delays in
finding alternative ways to decentralize non-wage operating budgets.
-10-



4.2.c Creating conditions for economic growth through privatization
The privatization component is rated marginally satisfactory. As the Borrower's contribution to the ICR
(See Annex 8) notes, the minimum conditions for sustained growth are macroeconomic stability, basic
infrastructure (electricity, water and transport) and an institutional, legal and regulatory framework which
fosters private sector growth. This component had some success in the latter dimension, developing a
coherent strategy for the public enterprises and putting in place an improved legal and institutional
framework. In terms of disengagement however, the record has been meager. The eight public enterprises
(EGUIMAT, UNICO, DIVERMA, APILEC, OCR, ONACIG, SOGETRAG, and SAKOBA), have yet to
be liquidated or privatized, despite the fact that only lack of a legal decision prevents implementation. In
terms of the institutional, legal and regulatory framework, the achievements are:
(i)    The passage of the privatization law, based on a review of the legal and institutional framework of
both the public enterprises and the private sector. The new law replaces previous, incomplete
legislation which failed to describe the privatization process and how it should be initiated. The law
also addresses situations where the state is a shareholder along with the private sector ("societes
mixtes"), dealing with such issues as strategic interests and related powers the state (the "golden
share") might have in such an enterprise (energy utilities, airports, for example).
(ii)   The creation of a privatization unit, with sole responsibility for managing the privatization process
(previously, this responsibility was diluted, with interventions by the Direction Nationale du
Portefeuille (DNP) and the Agence de Controle des Grands Projets).
(iii)  Development of a plan for the re-training or re-employment of employees affected by privatization
and the creation of a social fund with criteria and procedures related to eligibility, compensation,
job counseling and training.
(iv)   Clarification of the role of the DNP. The DNP is charged with monitoring the technical and
operational perfornance of uie public enterprises, their production costs, market share and
potential, as well as their financial health. It is also to produce a complete inventory of cross-debt
between govenement and the public enterprises.
Initially, during preparation, some sixty enterprises were targeted for attention and classified as (a) inactive
and to be liquidated; (b) those to be sold or liquidated if no buyer; (c) to be privatized; and (d) public
enterprises whose services or whose assets and revenues (the Port of Conakry; the Compagnie des Bauxites
de Guinee - CBG) are of strategic interest to the state. The November 1999 identification mission also
proposed the introduction of a new approach to privatization based on experience in Bolivia in which the
state provides the physical assets while the private partner provides the capital. This approach, while
interesting, was premature, given country risk, investor reticence and the absence of a clear strategy for
public enterprises and privatization. Thus, the PE agenda was scaled back to focus on the establishment of
a coherent strategy and policy framework, with disengagement planned for or limited number of
components already valued and in the pipeline. In the medium-term, it is expected that the enabling
institutional, legal and regulatory framework established by SAC TV, will help Government speed up its
divestiture program by selling partly or totally its shares in the remaining public enterprises.
- 1 1 -



4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The most substantial institutional impact has been at the level of budget formulation and execution. SAC
IV has deepened and broadened the MTEF. The result is that the sector departments have recognized that,
if not necessarily in competition, access to budget resources depends on having a clear strategy,
monitorable objectives, and a multi-year program, with accountability for timely execution and quality of
service. Budget execution has been strengthened by the computer-based accounting and monitoring system
within the Ministry of Finance. Deepening these refonns through the transfer of resources to the regional,
prefectoral level and, on a trial basis, to service delivery sites (schools and health centers), with appropriate
financial and material verification, is still a work in progress, to be reviewed in the context of current and
planned public expenditure reviews, but it promises nothing less than the introduction of empowered local
government. Moreover, a new Investtnent and Public Debt Directorate was created in the MEF to
strengthen preparation of capital budget, hannonize and streamline procedures and responsibilities for
donor financed projects.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Unexpected defense spending, with significant deployment of the military to the frontiers, together with
continuing peace-making costs, threatened macroeconomic stability and curtailed spe iding in the priority
sectors. The presence of large numbers of refugees and cross border incursions, increasing domestic
insecurity, had a negative impact on the program in 2001.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Between identification and appraisal, work on the reform of the public enterprises barely advanced.
Progress could have been made in areas which did not require high level decisions, notably the accounting
of cross-debt and the development of a data base on the technical and operational perfornance of
enterprises, on their production costs, market share and potential.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The technical committee charged with managing the program was headed by the Secretary General of the
Ministry of Economy and Finance and comprised the heads of the ministry's key services, together with
representatives of the priority sectors. It has worked well, ensuring good cross departmental
communication, essential to the success of the program. The technical committee could have done more to
move along key tasks relative to the public enterprises.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Not applicable
- 12 -



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor stistainability rating:
The reforms supported by SAC IV are likely to be sustainable for the following reasons. The MTEF has
now been strengthened in priority sectors, with concomitant, regular updating of sector strategies and
formulation of program budgets, together with strong mechanisms for following budget execution
supported by the computer-based monitoring and accounting system, with the ability to arbitrate between
sectors when corrections are necessary. Moreover, priorities between and within sectors are grounded in
extensive consultation at the grassroots and the related surveys and consultative mechanisms have become
a permanent part of the "tableau de bord". Most importantly, commitments and expenditures at the
decentralized level can now be followed in timely fashion and appropriate financial controls are in place at
the local level, with the involvement of beneficiaries, creating the conditions for sigrificant improvement in
service delivery. Although all the evidence is not yet in, the direct transfer of budget resources to schools
and health centers in selected regions has great promise for generalization and significantly enhanced
support for the reforms by the people, while providing one of the most important building blocks for
responsible local govenmment. In addition, there is commitment of government to improved governance,
notably "la lutte contre la corruption", and to enhanced transparency in the management of public
expenditures. On the divestiture program, there is some doubt as to the pace of public enterprise reform,
given past history and the still weighty agenda. However, the institutional and regulatory framework is now
in place and there appears to be the political will to proceed. A key factor in progress will be the fair and
efficient operation of the social fund and the ability to create alternative employment in the private sector.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Future support to economic growth and poverty reduction in Guinea is likely to take the form of
programmatic budget support to the PRSP, based on sound sector strategies and specific, monitorable
program objectives. The generalization of the MTEF and the introduction of tested budgeting mechanisms
which address dec.ntralized levels of public services, providing direct transfers to schools and health
centers, are likely to facilitate this transition.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Lending is rated satisfactory. The instrument was appropriate for helping preserve macroeconomic
stability, essential for maintaining the flow of resources to priority sectors. Preparation, pre-appraisal and
appraisal missions were timely and appropriately staffed, with good coordination with the IMF and the
AfD)B. Preparation of the project took two years, however, the major factor in this delay were "slippages"
in the targets agreed with the Fund. In the public enterprise sector, the initial agenda was too ambitious,
given local capacity, the lack of a strategy and the absence of a complete data base on the 60 enterprises at
first considered. However, the agenda was scaled back to a more realistic effort, given the time frame, of
establishing an institutional, legal and regulatory framework.
7.2 Supervision:
The supervision work is rated highly satisfactory. The Bank supervised closely the SAC IV with the
collaboration of the "comite technique de suivi" (CTS) created in July 2001 upon approval of the SAC IV.
Timely reporting and follow-up tracking of implementation of reforms were ensured with the participation
-13-



of the Bank field office. The Bank addressed proactively early indications of implementation problems by
providing corrective measures during its November-December 2001 mission. Given the short horizon and
budgetary support nature of this operation, only one supervision mission was conducted but the Bank field
office effectively insured that credit covenants were enforced and corrective measures were administered.
The Borrower's report notes that the Bank provided "a quality contribution" to the reform process and was
"very constructive" in helping resolve constraints encountered in the implementation of the program.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Given the rating of lending and supervision work, the Bank's overall performance is rated satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance during preparation is considered satisfactory. The Letter of Development
Policy (April 2001) prepared by the Borrower provided a comprehensive framework for program design.
The Borrower implemented an important series of measures prior to Board presentation which drove
forward the reform agenda with regard to the three components of the Credit.
Public Expenditures. To monitor timely budget itnplementation of the agreed allocations, it established a
Cabinet-level quarterly review system, with dissemination of the results to the public.
(b) Improvement of decentralized services. The 2001 budget allocated 80 per cent of non-wage recurrent
allocations to the sub-national levels of service in the priority sectors (prefectures, sub-prefectures, urban
and rural communes). For the first time, specific budget allocations for schools and health centers in
Conakry and the region of Kindia were made public. The budget law also spelled out new rules for
maintaining a share of locally collected taxes (head tax, property tax and taxes related to the exercise of
professions) at that level. Finally, a decree was issued detailing measures related to financial management
and control to be applied at the sub-national level, including measures related to the local, site delivery of
goods and services (including school books, educational materials, medicine and medical supplies and
related equipment).
(c) Governance. A decree was issued relative to the ex-post audit of a sarnpling of major public contracts,
together with the terms of reference and implementation procedures. Work was begun -and publicly
announced - on the root causes of corruption (economic, social, and cultural). Finally, Government adopted
a communication strategy with regard to the budget allocations to priority sectors, the reform of the public
enterprise sector and the proposed creation of a social fund (re-insertion, re-training, counseling and
compensation).
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Govemment implementation performance is rated satisfactory with regard to the first two components but
unsatisfactory for the third. The government organized "launch workshops" for the operation in order to
involve stakeholders in the monitoring of the reform program's implementation and impact to deepen the
various components of the reform program and to increase awareness of the implementation risks.
However, budget implementation was slower than expected in priority sectors at the beginning of the
program. The govemment did, however, catch up at end-March 2002, executing 88 percent of priority
sector allocations. Government failed to implement the liquidation/privatization of eight public enterprises
although only a legal decision was required.
- 14 -



7.6 Implementing Agency:
The implementation agency handled its task satisfactorily. The team was headed by a senior adviser of the
Ministry of Finance who chairs the newly created inter-ministerial committee responsible for defning and
monitoring poverty reduction strategy. The implementation team prepared the quarterly Cabinet-level
reviews and ensured timely escalation of budget issues and their arbitration. Coordination with the priority
sectors for poverty reduction measures was effective. However, some difficulties were encountered in
explaining the overall MTEF strategy to the other sectors and preparing them for integration into the
framework. These were resolved through a program of workshops and an infornation campaign. The
management of the public information campaign is deemed a success.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The Borrower's overall performance is rated satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
Three major lessons emerge from the SAC IV experience.
(i) The implementation of Components I and II underline the importance of continued broad consultation,
good communication, and capacity building. The PRSP/CAS consultation of the Guinean population as to
their priorities and the maintenance of a flow of information about budget allocations and priorities created
strong expectations and pressures with regard to the decentralization of budgets, spending authority,
procurement, and ultimately the improvement of public service delivery. The Borrower notes that
"henceforth the beneficiaries are the key actors in the budget process" but suggests that "sustained efforts
will be necessary to anchor the new process in the spirit and the practice of public management". The
Borrower also notes that the beneficiaries may not yet have realized the full weight and scope of their new
responsibilities under the decentralized budget and suggests that continuing efforts in training, in public
information, and in providing local authorities with the means to carry out their responsibilities must be
ai:dressed in future operations.
(ii) With regard to Component m, the main lesson is that it is always difficult to advance structural
reforns (public enterprise re-structuring and privatization) through adjustment lending, given the short time
frame, the lack of investment leverage in the sector(s) concemed and the absence of technical assistance to
guide the process and provide analytical assistance, notably in the timely provision of key information
about the public portfolio, its assets, its debts, its technical and operating characteristics, its costs and
market potential. In this case, parallel implementation of a technical assistance and institutional
development support project on the provision of funds in the budget could have maintained the dialogue,
strengthening the Privatization Unit and the DNP, and carrying on key studies such as company valuation
and social impact. Other factors, which explain why the SAC could not move the disengagement process
forward are that workers (often unionized) must be reassured that the state intends to look out for their
welfare through consultation on measures related to re-employment, re-training and self-employment. This
requires substantial groundwork: in-depth analysis of labor market prospects, counseling services to
identify individual interest and potential, advisory services to assistance the re-insertion process, and
sociological and political analysis, based on extensive and unbiased consultation. While a communications
firm was hired (2001) to develop a strategic plan in this area, this was too late to yield any results in the
timeframe of SAC IV.
(iii) SAC IV demonstrates the importance of reforming budget procedures, notably through
decentralization and the development of reliable mechanisms for monitoring and controlling public
- 15-



expenditure. SAC IV paved the way for progmmatic lending to support the Government's poverty
strategy and, to a large extent provides the foundation for a poverty reduction support credit which would
provide an adequate time frame and resources for tackling medium to long term reform in such areas as
decentralization, governance and divestiture. The strong popular support for the reform program and the
existence of tested mechanisms for consultation and communication could contribute to the success of a
future PRSC.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower contribution is available in Annex 8 of this report.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
Not applicable.
- 16-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
ISSUES AND REFORM AREAS BENCHMARK AND OUTPU                     EXPECTED OUTCOMS             RESULTS ACHIEVED AT
INDICATORS                        AND                THE CLOSING,OF SAC IVl
CRITICAL ASSUMPIIONS                  June 2002
SAC IV - July 2001          After Implementation of
subsequent adjustment
operations
OBJECTIVE: MORE                                               Overall Outcomes:
ACCOUNTABLE AND
EFFICIENT USE OF PUBLIC                                       1. Increased access to public
RESOURCES THROUGH                                             services
STRENGTHENING OF PUBLIC                                       2. Greater effidency in
EXPENDITURE                                                   resources allocatfon
MANAGEMENT                                                    3. More accountability and
transparency in public resource
management
Issue:                                                        Outcomes:
Weaknesses in budget preparation:  Adopted a medium-term fiscal  Improved public awareness about Medium-term fiscal and
lack of funding predictability; budge framework (2002-2004) for  the budget and its impact on  expenditure frameworks
process is not open, reducing the  revenue and expenditures for  service delivery.           adopted for FY02.
ability of beneficiaries and other  budget year 2002.         Government develop capacity to
stakeholders to make their voice                              set pnorities in key sectors.
heard.                           Provided three-year indicative                             Provided three-year indicative
Reform Area:                     ceilings to priority sectors hnked Critical Assumption:     ceilings to prionty sectors
Strengthen budget formulation.   to annual budgets.           Capacity bwlding to be provided  linked to annual budgets
under CBSDP.
Adopted action plan together                                Adoption of building blocks of
with a calendar for the                                     an MTEF in process
implementation of a medium
term expenditure framework
(MTEF).
Public Expenditure Reviews in
Organized workshop to prepare                               education and health underway.
public expenditure reviews in
education and health.
Issue:                                                        Outcome:
In spite of recent efforts, allocations Non-wage recurrent expenditures Closer links between sectoral  Non-wage recurrent
to prionty sectors remain       for priority sectors raised from 32 pnorities and budget.    expenditures for prionty sectors
inadequate.                      % in 2000 budget to 50% in                                 increased from 29 percent in
Reform Area:                     2001, taking into account HIPC                              2000 to 32 percent in 2001
Continue the trend since 1998 to  debt relief resources.                                    including HIPC debt relief
increase the share of budget                                                                 resources.
resources to pnority sectors.
-17-



Issue:                                                     Outcome:                     An audit unit is being created
Weak management of the         Adopted the principle of ex-post More comprehensive budget,  in the Procurement
investment budget and inadequate  audits of investment projects.  enabling better prioritization.  Directorate;
assessment of its development                              Critical Assumption:         A set of regulations applicable
impact.                        dentified projects and sectors  Active involvement of donors  to procurement contracts on
Reform Area:                   For ex-post audits in 2001.  who are in part responsible for  the local level was included in
Strengthen impact evaluation of                            this situation.              the 2002 budget law.
projects m view of their       Created institutional capacity for
consolidation with the recurrent  he above.
budget.
Issue:                                                     Outcome:
Weak budget implementation.    Instituted quarterly        Improved significance of the  The computer-based
Reform Area:                   Cabinet-level reviews of budget budget as the principal  accounting and monitoring
Improve budget implementation to  implementation and       instrument for poverty reduction  system has improved budget
enhance accountability for     disseminated key results to  strategy.                   execution. But all budgetary
performance.                   national assembly and local                               ransactions are not conducted
media.                      Critical Assumption:         through the system.
Set up a momtoring system to  Oversight agencies develop
ensure budget implementation  capacity for budget audits
according to allocations for  (capacity building to be provided
priority sectors in 2001.   under IDF grant).
Monitored budget execution
using financial management
information system and took
appropriate actions to reduce
delays in budget execution.
Produced audited budget                                  Audited accounts for 1998 and
accounts for 1998 budget                                  1999 produced.
Issue:                                                     Outcome:
In spite of progress in phase of  Issued new decree adopting and  More effective and cost-efficient
procurement, contract execution  pnnciple of ex-post audits of  implementation of government
leaves much scope for fraud.   government procurement      procurement contracts.
Asset and inventory management of contracts together with systems  Critical Assumption:
purchased goods is practically  of sanctions for abuse     Civil service management and
inexistent.                    (applicable to both government  suppliers fully participate in the
officials and suppliers).   sanctions system.
Reform Area:
Strengthen public procurement and Established a National Audit
asset registry and management.  und with contributions by SAC                            A National Audit Fund was
TV and other donors.                                      established.
Undertook preparation to
roduce, on a regular basis, price
information of goods and
services commonly bought by
Government.
Initiated review of certification
procedures of suppliers eligible
to participate in government
rocurement.
mbtiated review of procedures on
asset reglsty and management.
- 18-



Issue:                                                     Outcome:
Weak oversight and monitoring of  Redefined roles and      Creating and maintaining an
public sector management.        responsibilities of oversight  atmosphere in public sector that
agencies.                 discourages fraud and corruption.
Reform Area:
Strengthen auditing and monitoring  Strengthened the Accounts                           Accounts Chamber of the
procedures and institutional     Chamber of the Supreme                                 Supreme Court being
capacity of watchdog bodies.     Court that is responsible for                          strengthened in personnel and
reviewing audited budget                               quipment.
accounts
(in personnel and equipment).
Commenced preparatory work                             Ongoing.
for conducting surveys of
public officials, citizens, and
businesses on corruption.
Began communications                                   Ongoig.
campaign to highlight new
focus of government on
oversight.
Issue:                                                     Outcome:
Budget process remains focused on  Undertook baseline service  Service delivery will become  Baseline service delivery
spending (inputs) with little    delivery surveys in selected  much more attuned to demrand by  surveys in selected
attention to performance and     prefectures covered by the  the population.               prefectures was conducted.
outcomes.                        CBSDP.                    Critical Assumptions:
Reforms Areas:                                              Capacity buwldmng to be provided
Empower citizens to demand better  Finalized performance   by CBSDP.
services to ensure sustainability of  indicators for prionty sectors
reforms.                         and developed strategy to: (i)  Civil society develops the
collect the information and (ii) capacity to monitor the quality of
publish the results.      services and demand better
services.
Developed strategy to initiate
users' satisfaction surveys.
Issue:                                                     Outcome:
Weak monitoring and evaluation   Initiated review of M&E    Stronger monitoring and        M&E thematic group created
(M&E) capacity within the        capacity and practices.   evaluation capacity.           in the context of the PRSP
govemment                                                                                  implementation.
Limited importance has been given  Orgarnzed workshops to  Critical assumption:
to "voice" of the citizens.      discuss M&E practices.    Capacity building to be
supported by bilateral assistance.
Reform Area:                     Prepared an action plan to
Strengthen M&E capacity in the   strengthen M&E of policy
govermment and among the civil   reforms.
society.
-19-



ODECI'VF: sMORE ACCOUNTABLE                                            OverallOmteas;
AND EJFECrrVE GOVERNMENT                                               1. More equitable access to pubi
THROUGH DECENTRALIZATION                                               senices and deepening of
OF RESOURCES,                                                         dementralzeton proes.
DECISIO-MAKING ttD SERVICE,                                            2. Empowerment oa benefideiries
DELIVER.                                                              3. Greater a eountabirty fbudget
_e anagement at dal levels
Issue:                                                               (Oomes:
The bulk of the non-wage recurrent  Non-wage rtecurrnt budgetay allocations Increased expenditures by  Oer 20 pcenm of
bliudget is committed and spent at the  to prefectures to be raised to 80%/o in 2001 sub-national adminsations with a  non-recurrent budget is
central level.                    for priority soctors.               direct impat on poverty reduction.  now channeled to
Reform Area:                                                                                           sub-national leveL
Increase budgetary resouces to
sub-national administrations
(prefecwrs).
Issue:                                                                Outcorne:
Infonnanom on bdget allkoations at  Publis   informsaionon budget     Empowment of local service       Budget informatdoc
local level CiDs and urban        allocatiConsfbr riac yeaflI for schools dzelvery agencies and grater  posted to scols and
municipalities represent local    and health clinics in 5 communes    involvement of benefcicaries,    health centers. Training
govermnents. is not available, creating (Conalcry) and 5 prefecures (Kindia).  Crtical Assumpton       program intiated
environment fbT arbitainess and   Posted infonnation on budget allocations Local cornmunites have developed
corruption for pubhc spending.   and schools and clinics.             capacity to foblow budget proCess
Reform Arew .potded by VCSP).
Ensure transparency and           Created a cross-sectoral team to moDitor
accoumtability of budget pTocess.  impiemearton of the budget at
Increase budgetay resorces to local decentralized level. Initiated taming
governments.                      Progrdts.
Issue:                                                                Outcome:
Local goverments have very limited  Adopted new rades in 2001 budget for  Greater resources available to local  Rules fro allocating
financial resources.              allocating revenues between Govenfrnent governments.                  evenses between
Reform Area:                      and local comnuiites for specific taxes  Critical Assumption:       Government and local
Increase resource base of loal    and fees: bead tax MDL), oropeny tax  Commuities have developed     commnuty for specific
govemnienm            (CIR4, professional tax ([PU). and              capacity to numtxo and to utilize  tases and fees IdL,
gehicle oLvxe tns  admlotrs of aises,svc                  (cavseih    CFUene cap  and a
Adoptedproceduresregardingasset      (ilin     m de d by V VCCP  an  C d iaplTt)
I W.Le:                                                               Outcornes:                       hicures to lnFwe
tHz, fiduaciary risk associated with  NtertdCd &e svteme of owrnuter-based  Pnblisbied inRsnzaaton on bulet  a:cembiity ankd
decenitralization of budget       rnni toirng of budget execuition to  rmgm?'ehl an43nA ;ls5ilt tegistry  t5npuic Of resci=e
managementat subLnational adimpnistrations                             and m   ontgcrnente             mmae   ment at the loca
Rekrt A;aa:                                                            u Critical Assumptions:         goveament bmdtway.
Inwrove accciuniabilith, trspeW   Issued circula: detaing new sygtem or  Sub a:iial adinistiation and
c; Xuso=e n aagement at local    lbudget mnaement to. suawtabonal      purecularly Nhiistry of Finance
goverTnments.                     administrafions.                     services have strengthened capacity
Adopted procedures regarding asset  (Movided by VCSP and CBSDP}
adrnirust ations.                    u_iztim ofud   s at sub-naioa
Levels
Adopted measures to ensure ddivery of
goods and services acquired through
procurement to prefectures.
Issue:                                                                Critical Assumption:             Capacity building
Weak institutional capaty in     Issued report describing new roles and  Capacity building to be provided by  program in process.
sub-naticnal administralions tbr  responsibilies ofb MEF staff'at central  CBSD?.
financial management.             arid loca levels, and mcote particlary the
Reform Area:                      Directorate of the Treasury (DNT).
Reorganize MEF at local levels.                                         __       __     _   __      _  I
-20-



Issue:                                                          Outcomes:                      Civil service reform being
Intersectoral allocations of       Adopted decision to eliminate  More flexible civil service  conducted by the Ministry of
resources have so far been limited  automatic wage increases for  management for key sectors lmnked  Administrative reforms and
to non-wage recurrent              public service.              o performance.                 civil service.
expenditures.                                                   Cntical Assumption:
Reform Area:                       Adopted decision that new    Participation of civil service
Introduce more flexibility m       recruitments for operational staff Ministry in the various sectoral
personnel management for selected  in the Health Ministry be    initiatives.
priority sectors.                 location-specific.
Issue:                                                          Outcome:                       Civil service reform underway.
Improve linkages between           Developed mechanisms to transf Increased coherence between
personnel management and other     civil servants across sectors (more wages and non-wage components
items of the recurrent budget.    specifically, between agriculture  of the budget.
Reform Area:                       and education).              Critical Assumptions:
Increase operational staff at local                             Participation of civil service
governments for education and                                   Ministry in the various sectoral
health.                                                         initiatives.
Close coordinatLon with IMF
on overall wage bill
management
OBJECTIVE: IMPROVING            Overtll Outcome:
PUBLIC SECTOR                   A more favorable business
PERFORMANCE AND                 environment promoting
ENVIRONMENT FOR                 market-led activities.
PRIVATE SECTOR LED
GROWTH THROUGH
DIVESTITURE                                                                          .
Issue:                                                          Outcome:
Public enterprises (PE) reforms   Adopted and published a       Clear signals of a more market-  Public enterpnses reforms
have stalled.                      comprehensive public enterprises oriented government strategy.  continue to stall.
Reform Areas:                     reform strategy.              Critical Assumptions:
Ensure sustainability of public                                 Technical assistance to be
enterpnse reform program.          Adopted Social Plan for public  provided by Technical       Eight identified Public
enterpnses reform accompanied  Assistance for PE Reforms    enterprises are still to be
by communications strategy.   project. The project is currently  liquidated or pnvatized.
scheduled for FY02 but may be
Liquidated PEs identified in the  delayed for lack of
st'ategy.                     administrative resources.
Assume a minimum level of
political stability.
-21 -



Issue:                                                           Outcome:
Divestiture program has suffered  Revised privatization legislation  Transparent execution of divestitur A comprehensive public
from weaknesses of institutional  including that regarding liquidation.  and create conditions for the  enterprises reform Law was
arrangements.                                                   establishment of a sound regulatory adopted by the National
Reform Areas:                   Created the new Pnvatization Unit  framework.                  Assembly and promulgated by
Strengthen the legal and institutional (issue of decree by MEF).  Critical Assumption:        the President.
framework for privatization.                                    Minimal political interference in th
Redefined the role and responsibilities management of the divestiture  A  P yvafzaton Ud t was
of the Direction du Portefeulle  program                      created by decree.
(responsible to oversee the PE sector).                        A decree redefining the role and
responsibilities of the Direction
du portefeuille is still to be
signed.
Issue:                                                          Outcome:
Significant explicit and implicit  Updated the situation on cross-debts  Healthier financial situation for the Work delayed.
subsidies to PEs and government  between the government and PEs.  PE sector.
arrears in payments for consumption                             Critical Assumption: to
of electricity, water, and telephone. Adopted a plan to clear cross-debts.  Close collaboration with IMP on
Reform Areas:                                                   monitoring the financial situafion.
Improve financial management of PE
sector.
Issue:                         Adopted recommendations on private  Outcomes:
Poor services in public utilities, a  participation in infrastucture based  More cost-effective public utilities. Restructuration of public utility
major obstacle to investment and  on workshop (organized in     Improved environment for pnvate  companies progressing slowly.
growth.                         September) to discuss the Country  sector participation in developing  Electricity: first two phases of
Reform Areas:                   Framework Report.               these sectors.                the four-phase reform completed
Strengthen the environment to  Proposed action progrms to reduce  Crifical Assumpbon:          . Water: study underway to
promote compefitive public utilities fraud in the energy and water sectors.  Availability of capacity building  formulate sector strategy,
and greater participation by private                            through Technical Assistance for  however,
sector                         Undertook analysis of options to  PE Reforms project.           pnvatization/liquidation of
strengthen regulatory framework for                            SEEG (water) and ENELGUI
key pubhc utilities including the                              (electricity) has stalled due to
creatton of a multi-sectoral regulatory                        apparent lack of transparency
agency.                                                        about the contractual
Undertook sector-wide strategies for                           arrangement and failure to
energy and water sectors.                                      communicate with the public.
Telecommunication: strategy to
Produced progress reports on                                   establish legal and regulatory
negotiations with pnvate partners on                           framework submitted to Cabinet
new arrangements for managing power                            in December 2002.
and water sectors.
Issue:                         Undertook institutional review of roles Outcomes:               Work underway.
Poor service delivery in agriculture. and responsibilities of the Ministry of Farmers' satisfaction based on
Severe Imbalances between wages  Agriculture (produce an Institufional  public surveys.
and non-wage budget for the    Policy Letter for the sector).
Ministiy of Agriculture.                                        Greater involvement of private
Designed a framework for institutional sector organizations in the sector.
Reform Areas:              .    eors
Restructunng for improving service  refoms.
delivery in agriculture.
Issue:                         Adopted the Second-Generation Road  Outcomes:                   Work underway.
Rapid deterioration of the road  Fund approach for the maintenance of Better road maintenance based on
network due to poor road       the road network.                users satisfaction surveys.
maintenance                                                     Cntcal Assumpfions:
Reform Areas:                  Initiated discussions of fimdmg  Agreement with the Asm  on ftnding
"Commercialize" road maintenance  requirements (based on etailed  of the Road Fund outside the central
with active of users' participation.  consultants' reports) for the new  budget framework and revenue
Fund,                            allocations to the Road Fund.
-22 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Not applicable
Credit Disbursements
(US$ millions)
CATEGORY      ORIGINAL             ACTUAL              DATE OF.
'ALL OCAT.iON :-         DISBURSEMENT -.     DISBURSEMENT.
SINGLE        $50                  $50                 August 9, 2001
TOTAL          $50                 $50
-23-



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable.
-24 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                      Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
June 1999 - May            10    3 Economists, I Resident           S             S
2006                             Representative; I Public Finance
Spec., I Public Enterprise Spec.,
1 Private Sector Spec., I
Govemance Spec., I
Procurement Spec., I Customs
Spec.
Appraisal/Negotiation
April 2001                  6    3 Economists, I Resident           S             S
Representative, 1 Financial
Spec., I Agricultural Spec.
Supervision
May 2002                     5   3 Economists, I Public             S             S
Finance Spec., I Govemance
Spec.
ICR
Dec. 2002                   2     2 Economists                      S             S
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                45                      154,400
Appraisal/Negotiation                      12                     43,800
Supervision                                7                      21,900
ICR                                      N/A                         N/A
Total                                     65                     220,100
-25 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
3 Macro policies                       O H  *SUOM      O N  O NA
3 Sector Policies                      OH   *SUOM      ON   O NA
O Physical                             O H  OSUOM      O N  * NA
3 Financial                            O H  OSUOM      O N  O NA
O Institutional Development            0 H  * SU O M   0 N  0 NA
Ol Environmental                       O H  OSUOM      O N  * NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction              O H  OSUOM      O N  O NA
O Gender                         O H  OSU*M      O N  O NA
O Other (Please specify)         O H  OSUOM      O N  * NA
O Private sector development           0 H  O SUO M    0 N  0 NA
F Public sector management             0 H  O SU O M   0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)               O H  OSUOM      O N  * NA
-26 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                 Rating
F Lending                                           OHS*S        OLu   OHU
 Supervision                                       OHS OS       O U   O HU
N Overall                                           OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
 Preparation                                       OHS OS       OU    OHU
 Government implementation performance             O HS OS      O U   0 HU
F Implementation agency performance                 OHS OS       O u   O HU
Z Overall                                           OHS OS OU O HU
-27 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
- Aide memoire - Supervision mission, May 2002
- Country Assistance Strategy - Progress Report, July 7, 2001
- President's Report, Fourth Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC IV) to the Republic of Guinea,
June 20, 2001
- President's Memorandum and Recommendation and Decision Point Document, Enhanced HIPC
Debt Initiative, December 1, 2000
- Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper and Joint IDA-IMF Staff Assessment of the Interim
PRSP, December 1, 2000
- Country Assistance Strategy for Guinea, November 21, 1997
-28 -



Additional Annex 8. Bor rower Contribution
,   mEC: g 2g02                  RtPUBUQUE DEOUGU   S
DEC  2Q02                 ?~~~~~~~~~~mvagI - Justadc- 8ohdaat*
I.'                      a DEcC 2002
Conark...-
MZNI3TZ  Ds L'CIONOMIZ
ST Du FICu
N............... IMEFICAD/iAr'de
NIFW.                                  Directour des Op6rations pout
VAR       pla Ouin6e, Banque mondiale
Rapponr d'achtvementt    .         Abifiln-
Objt du CAS V.
S/C Monsieur l Repr6sentant
R6sident do la Banque on
Guin6e, Conmkry-
MondsIur le Directour,
J'ai I'honneur de vous transmettre, ci-joint, Ic rapport d'achevement du
Quatri6me Cr6dit d'Ajustement Structurel (CAS ty prepar6 par le
Oouvemement.
Mis en place en Juillet 2001, le CAS IV a permis la poursuite des reformes
initides par le Gouvernement dans le cadre de la mise en ceuvre de la
strattgie de retduction de la pauvrete. Ces reformes avaient trait notamment
au financement des secteurs prioritaires, en partfculier au niveau
d6concentr6, a la dtconcentration de la gestion des ressources, au
renforcement du dispositif de gestion des marches publics, a la mise en
(euvre de la strathgie de desengagement de I'Etat des entreprises publiques
et & la realisation de la 3econde cnquete int6grale budget - consomrnmatbon
(EIBC IM.
Je voudrais vous rassurer que tout sera mis en el4vre pour la conduite de
ces rtformnes a leur terme.
En vous renouvelant mes remerciements pour les efforts que vous ne cesasz
de deployer en favour d- notre pays, je vous prie d'agr6er, Monsieur le
Dlrecteur, les assurances de ma parfaite considtration.
* - ;,o.yLE MINISTRE / P.O
cr.taire G  oral
-29 -



REPUBLIQUE DE GUIN3E
Trsvail - Jusdce . Solidat
QUATRI3M3 CREDIT DAJUSTEMKNT
SrRUCTURZL CAB X
RT DACHVEMENT
Cnakry, DvnFe aO202
-30 -



RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT DU CAS IV
TABLE DES MATIERES
Introduction
1. Contexte de mise en place du programme
1.1. Les reformes de la periode 1997-99 I CAS HII et PAS II
1.2. La formulation et la mise en ceuvre de la strategie de
r6duction de la pauvret6
2. Les objectife et la politique du Gouvemement pour 2001-02
2.1 Les objectifs
2.2 La politique adoptte
3. Mise en xuvre du CAS IV
3.1 Approbation, entree en vigueur et decaissement du CAS IV
3.2 Ex6cution des mesures de reformes
4. Les performances du programme
4.1  Les conditions de mise en euvre des r6fornes
4.2 Les resultats sectoriels
5. La durabilite des resultats
6. Conclusions et recommandations
Annexes
31



tNTRODUCTION
Depuis 1985, le Gouvernement guineen, avec l'appui de ses partenaires, a
engage d'importantes r6formes 6conomiques et financieres. En depit de la
croissance economique relativement 6levee enregistree (environ 4%/an en
moyenne durant lea annees 90) et de I'amelioration des principaux
indicateurs de d6veloppement social, des efforts consltdrables sont encore
necessaires pour assurer aux populations des conditions de vie decentes.
Pour relever ce defi, le Gouvernement a entrepris en F6vrier 2000 un
exercice de formulation et de mise en ceuvre dune nouvelle stratEgic de
dhveloppement axEe sur la croissance economique et la reduction de la
pauvrete. Le document interimaire de strategie de reduction de la pauvrete
ilabore a cet effet a ete adopte par le Gouvernement en Octobre 2000 et
approuve par les Conseils dAdministration de la Banque mondiale et du
FMI, respectivement les 20 et 22 Decembre 2002.
En appui A la mise en aeuvre de cette strategie, le Gouvernement a
beneficie en Juillet 2001 d'un quatrieme Credit d'Ajustement Structurel
(CAS M) de la Banque mondiale, dun montant de Cinquante Millions de
dolprs US (50.000.000 SUS). Ce CrCdit Etait accompagne dun deuxieme
PrEt d'ajustement structurel IPAS U) de la Banque Africaine de
Developpement, pour une enveloppe de 12,25 millions d'UC, soit environ
16 millions de $US.
Le prEsent rapport d'achEvement du CAS IV, elabore par le Gouvernement
guineen, constitue une premiere Evaluation de la mise en cuvre du
programme. En plus de l'introduction, il comprend 6 sections: i) le
contexte de la mise en place du programme, ii) les objectifs et la poltique
du Gouvernement pour 2001-02; iii) la mise en cuvre du CAS IV; iv) les
performances du programme; v) la durabilite des resultats; et vi)
conclusion et recommandations.
1. CONTRXTE DE MISR EN PLACE DU PROGRAMME
1.1  Les rdforme de lapdriod. 1997-99/CAS met PAS 1r
Suite & une importante degradation du cadre macro-economique et
financier, consecutive une baisse continue et significative des cours
mondiaux de bauxite. dune part, i une morosite de lactivit6 economique
interne, d'autre part, le Gouvernement a entrepris en 1997 un programme
de reformes de la gestion des depenses publiques.
Dans cette dynamique, le Gouvernement a bEn6fici6 dun troisieme Credit
d'ajustemnent structurel (CAS 111) de la Banque mondiale et dun deuxieme
Pret d'ajustement structurel (PAS 11) de la BAD.
32



L'objectif principal 6tait d'ameliorer sensiblement la qualit6 des depenses
publiques. Pour ce faire, le programme itait articule autour de 4 axes: iJ la
restructuration des depenses publiques en faveur des secteurs priritaimes,
ii) I'amwdioration du suMvi et du contrCle de l'exdcution budgetaire, il) des
rfformnes institstionnelles pour une mellleure prestation des services publics,
et iv) des reformnes sectonelles dans les dottaines de l'Education, de la
sante, de l'agriulture et de l'entretien routier.
a) Loa acquis du CAS III et du PAS It
La Guinee a enregistr6 un taux moyen de croissance du PIB de lordre de
4% par an en terme reel entre 1996 et 1999. En 2000, suite aux attaques
rebelles le long des frontieres avec le Liberia et la Sierra lUone, ce taux est
tombe a 2%. Avec un taux de croissance negatif 1-2,3%), le secteur rural a
ete le plus touch6 par ces attaques.
Comme prevue dans le programme. Ia part des secteurs prioritairesl dans
les depenses de fonctionnement a ete sensiblement am6lioree. De 25% en
1997, cette part a W portee a 30% en 1998 et a 33% en l990.
En lus des ressources plus substantielles mises en place. le programme a
perinis d'initier une nouvelle approche de gestion des d6penses. A travers
l'introduction d'un cadre des d6penses A moyen terme (CDMT). Initialement
limit6e & 4 secteurs, en 2000, I'approche CDMT a WtF etendue a trois
nouveaux secteurs (affaires sociales, urbanisme et habitat, justice).
bJ Los 46fiu A relever
En depit des progrts realises, la qualite de la gestion des d6penses et
l'am6lioration des prestations des services publics sont restees confrontees
a deux obstacles: la concentration des ressources au niveau central et le
manque de transparence dans leur gestion.
A cela il faut ajouter la faible maltrise de l'approche CDMT et sa limitation
aux depenses de fonctionnement. La programmation budg6taire par
objectif (investissemcnt + fonctionnement) et la priorisation des objectifs
6taient au nombre des exigencs i satisfaire pour assurer la rationa!'sation
et la qualite des d6penses pubhques.
1.2  La formulation at la mist en cruv      de la *tat11gl. de
rtduction de la pauvret
Le processus a ete lanc6 en Fevrier 2000. Le DSRP int#rimaire a Wt6 adopte
par le Gouvemement en Octobre 2000 et le DSRP final en Janvier 2002.
Ces deux documents ont Rt6 approuves respectivement en Decembre 2000
et Juillet 2002 par lea Conseils dAdministration de la BM et du FMI.
I Jgu.n 391,999., Sa ae s Mtn qn au, nombr. de 4. 1'-u*1l la sm1 , b d4d~k"pnw  n,Ml
33



Les principaux axes d6finis pour la strat6gie s'articule coTnme suit: i)
accElEration de la croissance economique avec des larges opportunitds
d'emrplois et de revenus pour les pauvres, iiJ dEveloppement et acces
Equitable aux services sociaux de base, et iii)  amElioration de la
gouvernance et renforoement du cadre institutionrnel et des capacites
humaines.
2. OBJECTIFS ET POLMQUE DU OOIVERNEMENT POUR 200142
2.1 Les objectifs
L'objectif global du programme est de favoriser une croissance economique
plus soutenue et d'ameliorer la qualite des dEpenses publiques pour plus
d'impact sur les conditions de vie des pauvres.
Au plan macro-cconomique et financier, Its objectifs vises sont: i) porter le
taux de croissance economique reelle a 2,8% en 2001 et 3,6% en 2002,
contre 2%   en 20002; iil ramener le taux d'inflation  (prix  k la
consommation) le 6,8% en 2000 & S,4% en 2001 et 4% en 2002, iii)
atteindre un solde primaire du budget de 0,93% en 2001 et 0.8% en 2002;
et 'IvM ramener le solde courant de la balance des paiements (y compris
transferts officiels) a 7,54% du PIB en 2002.
Dans le domaine social, le programrnme vlsait, entre autres:
- un taux brut de scolarisation au niveau prinaire de 62% en 2001 et
65% en 2002;
- 1'extension de la couverture vaccinale (Ex: 55% en 2001 et 65% en
2002 pour le DTC, 65% en 2001 et 75% en 2002 pour le VAT-2);
- I'amenagement de 800 points d'eau par an sur la p6riode; et la
rehabilitation de 483,6 km de pistes en 2001 et 500 km en 2002.
2.2 La politique adopt6e
Inscrite dans le cadre de la mise en ceuvre de la SRP, cette politique
s'articule autour de: I'amelloration de la gestion des depenses publiques,
la reforme des entreprises publiques, I'amelioration de la gouvernance et la
lutte contre la corruption.
a. Amelioration de la gestion des ddpenses pubiques
A cet egard, la politique consiste & renfqrcer le financement des secteurs
prioritaires et la d6concentration / decentralisation de la gestion publique.
En outre, I'amelioration de la chaine des depenses, le renforcement du
systtme de passation des march6s publics, 1Imstitution dun systeme
' u "t a rapptler que It taux de crousance de 2% en 2000 etsil plus bah ,eal, par le pPM depuitd plu d-une
jceinatt! I Am a" ausque. reakle contre le £Wrk* natonal a panhir de Seatentbre200t wnuelkoen
34



d'audit a posteriori des march6s publics devaient concourir & l'amilioration
de la quallte des depenses publiques.
b. Rdforme des entreprises publques
La reforme avait pour objectifs: I'amelioration du cadre de
d6veloppcment economique et social grace a l'offre de services publics
eMcaces et a des prix competitifs et aux opportunitts d'investissement
creees pour le secteur prive; I'amnlioration de la gestion financiere du
secteur des entreprises publiques et la r6duction du poids financier du
portefeuille sur le budget de PEtat.
Pour atteindre ces objectifs, le Gouvemement a adopte une strategie axee
sur: la dissolution et la liquidation d'entreprises jug6es non viables; la
privatisation des entreprises susceptibles d'etre rentabUisees; des options
apecifiques pour les entreprises d'utillt6 publique (eau. energie, telephone
etc.) et les soci6tes minieres.
c. Amelioration de ta gouvernance et lutte contre la corruption
Conscient de la rarete des ressources face a l'immensite des besoins a
sattsfaire, le Gouvernement s'est engagc pour une meilleure gestion des
affaires publiques. Pour cela, les mesures prfconisees etaient axees sur:
'mnstauration d'un systame transparent de la gestion des ressources, une
responsabilisation des collectivites et des populations a la base dans le
choix et la gestion des actions de developpement et une lutte soutenue
contre la corruption.
d. Politiques sociales et de lutte contre la pauvrete
Pour parvenir aux resultats ambitionn6s dans les secteurs prioritaires de
l'education et de la sante, le Gouvernement s'est engag6 pour la poursuite
du developpement des infrastructures de base, la mise a disposition d'un
personnel qualifUE et motiv6, notarnment en zone rurale, et I'amelioration
des moyens de fonctionnement.
En plus du developpement des services d'education et de sante
I'amelioration des infrastructures de base, notamment l'hydraulique
viUageoise, les pistes rurales, les amenagements hydro-agricoles etait
inscrite au nombre des actions prioritaires du Gouvernement. A cela
s'ajoutait l'objectif d'ameliorer lefficacite des services agricoles grace & la
diss6mination des techniques modernes et la promotion des intrants
ameliores, la promotion de l'investissement priv6 dans le secteur et la
protection de l'environnement
35



3. MIS! EN CI;UVRE DU CAS IV
3.1 Ajprobation, entree en vigneur et d6calssement du CAB IV
La prisentation du projet de CAS IV au Conseil dAdministration de la
Banque *tait subordonnee aux conditions ci-apres:
insatituer un syst6me de revue trimestrielle de 1exdcution budg6taire
conforme aux allocations consenties pour lea secteurs prioritaires et
dissemination des r6sultats,
° prendre un Arrete visant a renforcer la gestion et le contr6le
budg6taire au niveau des services d6concentr6s et a assurer que les
biens et services sont bien livres aux services deconcentres,
o emettre un ArrEtt (y compris lea TDR des mecanismes de sanctions)
sur les audits ex-post des marches publics,
e annoncer et commencer les travaux preparatoires pour des enquetes
sociologiques visant a identifier des problemes de corruption pour
aider a etablir des priorit6s dans la reforme de bonne gouvernance, et
o adopter une strategic de communications pour couvrir lea domaines
b suivants: i) lea allocations budgetaires pour les secteurs prioritaires
par prefecture, et ii) un programme de r6formes des entreprises
publiques accompagne d'un plan social pour minimiser lmnpact des
reformes,
o conclure un nouveau programme triennal avec le FMI.
Lapprobation du projet par le Conseil d'Administration de la Banque a ete
suivie par la signature de la Convention de pret le 25 Juillet 2001.
L'obtention de lAvis juridique de la Cour Supreme et la ratification de
I'Accord par l'Assemblee Nationale et sa promulgation par decret du
President de la Republique ont pernis de decaisser 1integralite du pret fm
Juillet 2002.
3.2 Zx6cutlon des mesures de rEformes
L'etat d'execution des mesures est presente en annexe (voir annexe 1),
dans une matrice structuree cornme suit: mesures A prendre, les
echeances de leur execution et les services responsables. Ces raesures se
rapportent aux points ci-aprEs:
I Allocation et exdcutlon budg4tatres (tieres Jm et zv)
Entre 2000 et 2002, les credits budgetaires (Titres III et IV) des secteurs
prioritaires ont plus que double, passant de 59,3 a 130.6 mds de FG, soit
une augmentation de 120% Le secteur de la sante est celui qui a connu
l'augmentation la plus sensible (414% de 2002 sur 2000).
36



Apres un programme de rattrapage des depenses our la periode D6cembre
2001 - fin Mars 2002. au 31 Mars 2002. les credits prevus au titre de
I'exercice 2001 etaient d6caisscs A hauteur de 98%. Ces credits ont kte
alloues aux structures deconcentrees A hauteur de 60%h en 20023.
S'agissant du budget 2002, &A la date du 31 Octobre 2002, les credits titres
III et IV des secteurs prioritaires etaient executes (base engagement) A
hauteur de 97%; cela en d6pit du rythme d'execution relativement lent en
debut d'annee, ie au programme de rattrapage sur le budget 2001.
e   G,stion du Trdsor
Les 5 mesures qui 6talent pr6vues sont entierement ex6cutees (respect
duree journ6e complementaire, elaboration dAune balance consolidee du
TrCsor) ou sont en cours d'ex6cution. LAgence cornptable centrale a et
crdee mais n'est pas encore operationnelle. Enfln, la r6gularisation des
somMs dans lea comptes d'attente est tres avancee.
e Production do is Lot de rglehmnt
11 Ctait envisage l'Claboration des comptes de regularisation des budgets
19%9 et 2000. Ces comptes ont ete rendus disponibles; et les rapports et
declarations de conformit6 obtenus de la Charnbre des comptes.
o Gestlon de la chatne des dEpone.
Au total, 4 mesures etaient pr6vues. Elles ont et' enti6rernent executbes
(chaine interfacEe au logiciel SAGE, tri des ordonnancemerits par ministere
rendu possible, edition des d6l6gations de crEdits possible et contrat de
maintenance du systeme informatique signe).
o Gestton deo credlts ddconcentrds
Les mesures pr6vues etaient au nombre de deux (2): formation des
DAAF/IRE/DPE/SAF et autres administrateurs des credits, mise a
disposition des imprimes necessaires A la tenue de la comptabilit6. La
premiere est entierement executEe, tandis que la seconde est en cours de
rEalisation.
O Gestton doe rwsaources PPT
En raison de la mobilisation tardive des ressources PPTE et de la
saisonnalite de nornbreux travaux dinvestissernent, I'execution des
depenses sur fonds PPTE Etait relativement lente au depart. Le rythne
d'execution de ces depenses a EtW accelEre depluis le dEbut de I'aunn6c 2002,
grfce Ai un systEme de gestion efficace et transparent oriente vers les
secteurs prioritaires.
'.u p'n 2000, 1 'alocat:on budgtair. se limra, a la ldparSiot, des rellources enr mhnin/s8a; Itu  6 ret
demiri de dvidedr des "nwOltanu  aecr a,x smcera diconce rie. Ccid a ei peor OAuve,w
37



c    forme do marchds publice
Sur 8 mesures relatives a cette composante, 5 ont ett entierement
executees. 11 sagit notamment de la finalisation des TDR des audits des
marches publics, de la creation d'une structure de suivi des r6sultats des
audits et de la creation d'un comite consultatif sur les marches de gre &
gre. Les trois autres mesures sont en cours: renforcement des conditions
d'6ligibilite aux marches publics, mise a disposition d'une r6glernentation
applicable au niveau des collectivites.
A cela, il faut ajouter d'autres mesures essentielles, qui n'Ctaient pas
pr6vues dans la matrice du CAS IV/PAS 111. 11 sagit, entre autres: du
transfert aux regions et aux pr&fectures des comp6tences de passation, de
suivi et d'evaluation des marches publics; de l'n stitution d'un systeme
d'informations des populations sur la gestion des actions & la base et de la
sensibilisation de ces populations sur leur devoir de suivi et de controle.
°Mse sn cuvre de tu strutdgie de ddsangagement
Cinq des 8 mesur,s prevues sont entierement executees et les autres, dont
la csreation du Comit6 strategique de desengagement, sont actuellement en
cours de rCalisation. L'ensemble des mesuree s'articule autour des axes ci-
aprcs:
- Le   renforcement du  cadre institutionnel et rdglementaire des
priuatisations: adoption et promulgation de la loi sur la reforme des
entreprises publiques (Octobre 2001), signature du decret
d'application de cette loi et signature d'un ArrWte portant attribution
et organisation de lUnite de privatisation,
- Elaboration dune strategie de communication (achevde en Janvier 02).
- Elaboration du plan de reconversionIrtinsertion des personnels
touchEs par la priuatisation: ce plan a etC elabore et un fonds mis en
place pour financier le mesures d'accompagnement,
- La mise en cuvre du programme de prnatisation. L'Etat a vendu ses
actions dans 3 societes4. En ce qui concerne les autres entreprisess,
I'evaluation de leurs actifs et -'ssifs vient d'etre achevee, les
operations de privatisatlon / liquidation pourraient commencer des la
misc en place le ComitC strategique de d6sengagement.
0 Revuc ds dipenses publiques dans leas secteurs do lNducatton
et de ta santd
L'exercice est avance dans le secteur de I'education. Quant & la revue des
depenses publiques daers le secteur de la sante, elle a connu un important
retard, en raison du temps mis par la Banque mondiale pour assurer le
'SOPAROCHl. SOMnGeSUUIRU
__  ,PIEC. EGW#A M7Oirr        -
38



financement de 1'6tude. Laccord conclu entre le Ministtre de la sante et le
Cabinet charg6 de la revue prevoit la presentation du rapport provisoire en
Janvier 2003 et le rapport ftnal en Fevrier de la meme annte.
4. LES PURFORMANCES DU PROGRAM14E
4.1  Lees conditions de mfe on cuvre du programmo
La mise en ceuvre effective des mesures du programme traduit
l'engagement du Gouvemement & haut niveau pour la r6alisation des
objectifs vises. Elle a ete menee aL bout en d6pit du contexte difricile de
mobilisation des ressources et des besoins de financement considerables
imposts par le mamntien de la securiti, notamment le long des frontieres
nationales.
Dans la conduite du programme, le Gouvernement etait assist6 d'un
Comite technique charge du pilotage du CAS IV/PAS 111. Ce demier Comite
est priside par le Secretaire Gineral du Ministere de l'Economie et des
Finances (MEF) At eat constitue des cadres des services centraux du MEF
et 4es representants des secteurs prioritaires.
Du c6te de la Banque, la mise en place du CAS IV a connu un retard
considerable (la preparation de l'optration s'est italfc sur deux ans, de
1999 A 2001). Mais, dans sa mise en ceuvre, les performances de la
Banque ont ete remarquables. A la diffirence des credits precedents, le
CAS IV a ete decaisse en une seule tranche, juste une semnaine apres
I'approbation du dossier par le Conseil d'Administration.
Par ailleurs, a travers les missions de suivi et les concertations
permanentes avec le Gouvernement, la Banque a apporte une contribution
de qualite & la conduite des reformes. Enfln, eUe saest montree tres
constructive face A certaines contraintes rencontries dans l'ex6cution du
programme.
4.2 Les r6sultats obtenus
Deux resultats importants sont a l'actif du programme mis en ceuvre:i)
l'instauration d'un systeme plus rationnel et transparent d'allocation et de
gestion des ressources publiques, et ii) I'amrelioration des principaux
indicateurs de developpement, au plan economique et social.
L'aflocation des ressources selon les besoins prioritaires, entre les
differents secteurs mais egalement entre les niveaux central et
deconcentre, la transparence dans le transfert des ressources et la
responsabilisation des acteurs a la base dans la gestion sont autant de
progres accomplis dans la pratique de gestion publique.
39



S'agissant de 'ans6lioration des indicateurs de dtveloppement, au plan
macro-economiique et financier, on notera:
- la realisatlon d\un taux de croissance de 2,8% en 2001, contre un
objectif de 3,3%. Pour 2002, le taux revise en Juin s'e1ve a 4,2%.
contre une prevision initiale de 3,6%.
- l1inflation s'est limit6e & 5,4% en 2001, contre une prevlsion de 4,2%
pour la meme ann6e et une r6alisation de 6,8% en 2000;
- Pour 2001, le solde primaire du budget est estime a 1% du PIB,
contre une pr6vision initiale de 2.8% pour la menme annee ct une
estimation de 2,6% pour 2000.
Dans Ic domaine de l'ducation, le nombre de salles de classses disponibles
de 20.043 a 23.655 entre 2001 et 2002 et celui s'est accru de 2400
nouveaux enseignants en 2001. A cela il faut ajouter la revalorisation du
traitement des cnseignants. En resultat, le taux brut de scolarisation au
primaire est passe de 56,5% en 2000 a 61% en 2001 et 72% en 2002. Pour
les flUes. ce taux sest Ctablit i 63% en 2002, contre 50% en 2001 et 44,3%
en 20006. Ces r6sialtats sont au dessus des objectifs au point d'achevement
fix6s par le DSRP.
Dans le secteur de la sante, ont Wt6 realises au cours de I'annee 2001, 5
nouveaux centres de sant6, 48 postes de sante. En terme d'inpact, entre
2000 et 2001, on notera: 'extension de la couverture sanitaire
geographique u pays de 93 a 96%, 1extension de la couverture vaccinale
complete des enfants de 0 a 11 mois de 55 A 62% et I'am6lioration du taux
de consultations prenatales des femmes en grossesse en de 57 & 65%0c.
En matiere d'adduction d'eau et d'assainissement en rnilieu rural, les
realisations en 2001 se presentent ainsi qu'il suit: amenagement de 733
points d'eau (dont 707 forages) et de 3 AEP solaires de a bomes fontalnes;
r6alisation de 6.000 latrines familiales ainsi que 160 latrines coDectives.
Au titre de l'annee 2002, & la date du 30 Juin, les realisations s'elevaient a
409 forages, 8 puits arri6nagfs et 5 AEP.
Dans le dorv wine de d6senclavement et d'am6nagcment de zones agricoles,
des efforts considerables ont Cgalement et. fournis. Ainsi, en 2001, 254 km
de pistes rurales fuirnt rehabilites, 1.490 km entretenus ct 492 al
d'ouvrages de franchissement construits, contre 192 kmn de pistes
r6habilit6s et 576,5 km entretenus en 2000. A cela, il faut ajouter
l'am6nagement de 1.569 ha de bas-foads et 300 ha de mangrove en 2001.
Par ailleurs, tel que cela a ete prevu dans le programme soumis par le
Qouvemement lors de la prCparation du CAB IV, une grande operation
5Source MsMir de I'Enseanarpr#-untersftaire et de l'dducation cimque.
".1 Source. Minisgitte de /Q San / oServk. SQu;5rlqte. Rnade et IiOrvnatl4.
40



d'enquetea statistiques a 6t0 entreprise en vue, d'une part, d'actualiser et
de renforcer la base d'Informations disponibles sur la pauvrete et. d'autre
part, de constituer une base de reference pour le suivi et 1Pevaluation de la
SRP. Cette enquete eat actuellement en cours sur le terrain; et leg
r6sultats du premier module (enquete QUID) permettra de disposer, dlici
Mars 2003, des donnees flables sur les indicateurs unifi6s de developpement.
5. LA DURABILITE DES RESULTATS
Si le syst6me mis en place pour la gestion des ressources publiques
comporte la substance propre & son efficacitt et a sa durabilit6 (ie fait que
les b6neficiaires sont desormais des acteurs clefs du processus), il n'en
demeure pas moins que des efforts soutenus sont encore indispensables
pour ancrcr solidement ce systeme dans 1esprit et la pratique de la gestlon
publique.
D\un c6te, lea risques de r6sistance aux changements sont reels; de
l'autre, lea beneficlaires de ces changements n'ont pas encore cern toute
la portee des rlformes engagees. La formation, llnformation, la
sensibilisation et'la poursuite des efforts, notamment dans le sens de la
responsabilisation de la base et Ia renforcement des moyens dlntervention
sont indispensables pour la consoUdation et la p6rennisation des acquis du
programme. A cet egard, des appuis budgetaires reguliers et consistants
sont essentiels.
6. CONCLUSIONS Tr RECOMMANDATIONB
Orace a l'appui de la Banque et des autres partenaires au d6veloppement
et A 1'engagement du Gouvernement, le programme a ett mis e en ceuvre
avec succes. Les reformes ainsi engagees s'inscrivent dans le cadre de
l'operationnalisation de la strategie de reduction de la pauvrete en Guin6e.
Eu egard t l'importance de ces reformes dans la dynamique de
developpement a la base et de lutte contre la pauvret6, d'une part, et des
risques 6voques pr6c6demment, de I'autre, lea efforts doivent etre
poursuivis sans relache.
Dans cet esprit, la rationalisation des depenses, Familioration des
politiques sectorielles de maniere a conduire A des r6sultats tangibles sur
les conditions de vie des populations et la poursuite systematique des
r6formes entreprises pour mieux qualifier le processus de passation,
d'execution et de suivi et 6valuation des marches publics, en particulier au
niveau deconcentr6 sont des mesures essentielles qui necessitent une
reelle determination de la part du Gouvernement.
De la part des partenaires au developpement, des appuis substantiels et
r6guliers sont requis, de meme qu'un soutien rapproche dans le suivi des
-rete4          e     et1   uation
41



lAnnexe I * Matrice des mesures ds CAS JVIPAS 111
Domaines de retorme            Meaures pr6vues      Echo6nces       Servfie            Etat d'ex.cUo@
/Fabless i corriger                                           s__      t   nsable. 
A. E.Wcution buddrtaem 2001
YRetard dans I'exicuion du budget  Rattrapage des paiements  31 M4ars 202  Comite de  Fail
2001                            des sedeurs p.wntazes,               pleltage du CAS
_______________________ DNc 200J - fin Mars 2002I V
.Budget 2002: m   mtres 1ff at IV
AUiocation ei exeuoon du budget en  Attocation dkun montant  31 Mars 2002 DNB/DNTI/Coml Fait
faveur des sedes prioritaire    additionnef de 1,4 mads FG /          tJ de pilotage
_. Gestlon Eu 7r6..r     mois, de Janv d Mars 02               du CASIV
C.Ostndu Trfr
Respeder le pnnope de
Ltexercice n'est pas arrete en 2000  durde d'unejoumrne  31 Mars 2002 DNB/ DIT/DNC Fail
compoldmen*aire                       trFait Igoir Arvies 36. 37 et
Crder une Agence compable Januier 2002  DNTIDAAF      -579I  r    AB3e 39 de I
centrale                                             f  79/E/A/1
Abandonnerprogessivem.                DNT/ Sen4tce   Fail
Iutlisation du logiael Excel          iformalique
Assurer la disp,ontbihoi de la        Oa lance consolidee dispoamibAc
batance consoJidde du Tresor
dans les i ,wours du gnois
.                      ~~~~~~~~suiuant
pes somunes £mportantes restent dns Rtgudlanser les depenses           DNT?IDNCF     Regdarisation (ris auanc6e
ssoldes des com es d'attente  *
42



I
Do-alnes de reforme            Mesures preyuca       lcheanceas      8er'ie              Etat d'exilcuUon
/Fajbleses A con4or           __       __                 _        t.mpo   ble   _
D. Led de RIluxint               Eiaborer les Lois de                  DNT/Charbre    Rapports de cf-morm Ie pour les budgels
ragements de 1999 el 2000             des comptes    99 e 2000 obdnus. Pour 2001. l projel
de Loi de rdglkenen a htd transisa & la
Chambre des eomnpes e d I Ass. Me
ileares n 622 et 672/dEF/CAB du 8
Odobre 2002)
BE Chacrne des depeas-
Elie nest pas muerface au ogiciel  DEveloppement pre                   Comite CASIVI Fait
SAGE                                                                   SDIDNT/PRCa
LaPCT nepeut effectuer des Iris des  &mandejamu6eparla                 PcrI/s         Fail
ordonnancements/orwnisare        PCT
la chaine ne permet pas d edaer les  A comger                         PCI/SI         Fad
delegabons de crXdit
lnexstenoe de contrat de wmntenance Appel daffres d lancer  Auril 2002  DAAF/SI       FSi
du sernXce mnforma*tue                           _
r. Gestlon de creddts d&concent"s
Besorms deformation des DAAF/    Voir PRCipourfinancamcnn               DNB/DNCF      Forniaton assure dans touLes les
iREIDPE et aulres administnuteus die                                                  rdgions duL pays enire AoIt el Seplenibre
r2*11                                                                                 2002
thlpnrfes n&essaires d la lelue de la A definir                        DNT/SI
bomptabileee                      ____ ___                 ____                                 __
G. Geetton des ddpenses PPT_
1entteur dan.s la mise en disponibiie  Chronagrarnme d 41ablier 2002    DNr/DN8       Fail (ressourmes placdes dans les
Ides ressources                                                                       co~~ 20  ?~DD emples des DAAF)
Les allo<tions de ressaures      Correction 6 apporter dans             DIN8          Fail
semblentfapoiser les dEpenses    la LF12002
d4investissement AuxA dpens des
qWpenses defonctionnement
__                                              _~- ____________________  _-                   _ _  __  _-________4
43



Domain.. de r6foume           Ueuu,    pr6vwms      Dekiamogs     Sevctat d'ex4cutiofl
IL De   ds ropu_~blic
p(Ealon d.un compte du Tflsm auprs
Ie  BRG pour bs audits
Finisa     des TDR de aaudLs des      dm d   ePdm di         ON Fo
Whi dspubjks                    dIM5ini das dpe dsged&
Demande dW" t  Apres des buareau, DNNP
d'4aude
Ddctsions sur ies sanctions    Arr&d d fae s*w                       DNA           Fail ghutsucdal n' 00I 99/MEFdu 4
durier20023
roIn dWie sa1Iwe de slat de     A"rr dfawe s_lw                      DN            Fai't (Arrmh n20O2/330/1MFSOGG du 30
etultat. des audits Owepostowns et                                                 M&e 02
SuiM des sanctions)                                                                Jtue 2002J
Renfoanment des canitiors d'ehi  A prdr awc la B                    DNlP          LeffrailaIlW du NB? sign6e la 1s8 tiou
d,es soundssionna&vs                                                               02
CmWon dsun Comlft consusvrlff Its Arr#W dfaim v*wr                   DNAp          Fae fe n-32918FCABI/02 du 30
marchEs de grc 6 9rF                                                               Janv. 02 etAnS n*5653/W/CAfl/2
ma#Vht's de gr# 4 9M                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nomAmant Ia enembres)
X4gIemeniaton applicabLe aux flioUL*  Repair ,gkAwnaaon,             DNMPlDNrI     En cows (  Cunetb engag d eel effet, a
pub. s des COilcdtd5                                                                4      une mon* s   de diagnosdc h
.  IJdjaur du pays eln paodu: un pnilf
de ddatJpor.a  rEg_eentaof des
mnachEs publks- 2 manuels de prweddue
t_____________________.___.__                                                       lansi  aw   des  ou its dde  nmise en  _u___
fprdparutf.n dui budget 200
ftojcdon taes /dip4- sr 3 an    MWbmam dhan sadm ji$     31 Ma 2002   Cam" dC       Fait
Premitres alboambons des cr  pow  A mW&   p&o4                               CAS IV
discuton  t dacrd du Omuwneme
/lete ucuiam auec floa*don 2002 W  2002                               DN8/tD        Fait
12004 au ninistAr iedvtlue atec
plaforjd iudpd peur d-ue min*wu
biscudons budgdths suw bases de          des alhes                    DNWMAF/SP Fotl
Justwfaszns des d4peanses et non pbS  _        lmP
!!Ur base  de  rw thandaa.s      _______________-        _____ 4
44



rMorme       M~wauz'. pr6wues       ack6an.s        Service             Ea
bomains* de r6forme               Ye                                                       x cie   ee  t t deae i ution
,/Falblessen A corr,igLer  _                                 <        "ble        I-                                  I
J.   rd       d  d_4_nt                                                                 F(Lot Lo20011/OlV8ANadop   2par
de la loipriwaisation (Consel                                                   Iss. MeO          p e par d4cref du 23
Aes 14nt5tres / Assembhe Nfatnale)                                       DNPF           o   2001). Le deod d'appfid.t a et
siH le- 26/12/01
;Crtatbn unilA de p ua*aion                                 1SJatw. 2002  PNPP          vait /Arnrtt A/2002/294/tMEFISOa du 22
Nominaion du Coon*wwajeur         ContW A signer                     ,   DPF            Fail fCan  slpt4 en Janv. 2002)
Mise en place du Comdc strabggque de                 Un                bt     de pridai  gn own tcoma cr44 patu La!
disengagenant                                                            sahion fLW     £12001/018J/AN. Apr*s dds4-kL des
Itpdsanios des hutitu_nas cs  fts,
un poset de d'eI caposaM Id CtmhitF
at stmia psur signert)
i Assuror bunsparence dons ks yenles  t   un d  hier de ch        UP/secCtsOn    Un manut, de preadures a dd ekabor4d d
IAssurer bosaec     as$svds       et des procddumrs de prvati-            Cnensefldpi aW                      02
en cours                         sation sousfenne d'ArrweM du              a   s         et efet depis Ja    2002.
Liquidation ou pnueasatnon des 11                                         UP             Bua&taidn des etwpnses par les
aentreprnes                                                                              aut5 at cou. Le rapport d   auataon
est atiendu pour fin Octobre 2002.
S.lgecaton de 1expert en communkanon                                      DNPF           Fait (/apport suar la "mtrdgie de
Croinon dun compte d tu BCRO pour to                                      DN             communk-aon disponible)
:omtposante socials                                                                      Fcd /Cntc  alw. 
I K.  Revue     des    dg4   nm-
publiques 80nffd BduatoJ                                                  Cid de
Vid6oconfrepnce avsc equipe sani4  7DR dfinagiser/ Aplpd    31 Mots 2002 pIe4ige du CAS rak (IDRf tWisEs pour les 2 sectufs/
4ducation pourfinalisation tiste des  d offres 6 labn   pour les          IVIPAS 0       tratux auancds pour Itducttion
probtemes a etudier               deuw seceums                                            U_ #We kcMigu ji _naku#e, par
Educadton                     CWfdaon dian Cbmil de                                   note de sen,c n' 00494 du 7/W0/02.
cad,"a uationauz at                                    PownuLaft de t'*qu4e mflar to ,dhIdOlOSOe
r"isaLon* de ti'dde                                    d4dabravton du RESBN (18 au 23 b eta.
CoRecl des donn*es slatistiquea et
rtdaceion d'une partie dth rappolt
45



Domino. 4. rw4form.         Ream. pivme         seh6sncea     service          But d'ez6cutlon
IVaMblenea A coriger      __                         w      gpolom
SaM6                        Reanancni dun Oabbnd              Qwn de
dWude / ransubon de a             pdbage du CAS SiawW dun C0n*nz de prtion la
RDPdu secwdehasanM                IVIPASS mI     1/i02 I   le lndd Wedi,mi Care
&DvegnAdq 1nhewiWP pour I
rWaaionI de la RDP du swdeur d la
Santi, VaeC fullphOio d'uw dqupe
46



Annexe 2: Allocation budgdtaire enfaueuar des secteurs pnoritaires
2000           2001             2002
Montants I  %   montant,   %    MonMnti     %
LO-o. 000)     1 (000.000)     J 000.000)
Education                                                  I 
litre III       17.052   16,   25.464    17,    32.689    17,
Titre IV        13.6791  23,    16.323   18.    17.834    19,
Total           30.731   18    41.787.   18,    50.523    18,
Tu-te III       3.8081    3,    6.319     4,    19.894!   0,
Titre IV         3.5431   6,1   5.362     6,1   16.4211   18,
Total            7 351    4,    11.681    5.0   36 3153   13,
WEvelop, rural 
Titre III        1.462'   1     3.220     2.    12.0951    6.
T;tre Iv          236i    0,      657     0,       7021   0,
Total            1.69811_       3.877     17    12.797    4,
Ponds routler
'ltre II        13.350,  12,   22.658    IS.    118961     7
Titre IV           80g    0,1      86     0,1        o     ,
Total          _               2 _ _24__ 9 ,    13.8961   4
Urb. et Habitat                                 9 
T Titre Ul             202;    0,      249     0,;      304     0,
Titre IV                  0.       0     0,0       O 
_  Total    ._       2024_      __4_          t      30      0.1
Afraires Sociales       2 
nrtre Hi          925    0O,      961     o,?    1.105     ol
Titre TV          5741    1,0     817     O'       al 8181 
T_toal           1.499    O      1.778 __0
Juetce                     I                    oA
ritre Ill             2.5461          3.008     2.     3.316    1,
Titre IV                140     0.      200    0o,      200     0
Total            2.6861   1     3         1      3.16      1,
Total secteurs CDMT -
Itre IU              40.808    38,   65.099    45,1  94.94     51,
Tztre Nv             18.488   321   24.103,   27',   36.5889   40,0
Total                59.295 1.~      89.22           130 i572  47.
Ensembic budget 
(hors dEp. sEcunte)
7tre IU             106.71S         144.278         1S'.904
ritre Nv            57.657          87.833          91.4231
Total               164.371         232.111         275.3271
47



48












51,: ,  - l , n|
- tLI yJ
RePOrI No.:         25261
Type:     2CR



