Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P 7465 GUI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED FOURTH STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (SAC IV)
OF SDR 39.3 MILLION
(US$50 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
June 20, 2001
Macroeconomics 5
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of April 15, 2001)
Currency Unit       Guinean franc (GNF)
US$ 1.00   =   GNF 1950
SDR 1.00        US$ 1.27
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL           Adaptable program lending
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CIDA          Canadian International Development Agency
CBSDP         Capacity Building for Service Delivery Program
CFAA          Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CPAR          Country Procurement Assessment Report
CPFA          Country Profile of Financial Accountability
CRDs          Communautes rurales de developpement (Rural development communities)
CTS           Comite technique de suivi (Technical Implementation Committee)
DEC           Development Economics Group (of the World Bank)
DNB           Direction nationale du Budget (Directorate of the Budget, MEF)
DNCF          Direction nationale du Controle financier (Directorate of Financial Control, MEF)
DNMP          Direction nationale des Marches publics (Procurement Directorate, MEF)
DNT           Direction nationale du Tresor (Directorate of Treasury Operations, MEF)
ECOMOG        ECOWAS peacekeeping wing
ECOWAS        Economic Community of West African States
ESAF          Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
ESW           Economic and sector work
GDP           Gross domestic product
HIPC          Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
IDF           Institutional Development Fund (of the World Bank Group)
IFC           International Finance Corporation
IGE           Inspection generale d'etat (Governnent inspection/auditing agency)
IGF           Inspection generale des Finances (Inspection/Auditing Directorate of MEF)
I-PRSP        Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
KfW           Kreditanstalt fbr Wiederaufbau (Germany's development agency)
M&E           Monitoring and evaluation
MEF           Ministry of Economy and Finance
MIGA          Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
MTEF          Medium-term expenditure framework
NGO           Non-govermmental organization
NPV           Net present value
OED           Operations Evaluation Department
PDC           Prefectural Development Council
PEMAC         Public Expenditure Management Adjustment Credit
PEIR          Public expenditure and institutional review
PEs           Public enterprises
PFP           Policy Framework Paper
PPF           Project preparation facility
PREM          Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Network of the World Bank
PRGF          Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PRSP          Poverty Reduction Support Strategy Paper
PRSC          Poverty Reduction Support Credit
SAC IV        Fourth Structural Adjustment Credit
QAG           Quality Assurance Group
VCSP          Village Community Support Program
Vice President                   Callisto Madavo, AFRVP
Country Director                 Mamadou Dia, AFCI I
Sector Manager                   Emmanuel Akpa, AFTM5
Task Team Leader                 Brian Ngo, AFTM5



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FOURTH TRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (SAC IV)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Credit and Program Summary ......................                                                                                       I
I.           INTRODUCTION ............................................................1
II.          BACKGROUND  ........................................................... 1
A.   The Country Context ..............................................................................I
B.   Recent Economic and Political Developments ..............................................................................2
C.   Poverty Situation ..............................................................................3
D.   Medium-Term Prospects and Financing Requirements ....................................      ..........................................4
III.  GUINEA'S POVERTY REDUCTION STRATEGY AND AREAS OF WORLD
BANK  SUPPORT  ........................................................... 5
A.   Guinea's Poverty Reduction Strategy ..............................................................................5
B.    The World Bank's Support for Poverty Alleviation through Decentralized Service Delivery ......................................6
C.   The Strategic Context of the Proposed Operation .......................     ............................... . ......................7
IV.          GUINEA PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM ............................................... 9
A .   Introduction  .............................................................................                                9
B.    More Accountable and Efficient Use of Public Resources through the Strengthening of Public Expenditure
Management ........           ..................................................................... 10
C.   More Accountable and Efficient Use of Public Resources in through Decentralization ...................      .......................... 18
D.   Creating the Conditions for Growth through Divestiture .............................................................................  20
V.           THE PROPOSED CREDIT ...........................................................                                          22
A.   Rationale for the Credit ..............................................................................                    22
B.    Actions  Taken  Before  Board  Presentation  .............................................................................  24
C.   Triggers for Continuing Monitoring of the Reform Program ............................................................................. 25
D.   Social Impact Analysis .............................................................................. 25
E.    Ownership of the Reform Program .............................................................................. 26
F.    Monitoring and Evaluation, Disbursement Procedures and Fiduciary Safeguards .                  ..................................................... 26
G.   Benefits and Risks .........        .................................................................... 28
VI.    COORDINATION WITH IMF, AFDB AND OTHER DONORS .......................... 29
VII.    RECOMMENDATION ...........................................................                                                    29
Annexes
1.        Government Letter of Development Policy
2.        Policy Matrix
3.        Country at a Glance
4.        Social Indicators of Development
5.        Key Economic Indicators
6.        Status of Bank Group Operations
7.        Supplemental Credit Data Sheet
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FOURTH STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (SAC IV)
Credit and Program Summary
Borrower            The Republic of Guinea
Amount              SDR 39.3 million (US$50 million equivalent)
Terms               Standard IDA terms (40-year maturity and 10-year grace period)
Program
Objectives          The medium-term reform program initiated under SAC IV is designed to support
the government's interim poverty reduction strategy. It is envisaged that SAC IV
will be followed by Poverty Reduction Support Credits (PRSCs) in later years to
accompany the full Poverty Reduction Support Strategy (PRSP), which is under
preparation. The first phase of this reform program focuses on economy-wide
policy and institutional reforns with a focus on strengthening public expenditure
management and on improving public sector governance as prerequisites to
improving the quality of public service delivery, especially to the poor. This
focus is at the core of IDA's assistance to Guinea. Subsequent phases will
emphasize the deepening of these reforms, strengthening of governance,
improving the economic environment to encourage private sector led investment
and growth, and reforming other sectors, in particular the human development
sectors.
Credit
Description         SAC IV supports the three pillars of Guinea's poverty reduction strategy and
covers the following reforms designed to help improve public services,
strengthen governance, and as a result, improve the environment for investment
and growth. The reforms aim to achieve: (i) more accountable and efficient use
of public resources through improved public expenditure analysis and
management; (ii) more effective government through decentralization of
decision-making and service delivery; and (iii) improved public sector
management and more efficient resource use through divestiture.
Benefits            Successful implementation of the reform program will help reinforce the
government's capacity to improve public service delivery, a key pillar of the
country's poverty reduction strategy, and strengthen governance.  It will
complement and enhance the impact of other Bank interventions, and notably the
Village Community Support Program (VCSP) and Capacity Building for Service
Delivery Program  (CBSDP).  Through its focus on transparency and
accountability in the management of public resources, the proposed operation
will also contribute to restore credibility to public finances, an important factor
for sustained macroeconomic performance.



Fourth Structural Adjustment Credit                                                    ii
Risks               The main risks affecting the reform program are: (i) overall country risk due to
the fragile security situation; (ii) significant shortfalls in revenue mobilization
that would threaten the sustainability of macroeconomic reforms; (iii) inadequate
human and institutional capacity; and (iv) fiduciary risks. Tensions on the border
with Liberia have improved in recent weeks although security-related
expenditures are expected to remain significant in the near to medium term.
Also, the recent release of Alpha Conde, who came second in the last presidential
elections, has helped ease domestic political tensions. On the macroeconomic
front, the government has, under the strong leadership of the Minister of Finance,
managed to reestablish a credible macroeconomic environment under difficult
political and security conditions and in the absence of external budgetary
assistance. Also, the IMF is setting up, under its new program, much stricter
control and an adequate early warning system thus reducing the risk of program
slippages. Regarding capacity, the Capacity Building for Service Delivery, an
Institutional Development Fund grant for governance and integrity reforms, and
additional support from other donors should reduce the risk to acceptable levels.
A recent rapid fiduciary assessment conducted by the Bank has confirmed the
significant progress realized by Guinea in the financial management of public
resources. Additional work on fiduciary assessment will be undertaken in FY02
with the objective of completing the CFAA in early FY03. In addition, reforms
in public sector management, which constitute the bulk of the reform program
covered under SAC IV, will have the impact of further strengthening financial
management and accountability in Guinea.
Disbursements       The proposed credit will be disbursed in one tranche upon credit effectiveness.
Financing Plan      Co-financing by AfDB and Germany/KfW  have been confirmed but actual
amounts to be disbursed in 2001 remain to be finalized.
Report              Not applicable.
Project ID Number   P065128



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
FOURTH STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (SAC IV)
TO THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
I.    INTRODUCTION
1.    I submit for your approval the following Report and Recommendation on the proposed Fourth
Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC IV) to the Republic of Guinea for SDR 39.3 million, the equivalent of
US$50 million. The credit would be on standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity and a 10-year grace
period. The African Development Bank (AfDB) and Gernany (KfW) intend to provide cofinancing to
the proposed reform program.
2.    The proposed SAC IV would provide fast disbursing support to address Guinea's external
financial needs and support a medium-term reform program reflecting the country's poverty reduction
strategy. During the first phase, the reforms aim at strengthening the effectiveness of the public sector's
capacity to deliver basic services in support of poverty reduction and improving the privatization efforts
of the government. It is envisaged that one or several Poverty Reduction Support Credits (PRSC) will
follow the proposed operation in later years in support of the poverty reduction support strategy as
described in the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP), which is under preparation.
3.    The proposed credit is a key element of IDA's country assistance strategy (CAS) discussed at the
Board in December 1997 and of the CAS Progress Report. Guinea's adjustment efforts are also being
supported by a three-year Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF) approved in May 2001. The
proposed credit focuses on step-by-step capacity building and institutional reforms aimed at strengthening
public sector management and governance to improve the quality of public service delivery and creating
the environment for private sector-led growth. The policy reform program to be associated with
subsequent operations will be broadened to include selected sectoral issues drawn from the PRSP agenda.
The medium term reform program, supported by the proposed credit during its first phase, is laid out in
the government's Letter of Development Policy (Annex 1).
4.    Conceived as a forerunner to the PRSCs, the proposed operation will provide Guinea with the
opportunity to first, develop more fully its poverty reduction strategy through a full PRSP and second, to
strengthen its financial management in compliance with fiduciary safeguards required for programmatic
adjustment lending. SAC IV, by providing parallel support to the Fund's PRGF efforts, still should be
seen as supportive of the PRSP effort but is more limited in scope. It would provide resources to ensure
macroeconomic stability so that the government can focus on structural issues and continue moving the
country in the right direction in terms of policy reform. Cofinancing partners of this operation have
agreed to proceed along the same track and have, in principle, committed themselves to providing
budgetary support in the medium term.
II.  BACKGROUND
A.    The Country Context
5.    With the support of the donor community, Guinea has been implementing a program of economic
and financial rehabilitation and liberalization since 1986. After almost 30 years of central planning under
a one-party dictatorship, the Guinean economy was marked, in the late 1980s, by large domestic and



Fourth Structural Adjustment Credit                                                          2
external imbalances, a bloated and inefficient public sector, run-down economic and social
infrastructures, and very little private activity outside mining and agriculture. But, in spite of civil
conflicts in three neighboring countries and the continuing decline in bauxite prices, Guinea's main
export earner, real GDP has grown on average by over 4 percent since 1986 and inflation declined from
65 percent in 1986 to about 5 percent in recent years. Growth in 2000 has been severely affected by
attacks on the border areas with Liberia, which are also Guinea's most important agricultural region. The
external current account deficit has stabilized around 6 to 7 percent of GDP in recent years (see Box 1).
6.     Since 1997, Guinea has been implementing a PRGF program. Adverse external events including
negative terms of trade shocks and large security-related expenditures due to the border conflict have
contributed to slippages in the macroeconomic framework in 1999 and in early 2000. After a period of
consolidation, the review of the third annual ESAF arrangement was finalized in December 2000. Based
on extensive consultations at the grassroots level, the government decided to reorient public spending to
pro-poor sectors in line with its long-term development vision, known as Guinea-Vision 2010. To
support this process, IDA approved in December 1997 a structural adjustment credit to help the
government improve the management of public expenditures.
7.     Governance and transparency. The government has identified poor governance as a major
challenge to its poverty reduction
strateg  and ha  taken  oncreteBox 1. Summary Economic Indicators
strategy and has taken concrete                                          1992    1996    2000
measures to address this problem. Growth and Inflation
After a slow  start, the recently   Real GDP (% change)                    3.0     4.4     1.8
established   National    Anti-  Inflation (CPI, % change)                16.6     5.6      6.8
Corruption Committee has begun   Exports of GNFS (% of GDP)               22.0    17.4    25.9
to play an active role in the drive   Gross domestic investment           14.7    16.4    22.1
toward  better  governance  and  Consolidated Government Operations
integity.  ost  iportatly,Overall deficit (% of GDP)              7.9     6.6      5.4
integrity.   Most  importantly,   Primary balance (% of GDP)27                     66      26
governance issues are now being
discussed openly.  To help fine-  Balance of Payments
tune  the   committee's  action   Current account (% of GDP)              -8.8    -8.5    -6.5
Gross official reserves (in months of imports)  2.3  2.6  1.8
program,  the  government  has   Terms of trade (% change)               -12.2    -3.1   -10.0
decided  to  launch  diagnostic
surveys whose results will contribute to the design and implementation of an anticorruption program. In
the area of public finances, the government has strengthened financial control and public procurement,
adopted a computerized expenditure monitoring system, and has begun to put in place the building blocks
of a medium-term expenditure framework all of which are expected to lead to greater expenditure
efficiency. On the revenue side, the authorities have launched the reorganization of customs and the audit
of customs invoices and procedures and formulated action plans based on completed tax audits of key
public utilities.
B.    Recent Economic and Political Developments
8.     Economic and financial developments in Guinea in the latter half of 1999 and during 2000 were
adversely affected by exogenous developments, including a substantial inflow of refugees into Guinea
and repeated incursions of rebel forces from both Sierra Leone and Liberia. In response, the Guinean
authorities, with encouragement but little financial support from the donor community,' have increased
their contribution to the ECOMOG forces (peacekeeping wing of the Economic Community of West
African States) and redeployed more troops to the borders. The cost of these operations has increased the
strain on Guinea's already weak public finances position. The country also suffered a pronounced
I   Over the 1999-2000 period, Guinea received less than US$5 million of budgetary assistance.



Fourth Structural Adjustment Credit                                                          3
deterioration in its terms of trade over the past 18 months, caused by price declines for bauxite and
alumina, and by the sharp rise in oil prices.
9.     Despite the very limited budgetary resources and the absence of external budgetary support,
Guinea has managed to meet most of its external debt service obligations and, as a result, incurred a net
resource outflow in the past two years. In its efforts to build a track record in its macroeconomic
stabilization program, the government severely curtailed recurrent expenditures during the first half of
2000. An agreement with the joint IMF/World Bank mission in May 2000, which allows for temporary
larger borrowings from the central bank, made it possible for the government to implement a catch-up
program of expenditures for the priority sectors and therefore ensure good budget implementation for
these sectors in fiscal year 2000. The government successfully brought the PRGF program back on track
by September 2000, and took measures to minimize the risk that the slippages of 1999 and 2000 would
not be repeated. However, without external budgetary assistance, the fiscal situation remains particularly
strenuous, as Guinea struggles to ensure debt service payments and spending for social sectors, while
facing security threat on its borders.
10.    On the security front, Guinea has been the target of violent attacks by external forces on the
border with Liberia causing severe human displacement and physical destruction and imposing further
strain on the already inadequate health and social services. Sweeping sanctions by the UN Security
Council on Liberia, which have been in effect since May, have helped reduce the pressure on Guinea's
border areas. On the domestic front, the release of the imprisoned Alpha Conde, who came second in the
previous presidential elections and the appointment of a new Finance Minister with broad authorities and
a strong commitment to the reform program have promoted stability and continuity in policy reforms.
C.    Poverty Situation
11.    The  1994  survey  data
indicated that about 40 percent of      Box 2. Social Development Indicators, 1990 and 1999
the population lived below  the                                        1990         1999 1/
poverty  line,  (equivalent  to                                    Guinea Aver.  Guinea Aver.
US$0.82 per day) and that the                                            for SSA        for SSA
incidence of poverty is twice as   ifeexpectancy (in years)           44      50     46     51
high in rural areas as in urban  Infant mortality (per 1,000 births)  136    100    120     91
centers. But migration of recent Urban population with access to safe  55 2/  47 2/    65   ...
years has led to overpopulated    water (in percent)
towns and cities and to rising  Illiteracy (in percent of population over  76  50    64     42
shortage    of   basic   urban    15)
infrastructure. With the exception    (in percent of school population)  29   76     56     7
of access to safe water, Guinea's        Male                         50      83     72     84
social indicators  are  generally        Female                       19      68     40     69
worse than the average for Sub-   1/1999 or latest available statistic
Saharan Africa. That situation can   2/For 1993, as 1990 data are not available
in  part be  attributed  to  the  Source: Government of Guinea, World Bank, World Development
complete  disarray   of  public  Indicators and world Development Reports
services under the previous centrally planned system, which prevailed until the mid-1980s. During the
1990-2000 period, Guinea experienced great strides in social development, particularly in education, and
managed to significantly reduce the gap relative to the average for Africa (see Box 2). The next
household survey is scheduled to start in the next few months.



Fourth Structural Adjustment Credit                                                       4
D.    Medium-Term Prospects and Financing Requirements
12.   Medium-term prospects. Real GDP growth is projected to average 5.2 percent over the period
2001-2004, resulting in real per capita income increases of about 2.7 percent a year, and average inflation
rate of less than 4 percent. By 2004, total revenue is expected to exceed 15 percent of GDP, compared
with the current level of 1 1. 1 percent. This will provide a larger amount of domestic resources to finance
both poverty reduction activities and a rising share of public investment. As a share of GDP, both
investment and domestic savings are expected to rise with savings increasing slightly more rapidly. As a
result, the current account deficit is projected to improve slightly from 6.7 percent of GDP in 2001. Gross
international reserves are also expected to increase to the equivalent of 2.8 months of imports at the end
of the period.
13.   Impact of enhanced HIPC Initiative assistance. Guinea's eligibility for assistance under the
enhanced HIPC Initiative was confirmed in December 2000. As a result, Guinea's external debt would be
reduced by US$545 million in net present value (NPV) terms, equivalent to US$800 in nominal terms,
bringing the NPV of debt outstanding to 150 percent of exports. Paris Club creditors have also provided
debt relief beyond their assistance under the HIPC Initiative. Guinea's debt service ratio is projected to
decline from 16 percent in 2000 to 8 percent after HMPC debt relief. Using the above assumptions, the
possible cash-flow relief from the interim HIPC debt relief would average about US$53 million per year
(equivalent to 1.8 percent of GDP) for the two years before the completion point, expected in early 2003.
The entire amount of HIPC relief is earmarked for expenditures in the priority sectors (health, education,
rural development, road maintenance, and justice). This would allow the share of non-wage recurrent
expenditures in the priority sectors to rise from 35 percent in 2000 to about 50 percent in 2001 including
HIPC debt relief resources.
14.   Financing requirements. Total financing requirements over the next twelve months, including
the buildup of international reserves and external debt amortization2 before debt relief are projected to be
US$705 million. The financing gap, after committed foreign aid, grants, private investment, and debt
relief from all sources under enhanced HIPC is US$118 million. The residual gap will be financed in part
by the IMF's new PRGF, the European Union, and by the proposed credit and cofinancing. It is estimated
that IDA, through the proposed operation and other project lending, will provide about 20 percent of the
country's external financing requirements over the 2001-02 period.
15.   The resources made available through the proposed operation are also intended to leverage
critical reforms, most of which have a fiscal impact such as increased expenditures for the social sectors
and compensation payments to redundant employees of public enterprises. The additional resources will
help finance service delivery improvement for poverty reduction through larger resources allocated to
primary education, health care and, the divestiture program. Budgetary assistance allows the government
to pursue its efforts in restructuring public expenditures toward priority sectors and maintain a stable
macroeconomic framework by reducing its borrowings from the central bank. Repayment to the central
bank is important for price stability and private sector growth. Without budgetary assistance, progress in
macroeconomic stability and expenditure restructuring run the risk of being rapidly undone, negating the
impact of the hard-won progress of the recent past.
2   This figure excludes debt arrears owed to Russia for which rescheduling has been agreed.



Fourth Structural Adjustment Credit                                                    5
III. GUINEA'S POVERTY REDUCTION STRATEGY
AND AREAS OF WORLD BANK SUPPORT
A.    Guinea's Poverty Reduction Strategy
16.   The Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP), which was discussed by the Board in
December 2000, provides a clear statement of the government's commitment to poverty reduction, within
the broader framework of the Guinea-Vision 2010 document. Prior to the I-PRSP, the most noteworthy
initiatives toward poverty reduction were the formulation of a National Human Development Program in
1995 and the government's active contribution to the definition of a strategic approach to poverty
alleviation reflected in the World Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS, 1998-2000). Both of these
initiatives involved broad consultations with stakeholders.  Since then, the focus has been on
operationalizing these poverty reduction policies by allocating more resources to priority sectors (health,
education, rural development, road maintenance, and justice) and by promoting decentralized service
delivery. Work is continuing to complete the full PRSP for Board presentation in early 2002.
17.   The government's long-term goal is to reduce the incidence of poverty from 40.3 percent in 1995
to 30 percent in 2010. The poverty reduction strategy is based on three main pillars: (i) to sustain faster
economic growth and create income-earning and employment opportunities, particularly for the rural
poor; (ii) to improve and extend access to basic services; and (iii) to improve governance and strengthen
institutional and human capacity. Work is under way to more fully develop the linkages between these
three key components and their poverty reduction impact. A workshop involving broad participation by
representatives of the civil society was organized in mid-July 2001. Results of the workshops will guide
the work of the eight thematic groups working under the National Secretariat for Poverty Reduction. The
key areas concern the sources of and obstacles to private sector led growth, constraints to service delivery,
equity and gender, and practical approaches of stakeholders participation in governance improvement and
capacity strengthening
18.   Increasing economic growth.  Growth impetus in the medium term will come from the
acceleration of development in the rural sector with a more active participation of private sector operators
and from the intensification of mining and mining-related activities (alumina). Thus, raising the
effectiveness of public services in agriculture and making room for a greater role for private operators are
critical. Mining will provide the other key source of growth through the intensification of mining
activities and enhancing of value added from the sector. To encourage the growth and diversification of
the narrow private sector, the government has decided to withdraw its involvement in a broad range of
industrial and commercial activities via its divestiture strategy. It is also seeking to improve the
regulatory framework for public utilities and promote private sector participation in developing these
sectors. Finally, growth will require continuing macroeconomic stability. In particular, with assistance
from the IMF, the government will boost its efforts to raise fiscal revenue to over 15 percent of GOP by
2004. Key measures include a tighter implementation of controls at customs, particularly of exemptions,
and the rigorous implementation of measures based on tax audits of four key public enterprises and of
customs invoices.
19.   Improving access to basic services. The government's poverty reduction strategy emphasizes the
importance of greater efficiency, effectiveness, and equity in the provision of basic public services. The
focus is on bringing services closer to the beneficiaries through decentralization, on greater community
participation, and on the introduction of a medium-term expenditure framework. This strategy calls for
essential reforms in the political, administrative, and fiscal areas together with institutional strengthening
of various levels of government (central government and subnational administrations) and local
communities.



Fourth Structural Adjustment Credit                                                       6
20.   Improving governance. The government's poverty reduction strategy also stresses governance,
improving public resource allocation and management, and strengthening judicial capacity. It has created
a National Anti-Corruption Committee, which, together with other reforms, would help strengthen
personal and institutional accountability within the government.
B.    The World Bank's Support for Poverty Alleviation through Decentralized Service
Delivery
21.   The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for the 1998-2000 period covers largely the same
strategic objectives, namely: (i) the promotion of a broad-based, private sector-led, and equitable growth
with an emphasis on the rural sector; (ii) enhanced decentralized service delivery; and (iii) improved
governance and institutional capacity. The proposed credit was designed under the overall framework
described in the CAS Progress Report, which will be presented to the Board together with the proposed
operation. The Progress Report gives more emphasis to cross-sectoral support for service delivery as the
main instrument of IDA for poverty reduction. In the interim period, in addition to SAC IV, IDA's
assistance also covers a ten-year support for universal education at the primary level, capacity building in
legal and judicial reforms, and reform of the public enterprises sector as the most important areas.
22.   The next CAS, which will be based on the more fully developed poverty reduction strategy of the
final PRSP, will provide a more comprehensive background for the design of follow-up operations. The
latter would constitute the main instrument through which IDA will gradually broaden its intervention in
support of policy measures drawn from the PRSP agenda to accelerate growth, improve service delivery,
and strengthen governance. Follow-up policy-based lending will continue to focus on public sector
management that takes several years to make tangible progress. It will co-exist with a limited number of
consolidated projects providing investment resources and capacity building in key sectors as defined by
the PRSP.
23.   In the current CAS, support for decentralized service delivery was based on the realignment of
financial, human, and institutional capacity resources and delivery mechanisms with the communities as
the focal point. This three-pronged approach to enhancing service delivery is being supported by three
operations3, all designed as programmatic lending activities. The Village Community Support Program
(VCSP) seeks to strengthen local capacity in rural Guinea with the view to promote social and economic
empowerment of the rural population. The Capacity Building for Service Delivery Program (CBSDP)
aims at strengthening the ability and accountability of Government agencies and local organizations to
respond effectively and efficiently to the needs of the rural population. The third leg of this support
program was initiated under the previous adjustment operation, the Public Expenditure Management
Adjustment Credit (PEMAC). The project seeks, inter alia, to facilitate the restructuring of public
expenditures toward priority areas (education, health, rural development, and road maintenance) and to
strengthen budgetary execution and control. Further efforts will be covered under the proposed operation.
24.   Taken together, the various Bank programs will help foster political, administrative, and fiscal
reforms at both the central and decentralized levels. Politically, prefectural development councils (PDCs)
are being established, with membership elected by and accountable to CRDs (Communautes rurales de
developpement or village communities). It is envisaged that PDCs will have the authority to advise on
programs and budget trade-off across CRDs. It is expected that, regional administrations will become
gradually more accountable to these PDCs and not just to the hierarchies of central government as is the
case currently. Administratively, a major initiative is being introduced to shift the accountability of
subnational administrations from the center to local communities. This initiative includes: the revision of
3   For urban areas, the Urban Project (Urban 3) is designed to encourage greater participation of the population
in the provision of key services.



Fourth Structural Adjustment Credit                                                                            7
the administrative framework governing decentralization; capacity building at the prefectural and CRD
levels; participatory mechanisms involving key stakeholders such as parent-teachers associations, health
management committees, and farmers' groups at the point of service delivery; and the introduction of a
performance-incentive system to reward high performing CRDs and teams of public officials at the
prefectural and central levels. On the fiscal front, as a component of the VCSP, a local investment fund
(of US$10 million) has begun operations to support, through matching grants, basic social and
infrastructure projects identified and managed by communities.
Box 3. Development Objectives and Components of the Capacity Building
and Village Communities Support Programs
Capacity Building for Service Delivery Project                      Support Project
Development Obwectives                                Development Obiectives
Long-term development objectives are to:            Project development objectives are to:
*   Strengthen centralized and decentralized        *   Establish an effective and efficient mechanism for
administrative system to provide effective public  transferring funds to local communities for the financing
services to the rural population.                   of priority rural community infrastructure.
*   Empower local agencies and communities to take    *   Improve the regulatory, institutional, and fiscal
charge of their own needs.                          environment and develop local capacity for
decentralized rural development.
*   Rehabilitate and to promote regular maintenance of
community infrastructure and roads.
Proiect Components                                    Proiect Components
1.  Decentralizing public expenditure management to   1.  Local investment fund
ensure adequate and timely funding of public        *   Village Investment Fund: Financing  of basic
services at the front line.                             infrastructure in about 70 village communities
through a matching grant system.
11. Decentralizing institutional accountability and     *   An Innovation Fund to investigate on a limited
capacity for service delivery to local agencies and     scale, other types of micro-projects and improved
communities:                                            procedures.
*   Revise the roles, structures, and staffing
pattern  of central departments, regional  11. Support to local development
authorities, prefectural administrations, and  *   Improvement and implementation of the legal
village   communities  to  support  the            framework for decentralization.
decentralization strategy.                     *   Studies and reforms in fiscal decentralization.
*   Strengthen the ability of central departments,  *   Capacity building for decentralization (Ministry for
sector agencies, regional authorities, and         Decentralization, deconcentrated public agencies,
prefectural administration to support and to be    and village communities).
accountable to local communities.              *   Awareness raising and information campaign.
*   Strengthen the capacity of village
communities to provide services to rural   111. Rehabilitation and maintenance of rural roads
populations and to represent their interests at  *   Design and implementation of a strategy for rural
the Prefectural Development Councils.              road maintenance.
*   Institutional support for local infrastructure.
111.  Introducing a performance-based incentive         *   Rehabilitation, periodic maintenance, and spot
system.                                                improvements of the priority rural road network.
C.      The Strategic Context of the Proposed Operation
25.     The proposed project is designed to perform  four strategic functions. First, it helps link separate
existing operations into a more effective framework of reform designed to support one of the pillars of the
government's I-PRSP, which is to improve access to basic services. Second, it sets out an overall
framework in which reforms in governance and public sector management work in a coherent manner to
further the objectives of poverty reduction. Third, the proposed operation helps identify and initiate work
on critical gaps to be filled in preparation for one or more follow-up operations, which will follow this
operation to accompany the government's poverty reduction strategy. And fourth, to identify and initiate
work on critical gaps such as fiduciary safeguards.



Fourth Structural Adjustment Credit                                                     8
26.   The objectives and content of the proposed project address themes consistent with other IDA
support, such as the Village Community Support Program (VCSP) and the Capacity Building for Service
Delivery Program (CBSDP). Key linkages between the proposed credit and ongoing IDA operations are
briefly highlighted below. First, by focusing on strategic decisions concerning budget allocations and
implementation both at the central and at decentralized levels, the reform program helps to elevate the
issues of fiscal and administrative decentralization to the level of the entire cabinet. This will mitigate the
risk of insufficient government commitment to decentralization, which was identified as a critical risk to
the success of both the VCSP and the CBSDP. Second, by taking a service delivery focus to public sector
management, the reform program also complements efforts to empower local communities by the VCSP
and CBSDP and helps to develop voice and partnership. Third, efforts to devolve budgetary resources to
decentralized entities such as schools and health clinics would help raise the incentives of local
communities to be more involved in the monitoring of service delivery and, in the process, in their own
institutional development.
27.   By combining changes in the rules and restraints within the public sector and realigning fiscal and
administrative processes to support devolved authority and decentralized communities, IDA's support sets
an overall framework combining governance and public sector management to promote poverty
reduction. This will be achieved in a sequential approach. In the short term, the focus on internal
accounting, monitoring, and auditing with greater decentralization of resources to local agencies would
improve budget transparency and hold local public agencies accountable for their use of resources. As
capacity develops, the strengthening of oversight bodies, community empowerment, and the gradual
introduction of a medium-term expenditure framework, would gradually move the emphasis toward
performance-based management with a stronger focus on sectoral priorities and reforms.
D.    Lessons from Past Adjustment Experiences and Credit Design
28.   The design of the proposed operation has benefited from  experience with Guinea's past
performance drawn from OED's Evaluation Summary of the previous adjustment operation and from
QAG's rapid quality-at-entry assessment. Lessons were also drawn from assessment of Bank-wide
adjustment lending by OED and DEC. This accumulated experience points to six lessons. First, the need
to ensure that the lending instrument emphasizes the longer-term institutional concern of behavioral
changes in public expenditure management. Second, capacity building support must be given adequate
attention for sustained efforts at institution building. Third, the need to move from a narrow and
technocratic view of public sector reforms to a broader system that involves key stakeholders both in the
design and implementation of the reform program. Fourth, in the context of weak institutional capacity
and governance as in Guinea, public expenditure management reforms must be conceived in the broader
context of governance strengthening.  Fifth, sustained institutional reforms require a credible
macroeconomic framework. And sixth, the need to accompany reforms in internal rules and procedures
of public sector management and in intersectoral budget allocations with intersectoral strategic
prioritization.
29.   First, while traditional adjustment lending is generally more effective than technical assistance
projects on systemic institutional reforms, the previous adjustment operation, the Public Expenditure
Management Adjustment Credit (PEMAC), suffers from  its short time frame.  Furthermore,
macroeconomic slippages have given prominence to short-term crisis management instead of the longer-
term institutional reform agenda. To make matters worse, the slippages have also delayed external
budgetary assistance, making an already complex adjustment reform program even more intricate to
implement. The programmatic approach, consisting of the proposed credit to be followed by one or more
follow-up operations, is expected to correct this shortcoming.
30.   Second, the implementation of PEMAC suffered greatly from the long delay of capacity building
assistance that was originally expected to be on-stream to accompany the adjustment operation. Since



Fourth Structural Adjustment Credit                                                    9
then, the Capacity Building for Service Delivery Project has been approved and is being implemented
(see Box 3 for more details). The adequacy of institutional support will be reviewed on a regular basis.
Third, a limitation of the design of PEMAC is the insufficient effort given to creating a critical mass of
checks and balances to strengthen accountability. Limited available information, the legacy of a centrally
planned economy -- the first budget was only prepared beginning in 1988 -- made it difficult to
effectively involve the participation of the civil society in the budget process. Recent efforts toward
transparency with the dissemination of important information on the budget process and the creation of
the National Anti-Corruption Committee have made of corruption and fraud an open issue. In addition,
the broad-based consultations in the design of the poverty reduction strategy have helped prepare the
terrain, giving the civil society a greater role. Fourth, instead of focusing on the symptoms of public
sector inefficiency, as was done under the previous adjustment operation, SAC IV gives more emphasis to
the broader issues of transparency and accountability, which are expected to yield more long-lasting
impact on public sector reforms.
31.   Fifth, a credible macroeconomic framework is critical for the success of public resource
management reforms. PEMAC, which was designed to improve allocative efficiency by restructuring
public expenditures toward four priority areas, only partially achieved the desired results. Due to revenue
shortfalls and to increased security-related expenditures, actual spending in priority sectors declined in
1999 compared to 1998. This poor perforrnance can also be attributed to the temporary suspension of the
IMF program in 1999 and in 2000, causing in turn the deferral of external budgetary support by other
donors. The experience of the implementation of public sector reforms in Guinea in 1998-2000 under
PEMAC is a good illustration of the dilemma facing the government in attempting to achieve both
macroeconomic stabilization and structural shifts of budgetary resources toward priority sectors. The
projected significant increase in revenue (equivalent to 3 percentage points of GDP between 2001 and
2004) and a closer monitoring of key economic aggregates by the IMF, including detailed monthly cash
budgets, are expected to reduce the risk of macroeconomic slippages. As well, it is expected that a
medium-term approach to extemal budgetary support by the Bank and its cofinanciers would, by ensuring
funding predictability, sharply reduce the risk of macroeconomic instability brought about by revenue
shortfalls.
32.   Lastly, while intersectoral allocations of resources toward poverty-reducing priority sectors will
continue to play a prominent role in the context of the PRSP, performance-based outcomes will require
clear intrasectoral priorities. This will be achieved through public expenditure and institutional reviews
for key sectors. In subsequent operations, the role of the state will also be reviewed and would lead to
important policy reforms such as the restructuring of the ministry of agriculture and the
commercialization of road maintenance.
IV. GUINEA PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM
A.    Introduction
33.   Guinea's institutional and policy reforms in the medium term are driven by the poverty reduction
strategy. As spelled out in detail in the Letter of Development Policy (Annex 1) and the Policy Reforms
Matrix (Annex 2), the objectives of Guinea's reform program in the near term are (i) to consolidate
macroeconomic stability as a prerequisite to sustainable growth with the support of the PRGF and (ii) to
improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the public sector, enhance the quality of public services
through reforms focusing on strengthening public expenditures analysis and management, promote public
sector governance, decentralize budgetary resources and decision-making, and rationalize the interactions
between the public and private sector.



Fourth Structural Ad.ustment Credit                                                    10
34.   Sequencing.  The reform program supported by SAC IV and subsequent operations will
contribute to all three pillars of the government's poverty reduction strategy that are: (i) to sustain faster
economic growth and create income-earning and employment opportunities, particularly for the rural
poor; (ii) to improve and extend access to basic services; and (iii) to improve governance and to
strengthen institutional and human capacity. The proposed SAC IV will focus on points (ii) and (iii).
Measures aimed at promoting growth will receive more attention in subsequent operations as the
government's strategy in this area becomes more fully developed in the full PRSP.
35.   Focus on Crosscutting Issues and Cross-sectoral Collaboration. The proposed operation is
designed to avoid duplicating efforts undertaken elsewhere in the CAS to improve the quality of
education and health care or promote agricultural growth and diversification. Instead, SAC IV will focus
on crosscutting issues involving public sector management and governance and cover such issues as
budgetary resource allocations, public procurement, financial management, and fiscal relations between
the central and local governments. Issues of internal efficiency of education, health or rural development
will continue to be handled by the respective sectoral projects to avoid unnecessary overlapping. Close
coordination will be ensured between the Bank's team preparing this credit and the team working with the
government on the PRSP. On the government side, both of these activities are managed by the same
team, the National PRSP Secretariat, ensuring full complementarity between these two activities.
36.   The remainder of this section will discuss the government reform program that covers three
interrelated areas, which are summarized in Box 4 and how the proposed credit supports the government's
objectives in these areas.  The proposed credit will primarily support reforms to strengthen the
management of the public sector and governance, which constitute the critical first step in improving the
efficiency of public service delivery. The first sub-component focuses on the strengthening of public
expenditures management, covering the conventional areas of budget formulation, execution, reporting,
and monitoring but also areas of transparency and accountability.  The second sub-component
concentrates on reforms on the decentralization of resources and decision-making. The third sub-
component puts the emphasis on the privatization efforts of the government, to improve resource use and,
more importantly, to provide opportunities for private sector development in areas traditionally dominated
by public enterprises.
B.    More Accountable and Efficient Use of Public Resources through the Strengthening
of Public Expenditure Management
37.   Background. There has been a steady evolution in the government of Guinea's approach to
budgetary management in the second half of the 1980s with the support of IDA-funded Public
Expenditure Management Adjustment Credit (PEMAC) and of other donors. Starting with fiscal year
1998, the government began to reorient public resources toward four priority areas (education, health,
rural development, and road maintenance). As a result, the share of non-wage recurrent expenditures
allocated to the priority sectors rose from 27 percent in 1997 to 35 percent in fiscal year 2001; including
debt relief under the HIPC Initiative, the share accruing to priority sectors reached over 50 percent of the
total recurrent budget in 2001. In spite of unforeseen security-related expenditures following border
attacks from Liberia, which have complicated budgetary management, the government has continued its
policy to allocate larger shares of the budget to priority sectors. At the same time, the government
adopted a cash budget mechanism designed to hold aggregate spending to the level of actual revenue.
The combination of these instruments, while reflecting only a partial medium-term expenditure
framework, has helped protect non-wage priority spending in the context of severe resource constraints,
as was the case in 2000. This approach has also facilitated the process of allocating resources made
available to Guinea under the HIPC debt relief process.



Fourth Structural Adjustment Credit                                                                      11
Box 4. Guinea's Reform Program Supported by SAC IV
POLICY OBJECrIVES        REFORM AREAS                                      PRIORIIES
More accountable and  *  Resource allocations   *  Align public expenditures with I-PRSP priorities by raising shares of
efficient use of public                            priority sectors
resources through
strengthening of    *  Budget formulation       *  Link realistic multi-year resource projections with sector ministries budget
public expenditure      (gradual introduction of a  ceilings
management              medium-term expenditure  *  Strengthen preparation of capital budget: harmonize/streamline procedures
framework)                 and responsibilities for donor financed projects; create a new Investment
and Public Debt Directorate
* Undertake public expenditure and institutional reviews in key sectors as
basis for sectoral strategies
*  Budget execution        *  Institute quarterly Cabinet-level reviews of budget execution and
disseminate key results widely
* Reduce delays in budget execution through a more systematic use of the
financial management information system
* Monitor and reduce variance between budget allocations and actual
spending
*  Produce ex-post audits of investment projects and take corrective measures
* Strengthen asset inventory and management
* Strengthen oversight agencies
*  Performance reporting   *  Produce, on a timely basis, audited budget accounts
and monitoring         *  Disseminate results widely
*  Effectiveness in public    *  Initiate service delivery surveys
spending               *  Produce and disseminate performance indicators
*  Transparency and        *  Publish citizen's guide on the budget.
accountability of public   *  Produce ex-post audits of government procurement contracts and take
spending                   sanctions and corrective measures
More accountable and  *  Resource allocations to    *  Increase budgetary resources to decentralized structures
effective govemment     decentralized levels    *  Increase the share of local revenues accruing to local govemments
through                                         *  Increase operational staff at subnational levels for education and health
decentralization of
budget resources,   *  Financial management at  *  Disseminate information on budget allocations directly to schools and
decision-making, and    decentralized levels       health clinics
service delivery                                *  Initiate tracking surveys
* Reorganize MEF at local levels
*  Extend computer-based monitoring to subnational administrations
Improved public     *  Divestiture strategy    *  Adopt comprehensive public enterprise reform strategy
sector management                               *  Liquidate selected public enterprises (PEs)
and environment for                             *  Offer for sale of identified PEs
private sector led                              *  Adopt and fund a social program for the
growth through
divestiture program  *  Legal and institutional    *  Adopt new privatization law
framework for          *  Create a new Privatization Unit
privatization
*  Financial management of  *  Monitor, on a regular basis, cross-debts situation and take corrective
public enterprises sector  measures
38.    Guinea's government financial management structure is based on the French government tradition
that includes strong centralized budget preparation and control and a powerful role for the Ministry of
Finance. Added to this is the opacity of public accounting, a legacy of the pre-1984 period central
economic planning.   Also, until the current fiscal year, all government programs are centrally



Fourth Structural Adjustment Credit                                                      12
administered from Conakry. In the past few years, the structure of the budget has been substantially
revised and simplified with the support and encouragement of the World Bank and the IMF. Most
noteworthy were the efforts to reduce the number of steps in budget execution and to sharply reduce the
share of what is known as "collective appropriations" that are resources controlled and spent by the
Budget Directorate on behalf of the entire government.
39.   The accounting and control system has recently been computerized with assistance from the
Bank, the EU, and bilateral donors. The new system became fully operational in October 2000 and
covers all aspects of budget execution, from commitment to payments. This system would make it
impossible to commit funds in excess of original appropriations. Also, computer-based recording of
budget transactions will make it possible to expedite the preparation of audited budget accounts by the
National Directorate of Treasury Operations. A rapid fiduciary assessment4 undertaken recently as a first
step toward a full Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) confirms that the accounting
system is working satisfactorily.
40.   Since 1996, the government has also implemented measures to improve the transparency and
efficiency of public procurement. With support from the Bank, the government has adopted a new
procurement code and new guidelines aimed at simplifying the mechanisms for awarding and signing of
contracts and making payments, and establishing a more transparent environment with the publication of
the procurement newsletter that provides regular information on bidding opportunities and contract
awards. A new computerized system for tracking and monitoring government contracting has been set up
and training has been provided on procurement related issues. As a result of these reforms, the time
required to prepare bidding documents, evaluate bids, finalize contracts, and proceed with payments have
been significantly shortened5. Reforms in procurement have sharply reduced the number of contracts
awarded without competitive bidding to less than 15 percent in 1999.
41.   Issue #1: Weaknesses in budgetformulation. Although the current budget process has yielded
fair results in terms of strategic allocations and a sharper focus on priority sectors, it has remained
predominantly focused on inputs and implementation rather than on the results of policies, programs, and
projects. The focus on inputs is partly the legacy of heavy ex-ante financial control typical of the old
French tradition. It is also the consequence of weaknesses in revenue projections that systematically
imposed downward revisions of budgetary resources at mid-year reviews. Thus, the system does not
provide a solid basis to elaborate and implement sectoral strategies. Given Guinea's weak institutional
capacity and fragile macroeconomic environment, the focus on inputs may be justified. But, the effective
implementation of the poverty reduction strategy will require a major effort toward output indicators and
a major overhaul of the budget formulation process.
42.   In spite of the larger amount of budgetary resources allocated to priority sectors, conflicts
between resource needs and availability have not been resolved. Addressing sectoral priorities in a
strategic manner by prioritizing needs and making them consistent with available resources will require a
medium-term expenditure framework and an integrated sector approach. Key sectors such as primary
education and public health have begun to adopt an integrated sector approach to planning although more
efforts are clearly needed.
43.   Currently, budget allocations to priority sectors have been limited to non-wage recurrent
expenditures; the investment budget and the wage bill will continue to be treated separately and are not
part of the sectoral expenditure programs. Obstacles to the incorporation of the investment budget in
4   World Bank, Guinea - Rapid Fiduciary Assessment (May 2001, draft).
5   See World Bank, Guinea-Public Procurement Reform (IDF Grant TF27537): Completion Memorandum
(Dec. 18, 2000).



Fourth Structural Adjustment Credit                                                      13
overall resource allocations are numerous.  First, implementation and monitoring procedures of
investment projects, most of which funded by external sources, vary enormously depending on the source
of funding. Second, the lack of clearly defined roles of the various Government agencies involved in the
preparation, implementation, and supervision of the investmnent budget has led to much confusion. In
order to overcome these shortcomings and consolidate the capital and recurrent budgets into the medium-
term expenditure framework, the government and the donor community will need to implement important
institutional reforms. For the donor community, sharing information on project implementation and
harmonizing implementation procedures constitute fundamental actions.
44.    While the Civil Service Ministry has begun putting together the building blocks of a long-term
administrative reform, a number of important initiatives are taking place in key sectors to introduce
greater flexibility in the management of personnel. In the health sector, new hiring of nurses will be
location-specific. This measure should help reduce rigidity in the allocation of personnel countrywide;
since under current civil service regulations, nurses and midwives whose spouses are also civil servants
posted in Conakry, the capital city, are entitled to remain in the city. As well, programs aiming at
contracting out basic health care services to private providers will add another element of flexibility in
personnel management in the sector.  Privatizing health care services at the local level (based on a
standardized minimum package of care) would make it possible to rapidly expand health care in a
relatively short time without sharply raising the number of government employees. In the education
sector, in order to promote a more equitable distribution of teachers among the different regions, various
options are being considered to decentralize salary budgets for teachers by prefectures.
45.   In the agricultural sector, the government will undertake a review of the respective roles of the
public sector and other participants (private sector, producers' associations, NGOs) as the basis to
restructure the Ministry of Agriculture. Finally, under the Capacity Building for Service Delivery
Program, a performance-based system is being implemented on a pilot basis to reward high performing
units or groups. These new initiatives that affect key sectors will provide the basis for the gradual
introduction of a performance-based approach to civil service reforms. According to current government
thinking, the Guinean administration will have two categories of staff: (i) those who opt to participate in a
performance-based system characterized by more stringent recruitment and performance criteria and
higher total emoluments (including bonuses) and (ii) those who decide to remain in the traditional civil
service and be subjected to limited career advancement as well as to lower overall salary packages.
Discussions are underway for the creation of an award fund to encourage the movement of civil servants
to the performance-based management system.
46.    Government reform strategy and SAC IV support. The government has assessed weaknesses in
budget formulation and has adopted a multi-year reform process. Key areas include:
*  Reforming the budget formulation process, taking a medium-term approach;
*  Improving medium-term  assessment of resource availability and providing three-year
indicative ceilings to priority line ministries linked to annual budgets as key elements of a
medium-term expenditure framework (MTEF);
*  Undertaking, in collaboration with other stakeholders, public expenditure analysis and
institutional reviews for key sectors to help set sectoral priorities; and
*  Improving management of donor assistance, ensuring coherence between projects and
policies, and linking the public investment program (PIP) to the recurrent budget.
47.   SAC IV measures. In order to reach the above objectives, the government has initiated an
explicit medium-term perspective to budget formulation. To strengthen budget preparation, besides the
determination of a multi-year fiscal framework that was prepared in collaboration with the IMF, the
government has already launched the budget preparation cycle for FY02. The budget circular, with multi-
year ceilings for ministries and agencies, was endorsed by the cabinet before distribution to sector



Fourth Structural Adjustment Credit                                                      14
ministries. Priority sectors were also requested to submit budget requests for two fiscal years, 2002 plus a
forward year. To ensure that future budget discussions will focus on the links between sectoral priorities
and requested budget allocations, a training workshop has been organized to launch public expenditure
and institutional reviews in the two key sectors of education and health. All priority sectors have been
asked to initiate policy reviews to derive clear statements of objective and expenditure priorities in
preparation of the 2002 budget. Work is also underway to review the institutional set up for the
preparation, implementation, and monitoring of the investment budget with the view to create a unique
agency, the Directorate of Public Investment and Debt.
48.   Expected results. By the end of the reform progran covered by SAC IV, Guinea expects to
achieve the following:
*  A further increase in non-wage recurrent expenditures allocated to priority sectors from the
current level of 35 percent of the total;
*  A better enforcement of sectoral budget ceilings, which should strengthen aggregate fiscal
discipline;
*  Completed public expenditure and institutional reviews for education and health which would
provide clearly articulated priorities; and
*  The adoption of key features of a medium-term expenditure framework (MTEF).
49.   Medium-term benchmarks.  In the medium term, successful implementation of the reform
agenda supported by the proposed credit and subsequent operations will be reflected by: (i) an increase in
the share of total expenditures allocated to directly poverty reducing sectors; (ii) clearly articulated
strategies for at least four priority sectors, taking into account inputs from stakeholders; (iii) the
preparation of a MTEF covering the period 2003-05 that includes both the recurrent and capital budgets;
and (iv) evidence of stronger coordination of donor assistance and of capacity to keep track of how much
donors have spent and what the funds have been spent on.
50.   Issue #2.  Weaknesses in budget execution. In the past few years, budget execution has
improved thanks to the simplification of procedures and the setting up of a computer-based system that
helps monitor the management of expenditures. However, to avoid slippages that have, in the past,
derailed the macroeconomic framework, the government continues to give more attention to overall fiscal
aggregates at the expenses of sectoral budget execution.  Also, because of revenue shortfalls,
appropriations have often been revised downward during mid-year review of the budget. These practices
have reduced the accountability of sectoral staff in budget execution and downplayed concerns about
expenditure outcomes. The computer-based monitoring system has proven to be a reliable accounting
system in support of budget execution. However, the system has not been used to identify blockages in
budget execution nor has it been used to help highlight divergences between budget outtums and original
allocations. In part because of its newness, information from the system has not been shared widely to
sectoral staff or other stakeholders.
51.   The management of public investment has a problematic track record6. With over 80 percent of
investment expenditures externally funded, procurement and payment of investment expenditures are not
centrally managed by the Ministry of Finance but are instead, handled by donor agencies and line
ministries.  Procurement and payment procedures also vary widely across donors.  Payment of
expenditures covered by the government managed national investment budget is cumbersome because of
the many layers of authorizations, particularly for local currency funds generated by commodity
assistance. On the government side, the absence of clearly defined responsibilities between the various
6   For more details on weaknesses in the management of the investment budget, see World Bank, Public Investment Review
(May 1998, unpublished)



Fourth Structural Adjustment Credit                                                   15
agencies of the Ministry of Finance and the line ministries further complicates the situation. Thus,
whereas donors are supposed to provide financial information related to projects, the data is often
incomplete or only available after long delays.
52.   On public procurement, the revision of the procurement code together with the setting up of a
computer-based system, staff training, and the regular publication of a procurement newsletter that
provides information on new bids and contracts have vastly improved the situation. Most notably, the
share of government procurement contracts subject to tenders has risen to over 85 percent in recent years
and the average period between the initial call for bids to signing of contracts has been significantly
reduced. However, in spite of all these improvements, government procurement still suffers from a
number of weaknesses. First, there are continuing reports of irregular practices such as the negotiations
on prices or quantities after the contracts have been awarded. Second, control on the legitimacy of
suppliers is nonexistent and many do not meet the minimum conditions imposed by the government for
their participation in bidding for government contracts. And third, the procurement code is only
applicable to central government's purchases; procurement by public enterprises is not subject to the same
procedures.
53.   The government has also identified asset registry and management as another important weakness
in public expenditure management. While procedures are generally respected for the verification of
delivery of goods, there is no established system to manage the stock of goods purchased by the
government. This situation has led to weak control against theft and abuse by government officials. The
need to strengthen asset and inventory management is further heightened by the decentralization of
budget management, with a much larger number of people involved in budget execution.
54.   Government reform strategy and SAC IV support. Key areas identified by the government for
enhancing budget execution include the following:
=  Instituting quarterly cabinet-level reviews of budget execution and disseminating key
results to the national assembly, the local media, and donor representatives;
-  Reducing delays in budget execution through a more critical use of data provided by the
financial management information system;
*  Monitoring the variance between original budget allocations and actual spendings,
beginning with priority sectors;
e  Initiating ex-post audits of investment projects;
*  Adopting new measures to strengthen asset and inventory management;
*  Undertaking ex-post audits of all procurement contracts exceeding GNF150 million and
15 percent, on a sampling basis, of all other contracts;
*  Adopting sanctions for unlawful practices in the management of procurement contracts
applicable to both government officials and suppliers; and
*  Reinforcing the conditions to participate in public tenders and as a result, restricting
participation to legitimate suppliers.
55.   SAC IV measures. In support of its program aiming at improving governance and strengthening
transparency in the management of fiscal affairs, the government has organized the first cabinet level
review of budget execution covering the first six months of fiscal year 2001. Besides aggregate
information on fiscal accounts, execution of the budget for priority sectors was reviewed and the
information disseminated widely to the public via the local media. Work is under way to adapt the
computer-based budget monitoring system to help identify areas of blockages in the execution of the
budget. The government has recently issued a decree on ex-post audits of procurement contracts together
with details on the sanctions, which includes dismissal for repeated offenders of unlawful practices in
procurement contracts applicable to government officials and cancellation of the right to bid applicable to



Fourth Structural Adjustment Credit                                                    16
suppliers. An audit fund with contributions from IDA and other donors has been created to finance the
audits. Also, procedures for asset and inventory management are being reviewed with the aim to
strengthen them.
56.   Expected results. By the end of the medium-term reform program, Guinea expects to achieve the
following:
*  Timely production and dissemination of quarterly reports on budget execution. In line
with one of the recommendations of the recently completed Rapid Fiduciary Assessment,
the government will begin to issue, starting in 2002, a budget citizens' guide to help
inform the public of key government initiatives in the area of budget and public
expenditure management;
*  Production of report on the first round of ex-post procurement audits;
* A further increase in the percentage of government spending subject to open tenders;
*  Shortfalls in budget execution, that have happened frequently in the past, would be
identified sufficiently in advance to allow corrective measures;
* Government procurement will become more transparent and cost effective. Sanctions
would have been applied to correct and minimize the extent of unlawful practices made
explicit in procurement; and
*  Improvement in the management of the investment budget.
57.   Medium-term benchmarks.  In the medium term, successful implementation of the reform
agenda is expected to lead to: (i) improved budget preparation, execution, and reporting which will
become a much more open process, promoting greater fiscal transparency and making a major
contribution to the cause of good governance; (ii) a well performing accounting system which produces
timely and reliable data necessary for budget management, including spending at the decentralized level;
(iii) the capacity for the Government to monitor, on a regular basis, financial disbursement on projects
and their physical implementation; (iv) the availability of information required for an effective
consolidation of the recurrent and investment budgets in the context of the MTEF; (v) the application of
the procurement code to public enterprises; and (vi) the availability of asset and inventory management
information in key priority ministries.
58.   Issue #3: Weaknesses in auditing and monitoring. The French tradition of public expenditure
management relies on heavy ex-ante financial control and the separation of commitment authority from
payment authority. Ex-post controls are traditionally less comprehensive and are focused primarily on
compliance with procedures. In Guinea, as in most other French-speaking countries in the sub-region,
external auditing is non-existent; besides, there is no equivalent to an auditor general with wide auditing
powers who is independent of the executive. Internal audits within spending ministries are generally not
done. Also, internal auditing has been limited to compliance with budget appropriations; there is no
performance auditing to assess whether public funds purchase value for money.
59.   In line with the classic French model, Guinea has a control system consisting of three basic
oversight agencies: (i) the General State Inspectorate (Inspection generale de V 'Etat or IGE); (ii) the
General Inspectorate of the Ministry of Finance (Inspection gdnerale des Finances or IGF); and (iii) the
public accounts division of the Supreme Court (la Chambre des comptes or Accounts Chamber). To these
should be added the Finance and Economic Commission of the National Assembly, which exercises a
budgetary oversight function for the legislative branch. The aforementioned agencies monitor and
evaluate results on an ex-post basis while the Financial Control Directorate of the Ministry of Finance
does ex-ante control of commitment. Whereas the responsibilities of the Financial Control Directorate
and of the Accounts Chamber are reasonably clear, there is a need to clarify the roles of the other



Fourth Structural Adjustment Credit                                                    17
oversight agencies. Also, weak capacity and the lack of resources have hampered the impact of their
actions.
60.   Auditing of budget accounts, with a focus on whether public funds have been spent for the
purposes for which they were designated, is relatively new in Guinea. Under the previous adjustment
operation, the government, with assistance from France, has produced draft audited accounts for fiscal
years 1996 and 1997. The Ministry of Finance reconciles the consolidated revenue and payments
accounts and prepares the consolidated status on expenditures by line ministry. These consolidated
accounts together with the supporting documents (mainly evidence of revenue collection and payments)
are then submitted to the public accounts division of the Supreme Court, known as the Accounts
Chamber, for review with a primary focus on conformity considerations. The certified public accounts
(known as la Loi de reglement) are then submitted to the National Assembly for review and endorsement.
61.   Before the computer-based system was operational, there was no systematic basis to monitor
payments in a timely fashion. This state of affairs has caused along delays in the preparation of audited
budget accounts. Because not all supporting documents were available, the draft budget accounts for
1996 and 1997 were not certified by the Accounts Chamber and therefore were not approved by the
National Assembly. The accounts for 1998 and 1999 suffered similar drawbacks. But beginning 2000,
real time availability of budget execution information will enable Guinea to produce its public accounts
on a more timely basis.
62.   Government reform strategy and SAC IV support. Demands from the legislative branch for
audited budget accounts together with the more recent attention on good governance with the creation of a
National Anti-Corruption Commission have created the environment for more focus on strengthening
auditing. Key areas of reform in the medium term include:
* The production and dissemination, on a timely basis, of audited budget accounts;
* The reassessment of the roles of the various oversight agencies with the view to
strengthen the existing system. The government is also considering the option of
establishing the position of an auditor general to strengthen external audits; and
- Capacity building for these agencies. The Bank is currently undertaking the preparation
of capacity support to the oversight agencies through an IDF grant.
63.   SAC IV measures. The government has produced the audited budget accounts for fiscal year
1998 and is working on finalizing the audited accounts for 1999 by September of this year. It is expected
that the audited accounts for fiscal year 2002 will be submitted to the National Assembly together with
the budget proposal for fiscal year 2000. Technical and institutional capacity of the Accounts Chamber
has been strengthened by the appointment of experienced personnel from the Ministry of Finance to this
oversight agency. To facilitate the Chamber's task of checking some 200,000 supporting documents that
are sent yearly in support of the audited budget accounts, the government has begun to submit supporting
documents on a quarterly basis. Together with the production and dissemination of a citizens' guide on
the 2002 budget, results of fiscal year 2000 audited accounts will also be made available to the public.
64.   Expected results. By the end of the medium-term reform program, the following results are
expected:
* The timely production and dissemination of audited budget accounts that will be made
available within nine months after the end of the previous fiscal exercise;
* More intensive and detailed discussions of the results of previous budget execution by the
National Assembly;
* Stronger internal and external auditing capacity; and



Fourth Structural Adjustment Credit                                                         18
*  Improved standards and procedural norms for basic financial accounting.
65.    Medium-term  benchmarks.  In the medium term, successful implementation of the reform
agenda will lead to timely auditing of government accounts and the development of sufficient capacity in
the legislature to review results of these audits leading to more accountability of those involved in budget
management.
C.    More Accountable and Efficient Use of Public Resources in through
Decentralization
66.    Background. As in many other African countries, Guinea has embarked on a decentralization
process initiated in 1986 together with economic and political liberalization.  As a result, state
administration has been reorganized into three levels: 7 administrative regions, 33 prefectures, and 302
sub-prefectures. In 1990, village communities (Communautes rurales de developpement or CRDs),
groupings of two to ten rural districts located around a main village, were formed in rural areas. The
current configuration of local governments is a two-tier system with 38 urban municipalities and 303
CRDs. CRDs and municipalities are subdivided into districts and urban blocks, respectively. District and
urban block council members are directly elected. These, in turn, elect council members of the
municipalities and CRDs. The last round of local elections took place in 2000.
67.    Under the Ministry of Territorial Administration and Decentralization (MTAD), regions,
prefectures, and sub-prefectures are field representatives of the state administration. In terms of authority,
the prefecture is the key entity of administrative supervision, since most human and financial resources
have been assigned to this level. The prefecture, in particular, plays the important role of coordinating
public services provided by the various technical ministries. From a political perspective, deconcentrated
state administration structures have the responsibility to ensure the conformity of local decisions to
national interests and laws. The degree of political centralization is high and prefectures still hold
significant powers including a priori control and suspension of decisions made by the councils of
municipalities and CRDs.
68.    CRDs and municipalities have been granted limited statutory and executive powers through
elected bodies. However, the autonomy of local governments is limited to areas of specific local interest
and constrained by their capacity to mobilize their own resources. CRDs' and municipalities' revenues
come from two main sources: (1) a head tax (IMDL) of GNF 2000 per person and (2) various local taxes
and fees of which the most significant ones being the real estate tax (CFU) and taxes on liberal
professions (TPU). The central government also makes modest transfers to CRDs and municipalities but
in practice even these modest amounts are not fully disbursed. The head tax represents the CRDs' most
important source of revenue, constituting on average about 75 percent of total receipts. Surveys have also
shown that CRDs' residents are open to the idea of paying a larger head tax if most of the proceeds will
be kept for use by the CRDs.
69.   A  medium-term  vision  of the decentralization process in  Guinea.   Until now, the
decentralization process in Guinea has consisted primarily of the administrative deconcentration of
resources such as staff or budgetary funds from central government to prefectures. Decision-making
authority has remained with the central government and local civil servants answer to their hierarchical
superiors within the various line ministries. Besides, until this fiscal year, budget allocations to
deconcentrated structures were left at the discretion of line ministries' budget staff. Therefore, with the
exception of primary education, only a small share of the ministry's budget was executed at the level of
prefectures7. Reforms introduced in fiscal year 2001 further strengthen this process by allocating a much
The analysis of fiscal arrangements for decentralized structures in Guinea together with proposals for changes are available
in a number of Bank-sponsored studies. See, for instance: F. Vaillancourt, Les finance locales en Guinee: une note



Fourth Structural Adjustment Credit                                                            19
larger share of the budget to deconcentrated structures with the notion that this will lead to more efficient
delivery of government services.
70.    In the 2001 budget, the government is moving one step further in the decentralization process by
allocating budgetary resources directly to schools and health clinics where citizens can play a much more
active role and thus hold local officials more accountable for their actions and results. Combined with
this reform measure, the decentralization of civil service administration in key sectors (see paragraphs 44
and 45) and new allocation arrangements between the government and local communities on a broad
range of local taxes and fees, provide the key elements for creating an environment conducive to
enhanced accountability. These reforms, initiated from the central government together with the
community driven development efforts to strengthen the capacity of local communities by the Village
Communities Support Program and Capacity Building for Service Delivery Program, provide a consistent
and coherent strategy for decentralization that can help improve the performance of the public sector,
assist in combating corruption in the public sector, and help Guinea in its effort to reduce poverty.
71.    Bank supportfor decentralization. As described in paragraphs 23-24 and in Box 3, the Bank has
provided through the VCSP and the CBSDP assistance in combining political empowerment, resource
mobilization, and enhanced service delivery as a coherent mix to help foster political, administrative, and
fiscal reforms. Politically, the key objective is to make subnational administrations more accountable to
local communities through local government structures. In the longer term, it is foreseen that heads of
prefectures will be elected. Administratively, subnational administrations are being realigned to shift
accountability toward rural communities. Fiscally, a Local Investment Fund will support, through
matching grants, development of basic infrastructure projects by communities and raising the share of
taxes mobilized locally which are kept by the CRDs and municipalities. Measures covered under SAC IV
will significantly deepen fiscal decentralization.
72.    Government reform strategy and SAC IV support. With the support of the Bank and other
donors, the government has been pursuing a strategy aimed at advancing the decentralization process. A
comprehensive set of measures were launched in the context of the 2001 budget aimed at: (i) enhancing
the -importance of deconcentrated structures in priority sectors by increasing their budgetary allocations
and making those explicit in the budget document, and in the process, removing arbitrary practices of
budget execution in the past; (ii) promoting transparency by making budgetary allocations directly to
schools and health clinics; (iii) initiating tracking of expenditures in the priority sectors to assess the
efficiency of budget execution; and (iv) strengthening budget management at the local level. In addition,
the government has raised the share that local communities are allowed to keep from a broad range of
local taxes, and most importantly, the head tax.
73.    SAC IV measures. The government has implemented a series of measures including:
*  Increasing the share of non-wage recurrent budget resources allotted to lower tiers of
government to at least 80 percent of the total for priority sectors;
*  Making allocations directly to schools and health  clinics in Conakry and the
administrative region of Kindia that covers five prefectures;
* Increasing the resource base of local governments through fiscal transfers and local
revenue mobilization. In 2000-01, the Government sharply increased the shares of these
taxes to CRDs. For the IMDL, this share jumped from 50 to 75 percent; for the CFU,
(December 1999, unpublished); H. Genest, Review Of Local Finances and Self-Financing Capacity of CRDs in Guinea"
(January 1998, unpublished); C. Foumier, Appui en flscalite locale - Guinee (April 1998, unpublished); 1. Diakite, Etudes
du systeme d'allocation et d'execution budgetaire. Secteur du developpement rural (December 1998, unpublished); and S.
Piriou-Sall, Decentralisation et developpement rural en Guinee (September 1997, unpublished).



Fourth Structural Adjustment Credit                                                         20
from 22 to 68 percent; and for the TPU, from 14 to 68 percent. The much larger shares to
CRDs and districts are expected to sharply improve collections of these taxes;
*  Encouraging consultations of and participation by citizens in the budget process; and
*  Creating the awareness and demand for priorities and performance (through tracking
surveys and participation in public expenditure reviews discussions).
74.    Expected results. By the end of the program period, Guinea expects to achieve the following:
*  Sustained macroeconomic and fiscal stability, pro-poor public spending allocations, and
improved strategies for the key sectors;
*  Significantly stronger resource base at the local level (including human resources); and
*  Much enhanced understanding and participation of the citizenry in the budget process,
promoting transparency, accountability, and efficiency of public spending.
75.    Medium-term benchmarks. By the end of the program period, Guinea is expected to have a
well-functioning system of decentralized budget management in which most resources will be allocated
directly to schools and health clinics, allowing for (i) easy tracking to ensure that public resources do get
to their intended beneficiaries, (ii) a more active participation of local communities in the delivery of
public service at the deconcentrated level, and (iii) a significantly larger resource base for local
communities. Increased transparency and accountability of public resource use would have a direct
impact on the quality of public service delivery. The larger resource base of CRDs and municipalities, an
improved legal and institutional framework -- brought about by assistance provided by other IDA
operations such as the VCSP and CBSDP --, and the more active participation of local citizens in the
planning and monitoring of public services would set the ground for moving toward the next phase of
decentralization, in which a number of activities currently managed by the state will be devolved to local
communities.
D.    Creating the Conditions for Growth through Divestiture
76.    Issues and Constraints. For the first two pillars of the government poverty reduction strategy,
the reform programs to be supported by SAC IV aim directly at improving delivery of basic public
services such as education, health, rural development, and justice. The third pillar focuses on the
promotion of a favorable environment for private sector led growth. As was mentioned earlier in the
report, the legacy of the central planning regime is a weak and narrow-based private sector. While more
discussions, including a major workshop, are being planned to deepen reflections in terms of concrete
policy reforms and actions to promote growth, the government has already identified in its Letter of
Development Policy the need to implement a major divestiture strategy. -The implementation of this
strategy will lead to a gradual withdrawal of the government from most industrial and commercial
activities providing opportunities for private sector development.
77.    Another important area of policy discussions concerns the provision of reliable infrastructure
services to support growth. Without reliable and cost-effective services in utilities and roads, it is
unlikely that Guinea will attract sufficient domestic and foreign private investment to realize its growth
potential, a necessary condition for long-term poverty alleviation. For public utilities, a recent review of
the country framework report on private participation in infrastructure" notes that significant progress has
been achieved since the beginning of the liberalization of the economy in 1985, but that Guinea continues
to compare unfavorably with other countries in the sub region. Conakry, the capital city, has one of the
weakest urban infrastructures in Africa. The state-owned infrastructures in Guinea are characterized by
World Bank, Guinee - Revue du cadre reglementaire pour la participation du secteur prive dans les
infrastructures (June 2000; unpublished).



Fourth Structural AdLustment Credit                                                      21
poor financial performance and continue to rely heavily on implicit or explicit subsidies from the state.
Electricity, water, and telecommunications are under private sector management but efforts to renew and
improve management contracts have stalled, rendering it ever more urgent for the government to clearly
define its role and that of private operators and to create a strong regulatory body.
78.    Guinea's poor road network results from a combination of factors, including inadequate money
for road maintenance and deficient management and implementation capacity of the Ministry of
Transports and Public Works. The government recently adopted the principle to commercialize road
maintenance with the introduction of the so-called "second-generation road fund". The new system is
based on four key principles: (i) involving road users in the management of roads; (ii) securing enough
resources for road maintenance year after year (from a road tariff and a levy added to fuel prices);
(iii) ensuring that all parties are cognizant of their responsibilities; and (iv) establishing a system for
managing roads programs with clear accountability.
79.   Among the sectors considered as priorities by the government, agriculture stands out as the one
sector with large potential for job creation and income generation. There have been significant changes
regarding the role of the government, traditionally the unique provider of agricultural services. These
changes are attributable to reduced financial resources from the budget and the growing role of farmers'
organizations. Building on the successful privatization of services for livestock and phytosanitary
control, the government will begin implementing, on a pilot basis, the setting up of a decentralized
autonomous extension system with private participation in its management (village communities, farmers'
associations, and NGOs). Similar efforts will also be attempted in agricultural research leading to a
fundamental rethinking of the role of the state in service delivery.
80.   Among the constraints described above, only the divestiture reform program is sufficiently
advanced to be included for support under SAC IV. Discussions in the other three areas of concerns are
continuing but additional preparatory work and consultations will be needed before a decision on policy
actions. It is envisaged that reforms in these areas will be covered under subsequent operations.
81.    Government reform strategy and SAC IV support Guinea implemented a major divestiture
program in the late 1980s as the economy progressed through the transition from central planning toward
a market economy. Since that time, progress has been slow and reforms have been piecemeal in the
absence of an overall strategic perspective regarding the public enterprise sector. As part of the structural
reforms undertaken in the context of IMF programs, the government has, in the past two years, privatized
and liquidated a number of small public enterprises. The divestiture program supported by SAC IV and
follow-up operations will be placed within a comprehensive overall strategy, to be accompanied by
support to upgrade and modernize the institutional and legal framework in preparation for the review of
the new role of the government as discussed above. Because public enterprises in Guinea do not
constitute an important drain on government resources, the decision has been taken to focus, during the
early phase of the reform program, on strengthening institutions, the legal framework, and measures to
help mitigate the social impact. Effective privatization of the bulk of public enterprises will take place
during the 2002-04 period.
82.   A study9 prepared with Bank's support has found that the redundancies resulting from the
divestiture program will be manageable and measures have been taken to minimize the social costs. The
main focus would be on training and assistance to people affected by privatization and liquidation of
public enterprises to be reengaged in income-earning activities. SAC IV will provide support to help
retrain those who will be affected by the closures or downsizing, and to cover severance payments where
required. Proceeds from privatization will add to resources provided under SAC IV.
9   J. Catry, Implications sociales des privatisations, Rapportfinal (December 2000, unpublished).



Fourth Structural Adjustment Credit                                                         22
83.    SAC IVMeasures. They consist of:
*  The adoption of a comprehensive reform strategy for the public enterprise (PE) sector;
* The adoption of a program to mitigate the social cost of divestiture and liquidation
together with a communications strategy. A Social Unit has been created with funding
from AfDB and IDA to cover measures aimed at alleviating the social cost;
* The promulgation of a new privatization law;
* The creation of a Privatization Unit with the required expertise and institutional and
reporting mechanisms to implement the privatization process;
* The liquidation of eight insolvent public enterprises; and
* The updating of cross-debts and adoption of measures to settle these arrears and prevent
their recurrence.
84.    Expected results. By the end of the program period, the proposed reform program will have
privatized or placed under private management a large number of the remaining public enterprises.
Progress is also expected in the management of water, telecommunications, and electricity that should
encourage new investments in infrastructure. Better services and lower costs will also provide the
conditions for new economic activities, leading to growth and employment creation. It is foreseen that
private participation in infrastructure, privatization of market-driven activities, and competitive services
delivery in key sectors such as agriculture will ultimately lead to a fundamental rethinking of the role of
the state and work toward improving service delivery as well as the competitiveness of the Guinean
economy.
85.    Medium-term benchmarks. It is expected that, with the reforms the government has put in place,
Guinea will have a modem institutional setup to carry out its divestiture program. According to the
current program both privatization, the government would have sold partly or totally its shares in the 52
public enterprises that still remain under government control.
86.   In addition, monitoring of progress benchmarks for follow-up operations will also focus on the
following measures:
* Strengthening the regulatory framework for key public utilities (creation of a multi-
sectoral regulatory agency, participation in the newly created African Forum to put it
would a strategy, in collaboration with private partners, to control fraud in energy and
water sectors;
* Development and adoption of sector-wide strategies for key public utilities involving
private participation in investing in and running these sectors;
* Undertaking of water and electricity rate analyses with the long-term perspective of
eliminating government subsidies to the sectors;
* The implementation of the second-generation road fund; and
* Adoption of an institutional policy letter for the agricultural sector to set the framework
for institutional reforms in agriculture.
V.  THE PROPOSED CREDIT
A.      Rationale for the Credit
87.    The proposed project is well placed to perform four strategic functions. First, to help fill
Guinea's financing gap making it possible for the country to proceed with its interim poverty reduction



Fourth Structural Adjustment Credit                                                   23
strategy without endangering macroeconomic stability; second, to link separate ongoing IDA-financed
operations into a more effective framework of reform; third, to set a framework in which reforms in
governance and public sector management would work coherently and consistently to further the
objectives of poverty reduction; and, fourth, to identify and initiate work on further critical gaps to be
filled. It is envisaged that the proposed SAC IV will be followed by a series of programmatic structural
adjustment credits designed to support of the implementation of the government poverty reduction
strategy over the medium term. It is also envisaged that the next credit, designed to support the PRSP,
will be presented for Board consideration around mid-2002 together with the next CAS.
88.   As noted earlier in this report, Guinea has had uneven success in policy reform implementation.
Recent economic achievements on the macroeconomic front and efforts to increase transparency and
strengthen governance in a very difficult political and security environment and in the absence of external
budgetary support have enhanced credibility of the government's reform program. Facing a very tight
resource situation, the government has shown strong resolve toward poverty reduction by increasing
spending on priority sectors in 2000 and 2001, while ensuring that external debt service payments remain
current. The focus on poverty reduction, a key consideration for the proposed operation, has helped tilt
the government toward strengthening public sector management and governance as critical factors for
improving service delivery.
89.   In the immediate future, budgetary support provided by SAC IV will allow the government to
reduce financing from the central bank to a more sustainable level, commensurate with continued low
inflation rates. The reform program supported by SAC IV and follow-up operations, combined with the
expectation of more predictable flows of external budgetary support, will help the government sustain
implementation of its poverty reduction reform program through a more effective and transparent
management of public expenditures. Compared to the centralized and nontransparent budget process of
the recent past, Guinea has taken noteworthy steps to improve transparency and accountability, and to
focus more on outputs and outcomes of public spending. Continued efforts on transparency would, in the
medium term, have a major impact on the business environment, encouraging private sector led
investment and growth. The proposed budgetary support, to be supplemented by financing from other
donors, will also help mitigate the costs of dislocation associated with the reform program, such as
severance payments for displaced workers resulting from reform of state enterprises.
90.   The active participation of the Minister of Finance and other key policymakers in the PRSP
consultations reflects the strong ownership by the government of the reform program designed to help
reduce poverty. This is furthermore evidenced by difficult actions already taken by the government to
help regain the people's confidence in public sector management.  For example, riding on the
population's support for its poverty reduction strategy, the government has shown its strong commitment
on promoting transparency by beginning to display at local sites information on funds allocated to schools
and health clinics in pilot prefectures. Not only has the measure given more voice to public opinion, it
has also curtailed local vested interests, including regional and prefectural officials, who are used to
capture part of the resources under the previous system of budget management. The imposition of
sanctions on government officials and suppliers for unlawful practices in public procurement is another
first in Guinea where the lack of sanctions has institutionalized waste and corruption in the public sector.
The regular dissemination of budget execution information that, by implication, would require
explanations for lack of performance, will also work to strengthen accountability.
91.   Although conceived as a freestanding operation, SAC IV was designed as the first of a sequence
of operations aimed at assisting the government's poverty reduction strategy. While Guinea does not
have a good track record, the very strong commitment shown by measures designed to alter the behavior
of public officials and population and the willingness to be engaged over the long haul, as shown by the
multi-year policy matrix (Annex 2), and strong progress benchmarks, justifies the decision on the use of
single-tranching that was supported by the Regional Operations Committee meeting. It is also expected



Fourth Structural Adjustment Credit                                                    24
that by ensuring the availability of external budgetary support on a timely basis through a sequence of
operations, the multi-year approach will help sustain the government's commitment for reform and
prevent the stop-and-go pattern of recent years.
92.   The proposed credit would be disbursed in one tranche upon credit effectiveness, expected shortly
after Board approval. Proceeds of the tranche will help defray expenses associated with the reform
program measures and with measures designed to: (i) alleviate the social impact of the reform program,
and in particular, staff reduction arising from the divestiture program (US$5 million); (ii) undertake the
comprehensive household expenditure survey, which is a key element of the poverty reduction strategy
(US$3 million); and (iii) finance a national audit fund (US$2 million). The audit fund was launched to
facilitate the undertaking of new tasks and will eventually be absorbed in the regular budget. General
conditions for the release of the tranche include, in addition, a viable macroeconomic framework for
growth and poverty reduction consistent with the objectives of the PRGF program and satisfactory
execution of the overall adjustment program. The AfDB and Germany (KfW) intend to provide parallel
financing for the proposed credit and are considering contributing resources to the audit fund.
B.     Actions Taken Before Board Presentation
93.   As part of the implementation of its poverty reduction strategy, the government of Guinea has
implemented a series of important measures.
(a) To enhance the impact of public expenditure on poverty reduction through more effective
resource allocation, it has:
*  Allocated, from the 2001 budget, a minimum of 35 percent of total non-wage recurrent
budget to priority sectors (education, health, social affairs, and justice) and a minimum of
46 percent for primary education in the overall education budget.
*  Adopted a medium-term fiscal framework (revenue and expenditures projections in
collaboration with the IMF);
-  Instituted a cabinet-level quarterly review system to ensure budget implementation
consistent with agreed allocations for the priority sectors and wide dissemination of key
results; and
-  Submitted to the Chamber of Accounts (Chambre des comptes) for review the
consolidated statement of actual budgetary receipts and expenditures (Loi de reg1ement)
for fiscal year 1998.
(b) To improve the quality of public services though decentralization, it has:
*  Allocated, from the 2001 budget, a minimum of 80 percent of non-wage recurrent budget
allocations for priority sectors to subnational administrations;
*  Published budget allocations for schools and primary health care centers in the capital
city of Conakry and the administrative region of Kindia;
*  Adopted, under the 2001 budget law, new rules for allocating revenues, thus increasing
the share accruing to local communities for specific taxes: head tax, property tax and
professional tax; and
*  Issued a decree detailing measures to strengthen financial management and control at
subnational levels and to ensure that goods and services are delivered to subnational
administrations.



Fourth Structural Adjustment Credit                                                   25
(c) To improve accountability and transparency in budget execution, it has:
*  Issued a decree (including terms of reference of the audits and sanctions mechanisms) on
the ex-post audits of government procurement contracts;
*  Announced and commenced preparatory work for diagnostic surveys to identify key
corruption-related problems to help establish priorities for governance reform; and
*  Adopted a communications strategy to cover the following areas:
(i) 2001 budget appropriations for priority sectors by prefecture; and
(ii) A public enterprise sector reform program together with a social action plan
to minimize the social impact of the reforms.
C.     Triggers for Continuing Monitoring of the Reform Program
94.   The government has agreed to implementation benchmarks that would form the basis for
assessing progress in the implementation of the reform program and triggers for the preparation of
subsequent operations. These benchmarks are considered critical to poverty reduction by the government.
(a) For more effective public resource management:
*  Progress in establishing a medium-term expenditure framework, to begin with concrete
steps in budget preparation procedures for 2002 and ways to make the budget process for
FY2002 more open and transparent;
* Internal control mechanisms that ensure that funds are spent in line with approved
budgets;
*  Significant progress in public expenditure works in health and education; and
*  Progress in the privatization program.
(b) For progress in decentralization:
*  An effective system of budget execution monitoring at subnational levels including
corrective measures;
*  Expansion of direct budget allocations to schools and health clinics; and
*  Tracking of expenditure of local schools and health clinics.
(c) For greater accountability and transparency:
* Significant progress on the ex-post audits of government procurement contracts including
requisite actions taken on audit findings;
*  Extension of procurement rules and regulations to public enterprises; and
* Submission to the Chamber of Accounts for review of the 1999 audited budget outturns.
95.   In addition, triggers for the floating point completion of the Enhanced HIPC process will also be
monitored, particularly as they concern: (i) preparation of a full PRSP; (ii) improvement of the poverty
database and monitoring capacity; and (iii) a one-year progress report of the Anti-Corruption Committee.
Sectoral performance triggers for health and education will be reviewed under follow-up operations.
D.      Social Impact Analysis
96.   The proposed reform program will have an important impact on poverty through the focus on
improving decentralized service delivery. Most noteworthy are the larger budget allocations to priority
sectors, which have been identified as having the most significant impact on poverty reduction. Given
Guinea's notable performance on raising girls' enrollment in the past ten years, the larger allocations for



Fourth Structural Adjustment Credit                                                    26
education are expected to further promote girls' education. Second, changes in budgetary allocations
between the center and deconcentrated structures and in the allocation of local fiscal revenue in favor of
local communities constitute the focus of key reforms under the Interim PRSP.  Thirdly, budget
allocations made directly to schools and health clinics, started under SAC IV, should facilitate targeted
assistance to the poorest regions once the poverty map has been updated.
97.   Reforms in the divestiture program are expected to affect about 1800 workers over a three-year
period. To alleviate the social impact of job reduction, a social plan has been set up with the creation of a
social unit attached to the newly created Privatization Unit with funding provided by AfDB and IDA.
Detailed analysis done with the assistance of IDA-funded specialists has helped the government elaborate
a concrete social action plan. The inquiry shows that about 700 of the 1,800 affected workers will take
early retirement. Of the remaining 1,100 employees, a detailed investigation shows that about 900, given
their skills level, are expected to find new income-generation activities, most likely in handicrafts,
services, and agricultural activities. The government will allocate US$5 million of SAC IV's proceeds to
cover the cost of downsizing and retraining. The government has launched a communications campaign
to widely inform the population and those affected by the reform program of the coverage under the
social action plan.
E.     Ownership of the Reform Program
98.   Government ownership of the program appears to be adequate in order to ensure its successful
implementation. This is evidenced by: (i) the full involvement of the government in the design of the
adjustment program; and (ii) the implementation of key actions in the areas of revenue mobilization and
public expenditure management. The team is headed by the Senior Advisor of the Ministry of Finance
who also presides over the newly created interministerial Secretariat in charge of implementing the
government's poverty reduction strategy. To help gain even broader ownership of the program, the
authorities intend to expand consensus outside of the government on the economic reform agenda,
through consultations with trade unions, the private sector and other stakeholders. In this respect, the
government, in the context of its PRSP, has initiated a series of consultations with different social groups
(universities, Nationai Assembly, trade unions and political parties). It aims at promoting a better
understanding of the reform program and the government's development agenda and of measures taken to
mitigate its adverse effects, particularly those arising from the divestiture component and agriculture
sector restructuring. The government has organized "launch workshops" for the proposed operation in
order to involve stakeholders more deeply in the monitoring of the reform program's implementation and
impact, to broaden and deepen the various components of the reform program, and to increase awareness
of implementation risks.
99.   Institutional development. Based on lessons drawn from previous adjustment operations, the
implementation of SAC IV will integrate fully technical assistance provided the Capacity Building for
Service Delivery Project and by the European Union. Close coordination will ensure that during
implementation, the technical assistance project will provide support for process activities while
adjustment lending will support policy reforms. A more detailed assessment of capacity building
requirements will be carried out under the next adjustment operation and, if necessary, additional
technical assistance will be sought.
F.    Monitoring and Evaluation, Disbursement Procedures and Fiduciary Safeguards
100.  Monitoring and Evaluation. An interministerial task force chaired by the Minister for Economy
and Finance, including sectoral ministers representing the priority sectors, will oversee implementation of
the proposed operation. The program's day-to-day supervision will be the responsibility of the Comite
technique de suivi (CTS or Technical Implementation Committee), which is chaired by the senior adviser
of MEF. IDA will monitor implementation of the program through regular supervision missions and



Fourth Structural Adjustment Credit                                                   27
Resident Mission participation in CTS meetings. Implementation of the agreed policy actions will be
monitored on a regular basis by IDA Headquarters and Resident Mission staff and will be supplemented
by the CTS's monthly reports. IDA supervision activities will be closely coordinated with the IMF and
other donors providing parallel financing to the proposed operation.  To provide support for the
implementation of the reform program, an effort to identify gaps and weaknesses of the monitoring and
evaluation (M&E) capacity of the government, civil society, and oversight agencies together with a
program of actions for supporting M&E has been undertaken with financial support by Canada. It is
envisaged to discuss, during the launch workshop, options and priority actions for developing the
government's and other stakeholders' monitoring and evaluation (M&E) capacities. Based on these
discussions, the proposed arrangements for implementation monitoring, as described above, may need to
be subsequently modified.
101.  Procurement and disbursement arrangements will follow the simplified procedures for
structural adjustment operations as set out in OD 8.60. Disbursements will not be linked to specific
imports and there will be no procurement requirements. The Borrower will open an account in GNF at
the Central Bank. Upon IDA notification of tranche release, proceeds of the credit will be deposited (in
GNF) in this account at the request of the Borrower. The amount of the PPF granted to prepare this
operation (PPF Q243-0-GUI) will be reimbursed from the proceeds of the credit. To monitor these
resources, a special account has been created at the central bank. All expenditures from this account will
be restricted to priority sectors identified by the government as having a significant impact on poverty
reduction. Detailed reports on payments in and out of this account will be produced and published on a
monthly basis. If the proceeds of the credit are used for ineligible purposes (i.e., to finance items
imported from non-member countries, or goods and services on the Bank's standard negative list), IDA
will require the Borrower to either: (a) return that amount for use on eligible purchases; or (b) refund the
amount directly to IDA, in which case IDA will cancel an equivalent undisbursed amount of the credit.
Although an audit of the use of credit funds will not be required, IDA reserves the right to require audits
at any time. The credit's administration will be the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance.
102.  The government intends to allocate the equivalent of US$10 million out of the local currency
counterpart generated by the proposed credit to finance: (a) a household expenditure survey, a critical
element in the country's poverty reduction strategy (US$3 million); (b) social safety arrangements to
minimize the social burden of the reform program and more particularly the divestiture program (US$5
million with expected additional funding by the African Development Bank and bilateral donors); and (c)
contribution to a National Audit Fund to be created (US$2 million). These resources will be deposited in
an agreed government account, and disbursement from the dedicated account will be managed by a joint
government-donors committee, whose role will also include the production of regular reports on deposits
into and disbursements from the dedicated account.
103.  Fiduciary Safeguards. To ensure fiduciary assurance on the use of IDA resources provided
under the credit, the government has already taken actions to strengthen financial management. Important
measures to be implemented under SAC IV are: (i) the strengthening of the control and audit institutions
and (ii) providing the Bank with the audited budget accounts and the reports of supreme audit institutions
thereon. Measures which are key to SAC IV reform program include: (i) quarterly discussions of and
reporting to the legislature and the public of actual government revenues and expenditure, with a focus on
budget execution for priority sectors; (ii) submission by the country's supreme audit institution (the
Chamber of Accounts) of the audited accounts of government to the National Assembly on a regular
basis; and (iii) ex-post audits of procurement contracts and investment projects. An external audit of the
Central Bank was conducted in 2000, which shows some management weaknesses but no malfeasance or
fraud. The IMF has asked the government to repeat this exercise every 2 to 3 years.
104.  The Bank carried out a Country Profile of Financial Accountability (CPFA) in 1998 that
identifies numerous weaknesses in accounting, auditing, and financial management. The rapid fiduciary



Fourth Structural Adjustment Credit                                                    28
assessment undertaken in April 2001, which focused on accounting and monitoring of the budget process
as a first step toward a full full-scale Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA), however,
confirmed that significant progress have been realized by Guinea in recent years in the area of financial
management. Additional work is planned in FY02 to pursue work in CFAA with the aim to produce a
full CFAA in early FY03. This timing will coincide with the next full CAS for Guinea and, assuming the
reform progress covered by the proposed operation stays on track, with for the follow-up structural
operation. Reform measures in government procurement, to be initiated as part of the proposed credit,
will subsequently be strengthened by recommendations from a Country Procurement Assessment Report
(CPAR) to be initiated in FY02.
105.  Environmental Assessment Requirements. Given that the credit will have no direct impact on
the environment, it is proposed that it be placed in Category "C" which does not require an environmental
assessment. Accordingly, given the broad policy-based nature of the credit, it is expected that OD 8.60 on
Adjustment Lending Policy apply to this credit.
G.    Benefits and Risks
106.  Benefits. Successful implementation of the reforms supported by the proposed credit will help
strengthen the institutional setup and policy framework required to improve the government's capacity for
service delivery, a key pillar of the country's poverty reduction strategy. Equally important, actions under
the PRSP will complement the Village Community Support and Capacity Building for Service Delivery
Programs and enhance their impact. By shifting control and management of budgetary resources from the
bureaucratic center to sub-national governments, the proposed reform program will help reduce the risk of
limited availability of resources at the local level, with particular emphasis on the CBSDP. As a policy-
based credit, SAC IV would garner a stronger commitment at the center for fiscal, administrative, legal,
and political measures that would enhance the chance for truly effective decentralization. This second
point is particularly relevant to the Village Community Support Program. By strengthening the
management of public resources of the local level, the proposed operation would help allay the fear of
losing the grip on expenditure control at the local level. Lastly, through its focus on budgetary
transparency and accountability, the proposed operation will contribute to restoring the credibility of
public finances, the lack of which was an important factor in erratic macroeconomic reforms of the past.
The above benefits will be strengthened by predictability of funding and long-term commitment for
support by IDA.
107.  Risks. The main risks affecting the reform program are: (i) overall country risk due to the fragile
security situation; (ii) significant shortfalls in revenue mobilization that would threaten the sustainability
of macroeconomic reforms; (iii) inadequate human and institutional capacity; and (iv) fiduciary risks.
Tensions on the border with Liberia have improved in recent weeks although security-related
expenditures are expected to remain significant in the near to medium term. Also, the recent release of
Alpha Conde, who came second in the last presidential elections, has helped ease the domestic political
situation. On the macroeconomic front, the government has, under the strong leadership of the Minister
of Finance, managed to reestablish a credible macroeconomic environment under difficult political and
security conditions and in the absence of external budgetary assistance. Also, the IMF is setting up, under
its new program, much stricter control and an adequate early warning system thus reducing the risk of
program slippages. Regarding capacity, the Capacity Building for Service Delivery and Village
Community Support Programs, together with support from an Institutional Development Fund grant for
governance and integrity reforms and additional support from other donors, should reduce the risk to
acceptable levels. As mentioned above, the Bank has undertaken a rapid fiduciary assessment in April
that would be followed by additional assessment in FY02 with the objective of completing the CFAA in
early FY03. The satisfactory implementation of SAC IV reform program is expected to significantly
strengthen financial management and accountability in Guinea.



Fourth Structural Adjustment Credit                                                  29
VI. COORDINATION WITH IMF, AFDB AND OTHER DONORS
108.  The PRGF was approved in May. Its timing and close consultations between staffs of the IMF
and the Bank have helped reinforce the complementarities between the two operations. The IMF program
will focus on macroeconomic issues. In the fiscal area, the IMF-supported program will be concentrated
on public finances, and more particularly, on tax administration and extension of the tax base. SAC IV
will cover all expenditure management issues. The areas of structural issues covered by the Fund-
supported program will be limited to public finances (especially revenue mobilization and the
strengthening of internal and external audits of budget execution), monetary reforms, and banking
supervision and restructuring. Done in close collaboration with the Bank, the Fund's concern in the area
of banking is to minimize the eventual cost to the budget of necessary restructuring operations. In
addition, staff will continue to work closely with the IMF on fiduciary safeguard issues, particularly
concerning central bank operations. An external audit of the Central Bank accounts was conducted in
2000 and the next one will likely take place in a year or two.
109.  In parallel with the operation, the AfDB is designing a medium-term policy-based credit to
support the government's PRSP, which is consistent with the proposed SAC IV. In addition, the AfDB
will also provide resources for social safety nets to alleviate the social cost of the reform program, as well
as initial funding for ex-post procurement and project audits, and for the annual review of audited budget
accounts. The AfDB is also actively involved in work on the CFAA and CPAR.
110.  Close coordination with bilateral donors has been carried out through the design of this operation.
Together with the AfDB, Germany will provide medium-term policy-based support. Besides funding,
together with the European Commission and other bilateral donors such as Canada, it will also provide
technical assistance for public expenditure management and governance.
VII. RECOMMENDATION
111.  I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the
Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
By Shengman Zhang
Washington, D.C.
June 20, 2001






Annex I
Page 1 of 11
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
Work - Justice - Solidarity
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION - IDA
Conalay, April 2001






Annex 1
Page 2 of 11
REPUDUQUE DE GIUINEE
4qft6rjW                                                Travail - Justick - SoUdarit
*                                                   Co,sk,y, kU
MD8ITEZ DE L'ECONOM
ET DES FINANCES                                             g
No ....IMEFIC                                          Mr. James D. Wolfensohil
N/R&t                                                 President, The World 3ank
Washington D.C.
VIRU:
FOURTI STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMNT CREDrr
Objet Letter of Development PolicY
Mr. President,
In the past five years, sustained efforts have been pursued in Guinea to ensure economic
development and reduce poverty (about 41 percent of the population live below the poverty threshold in
1994/95).
In this framework, between 1995 and 1997, the government formulated a development vision
called "Guinea, 2010 Vision", elaborated a national program of human development - the PNDH - and, in
close collaboration with the bank, set up a country assistance strategy (CAS). The implementation of
these reforms led to, among others, the reform of the public expenditure management (with the adoption
of a medium term expenditure framework for four priority sectors and the improvement in the
implementation and monitoring of overall expenditures) and the continuation of efforts to promote private
investment.
These efforts were undertaken in a difficult financial context, affected notably by the absence of
external budgetary support since 1999, a deterioration of the country's terms of trade, and armed conflicts
in the sub region.
In spite of the above situation, the country recorded a real GDP growth rate exceeding 4.5 percent
per year between 1996 and 1998 and an inflation rate of about 3percent on average. In addition, access to
basic social services improved significantly (for example, gross schooling ratio at the primary level rose
from 46.5percent in 1966 to 56.5 percent in 2000; schooling ratio for girls increased from 31.5 to 43
percent during the same period).
Nevertheless, sizable challenges remain. These challenges are tied mainly to the persistence of
poverty in Guinea, to a fragile macroeconomic and financial environment and to a slowdown in growth
(3.3 percent in 1999 and 1.8 percent in 2000) in a context of instability in the sub region due to rebel
attacks against the national territory.
It is in this context that the government launched in February 2000, the elaboration of a national
poverty reduction strategy with the aim to mobilize all available resources, both domestic and external,
and direct them toward the fight against poverty. The overall framework of this strategy is summarized in



Annex I
Page 3 of 11
the Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (Interim PRSP), which was adopted by the government in
October 2000. The executive boards of the IMF and the Word Bank reviewed this document in
December 2000.
In order to support the efforts of Guinea in implementing this strategy, I have the honor to address to you,
in the name of my government, a request of a credit of US$50 million. This credit would allow the
implementation of reforms aimed at:
*  Improving the effectiveness of public service management through the decentralization of
decisions and public service delivery;
*  Using public resources more efficiently through improvement in public management;
*  Strengthening the public enterprise sector and of the regulatory framework with the objective
to encourage the development of private sector activities, and public/private participation in
the provision of basic infrastructure and basic services;
* Redefining the role of the state and improving the business environment and incentives to
promote the provision and delivery of basic services by the private sector;
* Improving governance and fighting against corruption; and
* Improving the collection of statistics.
Objectives and policies of the governmentfor the 2001-03 period
1.    The basic objectives of the Guinean authorities for the 2001-03 period are defined in the I-PRSP.
They translate the aspirations expressed by the population at the various consultations organized at field
level. At the macroeconomic and financial level, the objectives are:
-   To achieve real economic growth rates of 3.3, 5.4, and 5.7 percent respectively for 2001,
2002 and 2003;
T o reduce the inflation rate (as measured by the consumer price index) from 6.8 percent in
2000 to 3 percent in 2003;
T o reduce the external current account deficit excluding official transfers to about 5 percent
in 2003 in order to raise official reserves to the equivalent of about 3 months of imports;
and
*   To bring the primary surplus of the budget to more than 3 percent of the PIB in 2003 and
the investment rate at least to 24 percent of GDP.
2.    In the social area, the Government has set the objectives, among others, of a significant
improvement in the volume and quality of basic in social services (education, health, transports, support
to rural activities...), by ensuring their access by the poor. In quantitative tenns, the objectives aim at:
*   Reaching a gross schooling ratio at the primary level to 7 lpercent in 2002;
*   Increasing the gross schooling ratio to 60percent in 2002;
*   Raising the vaccination rate for women (of VAT) in the reproductive age from 60 to 90
percent between 2000 and 2003; and
*   Improving children's vaccination rate, between 2000 and 2003, from 70 percent to 90
percent for DTC and VPO, from 80 to 95 percent for BCG, and from 20 to 50 percent for
VHB.



Annex I
Page 4 of 11
A.  MACROECONOMIC FRAMEWORK
3.    To create the conditions for sustained economic growth, the Government has committed itself to
set up a viable and stable macroeconomic and financial framework.  Concerning the budget, the
Government will undertake efforts to increase fiscal revenue to 13 percent of GDP in 2003 against the
current 11 percent, thanks to notably, the widening of the fiscal base, the intensification of the fight
against fraud and the drastic reduction in exemptions.
4.    For expenditures, efforts will focus on devolving and decentralizing the management of public
resources and the amelioration of public services delivery to the population.
5.    In the monetary area, the government will pursue the objective of controlling the growth rate of
the monetary base with indirect instruments as it gradually divests itself from the banking system. This
policy is consistent with the proposal to establish a second regional monetary zone in 2003 leading to a
single monetary zone in 2004 for the whole of West Africa.
6.    In addition, necessary reforms will be taken to assure optimal funding for the economy, notably
through the strengthening and expansion of the financial networks at the local level.
B.    IMPROVEMENT OF THE MANAGEMENT OF PUBLIC EXPENDITURES
Decentralization of budget management/ larger resources to local entities
7.    In accordance with the aspirations expressed by the population, the Government has begun the
decentralization and devolution of budgetary management. Thus, in the 2001 budget, an important share
of resources allocated to priority sectors was allotted to local agencies (80 percent of the non-wage
recurrent budget, excluding HIPC debt relief resources, will be attributed to decentralized structures).
The priority sectors cover: education, health, agriculture and livestock, fishing and aquaculture, social
affairs, justice, road maintenance, and urban development.
8.    To encourage the accountability of local structures in the two administrative regions of Conakry
and Kindia, which regroup 5 urban communes and 5 prefectures, recurrent budgetary resources will be
affected directly to the basic structures such as schools, high schools, and health centers in budget year
2001. The government has projected a broadening of this measure to cover the entire country over the
next two years.
9.    Furthermore, to strengthen the financial base of local communities, the Government has decided,
in the 2001 budget, to allocate the totality (100 percent) of the head tax to these structures. It will also
raise the share accruing to local communities for vehicles and professional taxes from 25 percent to 50
percent and for the unique land tax from 60 to 80 percent. This share could be further increased in the
years to come.
10.   These transfers of resources to local structures are being accompanied by procedures and
mechanisms that ensure effective implementation and control of expenditures (promote accountability of
beneficiaries in the management of local resources, widespread dissemination of budgetary information,
setting up of a computer-based monitoring system, strengthening of stock and asset management,
resources assignment to local agencies, the development of local markets, new procedures for delivery of
goods at decentralized level etc.).
11.   Also, with support by the village community support project and the capacity building for service
delivery program, the government will continue efforts to strengthen the human and institutional
capacities of local communities, and to decentralize government structures, in particular in the area of
financial management. A technical team composed of representatives of the Ministries of Economy and



Annex i
Page 5 of 11
Finances, Health, and Education, will be constituted to acquaint local communities with new budget
classification and allocative rules, and assist them in implementation procedures.
Strengthening the management of public expenditures
12.   To consolidate results achieved in the last few years in the area of public expenditure
management, with support from IDA under the Third Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC 1II), the
Government has decided to improve upon and institutionalize a multi-year approach to the management
of public expenditures through the introduction of a medium term framework, initiated in 1997. More
specifically, the government will develop a multi-year fiscal framework and reinforce the capacities of
line ministries in programming and management of expenditures (evaluation of objectives and
prioritization of activities).
13.   These measures will be accompanied by public expenditures reviews (PER), designed to improve
the prioritization of sectoral activities, and resources needed for their implementation (human resources,
and recurrent and investment budgets) and to reinforce the effectiveness and equity of public service.
Preparatory works have already been launched in the health sector.
14,   Besides, efforts will be undertaken to improve the implementation and monitoring of
expenditures, thanks to the following measures:
*   Improvement of the information system  and transparency in the management of
expenditures;
*   Rigorous application of statutes and procedures related to expenditures and to public
accounts;
*   Broadening of procurement rules to public enterprises;
*   Ex-post audits of government procurement contracts; and
*   Reinforcement of financial control.
15.   On transparency, the Guinean authorities will undertake, beginning in June 2001, cabinet level
quarterly reviews of budget implementation and the broadcasting of results to the national assembly, the
economic and social council, the local press, and representatives of donors in Conakry. These reviews
will cover not only financial information of budgetary implementation but also other aspects such as
public procurement and implementation in the priority sectors.
16.   These measures aim at completing the efforts undertaken in the last few years for setting up of a
computer-based monitoring system. This system allows the regular production of budget implementation
results in real time. Two new initiatives are also under preparation:
*   The broadening of the computer-based system to monitor expenditures at the local level;
and
*   Its utilization to identify blockages in the budget implementation.
17.   For transparency concerns, the authorities will institute an ex-post audit system for all
government procurement contracts exceeding GNF 100 millions and, on a sampling basis, of 15 percent
of other procurement contracts under that threshold. It is foreseen, in the first phase, that these audits will
be undertaken by external auditors with financing by the Audit Fund, which will be set up with
contributions from the AfDB, European Union, IDA, and other donors to be identified. Sanctions will be
applied equally well to civil servants who are in charge of procurement and to private suppliers. For
suppliers, it has been decided to reinforce the conditions of their registration considering the very high
number of small suppliers that often, do not fulfill the conditions imposed by procurement regulations.



Annex 1
Page 6 Of 11
18.   These measures will be supplemented by regular ex-post audits of budgetary outturns together
with capacity strengthening of oversight agencies (the National Directorate of Financial Control, the
General Inspectorate of Finances, the National Assembly, the Chamber of Accounts, the Prosecutor's
Office, etc.).
C.    THE REFORM OF PUBLIC ENTERPRISES
19.   The public enterprise sector has experienced important reforms since 1985, in accordance with
the economic and financial liberalization strategy adopted by the Government. These reforms have led to
the restructuring, liquidation and privatization of many public enterprises.
20.   The implementation of this policy resulted in significantly reducing the size of public enterprises
and the creation of a nascent private sector. Nevertheless, due to the weakness of the institutional and
regulatory framework, the lack of coherent sectoral policies, and weaknesses in the divestiture strategy,
privatization efforts have had weak results on the level of private investment, and on the financial health
problems of public enterprises, notably in public utilities (water and electricity).
21.   This is the framework under which that the Government has prepared and adopted a new reform
strategy for public enterprises.
22.   The strategy aims at achieving the following key objectives:
*   Improvement of the institutional and statutory environment for divestiture;
*   Amelioration of the economic and social environment brought about by the availability of
public services at affordable price and a more active participation of the private sector;
*   Upgrading of financial management of public enterprises;
*   Reduction of the financial burden on the government budget; and
*   Sustainability of the reform program.
23.   To attain these objectives, the Government has adopted a multi-pronged strategy including:
dissolution and liquidation of non-viable enterprises; privatization of enterprises considered profitable;
specific solutions for public utilities (water, energy, telecommunications etc.) and mining companies; a
strategy to fight fraud in public utilities; participation in the privatization network that aims at furnishing
to international investors complete information on the divestiture program.
24.   For the implementation of the strategy, the Government will set up a Privatization Unit whose
missions are, among others: to recommend privatization options for each enterprise; set up a calendar for
the execution of the program; proceed with the evaluation of assets or shares to sell; formulate
recommendations to the Government; and prepare regular progress reports to the Privatization
Committee. In addition, the Government has reviewed the Privatization Law and other procedures related
to privatization.
25.   An audit of cross-debts debts between public enterprises and the govemment has been completed
and will be followed by a program designed to settle these debts. As well, the Government has proceeded
to survey all fiscal exemptions, and direct and indirect subsidies granted to public enterprises with the
view to significantly limit their application.
26.   This restructuring and privatization program will be accompanied by a social plan to alleviate the
social costs. More specifically, accompanying measures will be set up to help those who would lose their
jobs due to the privatization prograrn through training and reinsertion. Lastly, the Government will take
all necessary measures to minimize the impact of this program on staff by ensuring the financing of
separation grants and arrears in their contribution to the social security system etc.)



Annex 1
Page 7 of 11
27.   The implementation of the strategy will be accompanied by a well-articulated communications
plan that aims at achieving three main objectives: to inform the public on the reform program and what is
at stake, to inform those likely to be affected by the reform program of the set of measures designed to
facilitate their reinsertion, and to attract the interests of potential investors.
D.    IMPROVEMENT OF GOVERNANCE AND FIGHT AGAINST CORRUPTION
28.   In recognition of the limited public resources and the large needs facing the budget, the
Government has committed itself to a better management of the public sector. This will take place
through enhanced transparency and empowerment of local communities in the choice of measures and
their implementation as well as a sustained effort against corruption.
Transparency
29.   Significant measures have already been taken in this domain: regular press conferences organized
by the Ministry of Economy and Finances to inform public opinion on the economic and financial
situation; meetings between the Secretariat in charge of poverty reduction with the local media to discuss
progress in the implementation of the program as agreed with partners; and, more recently, the
dissemination of budgetary allocations to local agencies.
30.   The Government intends to reinforce this set-up, notably by the following measures: broadcasting
in the local media - newspapers, rural and community radios (in local languages) -- and by posters of
budget allocations in favor of priority sectors and decentralized structures; and presentation of indicators
on decentralization in the consolidated position on public finances. In the medium term, efforts will be
made to relate budgetary information to performance indicators in an attempt to better inform the
population on the results of public service delivery.
Participation/empowerment of the civil society
31.   Participatory approach is not new in Guinea. This approach was already adopted in the process
of preparing the national program of human development (PNDH), and the country assistance strategy of
the World Bank to Guinea (CAS). This is also the approach adopted by the government in recent years to
prepare and implement various programs.
32.   This approach was made more systematic, with participation of the population in the formulation,
implementation, monitoring, and evaluation of the poverty reduction strategy. This process was at the
core of the Interim poverty reduction strategy: consultations with the population at the grassroots level
involving all key stakeholders (public institutions, NGOs, professional organizations, trade unions, and
development partners). This strategy has recently been validated by the population through consultations
in Conakry and in other parts of the country.
33.   The principal challenge is to ensure the effective empowerment of communities in the
management of the development process.
34.   To promote such empowerment, the government has instituted a number of programs aimed at
strengthening communities' capacity in the area of financial management to formulate, implement, and
assess development programs. The Village Communities Support Program (VCSP) provides support in
this area as well as strengthens institutional capacity of local comrnunities. Other measures are designed
to strengthen the financial capabilities of local communities and decentralized agencies.
35.   Lasdy, simple evaluation tools are being developed to permit local populations to assess the
volume and the quality of service delivery provided by decentralized agencies commensurate with
available resources. Training and sensibilization efforts will be undertaken at grassroots level either in
the context of the VCSP or in the general framework of poverty reduction strategy and are expected to



Annex 1
Page 8 of II
raise demands and expectations of the populations for better services; this should have an important
impact on the dynamics of community participation and the development process.
The fight against corruption
36.   One of the major reform programs by the Government in the next few years is the fight against
corruption as it has realized that public service performance and the promotion of private investments will
depend, to one large extent, on progress in governance. For this reason, commitment has been made at
the highest political level to combat corruption in Guinea.
37.   Thus, a National Anti- Corruption Committee was set up in early 2000. As part of the President's
Office, this Committee has broad representation (national assembly, political parties, NGOs, and
community representatives etc.) It has already, through visits to other countries, benefited from similar
undertaking in Benin and Uganda.
38.   To increase the effectiveness of the Committee, discussions are under way for a better division of
responsibilities between itself, the National Directorate of Financial Control, the General Inspection of
Finances, and the Prosecutors' Office.
39.   The recommended approach consists first to instigate broad investigations to better delimit the
causes and extent of the phenomenon, to specify its outlines and its various forms as well as to design the
mechanisms to check corruption. A countrywide integrity survey is being planned to this effect, in the
framework of an action program adopted by the Committee in close collaboration with development
partners.
40.   Besides, audits were undertaken in a number of large public enterprises (ANAIM, FRIGUIA,
SOGEL, SOTELGUI, SEEG, PAC) to ensure that they have cleared all their financial obligations vis-a-
vis the government. The results of these audits have been forwarded to the Committee that will
recommend appropriate measures to the Government.
41.   The computerization of the public expenditures monitoring system, the strengthening of the
monitoring and oversight of budget implementation by institutions external to the govermuent are also
expected to improve transparency and accountability in the management of public resources.
42.   These reforms will be followed and appraised by an observatory on governance to be established.
E.    SOCIAL POLICY AND THE FIGHT AGAINST POVERTY
43.   In the past several years, the government has increased resources allocations in favor of priority
sectors (education, health, rural development and road maintenance). To these original four sectors have
been added social affairs, justice and urban development, in accordance with the priorities expressed by
the population during consultations. The importance of these sectors have been reflected by their
receiving larger amounts of public resources.
44.   Policy in the years to come will aim at consolidating and reinforcing recent progress. Discussions
of this policy framework are prominent in the interim PRSP.
45.   In education, government policy will give priority to primary education, with the objective of
achieving universal education in the medium term. Specific quantitative targets in this domain are to
increase gross schooling ratio at the primary level to 71 percent in 2002 and to 60 percent for girls.
46.   In view of existing inequalities in the provision of education, development of educational
infrastructures will give priority to disadvantaged areas (rural or remote areas and poor neighborhoods
etc.). Also, in accordance with the strategic orientations for poverty reduction, specific measures will be
initiated in order to favor equity in access to education (education of girls at all levels, education of
children from poor families etc.)



Annex 1
Page 9 of 11
47.   To ensure a better quality to education, in addition to the decentralization of budgetary resources,
the Government has committed itself to carrying out a new management system for teaching staff and
school administration personnel with the intention to guarantee to disadvantaged areas greater access to
quality education and availability of school equipment and pedagogic materials with the full participation
of local communities.
48.   For technical and professional training, government policies will aim at promoting and improving
the quality of the teaching as well as the relevance of its content to the needs of the labor market. These
measures will achieve the dual objectives of developing the country's human resources and, at the same
time, promoting economic development.
49.   In the health sector, government policies have been designed to improve access to basic health
services by the poor through greater participation of decentralized institutions, and the reinforcement of
the fight against HIV/AIDS.
50.   To achieve these results, the Government intends to pursue the policy of developing basic
infrastructure at the base, and in particular, local health centers taking into account wide disparities in
access to basic health services. Together with this policy, the government will initiate a human resource
management approach to encourage a greater availability of qualified and motivated health personnel in
rural areas. Also, access to quality health services will be buttressed by the adoption of minimum health
packages (with adequate supply of materials, generic essential medicines, and vaccines), the
reinforcement of the financial basis of local communities, which will play an active role in monitoring
and assessing the quality of service delivery.
51.   In addition, health status, in particular that of the poor, will be improved thanks to the pursuit of
vaccination efforts to achieve the following results:
i   For women in child-bearing age, improve the vaccination rate in VAT to 90 percent in 2003
against 60 percent in 2000 and
   Between 2000 and 2003, increase the vaccination rate of children from 70 to 90 percent for
DTC, from 80 percent to 95 percent for BCG, and from 20 to 50 percent for VHB.
52.   Besides, sustained efforts will be pursued in the fight against STD/AIDS, the principal objectives
being the stabilization of HIV/AIDS incidence and the reduction of socio-economic impact of AIDS. In
this perspective, the fight against STD/AIDS will be integrated in all development programs, and in
particular in the national plan of health development 2000 - 2010, which is under preparation.
53.   Lasdy, following an inter-sectoral approach, communications and information programs will be
developed, aimed in particular at children and young adults, to promote safe practices and change
behavior in the fight against HIV/AIDS.
54.   In the area of social affairs, the Government policy aims at providing adequate social coverage
and improving assistance to handicapped persons, drug addicts, and senior citizens. This policy will
necessitate the setting up of a comprehensive system consisting, among others, of the preparation and
implementation of our national rehabilitation program at the community level. The objectives are to
support and protect the handicapped, drug addicts, AIDS victims and their families and to establish,
through surveys, a qualitative and quantitative data bank to guide social actions.
55.   Analysis shows that poverty is predominantly a rural phenomenon. Consequently, the fight
against poverty will largely concentrate on this sector.
56.   In addition to education and health, the poverty reduction strategy will also focus on improving
basic infrastructures, notably water supply, rural roads, and small-scale irrigation. Next, in order to
improve agricultural services, the Government will implement a policy based primarily on the
dissemination of modem techniques and promotion of improved inputs, the encouragement of the private



Annex I
Page 10 of 11
investment in the sector, through credit mechanisms, the reinforcement of land tenure, and the protection
of the environment.
57.   To favor the necessary transformation of the sector, the government has committed to redefine
key functions of the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock and proceed with the restructuring of the
ministry in order to reenergize rural development.
58.   Poverty reduction also means a strategy for employment creation, especially in favor of the
young. Job creation is intimately related to high and sustained growth.
59.   Using the vast natural resource base of the country, the Government is developing several large
projects in the mining sector with the active support of external partners including the World Bank. The
realization of these projects, financed essentially by private funds, will significantly raise national output
and at the same time reduce unemployment in a meaningful way in the precarious labor market in Guinea.
60.   In the meantime, the government will put in place an active employment creation policy using
labor-intensive techniques in the implementation of public investment projects. This will be reinforced
by a heavier reliance on small-and medium-sized enterprises in the development of basic infrastructures.
61.   In addition, through technical assistance (training in entrepreneurship and management
techniques), financial assistance (in collaboration with development partners) and institutional support,
the government will assist efforts of young people in the development of employment creation and
income generation initiatives. To this effect, it will collaborate with cooperative movements, NGOs, and
youth groups.
F.    IMPROVEMENT OF STATISTICS
62.   The incomplete and weak quality of available statistics has been identified as major constraint in
the formulation and evaluation of national development programs. The poverty reduction strategy has
identified as key constraints, the need to update information on poverty and to establish a system that will
allow the monitoring of programs and actions against poverty. To this effect, a new comprehensive
household survey will be undertaken and a national poverty observatory created.
63.   The Government will reinforce agencies responsible for the gathering, analysis, and
dissemination of statistical data at the central level as well as at the levels of sectors and decentralized
structures. It is expected that into medium term, these efforts will allow the production, on a regular
basis, of quality data needed for economic and social management.
INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION AND MONITORING OF
THE REFORM PROGRAM
64.   Implementation and monitoring of the reform program would be assured by a Technical
Committee chaired by the senior adviser to the Minister of Economy and Finances in charge of poverty
reduction strategy. This Conunittee will include:
*   The National Director of the Budget,
*   The National Director of the Treasury,
*   The Chief Budget Officer of a priority sector,
* The adviser to the Minister of a priority sector,
*   The Director of the Privatization Unit, and
*   An assistant.



Annex 1
Page Ii of 11
65.    This technical Committee will report to an interrministerial Committee presided by the Minister of
Economy and Finances that will include as members, the Ministers of all priority sectors and of
Decentralization. IDA budgetary support resources will be lodged in a special account called `SAC
IV/priority sectors account. Tlmese resources will serve to finance exclusively these sectors. The same
setup will also apply to resources to be provided by the AfDB, European Union. and KFW.
Mr. President,
66.    National development is complex, difficult, and lengthy process. The Guinean Government is
determined to pursue this task. efforts undertaken since 1985, with the invaluable assistance of the
international community, and in particular your Institution, have allowed us to achieve important
progress.
67.    For the years come. in spite of the difficult environment, the Government will commit itself to
realize the country's economic potential.  In addition to this Letter of Deve!opment Policy, the
Government is also preparing a full of Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper. This document will serve as the
unique reference for development actions in the future.
68.    The Guinean Government will continue to reinforce its policy dialogue with the World Bank
Group.  To this effect, it will submit to the Bank, on a regular basis. progress report on the
implementation of the reform program. The government is convinced that the reforrn policies described
above will allow Guinea to attain the aimed objectives. It will take all necessary measures to ensure the
above.
Please accept, M(r. President. the assurance of our highest consideration.
Yours sinc.-iy,          ,
_~~~/~
_ se~~~/



ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 12
GUINEA - SAC IV: POLICY MATRIX
REFORM AREAS, OUTPUTS AND OUTCOME INDICATORS
BENCIIMARKS AND OUTPUTS                                       ECXPECTED OUTCOMES
ISSUES                   SAC IV                  Reform program               R eform Prga            CICALNSSMTIN
OBJEMIVE: MORFE ACCOUNTABLE AND                        {)verall Outcomes:
EMCIENT USE OF PUBLIC RESOURCES                       I. Increased access to public services
THROUGH STRENGTHENING OF PUBLIC                       2. Greater efficiency in resources allocation
EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT                           3. More accountability and transparency in public resource management
Issue:               Adopted a medium-term fiscal  Prepare medium-term outlook   Produce 2003 consolidated  Outcomes:
Weaknesses in budget  framework (2002-2004) for    for investment spending.    budget covering recurrent and   Multi-year budget formulation
preparation.         revenue and expenditures.                                 investment expenditures.     based on more clearly articulated
Publish a citizen's guide on the                         strategies in priority sectors.
Strengthened budget          2002 budget (showing sectoral  Publish a citizen's guide on the  Improved public awareness about
preparation for FY02 in the  priorities and allocations   2003 budget.                the budget.
perspective of an MTEF by    together with key results of
having cabinet review and    budget execution in 2000 as per Adopt recommendations of the
endorsement of three-year    audited budget accounts).    PEIRs for health and education
indicative ceilings to priority                          sectors in preparation of FY03
sectors linked to annual     Produce interim PEIR reports   budget.
budgets.                     and initiate consultations with
key stakeholders to articulate   Complete second set of PEIRs
Priority sectors submitted   policies for priority sectors.    and discuss with stakeholders.
multi-year budget requests.
Initiate PEIRs for two      Initiate PEIRs for two
Launched public expenditure   additional to sectors (to be  additional sectors (to be
and institutional reviews    determined).                 determined).
(PEIR) in education and health. I_I_ __I
'It is envisaged that SAC IV will be followed by PRSCs to support the government's poverty reduction strategy.



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 12
GUINEA - SAC IV: POLICY MATRIX
REFORM AREAS, OUTPUTS AND OUTCOME INDICATORS
BENCHMARKS AND OUTPUTS                                       EXPECTED OUTCOMES
ISSUES                   SAC IV                  Reform program              Reform Program                     AND
July 2001                    Year 21                      Year 3            CRITICAL ASSUMPTIONS
Issue:               Raised non-wage recurrent   Include capital expenditure in   Begin incorporating salaries    Outcome:
In spite of recent   expenditures for priority    budget allocations to priority   allocations to reflect priorities  A larger and more comprehensive
efforts, allocations to  sectors from 32 % in 2000  sectors to reflect PRSP   of the PRSP (starting with  approach to resources allocations
priority sectors remain  budget to 35% in 20012   priorities.                 education and health).      in support poverty reduction
inadequate.                                                                                               strategy.
Increased per capita public
expenditure in health from $1.8
in 2000 to $4 in 2001.
Issue:               Adopted the principle of ex-    Create a new National    Publish reports of audits   Outcome:
Weak management of  post audits of investment     Directorate for Investment and  undertaken in 2002 and  Stronger of coordination of donor
the investment budget  projects.                  Public Debt.                discussed them with donor    assistance and of capacity to
and inadequate                                                                representatives in Conakry.  monitor investment budget.
assessment of its
development impact.  Published list of investment    Publish reports of audits  Identify projects and sectors for Critical Assumption:
projects for ex-post audits in    undertaken in 2001 and  ex-post audits in 2003.    Active involvement of donors in
2001.                       discussed them with donor                                the process.
representatives in Conakry.
Proposed new institutional  Publish list of investment
setup to improve collection of  projects and sectors for ex-post
information on externally   audits in 2002.
funded projects (commitment
and disbursement) involving
redefinition of respective roles
of MEF and line ministries.
Initiated work to link      Incorporate investment budget
investment projects to recurrent in medium-term expenditure
budget requirements for     framework.
selected key sectors.
2 Board conditions for SAC IV are shown in bold. Policy measures for subsequent years are indicative benchmarks.



ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 12
GUINEA - SAC IV: POLICY MATRIX
REFORM AREAS, OUTPUTS AND OUTCOME INDICATORS
BENCEHMARKS AND OUTPUTS                                       EXPECTED OUTCOMES
ISSUES                   SAC IV                  Reform program              Reform Program                      AND
July 2001                    Year 2'                      Year 3             CRITICAL ASSUMPTIONS
Issue:               Adopted decision that new    Implement Health Ministry's  Implement Education         Outcomes:
Intersectoral        recruitments for operational    new hiring practices.    Ministry's new wage bill     More flexible civil service
allocations of budget  staff in the Health Ministry be                        allocation practices.        management for key sectors
resources exclude    location-specific.           Begin implementation of health                          linked to performance.
human resources.                                  services contracting.
Adopted decision to contract
out basic health care services,   Adopt decision to delegate
on a pilot basis, to private  teacher recruitment to
providers.                  prefectures rather than central
government.             _
Issue:               Instituted quarterly Cabinet-                                                         Outcomes:
Weak budget          level reviews of budget                                                               Timely production of audited
execution.           implementation and                                                                    budget accounts.
disseminated key results to                                                          A more open budget process
national assembly and local                                                          allowing for more active
media.                                                                               participation of civil society.
Began monitored of budget   Begin monitoring of variance                             Critical Assumption:
execution delays using      between original budget                                  Capacity building of oversight
financial management        allocations and actual                                   agencies for budget audits.
information system and took    spendings.
actions to reduce delays.
Set up a monitoring system to Ensure satisfactory budget  Ensure budget implementation
ensure budget               implementation for priority    for priority sectors and raise
implementation according to  sectors and raise          implementation rate for other
allocations for priority    implementation for other     sectors to at least 80% in 2003.
sectors in 2001.            sectors to at least 75% of
appropriations in FY2002.
Produced audited budget     Produce audited accounts for   Produce audited budget
accounts for 1998 budget.    1999 and 2000 budgets.      accounts for 2001 to be
Submit audited accounts for    submitted together with budget
2000 together with budget   proposal for 2003.
proposal for 2002.



ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 12
GUINEA - SAC IV: POLICY MATRIX
REFORM AREAS, OUTPUTS AND OUTCOME INDICATORS
BENCHMARKS AND OUTPUTS                                       EXPECTED OUTCOMES
ISSUES                   SAC IV                  Reform program              Reform Program                     AND
July 2001                    Year 2'                      Year 3            CRITICAL ASSUMPTIONS
Issues:              Issued decree to introduce  Publish first annual report on   Publish second annual report   Outcomes:
Weak management of  principle of ex-post external   ex-post audits of government   on ex-post audits of   More effective and transparent
procurement contracts, audits of procurement      procurement contracts and list  government procurement  implementation of procurement
leaving much scope    contracts together with     of corrective measures and  contracts and list of corrective  contracts.
for abuse.           systems of sanctions for abuse sanctions for abuse.      measures and sanctions for  Concrete measure to enhance
(applicable to both                                      abuse.                      accountability in public sector
Weak asset and       government officials and                                                             management.
inventory management suppliers).                                              Implement new asset and
of purchased goods.                                                           management practices for    Procurement code applies to
Established a National Audit                             priority sectors, beginning with  public enterprises.
Fund with contributions by                               central structures.
SAC IV and other donors.                                                             Critical Assumption:
Undertook preparation to    Issue, on a regular basis, price                         Civil service ministry participates
produce, on a regular basis,    information goods and services
price information of goods and  commonly bought by
services commonly bought by   Government.
Government.
Initiated review of certification  Adopt new guidelines for asset
procedures of suppliers eligible  registry and management
to participate in government    procedures.
procurement.
Rendered operational the    Adopt decree extending
Review Committee screening   government procurement code
of negotiated contracts     to public enterprises.
(Commission consultative des
marches de grd-a-gre').     Harmonize subnational
administration procurement
Initiated review of procedures  code with central procurement
on asset registry and       code.
I management.               I_I



ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 12
GUINEA - SAC IV: POLICY MATRIX
REFORM AREAS, OUTPUTS AND OUTCOME INDICATORS
BENCHMARKS AND OUTPUTS                                        EXPECTED OUTCOMES
ISSUES                   SAC IV                  Reform program               Reform Program                      AND
July 2001                     Year 21                      Year 3             CRITICAL ASSUMPTIONS
Issue:               Redefined roles and          Increase budgets for oversight  Oversight agencies to issue  Outcome:
Weak auditing and    responsibilities of oversight    agencies.                independent monitoring reports New institutional framework and
monitoring of public   agencies.                                               of budgetary and financial   motivations that discourages fraud
sector management.                                Provide training to and increase implementation for 2001  and corruption in the public
Strengthened the Accounts   budget for Economic and      budget.                      sector.
Chamber of the Supreme Court Financial Commission of the
(responsible for reviewing   Parliament.                  Design a system to monitor
audited budget accounts).                                 assets of senior Government
officials.
Commenced preparatory        Define the role of the National
work for conducting surveys  Anti-Corruption Committee.
of public officials, citizens,
and businesses on corruption.
Discuss the option of creating
an external Auditor General's
office.
Issue:               Undertook and disseminated    Collect and disseminate     Improve collection and       Outcome:
Budget process       baseline service delivery    indicators and results of    dissemination of indicators; use Citizens are empowered through
remains focused on    surveys in selected prefectures  surveys (through workshops    results in setting sector  information to demand better
spending (inputs) with  covered by the CBSDP.     and the local media).        priorities.                  public services.
little attention to
performance and      Finalized performance        Extend baseline service
outcomes.            indicators for priority sectors   delivery surveys to new areas.
and developed strategy to: (i)
collect the information and (ii)  Consolidate results with PEIR
publish the results.         exercises to set sectoral
priorities.
Developed strategy to initiate
users' satisfaction surveys.



ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 12
GUINEA - SAC IV: POLICY MATRIX
REFORM AREAS, OUTPUTS AND OUTCOME INDICATORS
BENCHMARKS AND OUTPUTS                                          EXPECTED OUTCOMES
ISSUES                    SAC IV                   Reform program                Reform Program                        AND
July 2001                      Year 2'                       Year 3              CRITICAL ASSUMPTIONS
Issue:                Initiated review of M&E                                     Issue report on M&E activities  Outcome:
Weak monitoring and   practices by government,                                    in key ministries by the task  Stronger monitoring and
evaluation (M&E)      NGOs, donors, and other                                     force.                        evaluation capacity.
capacity within the   agencies with a focus on
government.           capacity and incentives system.
Prepared an action plan to    Adopt an action plan (with
strengthen M&E of SAC IV    timetable) to strengthen M&E
reform program.               capacity and practices.
Appoint a task force to
strengthen M&E capacity and
practices.
Create a poverty observatory.



ANNEX 2
Page 7 of 12
GUINEA - SAC IV: POLICY MATRIX
REFORM AREAS, OUTPUTS AND OUTCOME INDICATORS
BENCHMARKS AND OUTPUTS                                          EXPECTED OUTCOMES
ISSUES                    SAC IV                   Reform program               Reform Program                       AND
July 2001                     Year 21                        Year 3             CRITICAL ASSUMPTIONS
OBsCTIVE:. MORE ACCOUNTABLE AND EFFECTIVE (verali Outcomes:
GOVEINMENT THROUGH DECENTRALIZATION OF    I) More equitable access to public services and deepening of
RESOURCES, DECISION-MAING AND SERVICE                             decetralization process.
DELIVERY.                                2) Empowerment of beneficiaries
3) Greater accountability of budget management at local levels
Issue:                Non-wage recurrent            Non-wage recurrent budgetary  Non-wage recurrent budgetary  Outcome:
The bulk of non-wage  budgetary allocations to      allocations to prefectures were  allocations to prefectures were  Increased deconcentration and
recurrent budget is   prefectures were raised to    raised from 80% in FY200 I to  raised from 83% in FY2002.to  delegation of activities.
committed and spent   80% in FY2001.                83% in FY2002.               85% in FY2003.
at the central level.                                                                                          Improved accountability as
spending decisions arte moved
closer to beneficiaries.
Issues:               Disseminated (including       Disseminate FY02 budget      Disseminate FY03 budget       Outcomes:
Budget allocations to   posting of figures) FY01    allocations to schools and   allocations to schools and    Delegation of decision-making
subnational levels are   budget allocations to schools  health clinics in about half of   health clinics for the whole  power in public service delivery to
not transparent.      and health clinics in 5       all prefectures.              country.                     lowest levels (schools and health
communes (Conakry) and 5                                                                 clinics) enhancing accountability
Accountability of     prefectures (Kindia).         Ministries of Finance jointly    Ministry of Finance jointly  to service beneficiaries.
deconcentrated levels                               with line ministries design and  with line ministries carries out
(see previous         Monitored implementation of   implement an expenditure     tracking surveys in at least two
measures) to the center the budget at decentralized  tracking survey in primary   other sectors and disseminates
rather than to        level.                        education and disseminate the  the results.
communities.                                        results.
Identified and designed
capacity building in financial
management to local schools
and health clinics.                                                  _



ANNEX 2
Page 8 of 12
GUINEA - SAC IV: POLICY MATRIX
REFORM AREAS, OUTPUTS AND OUTCOME INDICATORS
BENCHMARKS AND OUTPUTS                                         EXPECTED OUTCOMES
ISSUES                    SAC IV                   Reform program               Reform Program                       AND
July 2001                     Year 2'                       Year 3             CRITICAL ASSUMPTIONS
Issue:                Adopted new rules in 2001     Expand the allocation rules to  Identify constraints to local  Outcome:
Local governments     budget, sharply increasing    other taxes and fees including   revenue mobilization of rural   Greater resources available to
have very limited     shares of revenues accruing   fees from natural resources  communities and adopt         local communities, helping to
financial resources.    to local communities from   development.                 corrective measures.          deepen the decentralization
head tax (IMDL), property                                                               process.
tax (CFU), professional tax    Initiate estimation of revenue   Begin implementing, on a pilot
(TPU), and vehicle taxes     mobilization potential of rural  scale, a system of
(TVU).                       communities (CRDs) and        intergovernmental transfers to
municipalities.              local governments and with
clear criteria on equity and
Develop a system of          local performance.
intergovernmental transfers to
local governments.



ANNEX 2
Page 9 of 12
GUINEA - SAC IV: POLICY MATRIX
REFORM AREAS, OUTPUTS AND OUTCOME INDICATORS
BENCHMARKS AND OUTPUTS                                         EXPECTED OUTCOMES
ISSUES                   SAC IV                   Reform program               Reform Program                       AND
July 2001                     Year 21                       Year 3             CRITICAL ASSUMPTIONS
Issue:               Issued circular detailing new                                                           Outcomes:
High fiduciary risk   system of budget management                                                            Availability of published
associated with      to subnational administrations.                                                          information on budget
decentralization of                                                                                          management and on asset registry
budget management.   Extended the system of        Ensure that computer-based   Generalize system of          and management.
computer-based monitoring of  monitoring of budget execution  semiannual financial
budget execution to subnational to subnational governments is  performance reports to all
administrations.             fully operational.           prefectures.
Adopted measures to ensure    Introduce system of semiannual
delivery of goods and services  financial performance reports
acquired through procurement  by prefectures including asset
to prefectures.              registry and management (pilot
basis).
Issued report describing new  Based on performance of first   Begin ex-post audit of budget
roles and responsibilities of  year of implementation, revise  outturns for selected
MEF staff at central and local  system of budget management  prefectures on a pilot basis.
levels, and more particularly    at subnational levels and take
the Directorate of the Treasury  appropriate actions.
(DNT).
Adopted procedures regarding
asset registry and management
at subnational administrations.
Issue report on measures to
strengthen financial control at
the local level by the
Directorate of Financial
Control (DNCF).



ANNEX 2
Page 10 of 12
GUINEA - SAC IV: POLICY MATRIX
REFORM AREAS, OUTPUTS AND OUTCOME INDICATORS
BE NCHDWARKS AND OUTPUTrs                                      EXPECTED OUTCOMES
ISSUES                   SAC IV                   Reform program               Reform Program                       AND
July 2001                     Year 21                       Year 3            CR1TICAL ASSUMPTIONS
OBJECQTIVE-. IMPRtOVING PUBLIC SECTOR                       Overall Outcome:
PERFORMANCE AND ENVIRONMEENT FOR PRIVATE                         A More Favorable Business Environment Promoting Market-Led
SECTOR LED GROWTH THROUGH DIVESTITURE    Activities.
Issue:               Adopted and published a       Offer for sale of identified  Offer for sale of identified  Outcome:
Public enterprises (PE) comprehensive public       public enterprises following  public enterprises following  Clear signals of a more market-
reforms have stalled.   enterprises refortn strategy.  detailed technical and financial detailed technical and financial oriented government strategy.
analysis.                    analysis.
Adopted Social Plan for
public enterprises reform
accompanied by
communications strategy.
Finalize operational procedures
of the Social Plan including
Government's contribution to
the plan.
Liquidated PEs identified in the
strategy.
Issue:               Adopted the new privatization   Provide adequate funding and   Additional measures to be  Outcome:
Institutional        law.                          conditions to ensure smooth    identified.                Transparent execution of
weaknesses for                                     operation of the Privatization                            privatizations and liquidations,
divestiture policy.                                Unit.                                                     creating conditions for the
establishment of a sound
Issued decree creating the new   Adopt measures to ensure                              regulatory framework.
Privatization Unit.          transparent use of privatization
proceeds.
Redefined the role and
responsibilities of the Direction
du Portefeuille (responsible to
oversee the PE sector).



ANNEX 2
Page 11 of 12
GUINEA - SAC IV: POLICY MATRIX
REFORM AREAS, OUTPUTS AND OUTCOME INDICATORS
BENCHMARKS AND OUTPUTS                                       EXPECTED OUTCOMES
ISSUES                   SAC IV                  Reform program              Reform Program                      AND
July 2001                    Year 21                      Year 3             CRITICAL ASSUMPTIONS
Issue:               Updated the situation on cross-  Produce on a regular basis  Produce on a regular basis  Outcome:
Significant explicit    debts between the government  progress reports on the  progress reports on the     Healthier financial situation for
and implicit subsidies  and PEs.                  situation concerning cross-  situation concerning cross-    the PE sector.
to PEs and                                        debts together with measures to debts together with measures to
government arrears in  Adopted a plan to clear cross-  reduce the amounts.    reduce the amounts.
payments for         debts.
consumption of
electricity, water, and
telephone.
Issue:               Adopted recommendations on   Liquidate ENELGUI once      Other measures to be         Outcome:
Poor services in public private participation in  agreement on the restructuring  determined.              More cost-effective public
utilities, a major   infrastructure based on      of the energy sector has been                            utilities.
obstacle to investment workshop (organized in     approved with key partners.                             Improved environment for private
and growth.          September) to discuss the                                                             sector participation in developing
Country Framework Report.    Adopt action programs to                                these sectors.
reduce fraud in energy and                               Critical Assumption:
water sectors (in close                                 Availability of capacity building
collaboration with private                              through Technical Assistance for
partners).                                               PE Reforms project.
Review rates determination in
energy and water sectors to
gradually reduce subsidies
_________________________   from   the  central budget.
Issue:               Initiated institutional review of Undertook institutional review   Other measures to be  Outcomes:
Public services in   roles and responsibilities of the  of roles and responsibilities of  determined.      Farmers' satisfaction based on
agriculture no longer   Ministry of Agriculture.  the Ministry of Agriculture.                             public surveys.
relevant to new
dynamics in rural                                 Adopt a strategy to mitigate the                         Greater involvement of private
areas with stronger                               social cost of the institutional                         sector organizations in the sector.
role of producers'                                reforms.
associations and
private sector.



ANNEX 2
Page 12 of 12
GUINEA - SAC IV: POLICY MATRIX
REFORM AREAS, OUTPUTS AND OUTCOME INDICATORS
BENCHMARKS AND OUTPUTS                                             EXPECTED OUTCOMES
ISSUES                     SAC IV                    Reform program                 Reform Program                        AND
July 2001                       Year 21                        Year 3              CRITICAL ASSUMPTIONS
Issue:                 Adopted the Second-            Initiated discussions of funding  Implement new Road Fund.   Outcome:
Rapid deterioration of  Generation Road Fund          requirements (based on detailed                               Better road maintenance based on
the road network due   approach for the maintenance    consultants' reports) for the                               users satisfaction surveys.
to poor road           of the road network.           new Road Fund.
maintenance                                                                                                         Critical Assumptions:
Adopt funding mechanisms for                                 Agreement with the IMF on
the Road Fund.                                               funding of the Road Fund outside
the central budget framework and
revenue allocations to the Road
Fund.



Annex 3
Pae 1 of 2
Guinea at a glance
Sub_
POVERTY ad SOCIAL                                         Sahaa       Low-
aune       Arfca  Income       Dev _omeWi dlar
Population, mid-er (mon.)                            7.2      643     2.417                Ll a q
GNP per capita (Atws method. USS)                   500       490      420
GNP (Ad"as meo, USS bllins)                          3.6      316     1,006
Average annual growth, 1
Populan (%)                                          2.4       2.6      1.9     o        
Labor force ()                                       2.4      2.6       2A      C                              GrowP
Moat fwent esite (latest yr available, 19U91                                    cpi                        erolen
Poverty (% ofpopubiion beow n-Wonl po*t W)           48
Urban population (% oftot populabon)                 30        34        31
Life oxpectny at bilh (aru)                          44        47        59
Infant motaty (per 1,000 he blWia)                   98        92        77
Child malnutition (% o(chkhn undr 5)                 18         ..       ..          Acs to imed wcbr sot
Access to an inproved wa  source (% ofpopulbion)     49        56        76
lliXeray  pp of pcwlo  Sp 15+)                      76        30        30
Gross primary enrolmet (% of schooage population)    S1        78        96                 Guhe
Male                                               65        8S       102           -Low 4hone proup
Femae                                              37        71         6   I
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
19 10 19          i99m      2000
Economic ftti.w
GOP (US$ blons)                              ..      2.8       3.5      3.1
Gros domatic invsmenVGOP                      ..    17.5      22.2     22.1                    Trde
Exports of goods and services/GDP            ..    30.9       21.4     25.9
Gross domestc savings/GP                      ..    17.7      17.5     18.6
Gros natiorl savings/GDP                     ..    10.4       14.9     15.7
Current accoun balanceIGOP                    ..    -.4       -72      .6.5     DoImetc                     wa
Interest payrnnts/GDP                        ..      1.9       1.7      1.9    noWn s
Toal debGOP                                   ..    67.9     95.3    1042
Total debt servielexorts                   19.8    20.3       24.8     22.2
Present value of debtWGDP                     ..      ..     52.5      S1.S
Presed value of deWexports                   ..       ..    243.3    237.1
1960-60  19-00      1999      2000   2fl4404
(avee annual growh)
GOP                                  ..     4.3      3.9       1.8      5.3
GNP per capita                      ..      1.8      29       -1.1      2.6                  IDow-Wome  W
Exports f goods and sermces          ..     4.6      .0       0.0       52
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1900    1990      iSo       2000      rowtJh of investnt and GOP M%3
x Of GDP)
Argculture                                   ..    23.6       24.3     23.7
Industy                                      ..    33.3      37.9      36.6    10-
Manufacturing                              ..      4.6       4.2       4.1     s
Ser                                           ..    429       37.8     30.7     o                       I
Prvate consuion                              ..    73.4       76.5     75A                  U '7   5    so   oo
General govemrnmen consumption               ..      S.9       6.0      5.9
Imports of goods and  re..    30.6                           26.1      29.4
(average -us, V-0)198040  1990-00                            19S9     2100         wt oefprWu sadmpo t  I)
Agriculture                                   .      4.3       5.5     -2.6   1r
bby                                           *-     4-7       53       43    10
Manufacturing                                .     4.1       6.5       7.0
Ser                                           ..     3.4       0.5      2.7                         /
Privae consumption                           ..      3.5       1.7      3.6o                                 *
Generl govem-      consumpton                ..      4.7       3.3      3.6                 0     7 N   1     i   w
Gross domestic wnstment                      ..      2.8       4.5      5. A
ports of goods and servics                    .      1.2       0.5      9.0                 Ewors   -knporf
Gros national product                        ..      4.        5.3      1.5
Nole: 1999 data are preliminary esUmate.
'The diamonds show four key indkitos in the country (in bolk compared wIh t incomegroup avere. &daa ae missi, h diamod wil
be incomplete. Lad ear or impwoved wvar sowue data is 2000.



Annex 3
Page 2 of 2
Guinea
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domnc pdces                                '1S80    1S80       1SSS     2000         b        1%)
(% chanp)                                                                         12
Consumer prices                                ..    23.3        4.6      6.8     1 0
Implicit GDP delator                           ..    23.9        3.3     10.1        ;
Govwnmont finance                                                                 2 .
(X of GDP, iclude6 cun nt grants)                                                 a
Cuerre revenue                                       15.8       10.9     11.1            96   96   97   98    9    00
Cunrent budget balnce                                 3.4        1.8      1.7             -G OP dr
Overa surpliu/deficit                                  ..       -5.4     5.66
TRADE
1S80    1S90       991      200        Export NdW Import bveks (US mUl.)
(US$ lmNOs)
Total export (fob)                                    817       646       695     i014
Other metals                                        447        296      299
Aluminum                                             166        86      103                 * .I_
Lanufactures                                     ..        ..
Total imporls (ci.)    723                                      582       555      507 d               I n -
Food                                                 12         82       87
Fuel and energ                                       65         93       99                                 *h_ *Ol_ 
Capital goods                   ..96                           106      120 o_ 
Export prnce indexs (1995-100)                 ..     140        84       97            94  as  se  97  ea  go  on
kmport price indeox (1995-100)                 ..      92        88        96                   ffExpof      a impot
Termsoftrade(195100)                           ..    153        107       101
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(U1$                                        188b-)  9f0    1990  1S99   2000      CuDn   account babnce to GP)
Exp*ots of goods and serices                 553      829       759       So0     a
Imports of good and servics                  481      891       924      917    -1
Resource balance                              72      -62      -165      -109    -2
Net income                                   -95    -149        -84       -82     . *
Not current transfers                         -8  -53   -8  -10    1111111
Curred account balance                       -32    -264       -257      -201    74
Financing ilem  (net)                         57      315       215       158
Changes in net resorves                      -25      -51        42        44     x
meno:
Res- vesluding gold (USSmIUkms)                0      116       273      212
Cversion rate (DEC, lco&USS)                19.0   660.2   1,343.6  1,709.6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980    19S0       1989     200
(USS niNons)                                                                      ComposI  of 20O0 deb (USS mill.)
Total deot outstanding and diused           1,133    2,476    3,375    3,251
IBRD                                        55       28         0        0
IDA                                         32      392      1,004    1.009                    G 178
F: 66
Totaldebtservice                             109      169       190       180
IBRD                                         9       14         0        0                              :    1,009
IDA                                          0        3        16        19
Composition o net resource flow                                                      E: 1044
Official grants                             25       95       109       112
Otficial credto                              1      119       184       190                        _           45
Private creditom                            46      -19       -13        -5
Foreign direct invsnt                       34       18        34       -33
Portfolio quity                              0        0         ,.        .                         D: 90
World Bank program
Commtment                                   17      174        55        19     A-IBRO                      E-0ilal
Disbursements                               10       52        57        29     B-K)A    D - Othr mulbWal  F- -Prkn e
Principal repayments                         3       13         8        11     C - IM                      G - Short-twm
Not Iowa                                     7       39        49        18   _
nteres paymnt                                6        5         8         8
Nd transfdm                                  1       35        41        10
Devepn Econmics



Annex 4
Page 1 of I
Guinea Social Indicators
Same region/income
Latest single year                     group
Sub-            Low-
1970-75   198045   1993-99           Saharan         Income
Africa
POPULATION
Total population, mid-year (millions)             4.1        5.0         7.3            642.8         2'417.1
Growth rate (% annual average)                  1.2        2.2         2.5              2.6            1.9
Urban population (% of population)               16.3       22.3        32.1             33.8           31.4
Total fertility rate (births per woman)           5.9        6.2         5.3              5.3             3.7
POVERTY
(9/6 of population)
National headcount index                           ..                   40.0
Urban headcount index                             ..         ..
Rural headcount index                            ..          ..
INCOME
GNP per capita (US$)                               .           ..       490              490            4200
Consumer price index (1995=100)                    ..         ..                         131             138
Food price index (1995=100)                        ..         ..        125
INCOME/CONSUMPTION
DISTRIBUTION
Gini index                                         ..         ..        40.3
Lowest quintile (% of income or consumption)       ..         ..         6.4
Highest quintile (% of income or consumption)      ..         ..        47.2
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Public expenditure
Health (% of GDP)                                                      2.2              1.7             1.2
Education (% of GNP)                                                   1.9              4.1             3.3
Social security and welfare (% of GDP)           ..          ..
Net primary school enrollment rate
(% of age group)
Total                                            ..         27          51
Male                                            ..         37          65
Female                                                   18          37
Access to an improved water source
(% of population)
Total                                            ..         20         49               55              76
Urban                                                                 72               82              88
Rural                                                                36               41             70
Immunization rate
(% under 12 months)
Measles                                          ..          ..         61               57             64
DPT                                               ..         ..         57               59             70
Child malnutrition (% under 5 years)               ..         23
Life expectancy at birth
(years)
Total                                            38         42          46               47              59
Male                                            38         41          46               46             58
Female                                        39          42         47               48              60
Mortality
Infant (per thousand live births)               164        137          96               92             77
Under 5 (per thousand live births)              345        265         167              161             116
Adult (15-59)
Male (per 1,000 population)                  636         589         442              499            288
Female (per 1,000 population)                 534        507         438              453            258
Maternal (per 100,000 live births)               ..          ..        670
Births attended by skilled health staff (%)        ..          .         35
2001 World Development Indicators CD-ROM, World Bank



Annex 5
Page 1 of 3
Guinea - Key Economic Indicators
Actual               Estimate             Projected
Indicator                 1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004
National accounts (as % of GDP)
Gross domestic producta      100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Agriculture                 20.8    21.0    21.1    21.7    20.7    20.7    20.5    20.3    20.2
Industry                    27.9    30.7    30.7    31.5    32.3    33.2    33.5    33.8    34.0
Services                    48.4    48.3    48.2    46.7    47.0    46.1    46.0    46.0    45.8
Total Consumption            82.3    78.6    81.1    82.5    81.4    78.8    78.1    77.6    76.8
Grossdomesticfixedinvestm(   21.4    22.2    19.6    21.2    21.2    23.4    23.1    23.2    23.4
Government investment        7.4     8.2      5.6     7.2     7.2      9.4     9.1      9.2     9.4
Private investment          14.0    14.0    14.0    14.0    14.0    14.0    14.0    14.0    14.0
Exports (GNFS)b               19.0    20.4    23.0    21.4    25.9    30.8    31.5    30.8    30.8
Imports (GNFS)               24.4    22.6    25.1    26.1    29.4    33.8    33.5    32.4    31.7
Gross domestic savings        17.7    21.4    18.9    17.5    18.6    21.2    21.9    22.4    23.2
Gross national savingsc       18.0    20.5    18.7    18.0    19.2    21.6    21.3    22.0    22.8
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product     3959.0  3895.0  3795.0  3543.0  3120.0  2923.0  3158.0  3466.0  3814.0
(US$ million at current
prices)
GNPpercapita                586.0   561.0   531.0   500.0   480.0   430.0   410.0   410.0   450.0
(US$, Atlas method)
Real annual growth rates
(%, calculated from 1994 prices)
Gross domestic product at    4.6     4.8      4.4     3.9      1.8     3.3     5.4      5.7     6.5
market prices
Gross Domestic Income        1.6     7.3      3.7     0.0     5.3      4.7     5.0      5.4     5.6
Real annual per capita
growth rates
(%, calculated from 1994 prices)
Gross domestic product at rr    2.1  2.3      2.1     1.5    -0.8      0.7     2.7      3.0     3.8
Total consumption            0.6     0.9      1.2    -0.5      1.0     1.1     0.9      2.3     2.3
Private consumption          0.7     0.4      2.3    -0.6      1.0     1.0     1.3      2.3     2.3
(Continued)



Annex 5
Page 2 of 3
Guinea - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Actual                Estimate             Projected
Indicator           1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004
Balance of Payments
(US$ millions)
Exports (GNFS)b                 734     771      828      759      809     900      994    1070    1175
Merchandise FOB              610      660      717      646     695      775      856      926    1012
Imports (GNFS)b                942      856      904     924      917      988    1058    1122    1208
Merchandise FOB              584      573      577      582     555      648      691      737     796
Resource balance               -208      -85     -76    -165    -108       -88       -64     -52      -33
Net current transfers           -25      -37      -16      -8      -10      -10     -35      -25      -40
Current account balance        -327    -244    -221    -257    -201    -196    -192    -169    -162
Net private foreign              17      45       62       34      -33       12       5       20       16
direct investment
Long-term loans (net)           122      161      94      151      129      113     122      133      143
Official                       125     217      169      179      126     104      108      123      154
Private                         17      45       49       34      -33      12       14      104      135
Other capital (net, incl.        64     -40       -53     -49      -47       0        0       19       19
errors and ommissions)
Change in reservesd              27     -47        5       42       44     -71        9       -8      -10
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% of GDP)      -5.4    -2.2    -2.1    -4.7    -3.5    -3.0    -2.0    -1.6    -0.9
Real annual growth
rates (YR94 prices)
Merchandise exports (FOB)        -8.0     4.0    12.5       6.0    14.5    12.2       3.8      3.9     2.1
Primary                         ..       ..       ..      ..       ..       ..
Manufactures                    ..       ..       ..      ..       ..       ..       ..      ..
Merchandise imports (CIF)       -12.4    15.3      4.3   -19.2    -8.9    13.0        7.7      8.2     4.7
(Continuaed



Annex 5
Page 3 of 3
Guinea - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Actual                Estimate               Projected
Indicator                1996     1997     1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004
Public finance (as % of
GDP at market prices)e
Current revenues           10.3     11.5     11.2    10.9      11.1     13.2     13.9    14.6    15.3
Current expenditures        9.0      9.1      8.7      9.0      9.4     12.1     11.2     11.4    12.1
Current surplus (+)
or deficit (-)             1.3      2.4      2.5      1.9      1.7      1.1     2.7      3.2      3.2
Capital expenditure         7.4      8.2      5.6      7.2      7.7      9.8      9.5      9.4      9.6
Foreign financing           6.2      7.3      4.7      6.2      6.9      7.8      6.8      6.8      6.9
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP                      9.0      9.9      9.8     10.0    11.0      10.2     10.7     10.7    10.7
Growth of M2 (%/6)          3.1     17.3      6.1      8.8    23.4       8.5      8.5      8.5      8.5
Private sector credit grow    142.3  0.0    111.5   184.9   186.6    87.2    80.0    80.0    80.0
total credit growth (%)
Price indices (1994=100)
Merchandise export
price index                98.8   102.8    91.2    84.3        79.2    78.7    83.8    87.2    93.3
Merchandise import
price index               111.6   102.7    94.2    93.7    98.1    101.4   100.3          98.9   102.1
Merchandise terms
of trade index             88.5    100.1    96.9    90.0    80.7        77.6    83.5    83.2    91.3
Real exchange rate
(US$/LCU)f                 91.6    95.9    85.4    81.8    75.0    75.0    75.0    75.0    75.0
Real interest rates
Consumer price index        3.0      1.9      5.1      4.6     6.8       9.6      4.2      3.0     2.8
(% change)
GDP deflator (% change)     1.0      1.8      2.4      3.2     10.1      7.4      5.3      5.4      4.7
a. GDP at factor cost
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includes use of IMF resources.
e. Consolidated central government.
f. "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase in US$/LCU denotes appreciation.



Annex 6
Guinea                                                               Page 1 of 2
Status of Bank Group Operations (Operations Portfolio)
Active                                                                                                                      Differ. Between
Prolects                                                Last PSR                                                           Exp. & actual
Supervision Rating               Orlainal Amount In USS Millions          Dlsbursements '
Project ID    Project Name                          Obves  press  Fiscal Year           IBRD    IDA GRANT  Cancel.  Undisb.    Orig.    Revd
P001068      AGR EXPORT PROMOTION                       S         S         1993          0.0  20.8    0.0        0.0      7.4      2.2      1.8
P049716      CAPACITY BUILDING FOR SERVICE DELIVE       S         S         2000          0.0  19.0    0.0        0.0     15.9    11.9       0.0
P001087      EQUITY AND SCHOOL IM                       S         S         1995          0.0  42.5    0.0        0.0     11.8     2.1       0.0
P001070      HEALTH/NUT.SCTR.                          S          S         1994          0.0  24.6    0.0        0.0      4.4    -1.8      -4.3
P001090      HIGHER EDUCATION MAN                      S          S         1996          0.0   6.6    0.0        0.0      1.3    -0.2      -0.2
P001077      MIN SECT INV PROMOT                        S         S         1996          0.0  12.2    0.0        0.0      0.2    -2.7      -2.9
P041568      POP & REPROD HEALTH                        S         S         1999          0.0  11.3    0.0        0.0      5.1    -3.1       0.0
P057188      PRE-SRV TEACHER EDUC                       S         S         1999          0.0   4.1    0.0        0.0      1.0    -0.1       0.0
P001075      THIRD WATER SUPPLY                         S         S         1997          0.0  25.0    0.0        0.0    14.8       4.2      0.0
P001074      URBAN III                                  S         S         1999          0.0  18.0    0.0        0.0    14.6       3.7      0.0
P050732      VILLAGE COMMUNITY SUPPORT PROGRAN    S               S         1999          0.0  22.0    0.0        0.0     16.9    -3.1       0.0
TOTAL          0.0  206.1    0.0       0.0    93A      13.1      -6.6
Closed Projects 46
IBRDIiDA-
Total Disbursed (Adive)                  95.10
of which has been repaid              0.00
Total Disbursed (Cbsed)                1,043.00
of which has been repaid           170.80
Total Disbursed (Active + Clsed)       1,138.15
of whch has been repaid            170.78
Total Undisbursed (Active)               93.41
Total Uncrisbursed (Closed)               0.00
Total Undisbursed (Active + Closed)      93.41



Annex 6
Guinea                                                     Page 2 of 2
Statement of IFC's Held and Disbursed Portfolio
(In US Dollars Millions)
Held                               Disbursed
Quasi   Parti-                    Quasi           Parti-
FY Approval    Company        Loan   Equity   Equity   pation   Loan   Equity   Equity            pation
1988           Aurifere        0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00            0.00
1998           SEF Agro        0.12     0.00    0.00      0.00    0.12    0.00     0.00            0.00
1993/98        SGHI            0.00     0.00    0.42      0.00    0.00    0.00     0.42            0.00
Total Portfolio:        0.12     0.00     0.42     0.00   0.12     0.00     0.42             0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
Quasi   Parti-
Loan   Equity   Equity   pation
2000           SEFMATP          500       0        0         0
Total Pending Commitment:    500        0        0        0



ANNEX 7
Page 1 of I
GUINEA
SUPPLEMENTAL CREDIT DATA SHEET
Timetable of Key Project Processing Events
Time taken to prepare the project             10 months'
Project prepared by:                          Goverunent with  the  assistance of IDA
staff2
Appraisal:                                    April 2001
Negotiations:                                 May 2001
Board Presentation:                           July 2001
Effectiveness Date:                           July 2001
Closing Date:                                 July 2002
The project concept was reviewed and approved in October 1999 and pre-appraisal took place in
November 1999. However, slippage on the macroeconomic front, which had led to the temporary
suspension of the IMF program during most of the year 2000, has also forced a temporary interruption
of project preparation which was re-started in November 2000 following the successful review of the
IMF's program.
2   This report is based on the findings of World Bank missions that visited Guinea to assist the
Government in the appraisal of the Structural Adjustment Credit. Members who have been involved
in the credit include: Messrs./Mmes Ngo (Task Manager); Dia (Director, AFCI 1); Osei (Resident
Representative); Larbi (Country Economist); Balde (Resident Mission Economist); C. Diallo (Acting
Resident Representative); Cauneau (Public Sector Management Specialist); Marie-Nelly, Assah, Sow
(Private Sector Development Specialists); 0. Diallo (Procurement Specialist); Prouty (Education
Specialist); Soucat (Health Sector Specialist); Piriou-Sall, Fauliau, 0. Diallo (Rural Development
Specialists); Schwartz (Procurement Specialist); Titsworth, Westebbe (Governance Specialists);
Varon (Overall Concept). Additional contributions were provided by: Messrs./Mmes. Cisse
(Counsel), Webber, Hadji and B. Diallo (Financial Management Specialists), and Xenakis
(Knowledge and Quality Control). Mr. Varon (external consultant) provided peer reviewing; Messrs.
Ghanem (AF08) and Holmes (formerly of PRMPS) provided feedback during the early phases of the
project. The project has benefited from a Quality Enhancement Review under the guidance of the
Quality Assurance Group (QAG). The panel consisted of Messrs. Hicks (Chairperson). LCSPP), Ford
(INFUD), Levy (AFTI2) and Swaroop (DECRG). Mmes. White, Schopmeyer-Medina and Mr.
Pfeiffenberger provided technical support.



