Report No. PID8533
Project Name                     Guinea-Fourth Structural Adjustment Credit (@)
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Non-sectoral
Project ID                       GNPE65128
Borrower                         Republic of Guinea
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Economy and Finance
Date this PID prepared           May 8, 2001
Project Appraisal date           April 9, 2001
Projected Board date             July 24, 2001
A.      Country Background.
1.      With the support of the donor community, Guinea has been implementing a
program of economic and financial rehabilitation and liberalization since
1986. After almost 30 years of central planning under a one-party
dictatorship, the Guinean economy was marked, in the late 1980s, by large
domestic and external imbalances, a bloated and inefficient public sector,
run-down economic and social infrastructures, and very little private activity
outside mining and agriculture. But, in spite of civil conflicts in three
neighboring countries and the continuing decline in bauxite prices, Guinea's
main export earner, real GDP has grown on average by over 4 percent since 1986
and inflation declined from 65 percent in 1986 to about 5 percent in recent
years. Growth in 2000 has been severely affected by attacks on the border
areas with Liberia, which are also Guinea's most important agricultural
region. The external current account deficit has stabilized around 6 to
7 percent of GDP in recent years.
2.      Since 1997, Guinea has been implementing a PRGF program.    Adverse
external events including negative terms of trade shocks and large security-
related expenditures due to the border conflict have contributed to slippages
in the macroeconomic framework in 1999 and in early 2000. After a period of
consolidation, the review of the third annual ESAF arrangement was finalized
in December 2000. Based on extensive consultations at the grassroots level,
the government decided to reorient public spending to pro-poor sectors in line
with its long-term development vision, known as Guinea-Vision 2010. To
support this process, IDA approved in December 1997 a structural adjustment
credit to help the government improve the management of public expenditures.
3.      Governance and transparency.   The government has identified poor
governance as a major challenge to its poverty reduction strategy and has
taken concrete measures to address this problem. After a slow start, the
recently established National Anti-Corruption Committee has begun to play an
active role in the drive toward better governance and integrity. Most
importantly, governance issues are now being discussed openly. To help fine-
tune the committee's action program, the government has decided to launch
diagnostic surveys whose results will contribute to the design and
implementation of an anticorruption program. In the area of public finances,
the government has strengthened financial control and public procurement,
adopted a computerized expenditure monitoring system, and has begun to put in
place the building blocks of a medium-term expenditure framework all of which
are expected to lead to greater expenditure efficiency. On the revenue side,



the authorities have launched the reorganization of customs and the audit of
customs invoices and procedures and formulated action plans based on completed
tax audits of key public utilities.
B.      Recent Economic and Political Developments
4.      Economic and financial developments in Guinea in the latter half of 1999
and during 2000 were adversely affected by exogenous developments, including a
substantial inflow of refugees into Guinea and repeated incursions of rebel
forces from both Sierra Leone and Liberia. In response, the Guinean
authorities, with encouragement but little financial support from the donor
community, have increased their contribution to the ECOMOG forces
(peacekeeping wing of the Economic Community of West African States) and
redeployed more troops to the borders. The cost of these operations has
increased the strain on Guinea's already weak public finances position. The
country also suffered a pronounced deterioration in its terms of trade over
the past 18 months, caused by price declines for bauxite and alumina, and by
the sharp rise in oil prices.
5.      Despite the very limited budgetary resources and the absence of external
budgetary support, Guinea has managed to meet most of its external debt
service obligations and, as a result, incurred a net resource outflow in the
past two years. In its efforts to build a track record in its macroeconomic
stabilization program, the government severely curtailed recurrent
expenditures during the first half of 2000. An agreement with the joint
IMF/World Bank mission in May 2000, which allows for temporary larger
borrowings from the central bank, made it possible for the government to
implement a catch-up program of expenditures for the priority sectors and
therefore ensure good budget implementation for these sectors in fiscal year
2000. The government successfully brought the PRGF program back on track by
September 2000, and took measures to minimize the risk that the slippages of
1999 and 2000 would not be repeated.    However, without external budgetary
assistance, the fiscal situation remains particularly strenuous, as Guinea
struggles to ensure debt service payments and spending for social sectors,
while facing security threat on its borders.
6.      On the security front, Guinea has been the target of violent attacks by
external forces on the border with Liberia causing severe human displacement
and physical destruction and imposing further strain on the already inadequate
health and social services. Sweeping sanctions by the UN Security Council on
Liberia, which have been in effect since May, have helped reduce the pressure
on Guinea's border areas. On the domestic front, the release of the
imprisoned Alpha Conde, who came second in the previous presidential elections
and the appointment of a new Finance Minister with broad authorities and a
strong commitment to the reform program have promoted stability and continuity
in policy reforms.
C.      The Proposed Operation
7.      The proposed project is designed to perform four strategic functions.
First, it helps link separate existing operations into a more effective
framework of reform designed to support one of the pillars of the government's
I-PRSP, which is to improve access to basic services. Second, it sets out an
overall framework in which reforms in governance and public sector management
work in a coherent manner to further the objectives of poverty reduction.
Third, the proposed operation helps identify and initiate work on critical
- 2 -



gaps to be filled in preparation for one or more follow-up operations, which
will follow this operation to accompany the government's poverty reduction
strategy. And fourth, to identify and initiate work on critical gaps such as
fiduciary safeguards.
8.      The medium-term reform program initiated under SAC IV is designed to
support the government's interim poverty reduction strategy. It is envisaged
that SAC IV could be followed by Poverty Reduction Support Credits (PRSCs) in
later years to accompany the full Poverty Reduction Support Strategy (PRSP),
which is under preparation. The first phase of this reform program focuses on
economy-wide policy and institutional reforms with a focus on strengthening
public expenditure management and on improving public sector governance as
prerequisites to improving the quality of public service delivery, especially
to the poor. This focus is at the core of IDA's assistance to Guinea.
Subsequent phases will emphasize the deepening of these reforms, strengthening
of governance, improving the economic environment to encourage private sector
led investment and growth, and reforming other sectors, in particular the
human development sectors.
9.      SAC IV supports the three pillars of Guinea's poverty reduction strategy
and covers the following reforms designed to help improve public services,
strengthen governance, and as a result, improve the environment for investment
and growth. The reforms aim to achieve: (i) more accountable and efficient
use of public resources through improved public expenditure analysis and
management; (ii) more effective government through decentralization of
decision-making and service delivery; and (iii) creating the conditions for
growth through divestiture.
10.     Procurement and disbursement arrangements.   The proposed credit is for
US$50 million and will be disbursed in one single tranche upon effectiveness.
Disbursement will follow the simplified procedures for structural adjustment
operations and will not be linked to specific imports and there will be no
procurement requirements. If the proceeds of the credit are used for
ineligible purposes (i.e., to finance items imported from non-member
countries, or goods and services on the Bank's standard negative list), IDA
will require the Borrower to either: (a) return that amount for use on
eligible purchases; or (b) refund the amount directly to IDA, in which case
IDA will cancel an equivalent undisbursed amount of the credit. Although an
audit of the use of credit funds will not be required, IDA reserves the right
to require audits at any time. The credit's administration will be the
responsibility of the Ministry of Finance.
11.     The government intends to allocate the equivalent of US$10 million out
of the local currency counterpart generated by the proposed credit to finance:
(a) a household expenditure survey, a critical element in the country's
poverty reduction strategy (US$3 million); (b) social safety arrangements to
minimize the social burden of the reform program and more particularly the
divestiture program (US$5 million with expected additional funding by the
African Development Bank and bilateral donors); and (c) contribution to a
National Audit Fund to be created (US$2 million). These resources will be
deposited in an agreed government account, and disbursement from the dedicated
account will be managed by a joint government-donors committee, whose role
will also include the production of regular reports on deposits into and
disbursements from the dedicated account.
D.      BENEFITS AND RISKS
12.     Benefits.   Successful implementation of the reforms supported by the
-3 -



proposed credit will help strengthen the institutional setup and policy
framework required to improve the government's capacity for service delivery,
a key pillar of the country's poverty reduction strategy. Equally important,
actions under the PRSP will complement the Village Community Support and
Capacity Building for Service Delivery Programs and enhance their impact. By
shifting control and management of budgetary resources from the bureaucratic
center to sub-national governments, the proposed reform program will help
reduce the risk of limited availability of resources at the local level, with
particular emphasis on the CBSDP. As a policy-based credit, SAC IV would
garner a stronger commitment at the center for fiscal, administrative, legal,
and political measures that would enhance the chance for truly effective
decentralization. This second point is particularly relevant to the Village
Community Support Program. By strengthening the management of public
resources of the local level, the proposed operation would help allay the fear
of losing the grip on expenditure control at the local level. Lastly, through
its focus on budgetary transparency and accountability, the proposed operation
will contribute to restoring the credibility of public finances, the lack of
which was an important factor in erratic macroeconomic reforms of the past.
The above benefits will be strengthened by predictability of funding and long-
term commitment for support by IDA.
13.     Risks.  The main risks affecting the reform program are: (i) overall
country risk due to the fragile security situation; (ii) significant
shortfalls in revenue mobilization that would threaten the sustainability of
macroeconomic reforms; (iii) inadequate human and institutional capacity; and
(iv) fiduciary risks. Tensions on the border with Liberia have improved in
recent weeks although security-related expenditures are expected to remain
significant in the near to medium term. Also, the recent release of Alpha
Conde, who came second in the last presidential elections, has helped ease the
domestic political situation. On the macroeconomic front, the government has,
under the strong leadership of the Minister of Finance, managed to reestablish
a credible macroeconomic environment under difficult political and security
conditions and in the absence of external budgetary assistance. Also, the IMF
is setting up, under its new program, much stricter control and an adequate
early warning system thus reducing the risk of program slippages. Regarding
capacity, the Capacity Building for Service Delivery and Village Community
Support Programs, together with support from an Institutional Development Fund
grant for governance and integrity reforms and additional support from other
donors, should reduce the risk to acceptable levels. As mentioned above, the
Bank has undertaken a rapid fiduciary assessment in April that would be
followed by additional assessment in FY02 with the objective of completing the
CFAA in early FY03. The satisfactory implementation of SAC IV reform program
is expected to significantly strengthen financial management and
accountability in Guinea.
Task Manager:
Brian Ngo, AFTM5
(202) 473-6338 (tel)
(202) 473-8136 (fax)
Contact Point:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
-4-



Telephone:        (202) 458-5454
Fax:     (202) 522-1500
Over the 1999-2000 period, Guinea received less than US$5 million of
budgetary assistance.
5
- 5-



