                                                                                        86621

                                                                                      CONFIDENTIAL
                                                                                        EDS2001-0376
                                                                                            July 23, 2001
                                                                                            05:22:11 PM



 Statement by Bassary Toure
 Date ofMeeting: July 24, 2001

GUINEA : Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report and Fourth Structural Adjustment
                                       Credit

         On behalf of my Guinean authorities, I would like to commend staff for the
 comprehensive and candid CAS progress report and for the well articulated Bank Group
 assistance strategy for Guinea which responds well to the country's objectives and priorities. My
 authorities are thankful to the Bank for the SAC N submitted today to the Board as it will
 considerably consolidate the Government efforts towards poverty reduction. They are
 appreciative that partnership, participation, and country ownership continue to drive Bank's
 assistance to Guinea. In this respect, I am pleased to stress that the preparation of the CAS
 progress report benefited from a broad consultation in Guinea.

         As highlighted in the CAS Progress Report document, Guinea has for more than 10 years
 welcomed and sheltered nearly one million refugees from Liberia, Sierra Leone, and
 Guinea-Bissau following the civil wars that affected them. This hospitality entails considerable
 efforts from the authorities to provide the refugees with acceptable living conditions. As external
 assistance could not always be mobilized on time to cover the total cost related to refugees, the
 country had to contribute from its own budget, which constitutes a high burden. Moreover,
 Guinea has been for several years, the victim of repeated aggression from neighboring countries
 that has caused substantial loss of human life, property damage, and increase in security
 expenditures. Notwithstanding the deterioration of the situation as mentioned above, the
 authorities have shown in the past a strong record of program implementation and remain
 determined to continue the adjustment process. However, they will continue to need the strong
 support of the international community in their endeavors.


        Macroeconomic situation

        Since 1985, the Republic of Guinea has been engaged in a wide-ranging program of
 economic and financial reforms in the areas of price liberalization, privatization, financial sector
 reform, public expenditure management, trade reform, and foreign exchange regulation. The
 above reforms helped bring about: (i) non-inflationary growth; (ii) higher domestic and private
 investment; and (iii) more resources and better budget allocation for key social sectors. However
 in 1999, economic performance was adversely influenced by external events, particularly the fall
 in demand and drop in prices of bauxite and aluminum and the tenuous security situation in
                                                                  2



neighboring countries. Despite this , the country managed to maintain a stable macroeconomic
environment after some difficulties in the implementation of the third annual program supported
by the PRGF. The authorities worked closely with the staff of the Fund/Bank to bring the
program back on track. This has been achieved through an interim program which was
successfully implemented with almost all the targets being met, especially in the fiscal sector.

        Fiscal reform has been applied and has led to an increase of revenue and a better
effectiveness of expenditures. Revenue mobilization efforts have included elimination of a large
number of exemptions and reorganization of the custom services.

        As far as expenditure management is concerned, the approach introduced with the
Medium Term Expenditures Framework for priority sectors such as education, health, rural
development, and road maintenance has been extended to justice, urban development housing,
and social affairs. In addition, the Government implemented a package of measures aimed at
strengthening budget tracking and supervision, enhancing the regulatory framework, improving
the treatment of public expenditures, and simplifying budget procedures.

        My Guinean authorities remain fully committed to the objective of further improving the
macroeconomic situation, accelerating economic growth, and strengthening efforts at poverty
reduction. They are delighted to report their medium term progress has been approved by the
IMF on May 2001 to support a three-year arrangement under the PRGF covering the period of
April 2001-2004. In the monetary area, the Government introduced a new instrument, central
bank bills with a seven days maturity to replace the auction of treasury bills.

          In the area of structural reforms, considerable progress was made on the privatization
program and public enterprise restructuring. A review of the regulatory framework for private
sector participation in the public utilities was conducted with the support of the World Bank and
a technical unit in charge of preparing the privatization and restructuring of public enterprises.
Moreover, the Government has adopted two laws to halt automatic advancement of civil servants ·.
and introduced a merit-based promotion system. As a consequence of the major reforms
undertaken, the banking system has continued to consolidate its position during 2000.


The Medium-term Program

         The medium term program will focus on fiscal consolidation, monetary, financial, and
structural reforms to create an environment favorable to the private sector and to diversifying
exports. Its major objectives are to enhance an average output growth of 6.1 percent during
2002-2004, reduce inflation to 3 percent by 2004 and, lower external current account deficit
(excluding official transfers) of 5.5 percent of GDP on average during the period. The fiscal
deficit is also expected to decline from 2.9 percent of GDP in 2000 to 1.3 percent in 2004.

        For the year 2001, the program emphasizes further efforts aimed at fiscal consolidation as .
the main challenge for the medium term. To this end, revenue mobilization will be improved in
order to raise the ratio of revenue to GDP from about 11 percent in 2000 to over 15 percent by


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without the consent of the Executive Director concerned.
                                                                  3



2004, the immediate objective of this current year being targeted at about 13 percent. In this
context, my authorities have taken the necessary additional fiscal steps laid out in the amended
budget submitted to the National Assembly at end-March 2001.

         My authorities are also strongly committed to improve expenditure management by
strictly adhering to the monthly cash-flow plan, the implementation of the medium term
expenditure framework (MTEF), and the use of computerized expenditure tracking system. I am
pleased to point out that the Government has opened a special account with the Central Bank to
host all interim debt relief under the HIPC initiative to be used for expenditures in the priority
sectors. Moreover, monetary policy for year 2001 will be tightened in line with the single-digit
inflation target. My authorities would like to take this opportunity to reiterate its appreciation to
the donor community for the external debt relief granted in the context of the enhanced HIPC
initiative. However, because of their debt burden, they intend to request from their Paris Club
creditors a rescheduling of eligible debts on Cologne terms in addition to the interim relief
already secured from multilateral creditors. Therefore, we wish to convey their request for a
support from their respective Paris Club creditors The Guinean authorities also expect to meet
the main convergence criteria associated with the introduction of a second monetary zone in the
Economic Community of West Africa and to align gradually the tariff structure with the
Common External Tariff(CET) of the West African Economic and Monetary Union. A study on
the impact of the introduction of CET will be conducted with Fund technical assistance.

        The performance of the Guinean economy will be enhanced through fiscal transparency
by reinforcing auditing procedures with the assistance of the Accounts Chamber of the Supreme
Court and will submit to the National Assembly the new accounting laws. The authorities place
great importance on continuing and deepening the structural reforms aimed at removing the
remaining obstacles to private economic activity and on improving the efficiency, and access to
public service delivery. In this regard, my authorities intend to take strong actions to improve the
quality of public expenditure and reform the civil service. With regard to the public enterprise
privatization and restructuring program, it will b~ conducted with the assistance of the World
Bank.

       In the financial sector, my authorities will continue to strengthen the supervision and
prudential regulations of the banking system.


Governance aspect

        My Guinean authorities are very much committed to fight corruption and promote good
governance. The National Anticorruption Committee (CNLC) has started its work and is
currently investigating cases of frauds The recommendations of the CNLC will be disclosed to
the public. The Ministry of justice will be strengthened in the context of a major program of
judicial reform, aimed at improving the quality and accessibility of justice, particularly in
commercial matters.




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without the consent of the Executive Director concerned.
                                                                                                                                           I   !



                                                                   4



Poverty reduction challenge

        The preparation of the full PRSP expected to be completed by December 2001, on a wide
participatory approach, is proceeding according to the schedule set out in the I-PRSP. My
authorities are fully aware that the successful implementation of the poverty reduction strategy
will require continued efforts to improve the capacity to monitor poverty and to measure the
impact of the policies implemented. In this regard, a plan for improving the statistical apparatus
will be prepared starting in December 2001. My authorities made significant progress in human
development. However, social indicators are still below the average for Sub-Saharan Africa.
Although illiteracy is still high in Guinea, my authorities have implemented several actions
which contributed to improving the education sector. Consequently enrollment rirtereased
from 30 percent in 1980 to 54 percent in 1999.

        The Bank's interim assistance program (FY 02-03) is built on the poverty reduction
strategy being developed by the country and address issues such as the HIVI AIDS epidemic,
reconstruction needs arising from the refugee situation, governance, corruption, and the social
sectors. Gender issues have been given special attention in the preparation of the PRSP. In this
respect, a gender analysis will be included in the surveys for special consideration in the final
document.

       Finally, I would like to convey my authorities' appreciation for Bank Group assistance
during the period covered by this ending CAS objective of which is to reduce the incidence of
poverty through increased growth.




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without the consent of the Executive Director concerned.
