                                          Document of
                                   THE WORLD BANK



                                                             Report No. 27166




                 PROJECT PERFORMANCEASSESSMENT REPORT


                                            GUINEA



                   SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
                                        (Credit 1926-GUI)

PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR RATIONALIZATION AND PRIVATIZATION
                           TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
                                        (Credit 2398-GUI)

                    FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
                                        (Credit 2653-GUI)

                    THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
                                       (Credit 3021-GUI)

                  FOURTH STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
                                       (Credit 3551-GUI)




                                         October 31,2003




Country Evaluation and Regional Relations
OperationsEvaluation Department

                              Currency Equivalents
                       (Annual Average; Guinean Francs per US $)
                      (Source: IMF, International Financial Statistics)

    Year      Guinean Franc (GNF)                    Year        Guinean Franc (GNF)
     1988                550.0                       1995                  998.0
    1989                 620.0                       1996                1,039.1
    1990                 680.0                       1997                1,145.0
     1991                803.0                       1998                1,298.0
    1992                 922.4                       1999                1,736.0
    1993                 972.4                       2000                1,882.3
    1994                 981.0                       2001                1,988.3
                                                     2002                1,976.1

                         Abbreviations and Acronyms
AfDB           Afncan Development Bank
BCRG           Banque Centrale de la Republique de Guinee
BIAG           Banque Internationalepour 1'Afriqueen Guinee
CP             Comite de Privatisation
DCA            Development Credit Agreement
DNMPPE         Direction Nationale des Marches Publics et du Portefeuille de I'Etat
ESAF           Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
FSAC           Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
GDP            Gross domesticproduct
GNF            Guinean Franc
GOG            Government of Guinea
HIPC           Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
IDA            International Development Association
IMF            International Monetary Fund
LDP            Letter of Development Policy
MEF            Ministry of Economy and Finance
MTEF           Medium-term expenditure framework
OED            Operations Evaluation Department
PATSEP         Public Enterprise Sector Rationalization and Privatization Technical
               Assistance Project
PEMAC          Public Expenditure Management Adjustment Credit (SAC 111)
PES            Public enterprises
PPAR           Project Performance Assessment Review
PR             President's Report
PRGF           Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
SAC            StructuralAdjustment Credit

                    ~

Director-General,OperationsEvaluation                       :   Mr. GregoryK. Ingram
Director, Operations EvaluationDepartment                   :   Mr. Ajay Chhibber
SeniorManager, CountryEvaluationand Regional Relations      :   Mr. R. Kyle Peters
Task Manager                                                :   Ms. Poonam Gupta
PPAR prepared by                                            :   Mr. Delbert Fitchett

  OED Mission:Enhancingdevelopmenteffectivenessthroughexcellenceand independenceinevaluation.


About this Report
      The Operations EvaluationDepartmentassesses the programsand activitiesof theWorld Bankfor two
purposes:first, to ensure the integrityof the Bank's self-evaluationprocessandto verifythat the Bank's work is
producingthe expected results,and second, to helpdevelop improveddirections, policies, and proceduresthrough
the disseminationof lessonsdrawnfrom experience. As part of this work, OED annuallyassesses about 25 percentof
the Bank's lendingoperations. Inselecting operationsfor assessment,preferenceis givento those that are
innovative,large, or complex;those that are relevantto upcomingstudies or country evaluations;those for which
ExecutiveDirectorsor Bank managementhave requestedassessments;and those that are likelyto generate
importantlessons.The projects,topics, and analyticalapproachesselectedfor assessmentsupport largerevaluation
studies.
      A Project PerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR) is basedon a review of the ImplementationCompletion
Report(a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department) and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare
PPARs, OED staff examine project files and other documents, interviewoperational staff, and in most cases visit
the borrowingcountry for onsite discussionswith project staff and beneficiaries.The PPARthereby seeks to
validate and augment the information providedin the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interestto broader
OED studies.
      Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED managementapproval. Once cleared internally,the
PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary.The completed PPAR is then
sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers'comments are attachedto the document that is sent to the Bank's
Board of Executive Directors.After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.

About the OED Rating System
      The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work.
The methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or
sectoral approach. OED evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project ratings. Followingis
the definitionand rating scale used for each evaluationcriterion (more information is available on the OED website:
http://worldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage.html).
      Relevanceof Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's current
development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporategoals
(expressedin Poverty ReductionStrategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
Operational Policies). Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectiveswere achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
accounttheir relative importance.Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficiency: The extent to which the projectachieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the
opportunity cost of capital and benefitsat least cost comparedto alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible.This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
      Sustainability: The resilienceto risk of net benefitsflows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
      lnstitutional Development Impact: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region to
make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a)
better definition, stability, transparency, enforceability,and predictability of institutionalarrangements andlor (b)
better alignmentof the mission and capacity of an organization with its mandate, which derives from these
institutionalarrangements. lnstitutional Development Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a
project. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Outcome: The extentto which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and
supported implementationthrough appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements
for regular operation of the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
     BorrowerPerformance: The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibilityto ensure
quality of preparationand implementation,and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the
achievement of development objectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory,
Unsatisfactory,Highly Unsatisfactory.


                                                                    1


Contents

Ratings and Responsibilities                 ..........................................................................................           ...
                                                                                                                                                  111

Preface ................................................................................................................................           v
Summary   ..........................................................................................................................             vii
1.     Introduction          ...........................................................................................................           1
                                                                                                                                                   1
           Country Background..........................................................................................
           Scope ofReport..................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                   1
2      Second Structural Adjustment Credit                                 ................................................................        3
3      Public Enterprise Sector Rehabilitation and Privatization TA Credit                                                                         7
4
5....  Financial Sector Adjustment Credit                             ...............................................................................11
       Third Structural Adjustment Credit                              .................................................................         15
6                                                                                                                                                18
7..   Fourth Structural Adjustment Credit                                ...............................................................
      Key Lessons Learned                   ...........................................................................................          26

Text Tables

Table 1.1: IDA Approved Credits to Guinea ......................................................................                                   1
Table 1.2: Selected Macroeconomic Indicators, 1989-2002 ..............................................                                             3

Annexes
      Annex A: Macroeconomic Indicators. 1987-2002 ...............................................                                               29
      Annex C: IDA Performance under the Financial Sector Adjustment Credit .......31
      Annex B: IDA Performance in SAC I1................................................................
                                                                                                                                                 33
      Annex D: GOG Budgetary Performance in Priority Sectors under SAC I11........35
      Annex E: IDA Performance in SAC I11............................................................... 37
      Annex F: SAC IVCredit Effectiveness and Tranche Release Conditions ..........39
      Annex H: Basic Data Sheets.................................................................................
      Annex G: Individuals ContactedInterviewed ...................................................... 45
                                                                                                                                                 51
      Annex I: Comments Received from the Government ........................................                                                    61
                      Comments Received from the Government
                      (Translation of French letter)...............................................................                              73
      Annex J: OED Response to Government Comments..........................................                                                     85

Annex Tables
      Annex Table 1: Actual GOG Expenditures in Priority Sectors. 2000-2002 ........43
      Annex Table 2: IDA Reports. 1966-2002 ............................................................ 49


      This report was prepared by Delbert Fitchett (Consultant).with Poonam Gupta as Task
Manager. Betty Casely-Hayfordand Agnes Santosprovided administrativesupport.


                                                   111
                                                   ...




Ratings and Responsibilities

Second Structural Adjustment Credit (Credit 1926)
                                                 ICR Review               PPAR
Outcome                                ModeratelyUnsatisfactory Unsatisfactory
Sustainability                         Uncertain*               Unlikely
InstitutionalDevelopment               Negligible               Negligible
Bank Performance                       Unsatisfactory           Highly Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance                   Unsatisfactory           Highly Unsatisfactory



Public Enterprise Sector Rationatization and Privatization TA (Credit 2398)
                                                 ICR Review               PPAR
Outcome                                Unsatisfactory           Unsatisfactory
Sustainability                         Unlikely                 Unlikely
InstitutionalDevelopment               Negligible               Negligible
Bank Performance                       Highly Unsatisfactory    HighlyUnsatisfactory
BorrowerPerformance                    Unsatisfactory           HighlyUnsatisfactory


Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (Credit 2653)
                                                 ICR Review               PPAR
Outcome                                Unsatisfactory           ModeratelyUnsatisfactory
Sustainability                         Uncertain*               Unlikely
InstitutionalDevelopment               Negligible               Negligible
Bank Performance                       Unsatisfactory           Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance                   Satisfactory             Unsatisfactory


ThirdStructural Adjustment Credit (PEMAC) (Credit 3021)
                                                 ICR Review               PPAR
Outcome                                Unsatisfactory           Unsatisfactory
Sustainability                         Unlikely                 Unlikely
InstitutionalDevelopment               Modest                   Modest
BankPerformance                        Unsatisfactory           Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance                   Unsatisfactory           Unsatisfactory


Fourth Structural Adjustment Credit (Credit 3551)
                                                 ICR Review               PPAR
Outcome                                Moderately Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory
Sustainability                         Not evaluable            Unlikely
InstitutionalDevelopment               Substantial              Modest
Bank Performance                       Satisfactory             Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance                   Satisfactory             Unsatisfactory
*Terminologynot currentlyused in OED rating system.

                                         iv


Key Project Responsibilities

  Project                staff                  Appraisal          Completion

SAC 11          Task Manager            Hasan Tuluy            Alain Thery
                Division Chief         Pierre Landell-Mills    Birger Fredriksen
               Director/CountryDirector Ismail Serageldin      Jean-LouisSarbib

ICR prepared by AFSCO


PATSEP          Task Manager           Hiroalu Suzuki          P. Morin
               Division Chief          MamadouDia               S. Sagari
                Country Director       Michael Gillette        Mamadou Dia

ICR preparedby S. Archondo and P. Morin


FSAC           Task Manager            Andre Yba                Cherif Azi
               Division Chief          Iain Christie            Gerard Bynam
               CountryDirector         Olivier Lafourcade      Mamadou Dia

ICR prepared by Abdoulaye Yero Balde


SAC 111        Task Manager            Brian Ngo                EzzedineLarbi
               Division Chief          Peter HaroldEmmauel Akpa Emmanuel Akpa
               CountryDirector         MamadouDia              MamadouDia

ICR preparedby Ezzedine Larbi


SAC IV         Task Manager            Brian Ngo                EzzedineLarbi
               Division Chiefmanager   EmmanuelAkpa            Emmaneul &a
               CountryDirector         MamadouDia              MamadouDia

ICR prepared by Ezzedine Larbi

                                              V




 Preface

        This is the Project Performance Assessment Report for the Second Structural
 Adjustment Credit (C1926-GUI),the Public Enterprise Sector Rationalization and
 Privatization Technical Assistance Credit (C2398-GUI),the Financial Sector Adjustment
 Credit (C2653-GUI), the Third StructuralAdjustment (C3021-GUI) and the Fourth
 Structural Adjustment Credit (C3551-GUI). This is the first review of IDA'S policy
 lending activities in Guinea since the issuance of the SAC I PPAR on June 25, 1990.

        The SAC I1Credit, for US$65.0 million was approved on June 16, 1988,became
 effective on March 2, 1989,and closed on December 31, 1993.

        The Public Enterprise Sector Rationalization and Privatization Technical
Assistance (PATSEP) Credit for US.$7.3million was approved on June 23, 1992,became
effective on September 15, 1993,and closed on December 31, 1995.US$3.15 million
were cancelled when the Credit was closed.

        The Financial SectorAdjustment Credit for US$23 million was approved on
October 18, 1994 and became effective on December 23, 1994.US$0.35 million was
cancelled when the Credit was closed on December 31, 1998.

        The SAC I11Credit for US$70 million was approved on December 16, 1997 and
became effective on December 23, 1997. The Credit was fully disbursed in two tranches
and closed on December 23, 1998.

        The SAC IV Credit for US$50 million was approved on July 24,2001 and
became effective on August 9,2001. The Credit was fully disbursed at effectiveness and
closed on June 30,2002.

        This PPAR is based on President's Reports (PRs), legal documents, project files,
economic reports prepared during the period of execution of the projects, documents
from the International Monetary Fund, interviews with current and former Government
Officials (during a mission that visited Guinea in FebruaryMarch 2003), discussions with
IDA staff formerly and currently involved directly in the credits or the lending program
to Guinea, Implementation Completion Reports (ICRs) and OED ICR Reviews. The
cooperation and the assistance of all those contacted in the preparation of this Report
were very useful and are gratefully appreciated.

        This report was sent to the Government on August 7, 2003 and their comments
are attached as Annex I. Comments from the region are also incorporated in the report.


                                                         vii



  Summary

  1.       Attached is the Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) for five credits
 extended to Guinea during the period 1988to 2001. The main objectives of the five
 operations were to support a series of macroeconomic and sectoral reforms and to cover
 serious fiscal and current account deficits. Concurrent operations, not covered in this
 PPAR, sought to address problems in the Government of Guinea's (GOG's)
 implementation capacities related to some of these credits. Policy-based lending
 operations accounted for less than one-quarter of the IDA'Slending to the country during
 this period. IDA disbursements to Guinea during 1988-2002 totaled about US$1 billion.

 2.        After initial achievements in the transition to a market-oriented economy in the
 mid-1980s, progress in economic reform was stop and go. Completion of IMF
 macroeconomic stabilization programs has been problematic, growth has been uneven,
 and dependence on external concessional donor flows has intensified. Guinea has
 become a heavily indebted poor countr (HIPC). The donor community is concerned
 about poor governance and corruption.            Y
 3.        This PPAR rates the outcome of the Second Structural Adjustment Credit as
 unsatisfactory,rather than moderately unsatisfactory as in the ICR Review.
 Sustainability is rated as unlikely, compared to uncertain in the ICR Review, and the
institutional development impact is rated as negligible, the same as in the ICR Review.
Both IDA and borrower performance are rated as highly unsatisfactory, compared to
unsatisfactory in the ICR Review.

4.        The PPAR rates the outcome, sustainability, and institutional development impact
of the Public Enterprise Sector Rationalization and Privatization TA Credit as
unsatisfactory, unlikely and negligible respectively, the same as the ICR Review. IDA
performance is rated highly unsatisfactory, as in the ICR Review, and borrower
performance is also rated highly unsatisfactoty, down from unsatisfactory in the ICR
Review.

5.        The PPAR rates the outcome of the Financial Sector Adjustment Credit as
moderately unsatisfactory, rather than the ICR Review rating of unsatisfactory.
Sustainability is considered unlikely, rather than uncertain. The PPAR and the ICR both
rate institutional development impact as negligible. The PPAR concurs with the ICR
Review rating of unsatisfactory for IDA performance, and also rates borrower
performance as unsatisfactory, rather than satisfactory, as in the ICR Review.

6.        As regards the Third Structural Adjustment Credit, the PPAR agrees with the ICR
Review with respect to all of the ratings: outcome is unsatisfactory, sustainability is


' The                           ~




     most recent country strategy of the World Bank and the U.S. Department of State Country Reports on Human
Rights Practices: 2002 (March 31,2003) cite such concems. The donor community made similar observations to OED
during interviews in Guinea conducted for this PPAR.

                                            viii


unlikely, institutional development impact is modest, and both IDA and borrower
performance are unsatisfactory.

7.      Finally, the PPAR rates the outcome of the Fourth Structural Adjustment Credit
as unsatisfactory, rather than the ICR Review rating of moderately satisfactory. It rates
sustainability as unlikely, compared to non-evaluable, and institutional development
impact as modest, compared to substantial in the ICR Review. Finally, both IDA and
borrower performance are rated as unsatisfactory, rather than the ICR Review ratings of
satisfactory.

8.     The main lessons derived from these operations for the Bank are:

           Adjustment lending operations should be underpinned by a high quality and
            adequate ESW program;
           Time-bound, monitorable indicators should be used to verify performance;
           Both revenue and expenditure issues should be addressed in reducing fiscal
           deficits;
           Single tranche credits should be used only when the government has an
           established track record of good policy performance;
           IDA staff re-assignments should not be disruptive to IDA operations and
           client relations;
           Timely warning should be given to management and the Board of rising IDA
           risk exposure from an unsustainable debt burden; and
           Donor lending can create incentives to mismanage the economy.




                                    Gregory K. Ingram
                                     Director-General
                                   Operations Evaluation

                                                        1


 1.       Introduction

 Scope of the Report

 1.1      During the last 14years-since           FY88-IDA         has approved 34 credits to Guinea
for US$966.1 million.2 This PPAR addresses five operations for US$215.4 million
approved in this period. These are summarized in table 1.1.

Table 1.1: IDA Approved Credits to Guinea
                                             Commitment              Board          Effectiveness       Closing
     Operation Name           Credit No.    Amount ($ m.)       Approval Date         .. Date             Date-
SAC I1                        1926-GUI             65.1            611611988           3/2/1989        12/31/1993
Public Enterprise Sector
   Rationalization and
   Privatization Technical
   Assistance (PATSEP)        2398-GUI              7.3           06/23/1992        0911511993         12/31/1995
Financial Sector
   Adjustment                 2653-GUI             23.0           1Oil811994         1212311994        1213111998
SAC I11(PEMAC)                3021-GUI             70.0           1211611997         12/23/1997        1212311998
SAC IV                        3551-GUI             50.0            7/24/2001        08/09/2001         06/30/2002
Total IDA Commitments
   (US$ million)                                 215.4
Note: Commitments are not adjusted for subsequent cancellations.

Country Background

1.2       In 1958,the Guinean Government of Sekou Toure was granted independence.
The leader of the independence movement, Sekou Toure, remained the dominant figure
in Guinean politics until his death in 1984.During the more than quarter century of his
leadership, the economy was mismanaged on a colossal scale, and political and economic
oppression engendered a massive outflow of human and financial resources from the
country. The institutions and policies implanted during those decades continue to
represent a drag on the efforts of the Guinean people to improve economic well-being.
With the death of Sekou Toure in 1984,there ensued a brief period of political instability
from which the army emerged in control, under the leadership of today's president,
Lansana Conte.

1.3       The change of regime in 1984brought with it the initiation of changes in
economic policies, to undo the economic havoc wrought by the policies of the Toure
regime. Under the Programmes de Reformes Economiques et Financieres (PREF), the
governmentbegan to dismantle the centrally planned economy, encourage private sector
participation and attract foreign investment. The measures included attempts to restore
fiscal balance, a massive devaluation of the grossly overvalued currency, privatization or
liquidation of the numerous state-owned enterprises, restructuring and privatizing the
financial system, and a reduction of the bloated, poorly remunerated public sector

'These data are from the World Bank extemal web site. The figures have not been adjusted for cancellations. They
exclude a Commercial Debt Reduction Program Project Grant for US$10.5 million, a Rural Energy Project GEF Grant
for US$2 million and HIPC debt reduction operations.

                                                              2


bureaucracy. While the World Bank Group had commenced operating in Guinea on a
modest scale as early as 1966 (the Boke infrastructure project), the economic policy
reorientation initiated by the military govemment in the mid-1980s attracted early and
expanded support from both the Bank Group and the IMF. The intensified Bank Group
support initially focused on the severeproblems of the deterioratedpublic sector
infrastructure and the failure of the previous regime to extend public services to the rural
sector. However, opportunities arose early on for IDA-in                             conjunction with the IMF-to
support the economic reform programs being carried out by the military govemment
through quick-disbursing policy-based lending operations.

 1.4       While some headway was being made in the initial transition from a state-
controlled economy to a liberalized private sector driven economy in the mid-80s,
subsequentprogress tended to be in fits and starts, with occasional backsliding.
Compliancewith the conditions of continued IMF support was-and                                   has continued to
be-problematic,           of an "off again, on again" nature. Over the approximately decade and
a half covered by this PPAR, the Guinean economy continued to be highly-and
increasingly-dependent on the external donor community for concessionary loans,
grants or debt forgiveness (annex A). As IDA sought to support the reform process
through a series of structural and sectoral adjustment credits, as well as project lending
operations, IDA'Srisk exposure rose significantly. The IMF engaged in a series of
support operations of varying success. The GOG's performance is reflected in the Bank's
recent assessment rating exercise, where Guinea is placed in the fourth (next to lowest)
quintile. Owing to problems with the GOG's implementation of its macroeconomic
program, the IMFput in place a Staff Monitored Program (SMP) in 2001 instead of its
regular arrangements for support. At the end of January 2003, the IMF determined that
the Government failed to meet critical performance criteria, and terminated the Guinea's
Poverty Reduction andGrowth Facility (PRGF) program. Agreement on a new program
has yet to be reached and according to the IMF staff, not even an SMPwould be in place
this year.

1.5        The performance of the Guinean economy has been weak.3 The indicators of
macroeconomic performance and economic viability over the period in which the
operations reviewed here were carried out are presented in table 1.2. They show that the
period was characterized by: per capita GDP growth rates that were insufficient to
reduce p~verty;~persistent inadequate domestic fiscal resource mobilization and
continued external imbalance; steadily rising external donor dependence; and the
accumulation of an unsustainable debt burden, despite progressively softer external
borrowing terms and substantial grant assistance, culminating in external debt
forgiveness.

 The recent World Bank assistance strategy observes that "Since the 1997 CAS, Guinea had modest growth, and this
growth was not translated into significant poverty reduction." The introduction by the IMF of a Staff Monitored
Program-and      the suspension of the PRGF-is    further evidence of poor macroeconomic performance. Government
officials are of the view that "the country's macroeconomic and financial performance would have merited a more
positive rating if the report had taken into account the state of affairs in the sub region, which has been plagued since
1989by serious armed conflict that has driven hundreds of thousands of refugees and displaced persons into Guinean
territory."
 Average GDP growth during 1991-2000 was 3.9 percent, however, per capita growth rates were modest because of
high population growth rates.

                                                          3


 Table 1.2: SelectedMacroeconomic Indicators, 1989-2002
                                             1989 1990 1991-1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002

  Real Per Capita GDP:
      a. 1995US $                              527   534        538         572   585    598    605   603    607   n.a
      b. Growth (% p.a.)                       1.0    1.4        1.o         2.0   2.3   2.2     1.3 -0.3    0.7.  n.a

  CPI (annual average) (%)                    28.3 19.4        10.6          3.0   1.9   5.1    4.6    6.8    5.4  3.0
  Overall budget balance (commitment basis) as a % of GDP:
      a. Including grants                      -5.0   -5.2     -3.6        -3.0 -2.9    -0.7 -3.0     -3.2   -4.1 -5.9
     b. Excluding grants                       -8.7   -7.4     -8.8        -6.1 -5.9    -3.6 -5.4     -5.6 -7.2 -8.2

  External current account balance (% of GDP):
      a. Including official transfers and
        grants                                 -4.9   -5.6     -5.5        -4.4   -3.1 -2.6 -4.2      -2.9   -2.4 -6.1
     b. Excluding official transfers
        and grants                             -8.9   -9.5     -9.1        -7.3 -6.3 -6.0       -7.2  -6.5   -3.8 -7.5
Source:Annex A.

 1.6       According to a recent paper by the Center for Global Development, Guinea
moved from the status of "low multilateral debtor" to "high multilateral debtor" in 1993.5
During the period 1987-2002, IDA disbursed approximatelyUS$1billion to Guinea.
Nevertheless, IDA'Seconomic reporting and risk assessmentpractices do not appear to
have identified the impending debt sustainability issue in a timely manner to IDA
management or the Board. Furthermore, the country strategypresented to the Board in
1997did not highlight IDA'Srising exposure or the likely need for IDA debt relief. In
November 2000, the Board approved US$234 million of IDA debt relief to Guinea, as the
country entered the HIPCFRGF ranks.6

1.7        In the regional context, there have been internal political unrest, border security
problems, and refugee movements-with                  related economic impact-wing                  to border
disputes with Guinea's southem neighbors of Sierra Leone, Liberia, and Cote d'Ivoire.
Illegal trade in precious minerals and gems also is a problem. Rumors of corruption
persist.



2.        Second StructuralAdjustment Credit

Objectives

2.1       The Guinea Second Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC II), Credit 1926-GUI, for
US$65.1 million, was approved in FY88 and closed in FY94. The Credit represented a
continuation of IDA support to the Government's economic liberalization and reform
program under SAC I. The objective of the Credit was to support reform of public sector


 Birdsall, Nancy, Stijn Claessens, and Ishac Diwan. 2002. Policy Selectivity Foregone: Debt and Donor Behavior in
Africa. CGD Working Paper No. 17.Washington, D.C.: Center for Global Development, p. 17.
 World Bank Intemal Report.

                                                           4


management and to strengthen the incentives environment for private sector activity
through:

           0  Rationalization of the civil service;
           0  Implementation of resource mobilization and financial management measures;
           0   Continuation of public enterprise (PE) reforms;
           0  Further legal and institutional measures to promote private sector
              development; and
           0  Development of a comprehensive socialpolicy.

2.2       A furtherprimary-if           formally unstated-objective of the SAC I1was to rapidly
address an urgent short-term balance of payments gap. In association with this credit,
additional external support from the African Development Bank (AfDB), the
Government of Japan, the Government of France, the Government of the United States of
America and the European Community raised the total financing package to
US$135 million.

Relevance

2.3       The objectives of supporting reform in public sector management in the SAC I1
operation were relevant. The civil service was a very large part of the formal sector labor
force, it was inadequately trained, inefficient, poorly paid and corruption was rife. Fiscal
revenues were overly dependent on the aluminum export sector, while public sector
expendituremanagement systems were wholly inadequate. The formal sector continued
to be dominated by poorly performing government-owned enterprises, the magnitude of
whose loses were difficult to determine owing to inadequate management information
and accounting systems. The private investment climate and the legal underpinnings
thereto were extraordinarily unfavorable and social policies were inadequate to meet
ongoing needs and to ameliorate the social impacts of adjustment.

Implementation Experience

2.4       The preparation of the SAC I1was initiated in mid-1987, together with a mission
on the (belated) release of the second tranche of SAC I. The Board approved the SAC I1
for US$65 million on June 16, 1988. However, effectiveness was delayed twice until
March 2, 1989,owing to GOG delays in meeting effectiveness condition^.^ The second
tranche release had been planned to occur before the end of FY90. Owing to GOG
failures to comply with the tranche release conditions, it was delayed on three occasions
until December 1992,three years later than the date at which the credit was expected to
be fully disbursed.* An IDA reflow of US$70,000 became effective in May 1993. The
SAC I1closed on December 31, 1993. The Credit was fully disbursed.


'This  was accomplished by transferring a Credit effectiveness condition relating to the national petroleum products
company over to becoming a second tranche release condition.

facility (ESAF).
 During this period, Guinea also fell out of compliance with its Fund-monitored enhanced structural adjustment

                                                              5


 Outcome

 2.5        This Review considersthe outcome of the SAC I1as unsatisfactory, compared to
 the moderately unsatisfactory rating in the ICR Review.

 2.6        Rationalization of the civil service. Guinea reduced the number of civil servants
 from about 100,000 in 1986to fewer than 55,000 in 1993. An information system for the
management of the civil servicewas established and the personnel rolls were cleaned up,
but its operational impact on civil service management was negligible as changes in
procedures were not achieved within the anticipated 18-monthtimeframe of the SAC I1
program. Also, after an initial period of lay-offs, in 1991about 5,000 civil servants were
hired as "temporary personnel" but who in 1995 still remained on the payroll (when the
 SAC I1ICR was sent to the Board).

2.7        Resource mobilization andfinancial management measures. While fiscal revenue
mobilization from non-mining sources rose from 4.5 percent of GDP in 1988to
 7.1 percent of GDP in 1993(in line with SAC targets), it failed to compensate fully for
the decline in mining revenue. As a result, fiscal revenue at the end of 1993represented
only 11.6percent of GDP, versus the 14percent targeted in the program.

2.8        Public enterprise reforms. Progress in reform of PEs was uneven. The PR
anticipated that the PESslated for liquidation would be closed in 1988and liquidated in
 1989.Numerical targets were not specified. After considerable delay, petroleum product
imports and resale activities were finally privatized.' Two key public utility companies
in water and electricity distribution were transferred to private management contracts, but
arrangements with foreign operators were subsequently abrogated. Progress on other
publicly-owned companies continued to be slow and the transparency of some of the
arrangements was questionable.*'

2.9        Development of a comprehensive social policy. An Interministerial Committee on
Social Policies was created, but it did not become operational. While the quality of the
dialogue with IDA with respect to these issues improved, the continuing difficult fiscal
situation impeded adequate resource allocation to address basic health.

Sustainability

2.10       This Assessment considers the Project's sustainability unlikely, compared to the
ICR Review rating of uncertain.l1 Fiscal revenues continued to fall short of
expenditures, aggravating the economy's continued dependence on foreign grants and
concessional loans. Rationalization of the civil service and PE reform continued to be a

   Originally a condition of effectiveness, this requirement was changed to a condition of second tranche release in order
to permit loan effectiveness to occur.
lo This view was shared by the region.
I `Government officials are of the view that "although some problems persist it must be acknowledged that noticeable
progress has been made in all the areas targeted by the project (e.g. streamlining of the civil service, improvement of
revenue mobilization, enhanced financial management, continued reform of public enterprises, modification of the
legal and institutional framework to encourage private sector development, and the development of a general social
policy."

                                                              6


  priority problem throughout the 90s. The legal and institutional environment for private
   sector development remained poor.l2 Persistent grave external resource gaps, weak
  public expenditure control, an overstaffed, inefficient civil service and an unsatisfactory
   and ineffective incentive framework to promote the development of the private sector
  characterized Guinea in the 1990s.l3 Maintenance of a satisfactory macroeconomic
   framework has been a continuing problem.

  Bank Perf~rmance'~

  2.11      Overall, IDA'Sperformance is rated as highly unsatisfactory, compared to the
  ICR Review rating of unsatisfactory. SAC I1was prepared in haste and rapidly presented
  to the Board, after the release of the second tranche of SAC I, in order to bridge the
  borrower's financing gap perceived by IDA. In the rush to try to cover expected
  immediate external resource shortages ("gap-fill"), IDA failed to adequately address
  issues which had already arisen in the Guinean context. These were the widely
  acknowledged weak government commitment to reform, and project conditionality that
 was too unfocused and lacking in meaningful objectively verifiable indicators to assess
 performance for use in the release of funds.15 The credit did not achieve the rapid
 resource transfer objective; it was disbursed over five-and-a-half years instead of the
 expected 18months as conditions for effectiveness and for second tranche release met
 with significant delays.

 2.12      During FY88-90, IDA provided substantial additional credits, including a sectoral
 adjustment project (the Private Sector Promotion SECAL) which eased the pressure on
 public finances and also contributed to the delay/failure in the implementation of SAC I1
 reforms.

2.13       There were other shortcomings. While seven supervision missions of the Credit
were carried out, there is only one supervision report in the project files.16 The ICR was
not issued until June 28, 1995-a year-and-a-half after the project closing date. The
 authorities failed to prepare an ICR or to submit comments on the IDA-prepared ICR.
The ICR's assertion that "The Government's assessment is unlikely to differ from that
contained in Part I [of the ICR], since it generally reflects the dialogue between both
parties during the SAC I1period" appears dismissive of the client's views. While the
ICR states that the Government's response would be included in the project files, no
response could be found in files.

2.14      Despite the intensive policy-based lending program and associated advisory role
to the GOG being carried out by the Region in the second half of the 1980s, there were

'*The  increase in private investments on which the growth projections had been predicated did not materialize. Instead,
large flows of external financial assistance helped boost domestic demand and generated growth.
l 3World Bank Internal Report.
l4  Further detail on this point is presented in annex B.
   Conditionalities were wide-ranging, addressing the domestic prices of cement and rice, Central Government
organization, civil service testing and personnel reduction, accounting and budgetary practices, establishing a corporate
taxpayer role, and reform of public enterprises.
l6 The extensive delays in borrower compliance with the second tranche release conditions led to a loss of staff
continuity during implementation, as no fewer than five task managers had responsibility for SAC 11.

                                              7


serious lacunae in the formal economicreporting on Guinea. The Region concentrated
excessive staff resources on the processing of short-term "quick fixes" to address the
external resource gap, rather than allocatingsufficient staff resources to building a solid
analytical foundation for its future policy advice and lending program. For example,
during the period from 1986-02, there was one formal country economic report released
in 1990. A second report, a public expenditurereview, was prepared only through the
final draft stage in 1996.

Borrower Performance

2.15    This Review considers that borrower performance was highly unsatisfactory,
compared to the ICR Review rating of unsatisfactory. The authorities were slow to
undertake the measures to which they had committed, delaying credit effectiveness and
second tranche release. Weak management capacity undermined performance and
contributed to repeated backsliding in carrying out SAC I1commitments. The GOG failed
to comply with the Fund's ESAF during part of this period. Finally, the GOG failed to
prepare and fumish to IDA its contribution to the ICR process, in violation of Article I,
section 1.01(b) of the SAC I1Development Credit Agreement (DCA).

Institutional Development Impact

2.16    This Review agrees with the ICR Review that the Project had negligible impact
on institutional development. The principal issues with respect to civil service reform,
public resource mobilization and management, privatization and reform of PES,and the
legal and institutional framework for promoting the private sector were not addressed.



3.      Public Enterprise Sector Rationalization and
        Privatization TechnicalAssistance Credit

Objectives

3.1    The Public Enterprise Sector Rationalization and Privatization Technical
Assistance Project (PATSEP) Credit 2398-GUI in the amount of US$7.3 million
equivalent,was approved on June 23, 1992. It became effective on September 15, 1993
and was closed on December 31, 1995,the original closing date. US$3.15 million
equivalent was undisbursed and canceled from the loan. The Credit was not co-financed,
although Japanese Government Trust Funds were used in its preparation.

3.2    Theproject'sobjective was to help the Government prepare and implement a
program of PE reform and privatization to:

       0    reduce the size of the PE sector through privatization andor liquidation;
       0    improve PE sector management through legal and institutional reform;

                                                            8


          0    carry out financial restructuring of principal PES;and
          0    mitigate the social impact of reform.

 3.3      In the late 1980sthe project was originally envisioned as a "hybrid" one,
 combining a quick-disbursing component to accompanymajor GOG PE policy initiatives
 and a slower-disbursing technical assistance (TA) component-overall totaling as much
 as US$25 million. However, this approach was ultimately rejected in favor of a standard
 TA credit to support the divestiture program, including assistance for carrying out
privatization and/or liquidation of 46 targeted PES,"corporatizationl'and management
 contracts for other large PES,legal reform to foster private sector development, and
 design of redeployment programs for redundant PE employees. Technical assistance,
 training, and equipment were also provided to reinforce Government'scapacity to apply
more rigorous financial control and to develop a sound regulatory framework for
privatized public utilities. Of the Credit amount of US$7.3 million, about 79 percent was
 to cover the costs of more than 200 months of consultants' services. There was no quick
 disbursing tranche. Disbursements were made in accordance with the standard
 documentation for the provision of eligible goods and services under the project.

Relevance

3.4      The PATSEP objectives were relevant and consistent with IDA'Sstrategy in
Guinea and were supported by some of the policymakers within the GOG. The PATSEP
was prepared to assist the Government to formulate and implement the second phase of
its divestiture program and to rationalize the PE sector.

Implementation Experience

3.5      The Board approved the Credit of US$7.3 million on June 23, 1992. There was a
prolonged delay in the Project's being declared effective, as the GOG wrestled with the
various and numerous conditions of effectiveness. There were three extensions of the
original effectiveness date; it was only on September 15, 1993, 15months after Board
approval, that the Credit became effective.l7

3.6      In November 1993,the new Project Officer wisely convened a "Project
Relaunching" workshop in Washington in order to bring together the Guinean project
staff with the relevant IDA staff. This was followed by a project launch workshop in
Guinea in April 1994. The turnaround in project implementation perfonnance was
reflected in the supervision report of February 24, 1994,in which numerous categories
were upgraded from a "3" rating to a "1" rating. However before the end of 1994,
responsibility for supervising the project again shifted to a different IDA Division, and a
new Project Officer took over. Subsequent to a supervision mission in November 1994,
the supervision report of January 26, 1995noticeably downgraded a number of project
performance ratings.



l 7Because of changes in the project, two of the pending effectiveness conditions were no longer relevant.

                                                          9


 3.7        The project was scheduled to close on December 31, 1995,although much of the
 credit amount had not yet been disbursed by mid-1995. The GOG authorities requested
 an extension, but the Region adhered to the original closing date, and maintained an
 "unsatisfactory" rating on the supervision report. Among the reasons for refusing the
 authorities' request for an extension of the Credit closing date were: the failure of the
 Comite de Privatisation (CP) to operate effectively; lack of follow through with
 privatization procedures set out in the DCA; disagreement with privatization procedures
 followed for three PES(Socie'te'des Te'le'communicationsde Guine'e(SOTELGUI), Office
 de la Poste Guineenne (OPG), and Socie'te'des Bauxites de Kindia (SBK)); the lack of a
 training and redeployment program for redundant employees; and an unacceptable PE
 privatization action plan.

 Outcome

 3.8       This PPAR agrees with the ICR Review that the outcome of this project was
 unsatisfactory. During the truncated implementation period PATSEP's objectives were
not achieved. With respect to PE divestiture, six of the 46 PESoriginally planned for
divestiture were actually divested. (Seven additional PESincluded in the group were later
privatized without PATSEP involvement). Other enterprises were converted into
companies with GOG participation. The PE employee redeployment program and the
elaboration and implementation of a policy framework on the regulation of public utilities
envisaged under the project were not carried out.

3.9        The PE sector policy framework remained weak. The Government's capacity to
monitor PESthrough the Direction Nationale des Marches Publics et du Portefeuille de
I'Etat (DNMPPE) was not improved, A decree on PESand Statutes that classified PES
into new categories was prepared, but had to be subsequently revised. The problem of
inter-PE cross debts was not satisfactorily addressed and the regulatory framework for
public utilities was not put in place.

Sustainability

3.10      The Review agrees with the ICR Review that the sustainability of the PATSEP's
modest achievements is unlikely. In the absence of a divestiture action plan, a divesture
program could not be sustained with appropriate standards of transparency and
competition. The management of the PE sector was assigned to the DNMPPE which had
no special expertise and no special advantage in the areas of divestiture and portfolio
management.'* Several of the privatization activities of the PATSEP were brought under
the subsequent SAC IV operation.




  The GOG comments on the PPAR point out that the DNMPPE has never been in charge of managing public
enterprises. It monitors them on behalf of the government.

                                                           10


Bank Performance

3.11      This Review agrees with the ICR Review that IDA's performance under this
project was highly unsatisfactory. IDA did not invest adequate resources upstream in the
careful preparation and execution of a carefullythought out program of sector studies,
before moving on to the project identification and preparation phases. The pressure to
slot it into the FY92 Board calendar, only to have it languish for 15months before
becoming effective, is evidence of not having laid the fundamental groundwork for
project implementation, including a realistic assessment of GOG ownership of the
project. IDA should have insisted that the GOG adopt a clear PE sector development
policy and strengthen its implementation capacity before IDA embarked on supporting
the privatization program.

3.12      PATSEP'sscope was overly ambitious and unrealistic given past experience of
the firstphase of the divestiture program (during SAC I), initial implementation
experiences of SAC 11, and the GOG's unwieldy institutional infrastructure and limited
technical capacity to implement reforms. The institutional arrangements sought were
complex and demanding since the Project was to be implemented by two agencies which
had no distinctive advantages or proven expertise.

3.13      To minimize the impact of GOG's weak commitment and deficient capacity, IDA
negotiated a lengthy set of conditionalities for credit effectiveness and a list of measures
to be taken. However, IDA should have carried out an assessment of the GOG's earlier
performance in the initial phase of the divestiture program during SAC I. Repeated delays
in effectiveness might have been avoided. In order to try to address the implementation
capacity problem, the Project included a relatively heavy resident TA component, which
IDA subsequently restructured without adequate discussion with the borrower.

3.14      IDA procedures were not in place to ensure continuity and consistency of project
supervision from one DepartmentDivision to another and from one task manager to
another.lg Staff turnover and poorly managed transitional arrangements for project
supervision led to inconsistencies in interpreting Project goals and assessing Borrower's
performance and to mixed messages that ultimately were detrimental to the success of the
project and IDA'srelationship with the Government. The implementing agency's
perception of IDA's failure to maintain effective continuity in project supervision staff,
and changes in policies with respect to the hiring of long-term external consultants,
generated some difficulties in the relations with the implementing agency. The Borrower
disagreed with IDA's decision to close the project.

Borrower Performance

3.15     This Review considers that the borrower's performance under this project was
highly unsatisfactory compared to the ICR Review rating of unsatisfactory. The

''The borrower's ICR contribution (in French) was especially critical of this issue. That contribution is an extensive-
and occasionally almost bitter-presentation of what the authorities perceive to be the Bank's shortcomings in
preparing and supervising the credit. The ICR contains no response to these criticisms.

                                                            11


 performance of the GOG in fulfilling the conditionalities for Credit effectiveness was
 unsatisfactory; the Bank had to delay credit effectiveness three times because of pending
 actions on the part of GOG. Political interference in the management of PEs continued.20
 Some of the divestitures were no more than accounting transactions; they accomplished
 only a change in legal status without any real change in ownership, management
 structure, or business ethos.

 Institutional Development Impact

 3.16      This Review agrees with the ICR Review judgment that the institutional
 development impact was negligible. The institutional arrangement for divestitures
 assumed that GOG officials would give carte blanche to an independent entity, the CP-a
 majority of whose members were to be from the private sector and were to be charged
with executing the divestiture program. The CP was slow to be formed and membership
varied. The CP was occasionally not involved in privatization decisions and its ultimate
 contribution to the process was minimal.



4.         Financial SectorAdjustment Credit

Objectives

4.1        The Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (FSAC)-SDR                         16.3million, equivalent
to US$23 million-was              approved in October 18, 1994 and closed in December 31, 1998,
after it was extended twice. FSAC had two components: (i) an adjustment credit of
US$18 million equivalent (disbursed in two equal tranches for eligible imports) and
(ii) a TA component of US$5 million equivalent, which includes refinancing of the
Project Preparation Facility of US$1.5 million equivalent. The project objectives were to:

          0    Further liberalize the financial market environment and strengthen the
               monetary, regulatory, supervisory, andjudicial environment;
          0    Restructure the financial sector and develop a bridge between the informal
                and formal sectors to increase the reach of the financial sector; and
          0    Build upon the Central Bank's human resource base and improve its capacity
               to effectively supervise banks and enforce prudential norms.

4.2       Technical assistance was provided to the Central Bank (BCRG), the Ministry of
Economy and Finance (MEF), and the Ministry of Justice.




2o The region shares this view in its own assessment of the achievements of this Project. Government officials are of
the view that "their actions were motivated exclusively by the following two concerns: economic and financial
rationale and social welfare impact."

                                               12


Relevance

4.3     Project objectives were relevant. In the earlier SAC I and SAC I1Credits, IDA
sought to provide general support to the GOG's initial efforts in financial sector
liberalization policies. In this effort it was working in conjunction with the Fund
Program. However, there were a number of more sector-specific and commercial
banking issues which needed to be addressed. Commercial banks continued to be in a
precarious financial situation, reflecting the weak capacity of the BCRG to carry out
effective supervision and enforcement of prudential banking norms. There were also
specific capacity-building needs at the BCRG for which a more focused financial sector
operation would have been appropriate.

Implementation Experience

4.4     An initial financial sector loan preparation mission visited Guinea in April 1988,
followed by a preappraisal mission in September 1988. An Initial Executive Project
Summary (1EPS)was then distributed, foreseeing appraisal in December 1988. There was
no further processing of the proposed project until a financial sector review mission
visited Guinea in October-November 1992. Following the review of the initial draft of
the Financial Sector Study, a preappraisal mission for the project was carried out in April
1993. The Credit for US$23 million was negotiated in June 1994, approved by the Board
on October 18, 1994 and became effective on December 23, 1994. There were
unanticipated delays in the release of the second tranche, in part owing to the suspension
of the IMF program during 199516. With the scheduled closing date of March 31,1997
approaching and still no release of the second tranche, the Region contemplated Credit
cancellation. However, on March 11,1997,the Region advised the GOG that the Credit
closing date had been extended to December 31, 1998.On July 24, 1997,the second
tranche was released.

Outcome

4.5     This Review considers that the outcome of this project was moderately
unsatisfactory, compared to the ICR Review finding of unsatisfactory.

4.6     Financial market liberalization. Theproject promoted progress on the
liberalization of interest rates and foreign exchange markets and the introduction of other
instruments such as open market operations and reserve requirements.

4.7     Strengthen monetary, regulatory, supervisory, andjudicial environment. The
framework for supervision of financial institutions was marginally strengthened; the tax
regime applied to financial operations was simplified; and some efforts were made to
improve and reinforce thejudicial system. Some progress was also made in the legal and
regulatory framework and in BCRG supervision capabilities. The Research and Training
Center envisaged at the Central Bank was operational by the end of the project. Similarly,
training was provided at the Ministry of Justice in the implementation of legal reforms,
and at the Ministry of Finance on economic and financial analysis. However, the
effective application of the laws, supervisory norms and regulations requires further

                                                             13


 commitment, effort, and support from the authorities to maintain and enhance BCRG's
 capacities in this area. Moreover, despite the efforts to improve thejudicial system's
 capacity to enforce financial contracts, the lack of effective enforcement undermined
 these efforts and did not create an adequately positive atmosphere for banking or
 business.

 4.8      Sector restructuring and institutional development. The financial position of
 commercial banks remained difficult throughout the project. Of Guinea'sseven
 commercial banks, the Banque Intemationale pour 1'Afriqueen Guinee (BIAG) was
 liquidated and three out of the other six were recapitalized in 1998, at the time of project
 closing. The GOG continues to be the principal owner of the largest bank, Banque
 Intemationale pour le Commerce et 1'Industrieen Guinee (BICIGUI), with about
 41 percent of the outstanding shares. Finally, additional efforts to further develop and
 strengthen the sector-and            bolster micro-finance institutions-were only partially
 successful. Ultimately, the Credit Mutuel was liquidated, and an IDA loan to support
 microfinance was cancelled.

 Sustainability

 4.9     The Review considers the sustainability of the project to be unlikely, compared to
 the ICR Review rating of uncertain. As of December 2000, none of Guinea's seven
 commercial banks were in full compliance with all the Central Bank's prudential ratios.21
 Two of the banks which have been under restructuring plans since 1998continue to
 experience difficulty and need to be recapitalized again; however, because of their
relatively small size, they represent no systemic risk to the banking sector as a whole.

4.10     Project success required fundamental change in the structure of effective
incentives and sanctions for the monetary authorities and the banking institutions and
their management. This did not happen.

Bank Performance22

4.11     This Review concurs with the ICR Review rating of IDA performance as
unsatisfactory. In the process of preparing the project, a draft Financial Sector Study was
carried out. While the files indicate that this report was to be processed for printing, there
is no record of this actually having taken place. This represents a serious loss to the
intellectual basis for the operation, possible follow-up and IDA'Sinstitutional memory.

4.12     IDA correctly identified that the financial sector deserved priority attention.
However, IDA should have put greater emphasis with the authorities on the need for a
rapid liquidation (rather than attenuated-and                  ultimately unsuccessful-restructuring) of
poorly performing financial institutions. Moreover, greater commitment from IDA was


  IMF. 2002. Guinea: Requestfor a Three-Year Arrangement Under the Poverty Reduction and Growth F a c i l i w
StaffReport and Press Release on the Executive Board Discussion. Country Report No. 02/66. Washington, D.C.:
IMF.
22More detail on this aspect of the project is presented in annex C.

                                               14


 needed to support the areas of microfinance and informal finance. IDA follow-up to the
 activities supported under the Credit (e.g., a subsequent informal sector study or update)
 could have helped reinforce the achievements under the project.

 4.13    IDA has not followed up or built on the actions or accomplishments of the FSAC,
 representing a lost opportunity for IDA to broaden and deepen financial sector reform.

 Borrower Performance

 4.14    The borrower's performance under this project was unsatisfactory, compared to
 the ICR Review rating of satisfactory. The authorities' resistance to the
 recommendations by IDA and the IMF that it promptly liquidate insolvent banks
 prolonged the turmoil in the financial sector, and encouraged the persistence of poor
 banking practices, while increasing the ultimate cost of the unavoidable
restructuringsAiquidations. The BCRG was slow to move on the enforcement of
regulation and prudential supervision, although its technical capacities in this area appear
to have improved. The GOGwas reluctant to disengage itself from participation in the
 ownership of several banks, including the largest (BICIGUI). The financial health of
some of the savings and loans institutions remained poor and resulted in liquidation and
the cancellation of a microfinance operation. There were delays in fully utilizing some of
the training and TA opportunities available under the project.

Institutional Development Impact

4.15     This Review agrees with the ICR Review that the institutional development
impact of the project was negligible. The institution-building efforts in the Central
Bank's capacity for prudential regulation and supervision fell short of the financial
sector'sneeds and required reinforcement and stronger political commitment. In the

carrying out effective bank supervision and imposing appropriate sanctions on poorly
absence of independence from the political authorities, the Central Bankwas impeded in
performing financial institutions. Some of the capacity-building initiatives by MEF and
the Ministry of Justice were useful. Nevertheless, despite the endeavor to develop the
judicial system in these areas with respect to financial sector development, the
Government did not demonstrate the capacity or political will to build on these efforts in
order to achieve significant progress in this area.

                                                     15


 5.      Third StructuralAdjustment Credit

 Objectives

 5.1
was approved on December 16, 1997.23The credit had two tranches; the first tranche of
         The Third StructuralAdjustment Credit (SAC HI),for US$70 million equivalent,
US$45 million was released upon credit effectiveness on December 23, 1997;the second
tranche of US$25 million was disbursed on November 14,1998. The AfDB cofinanced
the operation for the amount of US$13 million.

 5.2     The objectives of SAC I11were to:

         0    reorient public expenditures toward education, health, road maintenance, and
              rural development, and specificallyto non-wage recurrent expenditures in
              those priority sectors;
         0    within these sectors, rationalize the respective roles of states, local
              communities, and other providers of services, focus on non-wage recurrent
              expenditures, and improve the efficiency of public expenditures;
         0    ensure the quality and volume of basic social services while maintaining
              conditions amenable to a stable macroeconomic situation; and
              strengthen procedures for budget implementation, monitoring, and control
              through a series of initiatives, most particularly the introduction of a
              computerized expenditure monitoring system, ex-post audits of actual
              spending, and simpler and more transparent budgetary procedures including
              Government procurement.

5.3      The purpose of SAC I11was to support a comprehensive policy package to
improve expenditure allocation, control, and monitoring and to help budget execution for
a lasting fiscal adjustment. The project had two main components. The first aimed at
restructuring non-wage recurrent expenditures toward four priority areas (education,
health, rural development, and road maintenance). These four sectors, which comprised
seven line ministries, were expected to adopt in fiscal year 1998 a medium-term
expenditure fiamework (MTEF). The second component of the project was designed to
strengthen budgetary execution and control through the adoption of a computerized
expenditure monitoring system, more rigorous implementation of the regulatory
framework especially for financial control and procurement, and the standardization and
simplification of budgetary processes.

Relevance

5.4      This operation was modestly relevant to IDA'Sobjectives. Public expenditure
management was a persistent and seriousproblem since the change of government in the
mid-1980s. However, operational relevance would have improved if the operation had
also focused on the long-standing issue of insufficient fiscal revenues, in order to achieve


23This operationis also known asPublic ExpenditureManagementAdjustment Credit or PEMAC.

                                                          16


 a better balance between tax receipts and expendit~res.~~                   In addition, the project was
 focused only on non-wage recurrent expenditures in health, education,road maintenance,
 and rural development. These expendituresrepresented less than 8 percent of GOG's
total current expenditures in 1998.

Implementation Experience

5.5       Initiation of project preparation actually dates from August 1995,when a Project
Preparation Facility for US$700,000 (subsequently increased to US$1.73 million) was
approved. However, there was little actual progress in project preparation, as Guinea fell
out of compliance with its IMF program. Once the country was again found in
compliance with its IMF program, the SAC I11preparation activities resumed.25

5.6       The SAC I11and the Country Assistance Strategy were presented concurrently to
the Board in December 1997. The Credit became effective on December 23, 1997. The
secondtranche was disbursed in November 1998 and the project closed in
December 23, 1998.

Outcome26

5.7       This Review agrees with the ICR Review that the outcome of the project was
unsatisfactory. There were significant divergences between project objectives and actual
achievements:

5.8       Reorientation ofpublic expenditures towardpriority sectors. The priority
character of the four sectors agreed to by the Government as crucial were not reflected in
actual spending. Actual spending on priority sectors declined from 43.2 percent of total
spendingin 1997,to 39.5 percent in 1998. Concerning non-wage recurrent expenditures,
on which IDA put special emphasis, actual spending on non-wage recurrent expenditures
for the four priority sectors shrank from 31.5percent in 1997to 24 percent of the total
expenditures in 1998.

5.9       Intra-sectoral resource utilization inpriority sectors. The effort to diminish the
size of wages relative to non-wage recurrent expenditures failed. For example, in 1998
only 69.3 percent of the amounts budgeted for the crucial area of operations and
maintenance were actually spent, while 104percent of the amounts budgeted for the
wage component were actually disbursed in that year in the priority sectors. In the
education and rural development sectors, salaries and transfers continued to account for




24Non-mining revenues have steadily increased and represent 9.7 percent of GDP in 2002 but total revenues, including
grants at 14.3percent of GDP were below the average for the period 1991-01 of 24.2 percent for Africa as a whole,
18.8 percent for Cote d'hoire, 19.7percent for Senegal, 20.6 percent for Mali, and 27.0 percent for Mauritania.
25According to the GDF data base during the calendar years 1994-1996, when no SACSwere disbursing, the Bank
disbursed an average of somewhat over US$56.3 million annually to the GOG.
26Additional information on this aspect is contained in annex D, including the tables commented on here.

                                                            17


 nearly all recurrent expenditures, leaving little scope for the necessary non-wage
 recurrent expenditures targeted by this operation.27

 5.10       Budget implementation and monitoring achievements. The implementation of a
 computerized system for budget and expenditure management was delayed; the intended
 expenditure controls did not materialize. A system for tracking the impact of the
 measures on poverty was not introduced.

 Sustainability

 5.11       Owing to a lack of ownership of the reforms sought in SAC 111,this Review
 agreeswith the ICR Review that sustainability is unlikely. In 1998the authorities chose
 to actually increase spending and reallocate spending in directions other than the agreed
 SAC I11priorities. Subsequently, again in 2001, the GOG shifted resources away from
non-wage recurrent expenditures in the priority sectors-despite further assurances to
 IDA in the SAC IVof its intention to increase the share of its non-wage recurrent
 expenditures in the priority sectors.

Bank Performance2*

 5.12      Both the ICR Review and this PPAR consider IDA performance as unsatisfactory.
IDA sought to draw on the lessons of the past shortfalls in its policy-based lending in
Guinea and to identify in this SAC I11operation narrower indicators of borrower
performance. IDA based the operation on the findings of a Public Expenditure Review
which was never completed (see recommendation 7.1). However, IDA should not have
released the second tranche of the Credit based on only a partial year's spending evidence
for 1998;rather it should have waited for at least a hll year's actual budgetary results in
order to have assured borrower compliance with the 1998budgetary objectives of the
project. Gap-fill urgency led it to disburse the larger credit tranche up-front (US$45
million out of a total of US$70 million) and then to follow up with a second tranche
release, before examining the results of the1998 budget performance and before
demonstratedresults in this spending reallocation process. As a result, an important
incentive for the GOG to restructure its inter- and intra-sectoral expenditures was lost.29

5.13       The volume of resources (US$70 million) provided under SAC I11was large
relative to the modest amounts of non-wage recurrent expenditures in the priority sectors
addressed in this operation. IDA focused narrowly on expenditure issues, ignoring the
long-standing and continuing hndamental GOG problem of an imbalance between
inadequate fiscal revenues and an ambitious expenditure program. In addition to control
of expenditures, IDA should have addressed domestic fiscal resource mobilization.


27Government comments on the PPAR refer to increases in allocation of non-wage recurrent expenditures for priority
sectors. "The allocated share to those sector went from 28 percent in 1997to 30.89 percent in 1998 and to 31.5 percent
in 1999."
28Additional comments on this aspect of the project are presented in annex E.
29According to the GDF data base, IDA disbursements in CY1997to the GOG were more than twice the annual
average for either the preceding three years or the subsequent three years. The SAC I11may have aggravated the
instability of donor assistance, rather than smooth out donor flows.

                                              18


Generous budgetary support from IDA may have reduced the pressure on the GOG to
bring its total budgetary expenditures into a more sustainable pattem with likely domestic
fiscal resource mobilization prospects.

Borrower Performance

5.14    This Review agrees with the ICR Review that borrower performance was
unsatisfactory. The GOG failed to increase its actual budget execution rates in the four
priority sectors and, within these sectors, failed to achieve the targets with respect to the
share of non-wage recurrent expenditures. It failed to consistently maintain a stable
macroeconomic framework; the IMF program was suspended temporarily in 1999and
2000.

Institutional Development Impact

5.15    This Review agrees with the ICR Review that the institutional development
achieved under this project was modest. The implementation of the MTEF was piloted in
four priority sectors, with little or onlyvery limited success.



6.      Fourth StructuralAdjustment Credit

Objectives

6.1     The objectives of SAC IV were to initiate a medium-term reform program
designed to support GOG's interim poverty reduction strategy. It was envisagedthat the
SAC would be a prelude to Poverty Reduction Support Credits (PRSCs), once the
Poverty Reduction Support Strategywas completed. This SAC was intended to promote
economy-wide policy and institutional reforms by strengthening public expenditure
management and improving public sector govemance as prerequisites for enhancing the
quality of public service delivery, especially to the poor. As in SAC 111, attention was
focused on non-wage recurrent expenditures in priority sectors. The reforms supported
under the operation were intended to achieve the following objectives:

        0   More accountable and efficient use of public resources through improved
            public expenditure analysis and management in:
                (a) budget formulation;
                (b) budget execution; and
                (c) public expenditure auditing, monitoring, and reporting.
        0   More effective government through decentralization of decision-making and
            service delivery by:
                (a) increasing the share of non-wage recurrent budget resources allocated
                    to lower tiers of government to at least 80 percent of the total for
                    priority sectors;

                                                            19


                      (b) allocating funds directly to schools and health clinics in Conakry and
                            Kindia; and
                      (c) increasing the resource base of the local governments through fiscal
                            transfers and local revenue mobilization.
                 Improved PE management and more efficient resource use through:
                      (a) the adoption of a comprehensive reform strategy for the PE sector;
                      (b) adoption of a program to mitigate the social cost of divestiture and
                            liquidation, together with a communication strategy;
                      (c) creation of a privatization unit;
                     (d) liquidation of eight insolvent enterprises; and
                     (e) updating of cross-debts and adoption of measures to settle arrears and
                           prevent their recurrence.

6.2         The operation was not tranched; the full US$50 million amount of the credit was
disbursed at project effectivene~s.~'According to the PR, of the US$50 million
disbursed, the equivalent of US$lO million of the local currency equivalent generated by
the Credit was to be allocated for:

                 Social safety net arrangements to minimize the socialburden of the reform
                 program and more particularly the PE divestiture program, e.g., indemnization
                 of terminated PE workers (US$5 million);
            0    A household expenditure survey (US$3 million); and
            0    Contribution to a National Audit Fund to be created (US$2 million).

6.3         The PR conveyed the impression in paragraph 102that these three activities to
which US$lO million was assigned would be closely monitored by IDA. However, there
was no formal mechanism to ensure that the commitments in the PR would be realized as
there was no mention of these components in the DCA.31

Relevance

6.4         The operation was modestly relevant to Guinea's continued problems of fiscal
resource imbalance. It sought to address the issue of expenditures management but did
not assist in resolving the longstanding problem of inadequate tax revenue mobilization.
The main fiscal challenge identified in the macroeconomic framework underlying the
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper was revenue mobilization. More revenues were seen
as essential to sustain domestic financing of policies to fight poverty and to reduce




30This design permitted the Credit to be quickly processed and disbursed during a "window of opportunity" in which
the GOG was considered to be in reasonably satisfactory compliance with a Fund-supported program. The local
currency generated by the Credit was placed in an escrow account in the Central Bank, to be used for mutually agreed
activities, an arrangement not reflected in the DCA.
31The region is of the view that "the fact that the DCA did not prescribe detailed monitoring arrangements should not
imply that they were less supervised than the other activities agreed under the credit." However, OED found no
mention of these activities or the amounts spent on them in the ICR.

                                                             20


Guinea's dependence on the external donor community.32The accession of the country
to HIPC status showed that this dependence on external donors had become
unsustainable. Moreover, it is clear that the successive Bank structural adjustment credits
and other IDA disbursement provided a strong disincentiveto bring total budgetary
expenditures into a more sustainablepattern with likely domestic fiscal resource
mobilization prospects.

6.5       Relevance was modest for other reasons as well. The SAC support and the
accompanying AfDB cofinancing, totaling US$58 million, represented about twice the
amount of the non-wage recurrent expenditures in the priority sectors which the GOG
actually implemented in 2001, the year in which these IDA funds were disbursed.33
Moreover, a single tranche operation of this design was inappropriate in the Guinean
context. The conditions focused on ex ante issuance of laws, decrees,planned budget
allocations, publishing new operating instructions, etc., rather than on the expost
assessment of on-the-ground effective results of GOG actions.34Given GOG's track
record of performance, as evidenced by the unsatisfactory outcome of SAC 111, a single
tranche operation with this conditionality was highly unlikely to achieve the project
objectives.

Implementation Experience

6.6       On November 10, 1999,the Region met to discuss a Project Concept Document
for a SAC IVoperation. It was proposed to be a US$45 million Credit, to be disbursed in
four tranches, the first two tranches on fixed dates and the subsequent two tranches on

was carried out in November 1999,no further preparatory work was carried out on
floating dates, in line with project conditionality. While a SAC IVpreappraisal mission


more than one year.
SAC IVuntil 2001, owing to problems in Guinea's compliance with its IMF program for

6.7
April 4,2001, followed quickly by negotiations (May 10,2001). The Credit for
          Appraisal of the Fourth Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC IV)began on
US$50 million was approved by the Board of Directors on July 24,2001, and was
disbursed in a single tranche on August 31,2001. Cofinancing of US$16 million was
provided by the AfDB. The Credit closed on June 30,2002.




32The region notes that there was an explicit division of labor whereby the IMF would handle fiscal issues, while the
Bank continued to deepen the budget and governance reforms introduced under SAC 111"and that "as a Board
condition, the FY2001 budget law specified new rules for the allocation of locally collected community taxes."
Interviews indicated that the IMF would have welcomed Bank assistance on this issue. Since SAC IV did not include
any baseline or targets for the locally collected taxes, progress on the ground could not be assessed.
33According to the region "SAC IV permitted govemment financing of four months of teachers salaries, on an
exceptional basis." However, the explicit focus of SAC IV was non wage recurrent expenditures. Teacher's salaries
were not intended to be eligible expenditures according to the project's original design.
34Annex F contains a discussion on the conditionality for this single tranched Credit.

                                                             21


Outcome

6.8        This Review rates the Project's outcome as unsatisfactory, rather than the ICR
Review rating of moderately satisfactory.

6.9        More accountable and efficient use ofpublic resources through improvedpublic
expenditure analysis and management. To improve budget formulation and execution, a
computer-based accounting and monitoring system was introduced, training was provided
and divergences between actual spending and budget allocations were to be monitored.
However, as in SAC 111, efforts again focused on non-wage recurrent expenditures. The

the priority sectors. In 2001 the GOG actual non-wage recurrent expenditures in priority
DCA for SAC IVestablished that 35 percent of the total non-wage recurrent budget go to
sectors fell short of the DCA targets, reaching 10percent of total current expendit~res.~~
The relatively low rate of actual non-wage recurrent expenditures in priority sectors
persisted in 2002, reaching only 25 percent of total current expenditures. With respect to
assigning a minimum of 46 percent of the overall budgetary allocation of the education
sector to primary education in the DCA, this assessment could not get the required data
during the OED mission to evaluate whether this condition was met.36It was also not
available in the ICR. For non-wage recurrent expenditure, only 19percent was actually
spent on primary and secondary education, indicating a substantial shortfall in the
achievement of this goal.

6.10       The audit fund and related procedures were established but actual implementation
was pending at the time of the OED mission to Conakry in FebruaryMarch 2003, nearly
one year after the project closed and two years after the credit was disbursed. Thus,
progress was expected but not yet achieved in providing the basic documentation to
support the expost verification of public procurement expenditures. It was intended that
qualified private auditors would identify cases of misappropriation and fraud and then
follow up on the application of sanctions. Out of a total of somewhat more than
900 eligible contracts implemented in the period 1999-2001 ,the authorities had chosen
to audit 270 contracts. According to the Terms of Reference for the proposed activity,
the chosen audit firm would be allowed 60 days to review and prepare a draft audit report
for these 270 contract^.^' Assuming a modest 5 days for drafting their report, the auditors
would have to review approximately five contracts per day in order to meet this deadline.



35See annex F. The conditionality in the DCA was not as stated by the region: "35 percent of non-wage recurrent
expenditure relative to the total recurrent budget for those sectors." The condition in the DCA and the intent in the PR
was that 35 percent ofwnon-wage recurrent budget go to priority sectors. According to the 2001 budget law, the
total non-wage recurrent expenditure was 347 billion francs. The SAC IV DCA in 2001 required that the budget
allocate 35 percent of 347 billion francs or at least 121.45 billion francs to non-wage recurrent expenditure in the
priority sectors in 2001. According to the region and the Government, the budget allocation for non-wage expenditures
in the priority sectors in 2001 was about 70 billion francs which is well short of the DCA 35 percent requirement. The
objective of the loan was to increase the allocation of non-wage recurrent expenditures to priority sectors. If the DCA
condition as worded had been met, an extra 50 billion francs would have been allocated for non-wage recurrent
expenditures in the priority sectors. The misinterpretation of the condition led to a significant shortfall in allocations.
36According to the region, in 2000 and 2001, the allocation reached 44 percent and 51percent respectively.
37The expected cost of this assignment is in the range US$1-1.3 million. A request for expressions of interest was
published only in the local press, in October 2002. On the basis of the response, eight firmswere shortlisted. Proposals
were received in February 2003. The contract was to be signed in May 2003.

                                                             22


The auditors were not expected to be contracted before May 2003, thus their draft report
would only be available not less than two years after the Board approved the Credit.

6.11        With respect to ex-post financial control, reports of the audited accounts for the
 1999and 2000 budgets have been sent to the Chamber of Accounts for certification.
However, the reliability of the certification process is questionablebecause the Chamber
lacks core competencies, is not fully staffed, and lacks basic equipment.

6.12        The DCA cites as a condition of Credit effectivenessthat the Government will
f*ublicly     announce and launch preparatory works for a comprehensive corruption survey.
    This survey was not launched until mid-2003, nearly two years after credit
effectiveness although the ICR for this loan (December 2002) mentions that the
Governance and Corruption Survey has been implemented.

6.13       More effective government through deconcentration/decentralizationof decision-
making and sewice delivery. The DCA required the adoption of rules governing the
allocation of resources between the Central Government and the decentralized
communities, increasing the share accruing to decentralized communities from
specializedtaxes (cited in the DCA). The DCA did not specify the minimum level of
resources from the taxes to be provided to decentralized communities and the ICR did not
report on the actual amounts received by the communities. According to the region, taxes
repatriated to the communities increased from 0.69 percent of revenues in 2001 to 1.31
percent of total revenues in 2002.39 The DCA, the 2001 budget law, and associated
decrees cited therein included "assigning"increasing share of non-wage recurrent
expenditures to lower tiers of government. Over 80percent of the non-wage recurrent
budget in the priority sectors is now allocated to the level of prefectures as per the
DCA.40However, the intent of the credit in the PR was to "increase the share of non-
wage recurrent budget allotted to lower tiers of government," meaning decentralized
communities (notjust prefectures) because Prefectures are merely the local offices of the
national government under the Prefects appointed by the national government. The
credit'sobjective was to empower the communities; the PR stated that "the degree of
politicization is high and prefectures still hold significant powers . .."41 Further, the
institutional capacity and procedures which would guarantee an effective implementation
of these arrangements will need to be put in place to assure efficiency and accountability
in the operation of these newly decreed procedures. Timely and monitorable indicators
would also be required to assess potential improvements in the quality of service delivery
to the poor, an overarching goal of the Credit. Finally, while reliable effective local fiscal


38The LDP paragraph reference cited in the DCA does not coincide with the LDP in the PR provided to the Executive
Directors at the time of Credit approval.

has little history of local government and no experience of transferring funds to the sub national level.... Guinea is one
39According to the region, "It is important to recognize the measure of progress this represents. Francophone Africa

of the few Francophone African countries to be piloting the direct transfer of the entire operating budget to the
school/clinic level, with a view to improving the quality of services through local control . . . "
40As non-wage recurrent expenditures in the priority sectors are projected to represent about 10percent of total GOG
current expenditures, this suggests about 8 percent of total current expenditures have been
deconcentratedldecentralized.
41According to the region, in 2002 budgets were being transferred directly to schools and primary health care centers in
four regions of the country on a pilot basis.

                                                              23


revenue mobilization systems remain a key issue in overcoming the dependency
relationship of the local areas on the Central Government, information on local revenue
mobilization and budgetary performance was not available. A system to effectively
collect and report this information from various levels of government in a timely manner
was yet to be implemented.

6.14        Improvedpublic enterprise management and more efJicient resource use through
divestiture. An institutional, legal, and regulatory framework for the PE sector was
adopted (a privatization law was promulgated), a new privatization unit (PU) was created,
the Direction Nationale du Portefeuille (DNP) was given sole responsibility for the
management and valuation of the PES,including their debt burden. A social fund was
established for re-training or re-employing employees affected by privatization.
Liquidation of eight enterprises could not be completed under the timeframe of the credit
because of delays in valuation and establishment of divestiture strategies. Seven of the
eight small enterprises slated for privatizatiodliquidation were liquidated by end-2002.
However, a complete inventory of cross-debt between government and PESwas not
produced and progress is yet to be made in the restructuring of public utilities.42

Sustainability

6.15        This assessment rates sustainability as unlikely, rather than the ICR Review rating
of not evaluable. The actual non-wage recurrent expenditures in the priority sectors
(which fell considerably short of agreed targets) are unlikely to be maintained because
Government commitment to priority sectors has been weak and it has not yet addressed
the challenge of increasing domestic revenues. At end January 2003, the authorities were
not on track with their macro economic program (see para 1.4) and IMF's PRGF program
was terminated. Not even an IMF Staff Monitored Program would be in place in 2003.
The sustainability rating is also affected by possible changes in the political environment
and the lack of an obvious successor to the President.43

Bank Performance

6.16       This Review rates IDA'Sperfonnance as unsatisfactory, compared to the ICR
Review rating of satisfactory.

6.17       Given GOG's track record on previous adjustment credits and its inability to
adhere to previous, similar conditionality, a relatively large (US$50million) single
tranche operation with relatively weak conditionality was not an appropriate operation in


42 The Govemment is of the view that . . .prior to 1986, Guinea had never had any experience with privatization.
                                         "


framework, the country was unprepared for this exercise . .. Despite this handicap considerable progress was achieved
From the institutional, technical, and human resource standpoints, as well as in terms of its legislative and regulatory

. . .the result being a higher quality of service provision and greater competitiveness."
43 According to the region, "sustainability has to be viewed in the context of recent history. Fifly percent or more of the
budget slippage in the period 2000-2003 is attributable to unscheduled defense and humanitarian expenditures imposed
on Guinea by the regime in Liberia and also by the spillhver from civil war in Sierra Leone and the civil unrest in
Cote d'Ivoire. These factors were beyond the control of Guinea and, given limited revenues, pushed Guinea inexorably
out of the IMF program."

                                                             24

the Guinean situation. As an example of stronger conditionality, the Bankshould have
included in the DCA, liquidation of the eight enterprises and the completion of inventory
of cross-debt between the government and the enterprises. Instead, in the DCA the
authorities' only commitment with respect to public enterprise reform was "disseminating
information to the public." As was the case with the processing of the earlier SAC 111, a
"pressing" need for balance-of-payments supportplayed a major role in the timing and
design of a quick disbursing loan to the GOG.44 GOG performance was highly uneven
under its Fund-supported program; the Region sought to exploit the "windows of
opportunity" provided by intermittent compliance to present an operation to the Board.45

6.18       Disbursement should have been conditioned on actual performance in the priority
sectors for 2001 and 2002. GOG's actual expenditures on non-wage recurrent items in
the priority sectors during the GOG 2001 and 2002 fiscal years totaled less than the
US$66 million budgetary support provided by SAC IV and by the AfDB cofinancing.
SAC IV repeated the same pattern with similar conditionality under SAC 111. A multi-
tranche operation over a longer time frame with monitorable indicators and sufficient
time to assess compliance would also have allowed IDA to monitor the completion of
priority activities related to the poverty-focused household budget survey, PE reform, and
the audit of government procurement contracts, all financed by the credit.

6.19       Fiscal revenue mobilization problem was widely recognized in the donor
community, and highlighted in the Poverty Reduction StrategyPaper. Nevertheless, IDA
pursued an approach which emphasized expenditures. In fact through its relatively
generous quick-disbursing credits, IDA provided disincentives for the GOG to improve
its fiscal revenue mobilization performance. The lack of progress on poverty reduction
and growth contributed to an unsustainable debt burden.

6.20       Although the PR made specific statements about the usage of US$10 million of
local currency equivalent funds (seeparas. 6.2-6.3), IDA did not report on these
activities in the ICR.46The PR conveys the impression that appropriate instruments were
in place to ensure that funds were expended in a manner consistent with the objectives set
out in the operation. Steps should have been taken in the DCA to include time-bound,
monitorable and objectively verifiable indicators of performance with respect to the three
activities in para 6.2. OED's review mission to Guinea observed that substantial sums
are being dedicated to the procurement of goods and services for these activities but there
are inadequate fiduciary standards for these expenditures. In the Guinean governance
environment, fiduciary standards with respect to the use of these funds would be


44However, it should be pointed out that the extemal resource flow to the GOG continued. Even during the extemal
resource "hiatus" between SAC I11 and SAC IV disbursements, IDA disbursed US$29 million annually to the GOG,
while other multilateral donors disbursed almost US$48 million p.a.
4sThe region disagrees with this assessment. Regional staff are of the view that they "sought to build on good
dialogue-with the Bank and between Government and the people-and on the commitment to improve the management
of public expenditures in the priority sectors . ..The decision to opt for a single trance recognized both Government's

priority sectors .. . "
strong commitment to keeping the economy on track and its maintaining the flow of resources to the

46The region states that it "has continued to monitor priority activities related to the household survey, the social fund
and the comprehensive corruption survey, as well as progress overall in public expenditure management and
governance through the 2003 Public Expenditure Review and Fiduciary Assessment (PER-FA) . . ."

                                                              25


 appropriate. Finally, IDA should have exercised its right to audit the deposit account in

 reports of irregularities in the Central Bank.47
 dollars at the Central Bank for both SAC 111and SAC IVespecially in view of press

 6.21       The documentation of this loan submitted to the Board was deficient. The DCA
 cites a Letter of Development Policy (LDP) dated June 14, 2001 whereas the LDP in the
 PR distributed to the Executive Directors was dated April 2001. The June LDP is the
 French version of the April LDP and was not distributed to the Executive Directors.
 Although it does not differ in substance fiom the English version, differing paragraph
 numbering in the two versions results in incorrect references in the DCA.

 Borrower Performance

 6.22      This Review rates the borrowers' performance as unsatisfactov, compared to the
 rating in the ICR Review of satisfactory. The GOG has failed to maintain a stable
 macroeconomic en~ironment.~~The approach of presidential elections later this year
 may further imperil the delicate fiscal situation. Considerable efforts are still needed to
 prepare local governmental entities to manage and account for the fiscal resources to be
 put at their disposition, and in order to reinforce the independence of the decision-making
 at the local                However, there has not been established a clear time frame for this to
be completed. GOG failed to liquidate the eight enterprises before project closing, when
 only a presidential decree was needed to proceed.

Institutional Development Impact

6.23       This Review rates the institutional develo ment impact of the SAC IV as modest,
rather than the ICR Review rating of substantial.                   8Non-wage         recurrent expenditure
management sought to build on the outcomes of SAC I11but allocation and actual
expenditure of non-wage recurrent budgetary resources to priority sectors have fallen
short of targets, performance monitoring remains weak, and performance with respect to
PE reform fell short of the objectives of SAC IV.The SAC IV facilitated the
deconcentratioddecentralization of the budget which made possible the transfer of
resources to local levels and to bring decision makers closer to the beneficiaries.
However, the deconcentratioddecentralization process has yet to reach the level of
decentralized communities and to demonstrate its benefits.


47
exercising the option since the activities are still underway. . .The Bank had-at
   According to the region, "The DCA does give us the option of auditing the accounts. The time is not ripe for
                                                                                    appraisal and in the interim-
assurances about the operations of the Central Bank, as provided by the IMF's Safeguard Assessment (July 2OO2)."
Interviews in Guinea showed continuing concems about operations of the Central Bank.
48According to the region, "The PER-FA documents the measures Guinea is taking to address the revenue problem and
get the program back on track, notably: reform of the tax regime, with performance-linked incentives for collection;
reduction of the number and type of exemptions to import duties; inter sector transfers from defense and foreign affairs
to the priority sectors and continued fine tuning of the efficiency of spending in these sectors."
49The region notes that the development of local decision-making is complemented by the Village Services and the
Capacity Building operations.

area of governance: budget systems now permit targeting . . . and there are effective controls, including the tracking of
  The region argues that "the impact is substantial in terms of public expenditures and management and the related

expenditures at the local level. . . ."

                                              26


7.      Key Lessons Learned

7.1     Undertake a Solid Economic and Sector Work (ESW) Program. A well-conceived
and carefully executedprogram of economic work is essential to underpin policy lending
operations. During the period under review the only economic report issued was the 1990
CEM. Both the financial sector and the public expenditure reviews remained in draft
stage and are not generally accessible.

7.2     Focus Policy Reform on a Few Key Areas with Monitorable Performance
Indicators. While numerous aspects of economic management need improvement,
capacity limitations require a focus on the most important areas where there is
demonstrated commitment from the authorities and a capacity to deliver. Rather than
citing assertions of good intentions, tranche release conditions should focus on actual
performance outcomes, as assessed by readily available, time-bound, monitorable, and
objectively verifiable performance indicators.

7.3     In the Presence of Persistent Fiscal Deficits, Address both Fiscal Revenue
Mobilization as well as Expenditure Procedure Issues.

7.4     Underpin Civil Service Reform Efforts with Upstream Work.It would have been
useful to have had the civil service reforms underpinned by analytical work and a clearer
agreement with and commitment from the highest level of the government on the goals,
and the likely outcomes of civil service reform.

7.5     Reserve Single Tranche Credits Onlyfor Governments with an Established Track
Record of GoodPolicy Reform Performance. Given the experience with one-tranche
operations, the region should carefully assess how a series of one-tranche PRSCs can be
structured to ensure that key objectives are achieved and to manage the risk, given the
existing governance situation in Guinea.

7.6     Ensure Proper Identification ofResource Gap. Resource gaps can be exaggerated
to get the attention of external donors and to serve to mobilize additional external
resources. IDA should carefully ascertain that the "resource gaps" are based on a realistic
assessment of ownership and effective implementation capacity.

7.7     Ensure Continuity of IDA Stafl Management should plan for and manage rotation
and turnover in a manner which is not disruptive to IDA's operations and client relations.

7.8     Forewarn of UnsustainableIDA Risk Exposure. In the period encompassed by
this Review, IDA substantially increased its portfolio exposure in Guinea, shifting from
being one of the smaller external creditors to the principal official external creditor. The
consequence was a major increase in IDA's risk exposure, a phenomenon which was not
adequately assessed and communicated to IDA Management and the Board in a timely
manner. Despite its rising exposure as an official external creditor, IDA did not give
sufficient consideration to the likely sustainable external debt burden for the country. It
also did not discuss the implications of sending to the Board relatively large lending
operations that were increasing the debt burden. IDA did not identify or formulate the

                                             27


"trigger" for an "exit" or the orderly reduction in its risk exposure. This culminated in the
country requiring access to HIPC debt relief. Procedures for orderly reduction of IDA
risk exposure deserve more carehl attention. An adequate assessment of
creditworthiness of the country in the face of a rising and likely unsustainable debt
burden could have provided the analytical underpinning for properly providing loan loss
reserves for IDA'Sexpanding Guinean portfolio.


        Annex A




sCc
rI
0
U
Fr

.L
+CQe

c
.ee
-iCC
 e




5E
5
E

d
EEe
4


                                                            31                                               Annex B



 IDA Performance in SAC I1

 1.       The multiple goals of SAC I1represented too broad a dispersion of the (already
 recognized and widely cited) limited implementation capacity of the Guinean
 a~thorities.~~The program supportedby SAC I1was overly ambitious in its design, as it
 encompassed almost all elements of economicmanagement. It should have been reduced
 to fewer (but not necessarily more modest) time-bound, monitorable objectives in
 domestic fiscal resource mobilization and government financialmanagement, which were
both urgent areas of concem given the forecasted decline in aluminum mining revenue.
 These should have been clearly linked to tranche release. Other objectives whose
 meaningfbl accomplishment would have required a longer time frame, e.g., civil service
 rationalization, or support of privatization of PES, could have been addressed in either
 subsequent policy lending operations, or in more focused sectoral operations. By
narrowing the focus of the SAC I1operation on a set of key interrelated issues, the risk of
weak local implementation capacity would have been mitigated and the potential for
better project execution enhanced.

2.        Haste in processing this follow-on SAC impeded incorporating the lessons
learned from the initial policy-support operation. In the rush to cover projected
immediate severe extemal resource shortages ("gap-fill"). IDA moved forward with a
 SAC I1operation without having invested the necessary resources in a carefully
conceived and executed program of economic reports on which to anchor this second
policy-based lending ~peration.~~              Also, during FY88-90, IDA provided substantial
additional credits (the Private SectorPromotion SECAL) which the SAC I1ICR suggests
eased the pressure on public finances and may, therefore, have contributed to the failure
in the implementation of SAC I1reforms.

3.        In view of the observable discrepanciesbetween the Government'srhetoric and
actions toward reforms during the SAC I period, a key issue in the preparation of SAC I1
should have been obtaining firm commitment from the Government to the reform
process, accompanied by a time-bound, monitorable and objectively verifiable program
of actions. However, risks to SAC I1program implementation were only identified as:
(i) a decline in the intemational aluminum price which would have a negative impact on
the projected improvement of Guinea'sextemal and fiscal balances; and (ii) the weak
ability of the administration to execute the program effectively in a timely manner.53
Given the Region's experience under SAC I, there should have been an explicit
discussion of the possible weakening of GOG commitment to specific points of the SAC
I1program, e.g., civil service reform, PE reform, etc., and the appropriate IDA responses
in each such case.

  Conditionalities were wide-ranging, addressing the domestic prices of cement and rice, Central Government
organization, civil service testing and personnel reduction, accounting and budgetary practices, establishing a corporate
taxpayer role, and reform of public enterprises.
52Tranche release conditions which are couched in terms of outcomes or results, rather than the mere promulgation of
legal measures, can serve as important aids to track borrower performance and support effective project management.
53The contemporaneous PAGEN I1 Economic Management Technical Assistance Project (Credit 1963-GUI) was
intended to assist in ameliorating such implementation capacity problems. Measures to ameliorate or offset the impact
of commodity price fluctuations were not addressed.

Annex B (continued)                                        32


4.        The delays in SAC I1effectiveness and in second tranche release point to
continued serious problems with the use of the SAC instrument to achieve significant
development impact.54 Signs of a weakening commitment to pursue forcefully the SAC I
adjustment program became evident throughout 1987. The GOG's (delayed) compliance
with the conditions which permitted the release of the SAC I second tranche in early
 1988was taken as a sign of renewed commitment and led to what in hindsight turned out
to be a too optimistic assessmentby IDA of the progress which could be achieved under
SAC 11.A serious financing gap of US$80 million was projected for 1988and 1989;the
urgency of "gap-fill" financing to preserve past gains and macroeconomic stability also
contributed to insufficient attention being given during the preparation of SAC I1to the
strength of Government commitment to the reform program. Rather than repeatedly
delaying the SAC I1closing date from December 1990to (ultimately) December 1993,in
order to permit disbursing the second tranche three years late, the Region should have
considered canceling the SAC I1Credit, including the undisbursed second tranche.




54The credit disbursed over five-and-a-half years instead of the expected 18 months as conditions for effectiveness and
for second tranche release met with significant delays .However, in one respect the slow pace of disbursement and
delayed closing of the Credit owed to the Bank'sreluctance to contravene the IMF's actions as to the failure of the
GOG to comply with the Fund's ESAF during part of this period.

                                                         33                                                Annex C



IDA Performance under the Financial Sector Adjustment Credit

 1.       The importance of a sound and efficient financial sector was recognized starting
in the 1980s. In the first phase of the reforms of the mid-80~~the GOG liquidated the
 statebanks and the National Insurance Company. In the next several years, six privately
owned banks appeared to provide financial services. Three of those banks were fully
privately-owned (two of which had French participation and one had Saudi
participation), while the GOG participated in the capital of the other three. However,
while the statebanking system was liquidated, the legal and institutional framework for a
sound banking system had not been prepared. Overall, the non-performing loans of the
commercialbanks represented 31percent of their portfolio. Commercial bank operating
costs were high, and they tended to provide a relatively limited set of financial
intermediation services to a geographically confined area. The high priority assigned to
the financial sector was appropriate.

2.       Among the problems identified in IDA'Spreparation activities, the need to
restructure two privately-owned banks received a priority attention from IDA staff, even
before the Credit was approved. These two commercial banks-the Banque Intemationale
pour 1'Afhqueen Guinee (BUG) and the Banque Islamique de Guinee (BIG)-had been
establishedwhen the GOG dissolved the statebanking system in the first phase of its
liberalizationprogram in the mid-80's. IDA was in close communication with the IMF
on the problems of these two institutions, and the IMF held the view that both banks
should be liquidated-which the authorities vigorously opposed. As an intermediate
solution, the IMF and IDA sought to identify a recapitalization plan which would commit
the current private owners of the two banks and minimize the budgetary implications of
the GOG's involvement in their bail-out.

3.       Although IDA had not yet appraised the proposed project, IDA staff appear to
have been involved in trying to resolve the issues with respect to these two commercial
banks, participating in the discussions between the GOG and the private owners and
apparently serving as a principal channel of communications for the respective proposals.
For example, on June 9, 1993, an IDA staff member met in Geneva with representatives
of the foreign investors of one of the externally-owned banks needing recapitalization.
No GOG representatives are recorded in the respective Aide Memoire as attending that
meeting, at which the foreign investors agreed to certain bank restructuring terms. In the
files there are no terms of reference or back-to-office report relating to this IDA
mission.55About ten days after the meeting in Geneva, IDA advises the GOG authorities
(June 22, 1993),that IDA "has learned" of an agreement between the GOG and the
foreign investors on the matter of the BIG restructuring.

4.       With respect to the BUG, after failing to come to an agreement with the foreign
shareholderswith respect to a recapitalization plan, the Central Bank named an
interventor for that institution in August 1993,to manage it. One of the minority foreign


55 One leams of the meeting only because of the apparent inadvertent inclusion of that aide-memoire in the project
files.

Annex C (continued)                                        34


 shareholders complained to the Regional Vice President of IDA's "veto" to the
 shareholder's proposal for the BIAG restructuring, causing financial prejudice to that
 shareholder. The other foreign shareholder withdrew its participation in the restructuring
effort.

5 .        The veto proved to be costly. According to the ICR of the FSAL, when the
BIAG's liquidation was completed in December 1998,it cost the GOG about
US$lO million. This is considerablyhigher than the cost of the private investor's 1993
proposal (US$5.5million) which the IDA staff had "vetoed," i.e., recommended to the
GOG that it not accept at that time. The Country Team proposed to increase the SAC I11
by US$5 million (to US$70 million) in order to cover the costs of the BIAG liq~idation.'~

6.         IDA did not follow up on initial activities in the financial sector. Following
IDA's withdrawal from the sector, and the subsequent cancellation of the microfinance
operation, the burden of strengtheningthe policy framework and institutional
underpinning of the financial sector has fallen to the Fund.




56It was stipulated that the SAC I11 would not contain any financial sector conditionality.

                                                    35                                        Annex D



 GOG Budgetary Performance in Priority Sectors under SAC I11

 1.       Rather than apply the MTEF to the entire GOG budget in the context of the
proposed project, in SAC I11five priority sectors were initially chosen: agriculture,
 education, energy, health, and roads. The list was subsequentlynarrowed to health,
education, road maintenance, and rural development. The project was limited to focusing
on non-wage recurrent expenditures in these sectors,which represented less than
 8 percent of the GOG's current expenditures in 1998.

Budget Allocations and Actual Budget Execution for Non-Wage Recurrent Expenditures:
FY1997-99 (percent)
                                      1997                          I998                  I999
            Sectors            Allocated    Actual      Allocated       Actual   Allocated    Actual*
Rural Development                 1.o         0.5           1.4          0.8         0.9       0.4
Public Health                     3.4         2.9           3.6          2.1         3.8       3.4
Education                         17.0        20.0          19.1         16.0        18.8      21.4
Road Maintenance                  6.3         8.0           6.9          5.2         8.0       7.1
Priority Sectors                  27.6        31.5          30.9         24.0        31.5      32.3
Billion Guinean Francs                       (23.6)                     (29.5)      (45.3)
(Other
  G W
                                  72.4        68.5         70.1          76.0        68.5      67.7

             Total                100         100           100          100         100       100
*Executionfor GOG FY1999is estimatedon the basis of actual January-Septemberexpenditures.
Source: ICR.                                                      ~~




2.       Applying the IMF-reported Guinean Franc/US$ exchange rates for 1997(1,145)
and 1998 (1,298) to the figures in the above table, total actual non-wage recurrent
expenditures for these priority sectors were US$20.1 million and US$22.7 million,
respectively. If the 1999budgetary allocations for these priority sectors had been
realized, the total would have been about US$26 million. This is remarkably poor
performance for a project for which IDA disbursed US$70 million between the end of
CY1997 and CY1 ~ 8It .clearly~seems that the GOG had pressing priorities elsewhere
                                  ~
and did not share IDA's views with respect to priorities for increasing non-wage
recurrent expenditures in these four sectors. The overall increase for non-wage recurrent
expenditures in these priority sectors represents a small share of the resources provided to
the GOG by IDA in SAC 111, and a very low return on IDA's "investment" in policy
reform.

3.       With respect to improving Intra-Sectoral Resource Utilization in Priority Sectors,
the government increased the amount of non-wage recurrent expenditures to the four
priority sectors to 30 billion Guinean Franc (GNF) in 1998 from about 23.6 billion GNF
in 1997.58Thus the share of non-wage recurrent expenditures amounted to 25 percent in
1998compared to 22.3 percent in 1997. The share reached 32.2 percent for the first nine
months of 1999.



57The AfDB provided cofinancingof US$13 million for SAC111.
58Table 3 of the ICR.

 Annex D (continued)                                     36


As we see in the table below, based on the ICR, the budgetary execution rate for non-
wage recurrent expenditures remained low in 1998,with only 30 billion GNF (69.3
percent of the allocated 38.7 billion GNF) for operations and maintenance in 1998
compared to 90.2 billion GNF (104.3percent of the allocated 86.5billion GNF) for the
wage ~omponent.~'

Planned and Actual Expenditures in the Priority Sectors, 1997-98
                                                         1997                               1998
                 Item                         GNF billion            %           GNF billion           %
Priority Sectors' Allocation                     115.4                               125.5
                Wages                             84.4              73.1             86.5             68.9
   Non-wage recurrent allocations                 30.6             26.9              38.7             31.1

Priority Sectors' Expenditures                   105.8                               120.2
                Wages                             82.2              78.1             90.2             75.0
  Non-wage recurrent expenditures
                                                 23.6              21.9              30.0             25.0
Sources: ICR tables 1,2,and 3.




59The 69.3 percent execution rate in 1998 for non-wage recurrent expenditures actually represented a decline from the
77.1 percent execution rate for 1997.

                                              37                                   Annex'E



IDA Performance in SAC 111: The Need for Careful Design and
Enforcement of Project Conditionality


 1.     It is common for policy-based lending operations to include some provisions for
studies to be carried out or action plans to be implemented on terms "acceptable to the
Association," as being conditions of effectiveness or tranche release of that operation.
Ofien there may be considerableresources allocated to financethe activities in question.
In SAC I11there are two such items specified in Schedule 2 of the DCA as conditions of
second tranche release:

        "4. The Borrower has submitted to the Association a reorganization plan
        for MAEF (Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Forestry) acceptable to the
        Association.'I

        and

        "5. The Borrower has submitted to the Association an action plan,
        including a timetable acceptable to the Association for the purposes of
        establishing a financially autonomous Road Agency with functions and an
        operational framework satisfactory to the Association, to ensure a timely
        availability of fundingrequired to settle all recurrent expenditures incurred
        for road routine [sic]maintenance activities."

2.      According to the ICR of December 16, 1999,the first SAC I11condition above
was complied with before the second tranche release in November 1998. However, the
Ministry of Agriculture reported to the OED mission that only the first phase of the
required study was carried out, while the second phase of the study, which was intended
to actually design and guide the implementation of the personnel staffing processes in the
MAEF and which was the raison d'etre for initiating the study, has not been carried out,
more than four years after the second tranche release.

3.     With respect to the second tranche release condition cited above of establishing a
financially autonomous Road Agency, during the past four years since the release of that
tranche the Agency has only been funded through annual allocations from the GOG
budget and donations from the European Union (EU). It is hoped that during the second
quarter of 2003, the Agency will have access to a part of the proceeds of the GOG tax on
petroleum products for part of its budget. By the end of the decade there also may be in
place a system for collecting tolls from road users. However, it appears unlikely that in
the next several years it will be possible to wean the Road Agency away from heavy
dependence on continued EU donations if anything approaching an adequate program of
road maintenance is to be carried out.

Annex E (continued)                          38


4.     In both of these cases it appears that IDA staff may have prematurely declared
tranche release conditions "satisfied" in order to disburse funds, thus undercutting
achieving the policy reform objectives sought by the SAC 111operation.

                                                        39                                   Annex F


SACIV Credit Effectiveness and Tranche Release Conditions

 1.     Borrower performance should be assessed on the basis of readily available, time-bound,
monitorable and objectively verifiable performance indicators. It is important to point out that
the use of the word "progress" -even if modified by adjectives such as "substantial,      "
"significant, " "adequate," or "appropriate"4oes not,per se, constitute an objectively
verifiable, time-bound and monitorable measure of project achievements. In the case of SAC IV,
the conditions of Credit effectiveness and single tranche release are set out in Schedule 2 of the
DCA. These conditions are presented and assessed in the following paragraphs. On the basis of
this discussion, we suggest that the various conditions of effectiveness reviewed below do not
appear to be of such substance as to have warranted the disbursement up front in a single tranche
of US$50 million to a regime with a very uneven record of policy reform.

2.      Allocations in the GOGFY2001 budget:

        priority sectors, namely education, health, social affairs,justice, and road
        "(i)A minimum of 35 percent of the total non-wage recurrent budget to the
        maintenance; and (ii) a minimum of 46 percent of the overall budgetary allocation
        of the education sector to primary education."

3.      Information on the fulfillment of these two conditions was gathered in Guinea for this
assessment mission, as the ICR did not provide this information. The findings are presented in
annex table 1, at the end of this section. With respect to the first condition, in 2000, the GOG
actually spent about 26 percent of non-wage recurrent expenditures in the designated priority

35 percent; less than 10percent of 2001 non-wage recurrent expenditures were in the priority
sectors. In2001 the GOG fell extraordinarily short of meeting the stated SAC IVgoal of
sectors. Since the SAC IV was not presented to the IDA Board of Directors until the end of June
2001, the Region should have taken greater care and diligence to assure that actual expenditures
in this category were on track in order to reasonably attain the goal set out in the DCA as a
condition of effectiveness. Even in 2002, the GOG managed to allocate to priority sector non-
wage recurrent expenditures only 25 percent of the total for this spending category -again
considerablybelow the 35 percent goal of SAC IV.

4.      With respect to the second condition, that of assigning "a minimum of 46 percent of the
overall budgetary allocation of the education sector to primary education," no data to assess the
actual outcome in this regard was available. For non-wage recurrent expenditure, only
19percent was actually spent in primary and secondary education. This suggests a similar
substantial shortfall from project goals. It is worth noting that the total volume of non-wage
recurrent spending in the priority sectors on which IDA was focusing its attention in SAC IV
represented only between 6 percent and 14percent of total current expenditures of the GOG in
these three years 2000-02.60




6oThe shares were similar during the SAC I11 operation.

Annex F (continued)                               40



5.      Medium-Term Expenditure Framework:
        "adopted a medium-term revenue and expenditure framework satisfactory to the
        Association."

6.      It would be useful to have further detail set out on the time frame over which IDA would
be assessing the medium-term revenue and expenditure framework and the criteria by which the
framework would be assessed as "satisfactory." These criteria should include specific
consideration of the impact of the framework on time-bound, monitorable, and objectively
verifiable indicators of progress in poverty alleviation. Unfortunately, the use of a single tranche
up front disbursement vitiates using this approach to assess borrower performance.

7.      System of QuarterlyBudgetary Reviews:
        "Instituted a cabinet level quarterly review system to insure budget
        implementation consistent with agreed budgetary allocations for the priority
        sectors and wide publication of key results, as described in paragraph 22 of the
        LDP.

8.      This review system may have formally existed at the time the Credit was declared
effective, but it clearly never became an effective tool for accomplishing this stated mission with
respect to actually budgetary spending, as we saw above. Moreover, the LDP paragraph
reference in the DCA does not coincide with the LDP in the PR provided to the Executive
Directors at the time of Credit approval.

9.     Review of Draft Loi de Reglement:
        "submitted to the competent chamber of its Supreme Court for its review of the
        draft Loi de reglement for FY1998."

10.     It could be useful to establish a time frame for this review to be completed and the
appropriate follow-up to take place.

11.     BudgetaryAllocation to Prefectures:

        "under its FY2001 Budget Law, allocated to its Prefectures a minimum of 80
       percent of the resources appropriated under said Budget Law to the priority
       sectors."

12.    While the condition is set out in terms of budgetary allocations and appropriations, it
would have been useful for the ICR to have reported on the actual spending results with respect
to these budget items in 2001. In view of the shortfalls in budgetary performance for the priority
sectors, actual achievements with respect to this condition may be doubtful.

13.    Resources Provided to Decentralized Communities:
        "adopted under its FY2001 Budget Law, new rules governing the allocation of
       resources between the Central Government and the decentralized communities,

                                                  41                            Annex F (continued)


        increasing the share accruing to said decentralized communities with respect to
        the IMDL; CFU; TPU and TUV."

14.     It would have been useful to specify in the DCA at least some minimum levels of
resources from the cited taxes to be provided to the decentralized communities under the
proposed arrangements. In this manner, actual performance of the GOG with respect to this
condition could have been monitored and assessed. Moreover, it would have been useful for the
ICR to report on the actual 2001 amounts with respect to these taxes which were provided to the
decentralized communities, the amounts they actually spent in 2001 and the priority areas in
which these 2001 expenditures took place. It appears that the MEF has difficulty in producing
reliable figures of the actual amounts of funds involved in this intended reallocation of funds to
the local government administrations.

15.     Issuance of Circular on Budget Decentralization and Administration:
         "issued Circulaire No. 321 MEF/CAB dated May 8,2001 on budget
        decentralization and administration of delegated credits, setting forth specific
        rules designed to strengthen financial management and control of all procurement
        operations concerning goods, works, and services procured under Central
        Government contracts for the benefit of decentralized communities and to
        ascertain that the obtained items are effectively used for the purposes for which
        they were procured."

16.     It appears that there were some delays in the 'loperationalization" of these arrangements.
The ceilings with respect to the contract approval authority of Governors and Prefects were
established in May 2002. In November 2002, the responsible persons for procurement at the
Governorate level were named.

17.     Ex Post ProcurementAudits:

        ''issued Arrete NO. 22625-MEF-CAB-01 on ex-post procurement audits, dated
        June 25,2001, establishing: (a) ex-post audits of government contracts, and
        (b) defining procedures and sanctions mechanisms concerning the implementation
        of said contracts."

18.     It is expected that the audits in question, covering about 270 contracts (out of a total of
about 900 contracts) awarded in the period 1999-01, may begin in May 2003, almost two years
after the Board approved the Credit and the US$50 million were disbursed. It would have been
informative for the ICR to have assessed the time frame for actual implementation of project
goals.

19.     Corruption Survey:
         "publicly announced and launched preparatory works for a comprehensive survey
        by the CNLC [Comite National de Lutte contre la Corruption et de la
        Moralisation des Activites Economiques et Financieres] of representatives of
        government, civil society and businesses, designed to identify key cormption-

Annex F (continued)                              42


        related problems and set priorities for govemance reform, as described in
        paragraph 46 of the LDP."

20.     While this paragraph might be interpreted to suggest that the preparation for carrying out
this survey were well-advanced at the time of Credit effectiveness,progress on the ground has
been much slower. The consultants to carry out the survey may be contracted in the second
quarter of CY2003, almost two years after loan effectiveness. The LDP paragraph reference in
the DCA does not coincide with the LDP in the PR provided to the Executive Directors at the
time of Credit approval.

21.     Communication Strategyfor Budget Allocations and Public Enterprise Sector Reform:
        "adopted the communications strategy described to in [sic]paragraph 34 of the
        LDP for the purpose of disseminating information to the public with respect to the
        following: (i) detailed budget allocations figures pursuant to the Loi de finance
        2001 for each decentralized community with respect to the priority sectors
        referred to in paragraph A.l of this schedule [F.4.a above]; and (ii) the PE sector
        reform program, including its social action plan to minimize the social impact of
       the reforms."

22.    Adopting a communications strategy or publicity campaign with respect to these two
matters may not have been very difficult to comply with. However, it should be pointed out that
the above LDP paragraph cited above in the DCA does not coincide with the LDP distributed to
the Board in the PR at the time of Credit approval.

23.     Overall, the various conditions of effectiveness reviewed above do not appear to be of
such substance as to have warranted the disbursement up front in a single tranche of
US$50 million to a regime with a very uneven record of sustained policy reform.

43    Annex F (continued)


                                           45                                   Annex G



Individuals Contacted/Interviewed




Ministry of Economy and Finance

El Hadj Amadou Sow, Secretary General
Roger Patrick Milimono, Assistant to the Minister
Mme. Aboukhalil Mado, Directrice Nationale du Tresor et de la Comptabilite Publique
Ousmane Bah,Directeur National, Direction National de Controle Financier
M. Diallo, Directeur National, Direction National de Statistics
Dr. Moumini Diallo, Chef du Service Informatique
Dr. Ahmed Tidjane Souare, Inspecteur General des Finance
Nourdine Balde, Coordinateur,Fonds d'Audit des Marches Publics (UGFA), Inspection
       Generale des Finances
Fode Oussou Diane, Directeur National Adjoint, Direction National des Marches Publics
Toure Mamadi, Chef, Division Adjudication et Contrgle, Direction National des
       Marches Publics
Ansoumane Conde, Directeur National, Direction National de la Dette et des
       Investissements Publics
Gouidri Mustapha, Advisor, Direction National de la Dette et des Investissements
      Publics
Billy Guilavogui, Chef Division Tertiaire, Direction National de la Dette et des
      Investissements Publics
Mamady Nabe, Chef Section Sante et Affaires Sociaux, Direction National de la Dette et
       des Investissements Publics
Saa Mathos Lelano, DBEF, Direction National de la Dette et des Investissements
      Publics
Ansoumane Conde, Direction National de la Dette et des Investissements Publics
Aboubacar Conde, Direction National de la Dette et des Investissements Publics
Mr. Cisse, Direction Nationale de Portefeuille
El Hadj Ibrahima Balde, Directeur National Adjoint, Direction Nationale des Impots
Ibrahima Camara, Coordonnateur,Unite de Privatisation
Abraham Boure, Charge d'operation, Unite de Privatisation
Mamady Toure, Assistant DNDIP, Unite de Privatisation
Ismael Diakate, Conposante Sociale, Unite de Privatisation
Sekou Kande, Conposante Socia1,Unitede Privatisation
Mamady Camara, Charge d'operation, Unite de Privatisation
Ibrahima Sory Sano, Responsible Administratif, Unite de Privatisation
Abdourahame Charles Diallo, Assistant Responsible Admin. Fin., Unite de
      Privatisation
Ibrahima Naby Toure, Unite de Privatisation

Annex G (continued)                      46


Ministere de I'Agriculture

Fassou Elie Damey, Secretaire General
Abdoulaye Cherif Sylla, C/CAF3
Abdoul Salam Toure, DCBLEPA
Ramatoulaye Barry, DAAF
Monkamy Camara, Chef Conpable
Abdoul Rahim Bah, Conpable


Ministere des TravauxPublics et des Transports

Sekou Ping-Pong Conde, Directeur Administratif et Financier, Fonds Routier
Dr. Ahmadou Gueye, Direction Nationmale de 1'EntretienRoutier


Ministere de la Justice

Ibrahima Lassidy Toure, Chef, Division des Aqffaires Administratives et Financieres
Amadou Sakho, Directeur, Centre de Formation et de Documentation Judiciares
Traore Mamadouba, Chef, Section Finance Comptabilite


PSRP Team

Alpha Ousmane Diallo, Advisor to the Minister MEF
Mamadou Bobo


BCRG

Cheick Sylla, Directeur Monnaie et Credit
Mr. Berete


United Nations Development Program

K. 0.Amaning, Resident Representative
Adama Toe, Deputy Resident Representative
Diallo Aissatou Bah, Economist


European Union

Malado Kaba, EconomistProject Officer

                                          47                    Annex G (continued)


Embassy of Japan

Yoshitaka Tomita, Ambassador
Yoshiaki Ito, Ministre-Conseiller


Embassy of Canada

Philippe Beaulne, Ambassador
Carlos Laviades, Conseiller et Consul


USAID

Robert Boncy, Deputy Mission Director
Patricia Rainey, Strategic Results Coordinator
Mohammed Falfana
Kenda Diallo


Banque Internationale pour le Commerce et 1'Industrie de la Guinee

Bernard Deleuze, Administrateur Directeur General and President Association de
       Banquiers
Alain Lamarlere, Directeur General Adjoint


Private Citizen

Youssouf Sylla, Former Project Manager, PATSEP


World Bank Staff/ConsultantsContacted/Interviewed

SherriArchondo, AFTPS
Demba Ba, AFTPS
Jean-Claude Balcet, LCSER
Hassane Cisse, LEGAF
Ezzedine Larbi, AFTP4
Kevin Lumbila, AFTP4
Pierre Morin, AFTPS
T. Mpoy-Kamulayi, LEGAF
Brian Ngo, AFRCE
Issa Sanogo, AFMGN
Hiroaki Suzuki, EASUR
Jan Weetjens, AFMGN


                                                   49



Annex Table 2: IDA Reports, 1966-02
                 Report Title                         Date     Report
                                                                No.    Document Type
Country Assistance Strategy Progress                                  CAS Progress
    Report                                         2001/07/02  22451    Report
A Socioeconomic Assessment of Well-
    being and Poverty                              1997103131   16465 Sector Report
Beyond Poverty: How Supply Factors
    Influence Girls' Education in Guinea           1996103129   14488 Sector Report
Plan National d'Action Pour                                           Environmental
    l'Environnement, Vol. 1 and 2                  1994109130   E80     Action Plan
Household Energy Strategy                          1994101131  ESM163 ESMAP Paper
Issues and Options in the Energy Sector            1986111/30   6137  Sector Report
Source: World Bank ImageBank Documents and Reports Web Site.


                                        51                             Annex H


Basic Data Sheets

GUINEA:SECONDSTRUCTURAL       ADJUSTMENT   CREDIT(CREDIT1926-GUI)

Key Project Data (amounts in US$million)
                            Appraisal      Actual or current   Actual as % of
                             estimate         estimate       appraisal estimate
Total project costs            65.1              65.1               100
Credit amount                  65.1              65.1               100



CumulativeEstimated and Actual Disbursements
                           FY89     FY90      FY91     FY92    FY93      FY94
Appraisal Estimate          29.0     65.0     65.0      65.0    65.0       65.0
(US$M)
Actual (US$M)               22.3     27.3     27.3      27.3    56.4      63.7
Actual as a % of Estimate



Project Dates
                                     Original                  Actual
Identification                                                2/18/1987
Appraisal                                                        311998
Negotiations                                                  511311988
Board Presentation                                            6/16/1988
Signing                                                       6/29/1988
Effectiveness                                                  3/2/1989
Project Completion
Credit Closing                      12/31/1990               12/3111993



Staff Input (weeks)
                                                            Actual
Preparation to Appraisal                                      38.2
Appraisal                                                      4.5
Negotiation through Board Approval                            26.9
Supervision                                                  117.6
Completion                                                    16.3
Total                                                        203.5
Source: ICR.

Annex H (continued)                      52


Other Project Data
Borrower/ExecutingAgency: Ministry of Finance

Follow-on Operations

                Operation                            Amount
                                               No* (US$ million) Board Date

Public Enterprise Sector Rationalization
and Privatization Technical Assistance    Cr. 2398    8.13       6/23/1992

                                        53                    Annex H (continued)


Basic Data Sheet

GUINEA:PUBLICENTERPRISESECTOR RATIONALIZATION AND PRIVATIZATION
           TECHNICALASSISTANCECREDIT(CREDIT2398-GUI)

Kev Proiect Data famounts in US$million)
                               Appraisal    Actual or current   Actual as % of
                               estimate          estimate     appraisal estimate
Total project costs               8.13         Not available
Credit amount                     7.13             3.96               56



Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
                                           FY93       FY94     FY95      FY96
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)                    3.84      6.56    7.30       7.30
Actual (US$M)                                   0      1.17    3.96       3.96
Actual as a % of Estimate                       0        18



Project Dates
                                     Original                   Actual
Identification                                                    211991
Appraisal                              311992                     311992
Negotiations                           511992                     511992
Board Presentation                     611992                  612311992
Signing                               71611992                  71611992
Effectiveness                          911992                  9/15/1993
Project Completion                  12/31/1995                12/31/1995
Credit Closing                      1213111995                1213111995




Staff Input
                                                        Actual
                                            Weeks                  US$
Preparation to Appraisal                    37.5                   79.4
Appraisal
Negotiation through Board Approval           18.9                  40.0
Supervision                                 49.1                  104.0
Completion                                  10.5                   22.2
Total                                        116                  245.6
Source: ICR.

  Annex H (continued)                    54


  Other Project Data
  Borrower/ExecutingAgency: Ministry of Finance

  Follow-on Operations

              Operation                            Amount
                                             No*  (US$ million) Board Date

  Financial SectorAdjustment Credit     Cr. 2653     23.0       10/18/1994
~~

                                       55                   Annex H (continued)


Basic Data Sheet

GUINEA:FINANCIALSECTOR     ADJUSTMENT   CREDIT(CREDIT2653-GUI)

Key Project Data (amounts in US$million)
                              Appraisal       Actual or       Actual as % of
                               estimate     current estimate appraisal estimate
Total project costs             23.O             23.0
Credit amount                   23.O             23.0              100
Co-financing
Date physical components
completed



Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
                             FY95       FY96       FY97      FY98       FY99
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)      7.3       14.6       16.3
Actual (US$M)                 6.78       7.73       8.11     15.16       16.08
Actual as a % of Estimate       93



Project Dates
                                    Original                  Actual
Identification                                                 10/1992
Appraisal                                                       4/1994
Negotiations                                                    6/1994
Board Presentation                                           10/18/1994
Signing
Effectiveness                                                12/23/1994
Project Completion                 3/31/1997                 12/31/1998
Credit Closing                     3/31/1997                 12/31/1998


Staff Input (weeks)
                                       Planned                 Actual
Preparationto Appraisal                                          74
Appraisal
Negotiation through Board                                        61
Approval
Supervision                               68                     124
Completion                               9.7                       6
Total                                                           265
Source: ICR

Annex H (continued)                      56


Other Project Data
Borrower/Executing Agency: Ministry of Finance

FoJJow-onOperations

             Operation                             Amount
                                             No* (US$ million) Board Date

Third StructuralAdjustment Credit
                       ~~~    ~~~~~    ~Cr. 3021    70.0        12116/1977

                                        57                   Annex H (continued)


Basic Data Sheet

GUINEA:THIRDSTRUCTURAL      ADJUSTMENT    CREDIT(PEMAC) (CREDIT3021-GUI)

Key Project Data (amounts in US$million)
                               Appraisal    Actual or current   Actual as % of
                               estimate         estimate       appraisal estimate
Total project costs              70.0             70.0                100
Credit amount                    70.0             70.0                100
Co-financing                      13.0            13.0                100



Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
                                                          FY98          FY99
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)                                  45.0          70.0
Actual (US$M)                                              45.0          70.0
Actual as a % of Estimate                                   100           100



Project Dates
                                     Original                   Actual
Identification                         11/1996                   11/1996
Appraisal                            9/18/1997                 9/18/1997
Negotiations                         11/3/1997                 11/3/1997
Board Presentation                   121161199                12/16/1977
Signing                            12/16/1997                 12/16/1997
Effectiveness                      12/23/1997                 12/23/1997
Project Completion                 12/31/1998                 12/31/1998
Credit Closing                     12/23/1998                 12/23/1998



Staff Input
                                                        Actual
                                              Weeks                US$
Preparation to Appraisal                      34.9                144.6
Appraisal                                     30.8                100.9
Negotiation through Board Approval             3.7                  4.0
Supervision                                   35.6                 99.8
Completion
Total                                         105.0               349.3
Source: ICR

Annex H (continued)                     58



Other Project Data
Borrower/Executing Agency: Ministry of Finance

Follow-on Operations

              Operation                  CreditNo.us$million
                                                   Amount    Board Date

  Fourth StructuralAdiustment Credit     Cr. 3551   50.0      6/24/2001

                                       59                  Annex H (continued)


Basic Data Sheet

GUINEA:FOURTHSTRUCTURAL       ADJUSTMENT  CREDIT(CREDIT3551-GUI)

Key Project Data (amounts in US$million)
                              Appraisal     Actual or        Actual as % of
                               estimate   current estimate appraisal estimate
Total project costs              50.0          50.0               100
Credit amount                    50.0          50.0               100
Co-financing:                    16.0          16.0               100



Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
                                                                FY02
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)                                       50.0
Actual (US$M)                                                   50.0
Actual as a % of Estimate                                        100



Project dates
                                    Original                  Actual
Appraisa1                                                      412001
Negotiations                                                   512001
Board Presentation                                             612001
Signing                                                      712412001
Effectiveness                        712001                   81912001
Project Completion                   712002                  613012002
Credit Closing                       712002                  613012002



Staff Input
                                                       Actual
                                            Weeks                 US$
Preparation to Appraisal                       45                154.4
Appraisa1
Negotiation through Board Approval             12                 43.8
Supervision                                     7                 21.9
Completion                                   NIA                  NIA
Total                                          65                220.1
Source: ICR

Annex H (continued)                     60


Other Project Data
Borrower/Executing Agency: Ministry of Finance

Follow-onOperations

None

                 61                     Annex I


Comments Received from the Government

Annex I (continued)    62

      63    Annex I (continued)




2.




                          3

Annex I (continued)    64

65    Annex I (continued)

Annex I (continued)    66

67    Annex I (continued)


69    Annex I (continued)

Annex I (continued)    70

71


                                             73                        Annex I (continued)


                   Comments Received from the Government
                         (English Translation of French Letter)



                                                               REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
                                                              Work -Justice -Solidarity


                                                              Conakry, September 12,2003

MINISTRY OF ECONOMY AND FINANCE

                                                                    Office of the Minister
No 3152/MEF/CAB

                                                               To: Ms. Alice C. Galenson
                                                                    Acting Division Chief
                                                     Operations Evaluation Department
                                                                              Washington
                                                         c/o The Resident Representative
                                                           World Bank Resident Mission
                                                                         Conakry, Guinea

Dear Madame,

This is to acknowledge receipt of your letter dated August 7, 2003, which was
accompanied by the draft retrospective evaluation report covering the following projects:

   -    Second Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC 11);
   -    Public Enterprise Sector Rationalization and Privatization Technical Assistance
        Project (PATSEP);

   --
   -    Financial Sector Adjustment Credit;
        Third Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC 111);and
        Fourth Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC IV).
For your part, please take note of the following comments that we have concerning this
report:

   A. General comments: The report contains assertions that are offensiveand, in
        some cases, unwarranted.

        1.     On page iv, paragraph 2, the evaluator states that .... The donor
                                                                 "
               community is concerned aboutpoor governance and corruption";and on
               page 5, paragraph 2.8, referring to the reform of public enterprises, that
               "thetransparency of some of the arrangements was questionable".

Annex I (continued)                         74


              These assertions are unacceptable unless they are backed up with concrete
              proof.

      2.      On page 5, paragraph 2.10, the comment is made that Guinea is
              characterized by "anoverstaffed, ineficient civil service (characterized by
              widespread corruption)." Although corruption is indeed a troublesome
              issue currently facing the Government, it would be an exaggeration to
              claim that the Administration is riddled with Corruptionto the point where
              it might be called a characteristic of Guinea.

      3.      On page 21, paragraph 6.12, refemng to the anti-corruption campaign, the
              report emphasizes that "...measures will be needed to insulate these
              various transparency initiativesfrom continuingpoliticalpressures."
             It should be pointed out here that the anti-corruption efforts currently
             underway in Guinea are being made on the Government's own initiative.
             In a signed letter addressed by the President of the Republic to the
             President of the World Bank, the latter's support is sought for sustained
             action against corruption. The creation of the National Commission to
             Combat Corruption (Comite`national de lutte contre la corruption et de la
             moralisation des activite`se`conomiquesetfinanciires, CNLC) and the
             implementation of the aforementioned campaign are motivated by the
             same political will on the part of the Government.

     4.      On page 7, paragraph 2.15, it is gratuitously claimed that "Withinthe
             Government of Guinea itself there were multiple views on the desirability
             of the reformprogram". Although opinions did sometimes diverge, the
             divergences were assuredly not about the advisability of a reform
             program. They instead had to do with the modalities for implementing
             such a program.

     5.      On page 10,paragraph 3.15, concerning the Borrower's performance
             under the PATSEP, it is stated that: "Political interference in the
             management of [public enterprises] continued." In reality, the
             Government's actions were motivated exclusively by the following two
             concerns: economic and financial rationality and social welfare impact.

     6.      On page 23, paragraph 6.22, the report asserts that "...Questions remain
             as to the realpolitical independence of decision-making at lower levels."

             As true as it may be that "considerableefforts are needed toprepare these
             local governmental entities to manage and accountfor thefiscal resources
             to beput at their disposition,'' it is equally absurd to connect budget
             management with any kind of political dependency, since the State budget
             as well as those of local communities are subject to clearly established
             laws and regulations.
                                                                                        2

                                              75                         Annex I (continued)


Overall, the author of this report casts Guinea in a negative light, and his conclusion -
namely that the country should no longerbe eligible for single-tranche credits-is     aimed
at changing the excellent relationship between the World Bank and Guinea.

       B. Comments of a technical nature

       1.      On page 3, paragraph 1.5,the report notes that "theGuinean economy has
              performed poorly " and that the period in question "wascharacterized by
               slow growth inper capita GDP."

               Concerning the country's macroeconomic situation, the report fails to give
               due credit to the efforts put forth by the Government with the support of
               its partners, and to the results obtained. Guinea is one of only a few
               countries to have experiencedreal GDP growth of about 4 percent
               throughout the 1990s. Over this period, annual per capita GDP growth
               averaged 1.6percent, as compared to 1.2percent for the least developed
               countries (LDCs) taken as a group, and -0.1 percent for Sub-Saharan
              Africa. (Source: UNDPHuman Development Report, 2003,p. 281).
               It is true that we had hoped for stronger growth and that we were in
               constant need of external h d s to finance development and maintain the
              balance of payments. All of this needs to be considered within the context
               specific to Guinea. When the Second Republic came into being in 1984,
               all of the basic infrastructure (roads, water, energy, etc.) needed to be
              developed, to say nothing of the efforts required to develop basic social
              services that were then in crisis (e.g., the gross primary enrollment ratio
              was about 24 percent, compared to 74 percent in 2003; the infant mortality
              rate, estimated at 98 per thousand in 1999,stood at 136per thousand in
               1992.) It should be emphasized that most of the external financing granted
              to Guinea is devoted to investment.
              Moreover, the country's macroeconomic and financial performance would
              have merited a more positive rating if the report had taken into account the
              state of affairs in the subregion, which has been plagued since 1989by
              serious armed conflict that has driven hundreds of thousands of refugees
              and displaced persons into Guinean territory.

      2.      Page 5, paragraph 2.10: The report deems the sustainability of SAC I1
              "unlikely." Although someproblems persist, it must be acknowledged that
              noticeable progress has been made in all the areas targeted by the project
              (e.g., streamlining of the civil service, improvement of revenue
              mobilization, enhanced financial management, continued reform of public
              enterprises, modification of the legal and institutional framework to
              encourageprivate sector development, and the development of a general
              social policy.)

                                                                                          3

Annex I (continued)                         76


              Regarding civil service reform, Guinea reduced the number of civil
              servants from about 100,000in 1986to fewer than 55,000in 1993,when
              the SAC I1closed, a reduction of about 45 percent. Sincethen, staff
              numbers have remained essentially unchanged, and most new recruitment
              has been for priority sectors (e.g., primary and secondaryteachers, health
              care professionals, etc.) Indeed, it is for this very reason that several of
              the Administration's technical departments are now hard hit by the aging-
              out of personnel and staff retirements.

              As far as boosting revenues is concerned, the continued decline in mining
              revenues, which is attributable to exogenous factors, is one of the
              constraints being encountered. Non-mining revenues have risen steadily
              and represented 9.7 percent of GDP as of 2002, as against 4 percent in the
              mid-1980s.

              As for public enterprise reform, it is important to be aware that, prior to
              1986,Guinea had never had any experience with privatization. From the
              institutional, technical and human resource standpoints, as well as in terms
              of its legislative and regulatory framework, the country was unprepared
              for this exercise. The delays in implementing the reforms, as well as
              certain pitfalls encountered subsequently, are essentially attributable to
              that fact. Despite this handicap, considerable progress has been achieved.
              In several sectors, such as mining, banking and insurance, the portfolios of
             public enterprises have been virtually transformed, the result being a
             higher quality of service provision and greater competitiveness.

     3.       On page 9, paragraph 3.10,the evaluator asserts that "Management of the
             public enterprises was assigned to the DNMPPE which had no
             specialized competence in that area."
             The DNMPE has never been in charge of managing public enterprises.
             Rather, it monitors them on behalf of the Government.

     4.      Page 15,paragraph 5.4 (Relevance of SAC III):

             We agree that the improvement of budgetary resource mobilization
             remains a constant concem, despite the efforts already deployed and the
             results obtained (e.g., while non-mining revenues constituted one fourth of
             total revenues and about 4 percent of GDP in the mid-l980s, these figures
             had been boosted to 81 percent and 9.7 percent, respectively, as of 2002;
             and this is without counting the revenues of communities, or social
             security contributions to the National Social Security Fund).

             The relatively low level of total revenues has a great deal to do with the
             continued decline in the mining sector's contribution, which is a result of

                                                                                          4

                                 77                         Annex I (continued)


    worldwide price trends for mining products. The challenge of revenue
    mobilization must be met; and in order to do this, the dynamic that has
    alreadybeen set in motion must be pursued and strengthened.

    At the same time, improved expendituremanagement is an imperative for
    Guinea, as is raising the population's standard of living. We do not feel
    that we should wait for revenues to reach the desired levels before
    embarkingupon the reforms needed tojustify expenditures. Moreover, it
    is no coincidence that the budget restructuring objectives are confined to
    non-salary expenditures. As the Public Expenditure Review of 1996
    indicated, priority sectors were sufferingmore from a shortage of non-
    salaryoperating funds.

5.  Page 16,paragraph 5.8 (Outcomeof SAC III/Reorienting ofpublic
    expenditures towardpriority sectors):

    Contraryto what is stated in the evaluation report, the proportion of total
    expenditures devoted to priority sectors increased between 1997 and 1998.
    The share of non-salary operating expenditures (Titles 111and IV)
    allocated to those sectors went from 28 percent in 1997,to 30.89 percent
    in 1998and to 31.5percent in 1999. Priority sectors' share of investment
    expenditures out of the national development budget (NDB) went from 44
    percent, to 62 percent, and then to 65 percent, respectively, over the same
    period. The proportion of foreign investment going to priority sectors was
    82 percent in 1999, as against 56 percent in 1997.

6.  Page 16,paragraph 5.11 (Sustainabilityof SAC III):

   As the preceding figures attest, resources have been allocated in
    accordancewith priorities defined by the Government and agreed upon
   with the World Bank. Resource allocation during the SAC IV
    implementation period was carried out in the same spirit.

7.  On page 20, paragraph 6.9 (Outcomeof SAC IV),the report states that, in
   2001, the sums actually spent on priority sectors represented 10percent of
   total current expenditures, instead of the targeted 35 percent. These
   figures are not an accurate reflection of the efforts made on behalf of the
   priority sectors.

   Indeed, under Titles 111and IVY38.4percent of the budget was allocated to
   priority sectors in 2001, and 43.3 percent in 2002, for respective totals of
   GNF 71.6 billion and 119.3billion (in 2000, the priority sectors received
   an allocation of GNF 59.3 billion, or 36.1 percent of the total). Actual
   disbursements out of these allocations totaled GNF 54 billion in 2001

                                                                               5

Annex I (continued)                                                 78


                        (prior to the catch-up program"') and GNF 111.6billion in 2002; these
                        figures correspond to execution ratios of 55 percent and 93.5 percent,
                        respectively.
             8.         Page 24, paragraph 6.23 (Institutional development impact of SAC IV):
                        One of the major reforms carried out under SAC IV is the
                        deconcentratatioddecentralization of the budget. The measures taken
                        have made it possible, among other things:
                        -           to transfer a considerable volume of resources to local-level
                                    services (e.g., schools, health posts, etc.);
                        -           to restore to communities a greater share of locally-collected taxes
                                    and levies (see table 4, attached);
                        -           to bring the locus of decision-making closer to beneficiaries

                        -           (through public procurement at the local level) and
                                    to assign greater responsibility to the population for the monitoring
                                    of expenditures (particularly with the publication of information on
                                    funds transfers and their intended use)62.
                        This reform constitutes the backdrop for the entire dynamic that is driving
                        implementation of the poverty reduction strategy. It reflects the fervent
                        wishes expressed by local populations during the process of formulating
                        the strategy.
                        In terms of improved quality of public resource management, as well as
                        role-modeling and the enhanced capacities of grassroots services, the
                        reform's impact remains considerable. And, since the progress achieved
                        under the reform is now seen by those at the grassroots level as an
                        accomplished fact, any backsliding would now be impossible.
Further to the preceding remarks, please find attached four tables detailing:
      -      allocation and execution of non-salary recurrent expenditures in priority sectors

      -      (2000-02);
             expenditure allocation and execution in priority sectors at the subnational level
             (2001-02);

61By the end of 2001, the execution of expenditures in the priority sectors was very weak. In order to remedy this, in agreement with
the Bank, the Government put in place an extended expenditure catch-up program through the end of March 2002. By that deadline,
in parallel to the execution of the 2002 budget, the credits for 2001 were 98 percent executed.
  Until 2000, the management of public funds, including public procurement, was handled entirely by central departments. No
responsibility was at that time delegated to the deconcentrated departments, and no instrument of control was available to them. In
addition, credits allocated for operations were not broken down in any way between the central departments and those at the
regionalized level. In practice, very few resources were actually mobilized for the deconcentrated departments.
                                                                                                                                    6

                                            79                       Annex I (continued)

   - the proportion represented by deconcentrated departments in the allocation and
     execution of expenditures in the priority sectors; and
   - the share of taxes and levies restored to local communities.


                                                    Respecthlly yours,
                                                    (signing for the Minister)

                                                    [seal and signature]


                                                    El Hadi Amadou SOW
                                                    Secretary General



cc: Mr. Paulo Fernando Gomes,ExecutiveDirector for the Republic of Guinea
    Mr. MamadouDia, OperationsDirector for Guinea
    Mr. Jan Aime E. Weetjens, Resident Representative
    Mr. Nils Fostvedt, Acting Director, OperationsEvaluation Department




                                                                                      7

                    Annex I (continued)                                                                                                                                                                                                               80


                    Table 1: Allocation and Execution of Non-salary Recurrent Expenditures in
                                                                                  Prioritv Sectors (2000-02). in GNF million
                                                                                                                                 2000                                                                                                                                      2001                                                                                                                                               2002
                                                                                Alloc.                                                     Execution                                                                      Alloc.                                                     Execution                                                                         Alloc.                                                               Execution
                                                                                                                                                                                       %                                                                                                                                        %                                                                                                                                                              %
     Education
           Title I11                                                             17,052                                         15,876                                            93.10                                       25,464                                          13,270                                            52.11                                       32,689                                             31,871                                                97.50
           Title IV                                                              13,679                                         13,376                                            97.78                                        11,323                                         11,175                                            98.69                                        17,834                                            17,100                                                95.88
           Total                                                                30,731                                         29,252                                             95.19                                       36,787                                         24,445                                             66.45                                       50,523............48971                                                                                  96.93
     Health
           Title I11                                                               3,808                                          3,587                                           94.20                                          6,319                                         4,846                                            76.69                                        19,894                                            18,835                                                94.68
           Title IV                                                                3,543                                          2,836                                           80.05                                          5,362                                         4,290                                            80.01                                        16,421                                            12,153                                                74.01
................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................l
           Total                                                                   7,351                                          6,423                                           87.38                                        11,681                                           9,136                                           78.21                                       36,315                                             30,988                                                85.33
    Rural Dev.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ...........................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ~




           Title I11                                                                 1,462                                          1,340                                         91.66                                           3,220                                           1,454                                        45.16                                         12,095                                            11,979                                                99.04
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          657                                             535                                   81.43                                                      702                                                 657                                   93.59
           Total
           Title IV                                                                           236                                           210                                   88.98
...........................................................................................................................................................................................
                                                                                     1,698                                          1,550                                         91.28                                           3,877                                           1,989                                         51.30                                        12,797                                            12,636                                                98.74
    Roads fund
           Title111                                                           13,350                                          13,039                                              97.67                                      14,015                                             4,840                                           34.53                                      13,896                                            13,500                                                   97.15
           Title IV                                                                                80                                                  0                                0.00                                                    86                                                   0                                0.00                                                            0                                                  0
.........................................................................................................
           Total                                                                                                                       ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................`
                                                                                                                                         ,039                                     97.09                                      14,101                                             4,840                                           34.32                                      13,896                                            13,500                                                   97.15
    Urban Dev. & Housi
          Title I11                                                                          202                                                  75                              37.13                                                   249                                             144                                   57.83                                                    304                                                300                                       98.68
          Title IV                                                                                                                                     0                                                                                             0                                               0                                                                                                0                                                  0
..................................................................................................................................................................................
          Total                                                                              202                                                  75                              37.13               ..........................................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          249                                             144                                   5                            ....................................................................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         304                                                300                                       98.68
     SocialWelfare
          Title I11                                                                          925                                            626                                   67.68                                                   961                                            586                                    60.98                                            1,105                                             1,035                                              93.67
          Title IV                                                                           574                                           536                                    93.38                                                   817                                            403                                    49.33                                                     818                                                743                                      90.83
                  otal                                                               1,499                                         1,162                                          77.52                                           1,778                                                  989                                    55.62                                            1,923                                             1,778                                              92.46
    Justice        ...............................................................................                                                                                                                                                              .........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

          Title I11                                                                2,546                                          2,431                                           95.48                                          3,008                                           1,687                                          56.08                                           3,316                                              3,194                                              96.32
          Title IV                                                                            140                                           140                              100.00                                                       200                                            200                               100.00                                                        200                                                200                                  100.00
.............
          Total                                                                    2,686                                          2,571                                           95.72                                          3,208                                           1,887                                          58.82                                           3,516                                              3,394                                              96.53
    Total MTEF                                                                                         ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................|

          Title I11                                                           39,345                                          36,974                                               93.97                                     53,236                                         26,827                                               50.39                                     83,299                                             80,714                                                   96.90
          TitleIV                                                              18,252                                         17,098                                               93.68                                      18,445                                         16,603                                              90.01                                     35,975                                             30,853                                                    85.76
          Total                                                               57,597                                          54,072                                               93.88                                     71,681                                        43,430                                                60.59 119,274 111,567                                                                                                                                 93.54

                                                                                                                                                                                                                            81                                                                                                                              Annex I (continued)


Table 2: Expenditure Allocation and Execution in Priority Sectors-
                                                      Deconcentrated (prefecture) Level (2001-02),* in GNF million
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2001                                                                                                                                           2002
                                                                                                                                                                          Alloc.                                                       Execution                                                                          Alloc.                                                       Execution
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     %                                                                                                                                                 %
     Education
           Title I11                                                                                                                                                       22,287                                           11,124                                                49.91                                     24,042                                         22,974                                                 95.56
           Title IV                                                                                                                                                               9,500                                         6,000                                             63.16                                      16,421                                        15,760                                                 95.97
................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................S
           Total                                                                                                                                                            31,787                                          17,124                                                53.87                                     40,463                                         38,734                                                 95.73
     Health
           Title I11                                                                                                                                                              5,887                                          3,270                                           55.55                                      16,808                                          15,163                                                90.21
           Title IV                                                                                                                                                               3,946                                           1,800                                         45.62                                       12,212                                          12,153                                                99.52
           Total                                                   .                                                                                                              9,833                                          5,070                                           51.56      ..........                     29,020                                          27,316                                                  94.13
     Rural                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .............................................

           Title I11                                                                                                                                                              2,139                                           1,307                                          61.10                                           9,739                                           9,676                                             99.35
           Title IV                                                                                                                                                                        382                                            319                                    83.51                                                   457                                              456                                      99.78
.........................................................................................................................................
           Total                                                                                                                                                                  2,521                                           1,626                                          64.50                                      10,196                                          10,132                                                 99.37
     Road Fund   "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ............................................................................................................................................................................

           Title I11                                                                                                                                                         12,278                                              4,462                                           36.34                                      13,556                                          13,412                                                 98.94
                                                                                                                                                                                                      0                                              0                                                                                               0 .                                             0
.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................
           Total
           Title IV                                                                                                                                                          12,278                                              4,462                                           36.34                                      13,556                                          13,412                                                 98.94
     UrbanDevelopment & Housing                                                                                                                                                                                                           ..........................................................................................................................................................................

           Title I11                                                                                                                                                                            21                                              10                              47.62                                                          23                                               23                                00.00
           Title IV                                                                                                                                                                                   0                                              0                                                                                               0                                               0
................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
           Total                                                                                                                                                                                21                                              10                              47.62                                                          23                                               23                           100.00
     Social Welfare
           Title I11                                                                                                                                                                            99                                              70                               70.71                                                    107                                              102                                     95.33
                                                                                                                                                                                          408                                            358                                     87.75                                                   298                                              232                                      77.85
.................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ..............................................................
          Total
           Title IV                                                                                                                                                                       507                                            428                                     84.42                                                   405                                              334                                      82.47
    Justice                                                                                                                                                                                                            ~




          Title I11                                                                                                                                                              2,248                                           1,229                                           54.67                                           2,358                                           2,356                                             99.92
          Title IV                                                                                                                                                                        200                                            200                                100.00                                                       200                                              200                                100.00
           Total                                                                                                                                                                 2 448                           ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1,429                                          58.37                                           2,558                                           2,556                                             99.92
     TotalMTEF
          Title I11                                                                                                                                                        44,959                                           21,472                                              47.76                                      66,633                                          63,706                                                  95.61
          Title IV                                                                                                                                                          14,436                                               8,677                                           60.11                                     29,588                                          28,801                                                  97.34
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           92,507                                                  96.14
* Deconcentration
          Total                                                                                                                                                            59,395                                           30,149                                              50.76                                      96,221                                                                                       .

                                                                       of the budget went into effect 2001.

       Annex I (continued)                                                                                                                                                                                                         82


       Table 3: ProportionRepresentedby Deconcentrated Departments
                                                                 (PrefectureLevel) in the Allocation and Execution of Expenditures
                                                                 in the Priority Sectors (%)
                                                                                                                                                                                                          2001                                                                                                                                                                      2002
                                                                                                                                     Deconc. Allot./ Deconc. Exec./ Deconc. AIloc./ Deconc. Exec./
                                                                                                                                                Totalalloc.                                                                          Totalexec.                                                                       Totalalloc.                                                                         Totalexec.
       Education
              Title I11                                                                                                                                             87.5                                                                              83.8                                                                                73.5                                                                             72.1
               Title IV                                                                                                                                             83.9                                                                              53.7                                                                                92.1                                                                             92.2
 .............................................................
               Total                                                                                                                                               86.4                                                                               70.1                                                                             .......................................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          80.1                                                                             79.1
       Health                                                                                                 ............................................................................................                 ..

              Title I11                                                                                                                                            93.2                                                                               67.5                                                                                84.5                                                                             80.5
                                                                                                                                                                   73.6                                                                              42.0                                                                                 74.4                                                                        100.0
................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
              Total
              Title IV                                                                                                                                             84.2                                                                               55.5                                                                                79.9                                                                             88.2
      Rural Dev.
              Title I11                                                                                                                                            66.4                                                                               89.9                                                                                80.5                                                                             80.8
              Title IV                                                                                                                                             58.1                                                                               59.6                                                                                65.1                                                                             69.4
.................................................................................................
              Total                                                                                                                                                65.0                                                                               81.7                                                                                79.7                                                                             80.2
      Roads fund                                                                                                                                                                                                       ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

             Title I11                                                                                                                                             87.6                                                                              92.2                                                                                 97.6                                                                             99.3
             Title IV                                                                                                                                                   0.0
.................................
             Total                                                                                                                                                 87.1                                                                              92.2                                                                                97.6                                                                              99.3
     Urban Dev.& Housing                                                                                                                                                                                               ...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

             Title I11                                                                                                                                                  8.4                                                                              6.9                                                                                    7.6                                                                              7.7
             Title IV
.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
             Total                                                                                                                                                      8.4                                                                              6.9                                                                                   7.6                                                                              7.7
     Social Welfare                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .......................................................................................................

             Title I11                                                                                                                                             10.3                                                                              11.9                                                                                      9.7                                                                              9.9
                                                                                                                                                                 49.9                                                                               88.8                                                                                 36.4                                                                              31.2
................................................................................................................................................................................................................
             Total
             Title IV                                                                                                                                            28.5                                                                               43.3                                                                                 21.1                                                                              18.8
    Justice
            Title I11                                                                                                                                            74.7                                                                               72.9                                                                                 71.1                                                                             73.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             100.00                                                                            100.00
            Total
            Title IV                                                                                                                                  100.00                                                                             100.00
................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                 76.3                                                                               75.7                                                                                 72.8                                                                             75.3
    Total MTEF sect.
            Title I11                                                                                                                                            84.5                                                                               80.0                                                                                 80.0                                                                             78.9
           Title IV                                                                                                                                             78.3                                                                                52.3                                                                                 82.2                                                                             93.3
           Total                                                                                                                                                 82.9                                                                               69.4                                                                                 80.7                                                                             82.9

                                           83                Annex I (continued)


Table 4: Share of Taxes and Levies Restored to Local Communities (%)
                Taxesnevies                   2000       2001          2002
Poll tax (Imp6t minimumpour le dev. local,
IMDL)                                         100         100           100
Professional tax (Taxeprofession-elle
unique,TPU)                                    50         80             80
Real estatetax (Contributionfonciire
unique, CFU)                                   50         80             80
Motor vehicle tax (Taxe unique sur les
vehicules, TUV)                                30         50             50


                                              85                                   Annex J


                 OED Response to Government Comments


         OED thanks Government officials for their detailed comments on the PPAR.
OED has redrafted the PPAR to address most of the Government's concerns. In those
instances where Government perceptions differ from OED's, footnotes have been added
in the main report quoting official views.

        General Comments: All general commentshave been reflected in the PPAR.

        Comments of a Technical Nature: The report acknowledges that GDP has
grownby an average of almost 4 percent p.a. in real terrns in the 1990s. However, per
capita growth has been modest and insufficient to reduce poverty. The reduction in civil
servants, increases in non-mining revenues and the deconcentratioddecentralization of
the budget noted by the Government are impressive and the PPAR has been modified to
reflect these achievements. With respect to two specific comments:

1.      The allocated share to priority sectors went from 28 percent in 1997to 30.89
percent in 1998 and to 31.5percent in 1999: The figures cited by the Government are the
budgeted figures which were not reflected in actual spending. Actual spending on
priority sectors declined from 43.2 percent of total spending in 1997,to 39.5 percent in
1998. Concerning non-wage recurrent expenditures, on which IDA put special emphasis,
actual spending on non-wage recurrent expenditures for the four priority sectors shrank
from 31.5percent in 1997to 24 percent of the total expenditures in 1998.

2.
sectors in 2001, and 43.3 percent in 2002, for respective totals of GNK 71.6 billion and
        Under Titles I11and IV,38.4 percent of the budget was allocated to priority
GNF 119.3billion. Actual disbursements out of these allocations totaled GNF 54 billion
in 2001 and GNF 111.6billion in 2002; these figures correspond to execution rates of 55
percent and 93.5 percent, respectively: The condition in the DCA stated that "35 percent
of Wnon-wagerecurrent budget go to priority sectors." According to the 2001 budget

DCA in 2001 required that the budget allocate at least 121.45billion francs to the priority
law, the total non-wage recurrent expenditure was 347 billion francs. Therefore, SAC IV
sectors in 2001. According to the Government's tables, the budget allocation for priority
sectors in 2001 was 71.6 billion francs which is well short of the DCA 35 percent
requirement. The objective of the loan was to increase the allocation of non-wage
recurrent expenditures to priority sectors. If the DCA condition as worded had been met,
an extra 50 billion francs would have been allocated for non-wage recurrent expenditures
in the priority sectors.


