Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19378
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
FLORES EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
(LOAN 3589-IND)
May 11, 1999
Transport Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of March 1993)
Currency Unit
Indonesian Rupiah
US$1.00       =  Rp 2,066
Rp 1 million = US$484
As of November 30, 1998
US$1.00       =  Rp 7,685
Rp 1 million = US$130
Fiscal Year
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB          -      Asia Development Bank
AusAID       -      Australian International Development Assistance Agency
EIRR         -      Economic Rate of Return
FERP         -      Flores Emergency Reconstruction Project
GOI          -      Government of Indonesia
GRG          -      General Reconstruction Guidelines
Kabupaten    -      District
MPW          -      Ministry of Public Works
NTT          -      (the province of) Nusa Tenggara Timur
PIU          -      Project Implementation Unit
RMT          -      Reconstruction Management Team
Vice President:                  Jean-Michel Severino, EAPVP
Sector Manager:                  Jitendra N. Bajpai, EASTR
Country Director:                Mark Baird, EACIF
Task Manager:                    William Hardi, EACIF



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
PAGE No.
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY ........................................ 1-iv
PART l:  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .                  ........................................I
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION ........1....................................
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES ........3....................................3
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT ............................................5
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY .............................................6
E. BANK PERFORMANCE ............................................6
F.  BORROWER PERFORMANCE ............................................7
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME ......8......................................8
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS ............................................                            8
I.  KEY LESSONS LEARNED ............................................8
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES ........................................ 10
TABLE 1:   SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS ....................................................... 10
TABLE 2:   RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS ...............        ........................................ 11
TABLE 3:   PROJECT TIMETABLE ....................................................... 11
TABLE 4:   LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENT: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATE AND ACTUAL ............. ............... 11
TABLE 5A: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ....................................................... 12
IMPLEMENTATION TIMETABLES
TIABLE 5B: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ....................................................... 13
ROAD AND BRIDGE PROGRAM ORIGINALLY PROPOSED & IMPLEMENTED
TABLE 5C: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ....................................................... 15
SCHOOL CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM ORIGINALLY PROPOSED AND IMPLEMENTED
TABLE 5D: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ....................................................... 16
SUMMARY OF HEALTH FACILITIES IMPLEMENTED
TABLE 5E: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ................................................ ...... 17
PILOT PROJECT AND COMMUNITY SCHOOL CONSTRUCTION
TABLE 5F: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ....................................................... 18
SUMMARY OF TRAINING PROGRAM
TABLE 6A: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ....................................................... 19
NUMBER OF PEOPLE UNDER POVERTY LINE
TABLE 6B: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ....................................................... 19
EXPECTED TRAFFIC GROWTH
TABLE 6C: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION.                                        2
BUDGET FOR OPERATIONS, MAINTENANCE & DEVELOPMENT
KABUPATEN SIKKA (RP. MILLION)
This document has a restrieted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not othierwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CONTENTS (CONT'D)
PAGE No.
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES (CONT'D)
TABLE 7:  STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT ................................. 21
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS (US$ MILLION) ................................. 22
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING (US$ MILLION) ................................. 22
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS .23
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS .24
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS .25
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS .25
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS .26
ANNEX A: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO ICR .28
ANNEX B: SUPPLEMENTARY .41
TABLE 1: REALLOCATION OF LOAN 3589-IND .41
TABLE 2: REVISED HEALTH INFRASTRUCTURE PLAN .42
TABLE 3: PROJECT COSTS (RP BILLION) .43
TABLE 4: PROJECT FINANCING (RP BILLION) .43
ANNEX C: ICR MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE .44
MAPS:  IBRD-24567, IBRD-24568, IBRD-24569



Indonesia: Flores Earthquake Reconstruction Project                                  Preface
Implementation Completion Report
INDONESIA
FLORES EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
(LOAN 3589-IND)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Flores Earthquake Reconstruction
Project (Loan 3589-IND) to the Republic of Indonesia for which a loan of US$42.1 million equivalent
was approved on April 13, 1993 and made effective on July 7,1993.
The Loan 3589-IND was closed on November 30, 1998 after three extensions totaling a year
and eleven months from the original closing date of December 31, 1996. The final disbursement was
made on May 10,1999.
The ICR was prepared by Mr. William Hardi, Task Manger (EACIF), and Mr. Ephrem Asebe,
Consultant. It was reviewed by Messrs. Mark Baird, Director, Indonesia and Jitendra N. Bajpai,
Manager, Transport Sector Unit, East Asia and Pacific Region.
Preparation of this ICR began during the Bank's final supervision mission in November 1998. I t
is based on material in the project file. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by stating
its views as reflected in the mission's Aide-Memoire (Annex A), and by preparing its own evaluation of
the project's execution (Annex B).



Indonesia: Flores Earthquake Reconstruction Project                                  Page i
Implementation Completion Report                                           Evaluation Summary
INDONESIA
Flores Earthquake Reconstruction Project
(Loan 35891-IND)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
i.     Background. At 1:30 PM on December 12, 1992, an earthquake measuring 7.5 on the Richter
scale, affected an area of about 10,000 square kilorneters on Flores island, in the eastern part of
Indonesia. The tremor generated tidal waves (tsunami) and liquefaction along the north coast of the
island of Flores. The most serious damage occurred over an area of 6,000 square km affecting the
kabupatens of Ende, Flores Timur, Ngada and Sikka and the towns of Ende and Maumere. The
earthquake killed 1,951, and injured 2,126 people. More than 25,000 houses, 600 schools and 135 health
facilities were destroyed or severely damaged. The damage to homes, roads, bridges, jetties, airport
facilities, irrigation works, water supply and distribution systems, schools, health facilities, and government
buildings totaled an estimated Rp.564 billion (US$273.5 million equivalent). The damage to agriculture
(livestock and crops), fishing (boats, nets and other equipment), and commercial and other private
buildings (including private schools and facilities) was also extensive. Total aid for the reconstruction, and
associated awareness training was US$125 million. The World Bank contributed US$39.58 million
primarily for roads, schools and medical facilities, whilst other lending agencies/donors also assisted the
Government: the Asian Development Bank contributed about SDR 13.7 million (US$20.1 equivalent) for
provincial roads and water resources; and AusAID contributed about AUD 23.0 million (US$15.0 million
equivalent) for sanitation and water supply.
Bank Project
ii.    Project Objective. The objectives of the World Bank funded component of this multi-sectoral
Project, as outlined in the Memorandum and Recommendation of the President of IBRD (Report No. P-
6026-IND), were to: (i) minimize the adverse econornic impact of the disaster by promptly restoring
economic activity and social services in the affected areas, at the same time, supporting the Bank's
assistance strategy of poverty reduction for Indonesia in line with OD 8.50; (ii) introduce measures to
minimize the impact of possible future earthquakes; and (iii) improve the standard of construction of the
infrastructure. These objectives were maintained throughout project implementation.
iii.    Project Components.  To achieve these objectives the project financed reconstruction
investments in (i) national and kabupaten roads and bridges; (ii) education and health facilities; and
(iii) market redevelopment and fishing port facilities; and funded technical assistance in the management
of the overall reconstruction program and in the development of measures to mitigate effects of
earthquakes, landslides and tidal wave (tsunami) damage in the future. The total project cost, including
contingencies, was estimated at US$62.9 million equivalent, with a foreign exchange component of 32%.
The Bank loan of US$42.1 million was to finance about 68% of the total project cost, over a three-year
period.
iv.    Project Covenants.  The critical conditions agreed at project negotiations were: (i) th.e
preparation of General Reconstruction Guidelines (GRGs) and area-specific reconstruction guidelines by
July 31, 1993; (ii) their submission for review and comment by a technical panel established by the
Government in consultation with the Bank; and (iii) finalization and implementation by September 30,
1993.



Page ii                                            Indonesia: Flores Earthquake Reconstruction Project
Evaluation Summary                                              Implementation Completion Report
Implementation
v.     Achievement of Objectives. The project has substantially achieved its objectives, albeit after
initial delays in the repair works during the first year of reconstruction. Nevertheless, the project has
realized most of the original reconstruction program. The first year program quality was not of high
standard. There were also major developments in the quality, design and costs of construction of schools
using bamboo. The innovations can have important contributions in earthquake prone Indonesia. The
Project also initiated policy measures and behavioral changes aimed at reducing vulnerability to future
earthquakes. In terms of poverty alleviation, over the last six-year period, the money spent in Flores has
had a visible qualitative and quantitative effect on the island's economy. Roads have improved and
commerce has increased. Schools and health facilities have improved. Per capita income has increased.
More goods are available in the markets.
vi.    Costs and Implementation timetable. At completion, the total funds expended on the project
were US$57.93 million compared with an appraisal estimate of US$62.9 million. Main variance was the
underspending of contingency funds in the initial allocation. Overall, the estimated EIRR based on an
evaluation study for the road works ranged between 15.3% and 41.8% with the exception of the Nebe
Mudajebak link, which had an EIRR of 8.9%. Time of completion was considerably longer than originally
anticipated, with completion in November 1998, compared to an initial expectation of December 1996.
Main reasons for the extension were the later inclusion of non-government schools in the re-construction
program, and delays by the contractor on the Maumere Hospital.
vii.    Main Factors Affecting Implementation. Significant factors noted during project implementation
which influenced project outcome included: GOI implementation arrangements, contractors' and
consultants' inadequate attention to quality, and remoteness of Flores from major manufacturing centers.
GOI lost momentum in the reconstruction stage, and the delays in recruiting staff to work in Flores island
resulted in a shortage of both skilled and non-skilled labor during the implementation of the Project. At
irnplementation agency level, weak management of some of the provincial and local firms was a major
contributing factor to the below standard quality, especially in the first year program. Inadequate details
on drawings, inadequate contractor resources and in-experience and poor workmanship were evident.
Major delays effecting time of completion of the project were experienced in both the construction of new
Maumere Hospital, and the water supply installation for resettlement areas of new Wuring; whilst the
Indonesian financial crisis from early 1998 onward was also a significant factor.
Results and Performance
viii.   Project Sustainability. Overall, the sustainability of the project is assessed as uncertain on
account of the macroeconomic situation of Indonesia. The sustainability of benefits from the major
physical achievements of the project: road infrastructure, schools, and health center facilities will depend
on the GOI's ability and preparedness to commit adequate funds for maintenance of the facilities. More
importantly, however the culture of awareness of earthquake disasters and preparedness, developed
through the activities of the Project, is likely to be sustainable. School children and health staff drill twice
a year. The knowledge base for seismic resistant construction technology has been enhanced. The
General Reconstruction Guidelines, the seismic zone maps, the project supported training, and the
various related technical studies are likely to have a long lasting impact not only in Flores but also in other
areas of earthquake prone Indonesia.
ix.    Bank Performance. Bank performance during identification and preparation was satisfactory.
Bank response to the government's three-staged reconstruction program was innovative, swift and in line
with the Bank's OD 8.50. The Bank's main contribution was its emphasis on sound seismic resistant
design and quality assurance in the reconstruction work, as reflected in the objectives of the project. The
Bank performance in appraisal was also satisfactory. Assessment of potential risks facing project
implementation was correct but reliance on the Central Government for project management, although
designed to assure quality, proved to be troublesome in subsequent implementation. Bank performance
during implementation was also assessed to be satisfactory. Supervision and reporting was adequate.



Indonesia: Flores Earthquake Reconstruction Project                                 Page iii
Implementation Completion Report                                           Evaluation Summary
Implementation problems were identified and assessed frankly. Unfortunately, partly because of the
govemments central management policy, the Bank's initial commitment to frequent supervision to Flores
did not fulJy materialize as the main issues which need resolving during much of the project were in
Jakarta with MPW/RMT. Although the Bank Task Manager was changed after the mid-term review, the
fact that the Task Manager throughout the project was Jakarta based was considered beneficial, as it
enabled decisions to be made in conjunction with MPW/RMT more expeditiously.
x.     Borrower Performance.  The borrower had a three-staged strategy that was workable.
However, overall, the borrower performance in implementation was marginally satisfactory.  The
momentum did not continue in project implementation into the third stage; four months passed before loan
effectiveness after Board approval.  Delays were experienced in the issuance of the General
Reconstruction Guidelines. Reliance on central government for decisions and management also proved
troublesome, and although it was intended to hand imanagement back to local authorities in Nusa
Tenggara Timur (NTT), this took longer than anticipated. As a result the problems in Flores tended to
become magnified because of the need and time taken for resolution in Jakarta. While physical
objectives were achieved or exceeded, insufficient attention was given to quality assurance of work in the
first year of project implementation. Bank's insistence on quality assurance resulted in considerable
reworking of design and this delayed procurement processing.
xi.    Project Outcome. Overall, the outcome of the project is assessed as satisfactory. Despite initial
delays and quality problems, the project generated momentum and completed most of the original
reconstruction program. Economic and commercial activities, and provision of services have been
restored. Significant technological transfer has taken place in seismic resistant design and construction.
Public awareness of disaster preparedness has deepened.
Key Lessons and Future Actions
xii.    Key Lessons Learned. Overall, the implementation experience has provided valuable lessons
for Bank emergency lending operations. These can be summarized as follows:
a) The policies set out in OD 8.50 for emergency projects need critical assessment in light of
local conditions in formulating program objectives, and developing implementation
arrangements. The balances between the "emergency response" and the desire to develop
innovative mitigating measures for future emergencies, and the Government's central
management structure compared to a participatory management, which mobilizes local
participation, are issues that need addressing for future emergencies.
b) The General Reconstruction Guidelines for earthquake reconstruction should be a living
document, updated frequently to take into account development in applied earth science, and
should form a necessary part of disaster preparedness.
c) The use of bamboo for construction of seismic resistant structures is an important innovative
outcome of FERP. Preliminary studies have shown that construction combining bamboo with
steel can be implemented at 86% of the price of wood and steel construction. The economic
feasibility of the proposition is an area for further research.
d) The FERP implementation experience amply demonstrated that the state of development of
the contracting industry in Flores is quite low. In the interest of efficient and sustainable
development, the Bank may want to design an appropriate response for improving the
performance of the contracting industry in Indonesia, especially in remote provinces like
NTT.



Page iv                                             Indonesia: Flores Earthquake Reconstruction Project
Evaluaton Summary                                                 Implementation Completion Report
e) With the significant knowledge that has emerged from this and other Bank financed
emergency projects, the Bank may wish to consolidate these experiences with those from
other similar projects, with the objective of mitigating the socio-economic impact of future
disasters, especially on the poor, and preferably with the participation of the private sector
(e.g. insurance companies).
xiii.   Future Actions. Future planned actions should focus on: (i) the sustainability of the benefits of
physical assets; (ii) codification of the knowledge base and expanding public awareness as part of
disaster preparedness; and (iii) monitoring of the socio-economic benefits attained under the project.
Sustainability of benefits will depend on the provision of adequate maintenance funds and the timely
utilization for maintenance purposes. In this area, there is no lack of consciousness on the part of the
local (TK. 11) government. The main issue will be availability of funds, given the economic-political crisis in
Indonesia. With regard to knowledge, and public awareness, the spark ignited by the project from the
public training and expanded public knowledge is likely to continue. Indonesia has already one of the
foremost authorities in seismology, and the project has now added a pool of professionals who can focus
on the issue, given that the whole of Indonesia is prone to earthquake. In addition, most school children
and health center staff now undergo regular drills and this must be encouraged to continue. The
reconstruction expenditure in Flores has had a significant impact on economic activities and the socio-
economic situation in the province. Indicators for increase in personal income, vehicle ownership, vehicle
traffic, school attendance, and health delivery service are being monitored by the Statistical Office of the
respective Kabupatens. Finally, Maumere Hospital has an environmental management plan incorporated
in its management charter and the hospital management has committed to follow it, and this should
continue to be monitored.



Indonesia: Flores Earthquake Reconstruction Project                                  Page 1
Implementation Completion Report                           Part l: Project Implementation Assessment
INDONESIA
Flores Earthquake Reconstruction Project
(Loan 3589-IND)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
Background
1.     At 1:30 PM on December 12, 1992, an earthquake measuring the 7.5 on Richter scale, shook an
area of about 10,000 square kilometers on Flores Island. This was followed by 148 after shocks between
December 12 and December 22 with magnitudes of 3.0 to 6.0 on the Richter scale. The earthquake was
one of the strongest and most destructive earthquakes in recent Indonesian history. It was also the first of
that magnitude recorded in the Island of Flores. The tremor generated tidal waves (tsunami) and
liquefaction along the north coast of the Island of Flores. The most serious damage occurred over an
area of 6,000 square km affecting the kabupatens of Ende, Flores Timur, Ngada and Sikka and the towns
of Ende and Maumere. The earthquakes killed 1,951, and injured 2,126 people. More than 25,000
houses, 600 schools and 135 health facilities were destroyed or severely damaged. The damage to
homes, roads, bridges, jetties, airport facilities, irrigation works, water supply and distribution systems,
schools, health facilities, and government buildings totaled an estimated Rp.564 billion (US$273.5 million
equivalent in 1992 Dollars). The damage to agriculture (livestock and crops), fishing facilities (boats, nets
and other equipment), and commercial and other private buildings (including private schools and facilities)
was also extensive. The World Bank provided US$39.58 million for rectification of roads, schools,
medical facilities, market and fishing port facilities. Other lending agencies/ donors also assisted the
Government: the Asian Development Bank contributed about SDR 13.7 million (US$ 20.1 equivalent) for
provincial roads and water resources; and AusAID contributed about AUD23 million (US$15 million
equivalent) for sanitation and water supply, whilst Government matching contribution exceeded US$ 50
million.
Project Objectives
2.     The objectives of this multi-sectoral Project, as outlined  in the  Memorandum  and
Recommendation of the President of IBRD (Report No. P-6026-IND), were to: (i) minimize the adverse
economic impact of the disaster by promptly restoring economic activity and social services in the affected
areas, thereby supporting the Bank's assistance strategy of poverty reduction for Indonesia; (ii) introduce
measures to minimize the impact of possible future earthquakes; and (iii) improve the standard of
construction of the infrastructure. These objectives were maintained throughout project implementation.
Project Components
3.     To achieve these objectives the project financed: (a) reconstruction investments in (i) national
and kabupaten roads and bridges (31% of base costs); (ii) education and health facilities (39% of base
costs); and (iii) other facilities including redevelopment of markets in Maumere, and the New Wuring
fishing port (10% of base costs); and (b) technical assistance in the management of the overall
reconstruction program and in the development of measures to mitigate earthquakes, landslides and tidal
wave (tsunami) damage in the future, including technical assistance in spatial planning, training in
geology and seismology, and the procurement of equipment for seismological studies (20% of base
costs). The total project cost, including contingencies, was estimated at US$62.9 million equivalent, with
a foreign exchange component of 32%. The Bank loan of US$42.1 million would finance about 68% of
the total project cost, over a three-year period. At completion final costs were US$ 57.93 million of which
the Bank contributed US$ 39.58 million.



Page 2                                                   Indonesia: Flores Earthquake Reconstruction Project
Part l: Project Implementation Assessment                              Implementation Completion Report
4.      Changes in  Project Scope.   While maintaining the project objectives, the scope of
implementation arrangements and program contents were expanded to include: (i) changes in project
management to provide for provincial staff participation in overall project management; (ii) strengthening
of Kabupaten staff and their participation in local project execution effectiveness; (iii) introduction of
seismic resistant bamboo structures to demonstrate the use and suitability of locally available bamboo;
(iv) extension and expansion of community training programs; and (v) introduction of community based
disaster mitigation action plans within the urban re-development proposals for Maumere Town. Because
of the budgetary operation of the government, most contracts were directly undertaken at Kabupaten
level, and the management of project components were performed by the Kabupaten Project Managers
(PIMPRO) and not by Project Implementation Units (PlUs) as originally planned. Accordingly, the role of
RMT Project Office was redirected to focus on coordination, training, quality assurance, monitoring and
evaluation of project activities.
5.    Project Covenants. The critical conditions agreed at negotiation were: the preparation of General
Reconstruction Guidelines (GRGs) and area-specific reconstruction guidelines by July 31, 1993; their
submission for review and comment by a technical panel established by the Government in consultation
with the Bank; and finalization and implementation by September 30, 1993.
Evaluation of Objectives
6.     The project objectives were very important for the affected people, and the Bank's assistance
strategy of poverty alleviation. Flores is one of the poorest and most backward islands in the province of
Nusa Tenggara Timur (NTT).  The project components reflected NTT's Seven  Point Strategic
Development Program: which emphasizes: human resources, poverty eradication, agro-industry, science
& technology, spatial planning, transport and tourism.
7.     The design of the project objectives was conceptually clear. Nevertheless, achieving the right
balance between focussing on urgent reconstruction on one hand and long-term sustainability on the
other (seismic resistance and quality construction) was not always apparent to the participants in practice,
largely due to initial administrative arrangements with management based in Jakarta. This improved after
the mid-term review, when the project implementation arrangements were formally revised to include the
participation of provincial and local governments.
8.     The design of the project was in line with the Bank's Emergency Assistance Strategy (OD8.50
then effective)./. However, while relying on existing implementation channels, the project design did not
provide adequate scope for mobilizing local and provincial governments' participation fully. The original
project design overestimated the implementation capacity of the central government and relied on it for
speedy preparation and dissemination of the "General Reconstruction Guidelines", which it failed to do on
schedule. It also underestimated the generally poor quality of communications within Flores. These
factors contributed to the delayed mobilization of contractors and loan utilization, factors that necessitated
taking corrective measures during the mid-term review.
The OD8.50 called for: (i) early involvement of the Bank staff; (ii) prior working relation with the country and sector
agencies; (iii) strong govemment commitment to recovery, and access by the emergency coordination unit to the highest
levels of govemment; (iv) limited objectives and realistic time schedule; (v) rapid agreement on the strategy and scope of
the overall recovery program; (vi) conditionalities linked directly to the emergency, rather than to long-term macro-
economic policies; (vii) commitment to restoration of standard cost recovery practices; (viii) simple implementation
arrangements and full use of existing institutions, including sector agencies, NGOs, and community groups; (ix) use of
disaster resilient reconstruction design standards; and (x) inclusion of measures for preventing and mitigating the impact
of future disasters.



Indonesia: Flores Earthquake Reconstruction Project                                  Page 3
Implementation Completion Report                           Part 1: Project Implementation Assessment
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
9.     Overall Assessment. The project has substantially achieved its objectives, albeit after initial
delays in the repair works and in the late completion of the first year reconstruction works program.
Nevertheless, the project recovered momentum to realize most of the originally scheduled reconstruction
works, with some exceptions. The first year program quality was not of high standard which required
rectification. There was also extensive innovative work done in design and construction of school
buildings using bamboo. This work could provide an important contribution to building performance in
earthquake prone areas in Indonesia. The Project has also encouraged policy measures and behavioral
changes, which would reduce vulnerability to future earthquakes. In terms of poverty alleviation, over the
last six year period, the expenditure of close to US$125 million in Flores, financed by external assistance
funds from IBRD, ADB, AusAID and other donors and government counterpart funds, has made a visible
qualitative and quantitative improvement to the island's economy. Roads have improved and commerce
has increased. Schools and health facilities have improved. Per capita income has increased. More
goods are available in the markets. In the words of one senior planning official in local Government, "the
situation now is very much better than before the earthquake".
Physical Objectives
10.    Roads and Bridges. Table 5B Annex A summarizes the main physical achievements in road
and bridge reconstruction. All the badly damaged national provincial and kabupaten roads and bridges
have been reconstructed and traffic flows and trade networks now operate smoothly. A total of 279.6 km
of kabupaten roads, 50 km of national roads and 357 meters of bridges were reconstructed. This was
well in excess of the initial plan to re-construct 169 km of kabupaten roads, 55.5 km of national roads and
226 m of bridges. An evaluation study for the road works showed that the economic rate of return (EIRR)
estimates for the road links range between 15.3% and 41.8% with the exception of the Nebe Mudajebak
link which included the new two-span Nebe Bridge. The latter has an EIRR of 8.9%.
11.    Overall quality of the reconstructed roads and bridges is assessed as good. Concerted efforts
were made to improve the quality of road reconstruction. Structural designs incorporating seismic factors
were used. Stability analyses were undertaken and road alignments were adjusted optimally to mitigate
slope failures when rain increases embankment soil pore pressures. Seawall structures were used where
appropriate to provide added stability and to protect coastal roads from future affect by tidal waves
(tsunami). To reduce formation and pavement failures, Public Works code of practice was enforced.
Drainage and retaining walls were built to improved standards to avoid frequent failure. As in the case of
roads, quality assurance was also given special attention in bridge reconstruction.  Geo-technical
investigation of foundations preceded reconstruction to avoid approach and abutment failures. In two
cases, following investigation of sites, the bridge locations were relocated to sites with better founding
conditions.
12.    Schools. The impact of the rehabilitation and upgrading of schools on the learning environment
was significant. Structures were designed to ensure that in the event of future earthquake, failure would
not be catastrophic. The use of steel frame and plywood panel inserts has provided this assurance and
thus risks to pupils and teachers from future earthquake have been diminished. However, quality during
the first year (1993/94) of the reconstruction program was not high and a considerable effort was
necessary to improve the standard of construction.  Table 5C, summarizes the rehabilitation and
upgrading/reconstruction works and the schedule of implementation activities. After an initial lag in
implementation, all of 343 of the schools initially identified for repair, and/or reconstruction were
completed, most by the original closing date of December 31, 1996 and all by the actual loan closure. A
total of 160 schools were rehabilitated and 183 schools were upgraded/ reconstructed compared with the
originally planned 179 and 164 respectively. The increased number for reconstruction was because
more schools had been seriously damaged than initally assessed. The innovative use of bamboo and
steel for construction was developed late in the project, and was shown to cost 86% of steel and timber,
but further detailed feasibility studies are needed. One hundred and forty-seven "core units" consisting of



Page 4                                              Indonesia: Flores Earthquake Reconstruction Project
Part l: Project Implementation Assessment                        Implementation Completion Report
four classroom have been constructed using bamboo technology for non-governmental schools
(Table 5E) and the quality appears to be satisfactory.
13.    Health Centers. A total of 124 health centers were rebuilt to new and more effective standards
providing both improved service and structural safety. The total number of facilities included in the
revised plan for repair and rectification was 129. The provision of solar cells financed under the project
has enabled some of the remote centers to now store medicines and vaccines in refrigerators. In addition
housing for the medical and paramedical staff have attracted quality staff and thus reduced the travel time
for patients to centers where qualified staff are available. As in the case of the schools, the first year
(1993/94) was subject to many design and construction revisions.
14.    Hospitals. In addition to the health centers, the project financed the construction of large
hospitals at Ende and Maumere. The reconstruction at Ende was basically a restoration and replacement
of damaged buildings. Construction began in March 1993 and was completed by November 1995.
Maumere Hospital, however was on a new site and was designed to upgrade and replace the old hospital
operating in Maumere Town. At loan closing, hospital construction which had been considerably delayed
(July 1995 - November 1998) because of design changes, contractor performance, changes in contractor
project management, and poor workmanship, had been completed, and was partially operational. Some
equipment to be provided by Department of Health from outside the loan, or to be transferred from the old
Maumere hospital had not been installed.
15.    Other facilities. A new large Maumere Market Complex (Feb. 1996 to May 1997) has been
jointly financed with the active contribution of the local Sikka kabupaten government to replace the original
structure in Maumere.  The rent collected from the shops is assessed to cover maintenance and
operating costs. Sikka Kabupaten has also now a more versatile, useful and well fenced sport stadium.
The Natural Hazards Information Center, currently used by Cipta Karya, will be handed over to Natural
Disaster Committee of Sikka. The water supply to New Wuring to be operated by the City of Maumere
was extended and public hydrants installed on the system, and improved access and breakwater facilities
were provided at the New Wuring fishing port.
Quality Assurance
16.    Because of the low level of development of the contracting industry in Flores, it was decided to
advertise nationally for contractors.  However in many cases, the successful national contractors
subcontracted their work to local contractors. As a result, the quality of the buildings, especially schools
and health centers, suffered from poor workmanship in the first year. The second year program showed
significant improvement following close supervision of contractors. With respect to the bamboo
construction of schools quality appears good, and treatment of the bamboo cladding and the bamboo
structure prevents attack by insects. Maumere Hospital also suffered from poor workmanship. The
contractor's attempt, to address the quality problems by bringing in skilled workers from outside of Flores
suffered setbacks due to the opposition of local labor. The initial hospital layout as regards relative
positioning of intensive care unit, operating theater, radiology, surgical wards and emergency ICU internal
needed significant adjustment to improve serviceability. The ICR mission observed deteriorated condition
of some concrete floors built during the fist year of the project (Annex B, ICR Mission Report). However
throughout the project, a genuine attempt has been made to address the major quality issues identified at
appraisal and progressive improvement was been achieved throughout.
17.    Environmental Impact. All roads that the Bank funded in Flores were on existing rights of way
and no land acquisition was required. Most of the land through which the roads pass is uncultivated and
/or unoccupied. None of the road sections inspected present environmental problems that will not be
restored by natural process of re-growth within one or two years. Following an environmental impact
assessment for Maumere Hospital, an environmental management and environmental plan was prepared.
The hospital management has committed to follow this. Because of the risk of liquefaction of the sand at
the location of the old Wuring fishing village, it was initially proposed to abandon the old site and to
relocate people to the new development at New Wuring. However, despite the risks, it has not been



Indonesia: Flores Earthquake Reconstruction Project                                  Page 5
Implementation Completion Report                           Part 1: Project Implementafion Assessment
possible to persuade the people of the fishing village, to settle in New Wuring Village and many have
returned to live in the buildings at the original site.
Earthquake Disaster Prevention and Seismic Resistance Construction
18.    Training. Extensive training was provided to all segments of society through workshops and
formal training (Annex A, Table 5F). Programs were provided for community (2967 participants), skilled
and unskilled workers (250), government officials (1117), university staff (32), and practicing professionals
(1149). The Ministry of Public Works (MPW) engineers and administrators received training in both
disaster management and technical aspects of reconstruction after an earthquake. A product from these
courses was a manual for the MPW's role in disaster management. In addition 46 students attended
courses in earthquake and disaster management at the University of New South Wales in Australia.
19.    Skill Transfer in Seismic Resistant Construction. Skill transfer in seismic resistant technology
including bamboo technology has been achieved. Considerable transfer of technology involving both
intemational and national experts as well as government employees has taken place.
20.    Studies. Several spatial planning studies were carried out during the reconstruction period. The
Maumere City Plan was useful in designing the new market for Maumere. The Extended Area of
Maumere City, covering a development plan of Maumere City including a "Fishing Boat Anchorage at
Wuring Baru" was completed. The spatial Plan for Environs of Maumere Market and Maumere Hospital
synthesized the above two studies. Spatial Planning of Vulnerable Areas of Flores Island identified the
areas that would be exposed to serious loss or damage due earthquake and tidal wave. The study served
as a basis for approval of disaster management strategies for East Flores, Sikka, Ende and Ngada (see
further details in Table 7).
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
21.    Major Factors. The major factors which affected the quality and timely achievement of the
physical project objectives were: Government implementation arrangements with central Govemment
management remaining in Jakarta for a long period before transferring project control to Provincial
Management; Bank implementation arrangements (operational arrangements, OD8.50, frequency of Bank
supervision); contractors and consultants inadequate attention to quality; natural conditions (adverse
rough seas created by monsoon); and remoteness of Flores from the major manufacturing centers,
shortage of skilled and non-skilled workers; and the Indonesian financial crisis from early 1998 onwards.
Factors not Generally Subject to Government Control
22.    Bank Implementation Arrangements. The Bank implementation requirement that the project
reconstruction program should incorporate OD8.50 guidelines in the early stages was seen to be often in
conflict with need for immediate and local action. The OD8.50 guidelines took longer to establish and
implement. The OD requirements for "access to highest levels of government" resulted in an arrangement
involving a Reconstruction Management Team (RMT) in Jakarta at the central government level for
project implementation and quality assurance reporting to the Secretariat in the Ministry of Public Works
(MPW) in Jakarta, with a Project Manager in Flores. Implementation experience however quickly
indicated the need to strengthen the local government agency and its participation in the management
process. This was unfortunately not adopted until after the mid-term review. At appraisal, the Bank
correctly assessed the project risks and proposed "frequent Bank supervision in the first two years of the
three years period so that adjustments to the program can be made as needed to resolve promptly
problems causing delays" as mitigating measure. However, Bank's commitments for frequent missions to
Flores did not materialized, (Annex A: Table 13). Partly because the main issues that needed resolving
during the period were in Jakarta with MPW/RMT and whilst the presence of the Bank Team Leader in
Jakarta was useful, it diminished the frequency of site supervision visits.



Page 6                                              Indonesia: Flores Earthquake Reconstruction Project
Part l: Project Implementation Assessment                        Implementation Completion Report
23.    Remoteness and Local Conditions. The remoteness of Flores sites from the industrial centers
of Indonesia made supply of steel trusses difficult. In the early stage of the project, late 1993 and early
1994, Flores harbors were closed due to the rough seas created by monsoons. Also, high tides on the
north coast in Sikka and Ende possibly coupled with geological tilting from the earthquake damaged
several km of roads washing away pavement and base courses. This necessitated the subsequent
building of extensive 1.5 meter high protective sea walls using masonry and reinforced concrete for road
protection.
Factors Generally Subject to Government Control
24.    After successfully executing the first two of a three-stage program to cope with the disaster, the
Government lost momentum in the third stage, the reconstruction stage. The delay in distribution of the
General Reconstruction Guidelines to both the public and other donor agencies meant that initial
corrective design work failed to incorporate the required seismic resistant reconstruction. The delays in
recruiting staff to work in Flores resulted in shortage of staff during project implementation that contributed
to construction delays, and inadequate quality assurance. This also contributed to weak coordination
between the reconstruction agencies concerned. As many of these risks were identified at appraisal, the
government could have taken measures to mitigate these anticipated problems. The government could
have provided the right incentive to attract key staff for project implementation; the benefits of such
actions would have out weighed their costs.
Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency
25.    Although, the general low level of development of the contracting industry and lack of a pool of
skilled labor in Flores may be the real underlying causes, the weak management of some of the provincial
and local firms engaged in the project was a major contributory factor to the sub- standard quality,
especially in the first year of the program.  Inadequate details on drawings, insufficient contractor
resources, and in-experience and poor workmanship were evident. Inadequate structural bracing and
support for roof and ceilings to resist multi-dimensional earthquake force, the use of timber construction in
locations subject to moisture, insect attack and wet rot were examples of shortcomings in the first year.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
26.    Project sustainability. . The sustainability of the project is assessed as uncertain, mainly on
account of the macroeconomic situation of Indonesia. The sustainability of benefits from the major
physical achievements of the project; road infrastructure, schools, and health center facilities will depend
on the timely provision of funds for maintenance. Most importantly, the culture of consciousness of
earthquake disasters and preparedness, developed through the activities of the project, is likely to be
sustainable. School children and health staff drill twice a year. The knowledge base for seismic resistant
construction technology has been enhanced. The General Reconstruction Guidelines, the seismic zone
maps, the project supported training, the seismic resistant bamboo structures and the various related
technical studies are likely to have a long lasting impact not only in Flores but also in the rest of
earthquake-prone Indonesia.  These benefits could be easily sustained with grants to Indonesian
institutions for research in earth sciences, and the periodic publicizing of their findings.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
27.    Identification and preparation. Bank performance in project identification and preparation was
satisfactory.  The Bank's response to the government's three-staged reconstruction program was
innovative, swift and in line with Bank's OD8.50. The initial damage assessment mission comprising
three staff from the resident mission were in Maumere on December 19, one week after the earthquake.
Staff visited Flores again between January 25-29, 1993, to identify and appraise the project. The Bank's
main innovative contribution in the design of the project was its emphasis on sound seismic resistant
design and quality assurance in the reconstruction work. This led subsequently to experimentation with
bamboo technology for school construction. Much of this innovative approach may be attributed to the



Indonesia: Flores Earthquake Reconstruction Project                                  Page 7
Implementation Completion Report                           Part 1: Project Implementation Assessment
involvement the RSI Bank staff and the Task Manager as evidenced from project file. The Bank role was
even more significant because according to paragraph 2, of the decree of the MPW, the primary aim of
the project was to "reconstruct the structure and basic infrastructure destroyed by earthquake in Flores
using foreign aid (loan and grants) and local funds from APBN?/ or APBD&/". In this regard, the advisory
role of the RMT focused mainly on the reconstruction aspects of the project, and the Bank played an
active role in ensuring that quality assurance and seismic resistance were focal points throughout project
implementation.
28.    Appraisal and Implementation. The Bank performance at appraisal and implementation was
satisfactory. Initial identification was timely, and the Bank implementation adopting the Bank Emergency
Assistance Strategy (OD8.50) was effective. Assessment of potential risks facing project implementation
was correct but reliance on the Central Govemment, although designed to assure quality, proved to be
troublesome for both staffing and management in Jakarta and Flores island.
29.    Supervision. Bank performance during implementation was satisfactory. Supervision reporting
was adequate. Implementation problems were identified and assessed frankly. Full supervision missions
maintained a basic core staff for continuity and were heavily focused on quality assurance measures.
Because of the central Government management arrangement, the Bank's commitment to frequent
supervision to Flores did not materialize as the main issues which need resolving during this period were
in Jakarta with MPW/RMT. Although the Bank task manager was changed after the mid-term review, the
ongoing presence of the Bank's task manager in Jakarta was considered beneficial as it enabled
decisions to be made more expeditiously.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
30.    Preparation. Borrower performance during preparation was satisfactory. To cope with the
disaster, the government formulated a three-stage program. The first stage, rescue and relief operation,
directed by the national coordinating Board for Disaster Control (BAKORNAS), focused on the immediate
actions needed to help the people affected. The second stage, rehabilitation and recovery, was carried
out by the Ministry of Public Works and other line departments in BAKORNAS, UN relief agencies, NGOs,
and bilateral agencies. It focused on providing temporary accommodation and on specific rapidly
executed projects necessary to put vital infrastructure back into service.  The third stage,  the
reconstruction program, was supported and financed separately together with IBRD, ADB and AusAID.
31.    Implementation.  Overall, the borrower performance in implementafion was marginally
satisfactory. The momentum in project implementation did not continue into the third stage, four months
passed between Board approval, and Loan Effectiveness. Delays were experienced in the issuance of the
General Reconstruction Guidelines. While physical objectives were achieved or exceeded, insufficient
attention was given to quality assurance of works executed in the first year of project implementation.
Bank insistence on quality assurance required considerable reworking of design that delayed procurement
of construction materials. The borrower's management philosophy, with MPW/RMT based in Jakarta
delayed decisions to the field. Although it was intended to hand management back to local authorities,
because of the role of the local government in project implementation under the combined budgetary and
loan financing arrangement, it took longer than anticipated. As a result the problems were magnified by
having to continually refer to Jakarta for decisions. Implementation was designed to be under the broad
authority of BAPPENAS. The Deputy Chairman of Regional Development of BAPPENAS was made
responsible for overall project management coordination.
/ APBN-funding provided by central Govemment
9/ APBD-Funding provided by provincial Govemment



Page 8                                              Indonesia: Flores Earthquake Reconstruction Project
Part 1: Project Implementation Assessment                        Implementation Completion Report
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
32.    Overall, the outcome of the project is assessed as satisfactory. Despite initial delays and quality
problems, the project generated momentum to improve construction quality and most of the original
reconstruction program was completed within the original loan closing date. Economic activities and
service delivery have been restored. Significant technological transfer had taken place in seismic
resistant design and construction. Public awareness of disaster preparedness has deepened.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
33.    Future planned operation would focus on: (i) the sustainability of the benefits of physical assets;
(ii) codification of the knowledge base and expanding public awareness as part of disaster preparedness;
(iii) monitoring of the socio-economic benefits attained under the project; and (iv) Maumere Hospital. The
provision of adequate funds for timely maintenance purposes will be the prime factor in sustainability of
the assets. In this area, there is no lack of commitment on the part of the local level government. The
main issue will be availability of funds, given the present economic-political crisis in Indonesia. As
regards the knowledge base, the spark ignited by the project is likely to continue. In this regard Indonesia
has already one of the foremost authorities in seismology and has added a pool of professionals who can
focus on the issue, given that the whole of Indonesia is prone to earthquake. As regards to public
awareness, most school children and health center staff now undergo regular drills. With reference to the
socio-economic benefits of the project, the expenditure in Flores had significant impact on economic
activities. Indicators have already shown an increase in personal income, vehicle ownership, vehicle
traffic, school attendance, and health delivery services and these are continuing to be monitored by the
Statistical Office of the respective Kabupatens. Maumere Hospital, has an environmental management
plan and the hospital management has committed to follow it.
1. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
34.    Key Lessons Learned. Overall, the implementation experience has provided valuable lessons
for Bank emergency lending operations. These can be summarized as follows:
a) The policies set out in OD 8.50 for emergency projects need critical assessment in light of
local conditions in formulating program objectives, and developing implementation
arrangements. The balances between the 'emergency response" and the desire to develop
innovative mitigating measures for future emergencies, and the Government's central
management structure compared to a participatory management, which mobilizes local
participation, are issues that need addressing for future emergencies.
b) The General Reconstruction Guidelines for earthquake reconstruction should be a living
document, updated frequently to take into account development in applied earth science, and
should form a necessary part of disaster preparedness.
c) The use of bamboo for construction of seismic resistant structures is an important innovative
outcome of FERP. Preliminary studies have shown that construction combining bamboo with
steel can be implemented at 86% of the price of wood and steel construction. The economic
feasibility of the proposition is an area for further research.
d) The FERP implementation experience amply demonstrated that the state of development of
the contracting industry in Flores is quite low. In the interest of efficient and sustainable
development, the Bank may want to design an appropriate response for improving the
performance of the contracting industry in Indonesia, especially in remote provinces like
NTT.



Indonesia: Flores Earthquake Reconstruction Project                                        Page 9
Implementation Completion Report                                Part 1: Project Implementation Assessment
e) With the significant knowledge that has emerged from this and other Bank-financed
emergency projects, the Bank may wish to consolidate these experiences with those from
other similar projects, with the objective of mitigating the socio-economic impact of future
disasters, especially on the poor, and preferably with the participation of the private sector
(e.g. insurance companies).



Page 10                                                        Indonesia: Flores Earthquake Reconstruction Project
Part II: Statistical Tables                                                    Implementation Completion Report
INDONESIA
FLORES EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
(LOAN 3589-IND)
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives            Substanbal          Partial     Negligible      Not Applicable
Macroeconomic policies                        E               E               Dl
Sector policies                                               El             0                   El
Financial objectives                           O              O              O                   23
Institutonal development                      l                             El                 El
Physical objectives                           IL                             El                 El
Poverty reduction                                             El             El                 El
Gender issues                                                 l             E l
Other social objectives (Disaster                             El             E                   El
Preparedness)
Environmental objectives                                      El             El                  El
Public sector management                      EL                             El                 E
Private sector development                     O              E                                  El
Economic benefits                                             E                lE
B. Project Sustainability                       Likely                Unlikely              Uncertain
El                     El                      p
C. Bank Performance                          Highly Satisfactory         Satisfactory          Deficient
Identficabon                                        El                                           El
Preparabon assistance                               El                                           El
Appraisal                                           E                                            El
Supervision                                         El                                           El
D. Borrower Performance                      Highly Sabsfactory           Satisfactory         Deficient
Preparation                                         E                                             El 
Implementabon                                       El                                            E 
Covenant compliance                                 El                                            El
Operaton (if applicable)                            El                       E 
E. Assessment of Outcome        Highly Sabisfactory    Satsfactory       Unsatisfactory         Highly
Unsatisfactory
El                                    E                   El



Indonesia: Flores Earthquake Reconstruction Project                                              Page 11
Implementation Completion Report                                                    Part II: Statistical Tables
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK L.OANS/CREDITS
Credit Title                           Purpose                       Year of         Status
approval
Preceding Operations:
Highway Sector Loan        Highway sector loan in East Indonesia           1990       Now complete
Following Operations
None                       NIA
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in project cycle                Date planned                        Date actual/
Latest estimate
Identification/First Mission          December 19,1992                    December 19,1992
Appraisal                             January 25-29, 1993                 January 25-29, 1993
Negotiations                          March 11-13, 1993                    March 11-13, 1993
Board presentations                   April 13, 1993                      April 13, 1993
Signing                               May 26,1993                          May 26, 1993
Effectiveness                         June 30,1993                         July 7,1993
Mid-term Review                       N/A                                  September 4-8,1995
Project completion                    December 31, 1996
December31, 1997
November 30,1998                    November 30,1998
Loan closing                          April 30, 1996
April 30,1997
March 31, 1998                      March 31, 1998
TABLE 4: LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENT-CUMULATIVE ESTIMATE AND ACTUAL
(US$ million)
FY93      FY94      FY95       FY96      FY97       FY98      FY99
Appraisal estimate                6.00      19.00       37.3       42.1      42.1      42.1       42.1
Actual                             .        10.41      23.45      32.54     38.65     40.61      39.60
Actual as % of estimate           0.0%      54.8%     61.9%      77.3%      91.8%    96.5%      94.6%
Date of final disbursement                                   May 10, 1999



Page 12                                            Indonesia: Flores Earthquake Reconstruction Project
Part If: Statistical Tables                                     Implementation Completion Report
TABLE 5A: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
IMPLEMENTATION TIMETABLES
Contract        Starting date          Completion Date
Key implementation indices  Packages/                 Actual                  Actual
Locations    Planned   (commence-   Planned       (FHO)
ment)
Construction/Rehabilitation
A. Roads and Bridges             21/21     07/01/93    12/13/93*    06/30/95    01/30/98
B. Schools -Total              388/555
- Standard                              07/01/93    09/11/93     12/31/96    12/24/97
- Pilot Scheme                          07/01/95    12/18/95     12/31/96    03/04/96
C. Hospitals and Clinics       135/195     07/01/93                03/31/96
- Clinics                                           09/02/93                 03/30/95
- Maumere Hospital                                  07127/95                 11/30/98
D. Other facilities                5/5    07/01/93     02/26/96    03/31/96    03/09/98
E. Equipment (school, medical,    14/_                 10/30/93                 08/21/97
earth sdience)
Consultant Services
A. Reconstruction Services      18/        03/31/93    07/31/93     03/31/96    11/20/98
B. Project Management           10/_       07/01/93    06/02/93    03/31/96    11/30/98
Services
C. Earth Sciences, Spatial      16/_       07/01/93    11/15/93     12/31/95    11/17/97
Planning & Training
Source: Final Contract Details, FERP, Reports.
*Retroactive financing



Inconesa: ores .ar;lquae .econs:1L1.u.U I ,pfl;
Implementation Completion ReporL                                                                                               Part II: Statistical Tables
(Page 1 of 2)
TABLE 5B: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
ROAD AND BRIDGE PROGRAM ORIGINALLY PROPOSED & IMPLEMENTED
Road               Bridges
Description of Links      Length (km)          Length (m)             Cost           Construction Days  Mainte-    PHO        FHO
________                              ~~~~~~~~nance
Appraisal  Actual  Appraisal  Actual  Appraisal    Actual    Contract  Actual
FLOTIM
Ebak       - Raingkroko    K07       12.00     14.29       -       27.00    1,345.94    1,345.94   280        384     90      3/11/95      9/6/95
Mudajebak  - Kalo          K-        32.10       -         -         -      3,599.40       -         -        -        -         -
Waerrunu   - Lato          K08         -        8.00       -         -         -        974.22      360       360    180     11/21/97     3/12/96
Kawaliwu    - Moting       K03                 11.50       -         -         -       1,866.01     360       660     90      7131/97     1/30/98
Wulun      - Nobo I        K14                 21.50       -         -         -       3,182.15     158       768    180      3/31/97     1/30/98
Wulun      - Nobo II       K14                 13.30       -         -         -       2,206.37     210       403    180      5/90/97     9/30/97
Kawaliwu    -Waiwio        K03         -        8.00       -         -         -       1,348.47    210        540     90      3/31/97     1/30/98
SIKKA
Nebe       - Mudajebak I    K032     12.00      8.60       -       12.00    1,346.10    643.32      240       270     90      7/22/94     9/19/94
Nebe       - Mudajebak II   K032     12.40     16.80       -       23.40    1,390.20   2,806.01     420       858     90     11/30/96     2/28/97
Waiara     - Bts Flotim 1*    N017   12.00     12.00       -                4,830.00    1,621.79    780       780     90     11/30/96     2/28/97
Waiara     - Bts Flotim I  N017        -       18.00       -       72.00               8,262.22     420      1,197    90     11/27/97     2/27/96
Nebd       - Mudajebak I    K          -        1.20       -         -         -          -          -        -        -         -          -
Nebe Bridge                K           -        -          -       95.00
Mudajebak                  K               -               -       48.00
Bridge
Sta.5.70                                                 12.00       -
Bridge___________________________________________________



Page 14                                                                                                               Indonesia: Flores Earthquake Reconstruction Project
Part II: Statistical Tables                                                                                                         Implementation Completion Report
(Page 2 of 2)
TABLE 5B: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Road and Bridge Program Originally Proposed & Implemented
Road Length      Bridges Length (m)                        Construction Days   a
Description of Links                     (kmn)                                     cost                             Mainte-    PHO        FHO
Appraisal  Actual  Appraisal  Actual  Appraisal    Actual    Contract  Actual
ENDE
Puukungu              -Orakose            K 10     15.00       15.00      -         -     1,682.10     1,626.59     240      492     90       3/11/95    6/80/95
Puukungu              -Orakose            K 10                 10.00      -         -                  1,038.46      20      240     60      10/10/97    12/10/97
Orakose               -Kamubeka           K 11     18.00        -         -         -    2,018.52        -          -         -       -         -          -
Kamubeka              -Maukaro            K12       4.00        -         -         -       448.56       -          -         -       -         -          -
Maukaro               -Nabe               K13      13.00        -         -         -     1,457.82       -          -         -       -
Nabe                  -Ranokalo           K14      11.00        -         -         -     1,232.70       -          -         -       -         -          -
Nabe                  -Ranokalo           K14      11.00        -         -         -     1,232.70       -          -         -       -         -          -
Ranokalo              -Nabe-Maukaro       K           -        21.50           -              -       2,098.09      210      754     60      10/31/97    12/21/97
Maukaro               -Kaburea            K           -         1.00           -              -          97.59      -         -       -         -           -
Magapanda             -Maurole-Kotabaru    K          -        41.50           -              -       6,027.69      210      783    160      11/30/97    4/30/98
Dalam Kota Ende                                       -         3.20      -         -         -         522.14      180      180     60        5/8/95     5/8/96
Loworea Bridge I'                         K14         -         -      160.00                           350.14      180      480     90       2/42/95     5/5/95
Loworea Bridge II                         K14         -         -         -       60.00                 915.83      210      330     90      10/29/96    12/28/96
Ende                  -Detusuko           N07         .        15.00                                  2,268.34      190      190     90       5/10/95     3/9/96
River Bank Protection                                 -         -                                       454.73      180      180             11/13/96    12/9/96
Ende                  -Paga              N         31.50                                   6,510.00      -          -         -       .         -          -
Ndond                 -Maurole Bridge    K                      -       29.00                 -
Ende                  -Detusuko           N07                   5.00                     -          -          -              -       -         -          -
NGADA
Dadiwuwu              -Kaburea I          K08      14.00       15.00                       1,757.80    1,464.24     300      360    120       3/11/95    7/10/95
STA 29 Bridge                             K08         -         -       25.00     19.60
Dadiwuwu              -Kaburea II         K08      15.00       13.80      -         -      1,882.35    2,812.54     610      772     90       10/4/96    4/10/96
Raja Dombe                               K05          -         5.21      -         -         -          -          -         -       -         -          -
Tot. Kabupaten Rd                         K       169.50      229.60   226.00     357.00   19,394.35   31,800.55
Tot. National Road                        N        55.50       50.00      -         -     11,340.00   12,152.35
Original bridge abandoned



Indonesia: Flores Earthquake Reconstruction Project                                                                                                  l
Implementation Completion Report                                                                                                      Part II: Statistical Tables
TABLE 5C: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
SCHOOL CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM ORIGINALLY PROPOSED AND IMPLEMENTED
Fiscal       SDI         SDN          SDLB       Total SD       SMPH         SMAN        STMN         SMEA          Grand Total
Kabupaten         Fsa            D
Year      RH    UP   RH    UP   RH    UP   RH    UP    RH    UP   RH    UP    RH   UP   RH    UP    RH    UP    Ail
FLOTIM            Appraisal      NA   NA    NA    NA    NA   NA    13         22      4     1     0       0    0      0     0     0      17    23    40
Actual         34    19      3     1      1     0    38     20      1     1     0       0    0      0     0     0      39    21    60
Implementation      1993/94      17     4      3     1      1     -   21       5      1     1      -                                     22     6    28
Schedule:           1994/95      15    15                              15     15                                                         15    15    30
1995/96       2                                    2                                                                 2      0     2
SIKKA             Appraisal      NA   NA    NA    NA    NA   NA    64         63      4     3     0       2    0      1     0     0      68    69   137
Actual         62    59      0     8      1     0    63     67      3     5     0       2    0      1     0     0      66    75   141
Implementation      1993/94      17    14            5      1          18     19      3     4             2           1                  21    26    47
Schedule:           1994/95      42    45            3                 42     48            1                                            42    49    91
1995/96       3                                    3       0                                                         3      0     3
ENDE              Appraisal      NA   NA    NA    NA   NA   NA    53          70      6     3     1       2    0      2     0     0      60    69   129
Actual         29    66      0     3      0     1    29     70      1     5     0       2    0      0     0     1      30    78   108
Implementation      1993/94      16    14 .          2                 16     16      1     1             2                       1      17    20    37
Schedule:           1994/95      11    52            1            1    11     54            4                                            11    58    69
1995/96       2                                    2       0                                                         2      0     2
NGADA             Appraisal      NA   NA    NA    NA    NA   NA    33          3      1                                                  34     3    37
Actual         22      6     3     1      0     0    25      7                                                         25     9    34
Implementation      1993/94              1           1                  0      2            1                                             0     3      3
Schedule:           1994/95      22      5     3                       25      5      -    1                                             25     6    31
1995/96
Total Appraisal                 NA   NA    NA    NA    NA   NA   163    150    15           7     1      4    0      3      0     0    179   164   343
Total Actual                    147   150      6    13      2    1155    164         5    13      0      4    0      1      0     1    160   183  _43
Symbols:      RH   = Rehabilitation                                                            SDLB   = Special Primary Schools (Government)
UP  = Upgrading/Reconstruction                                                   SDN   = Primary Schools Funded by Normal Budget Process
(Govemment)
SDK   = Catholic Prmary Schools (Community Schools)                              SMEA   = Technical High School (Government)
MIS  = Islamic Primary School (Community Schools)                               SMAN   = Senior High School (Govemment)
SDI  = Primary Schools Funded by Presidential Decree Process (Govemment)        SMPN   = Junior High School (Government)
SDS   = Private Primary Schools (Community)                                      STMN   = Senior High School (Government)



Page 16                                                                                                             Indonesia: Flores Earthquake Reconstruction Project
Part WI: Statistical Tables                                                                                                        Implementation Completion Report
TABLE 5D: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
SUMMARY OF HEALTH FACILITIES IMPLEMENTED
Kabupaten          Year           PUSKES TT          PUSTU            PKSKES               TOTAL             RMH DOKER          RMH-PMD           RUMKIT
RH    RC/UP    RH    RC/UP    RH    RC/UP    RH    RC/UP    All   RH    RC/UP    RH    RC/UP    RH    RC/UP
Flotim          1993/94                 2        4            -            -       4        2       6      6        -        5        -
1994/95         -       -        -       12       -       4        0       16       16     -        2        -       2        -        -
Sub-total       0        2       4       12       0        4       4        18      22      6       2        5        2        0       0
Technical Annex    0        2       0       13       0        3        0       18       18     0        0       0        0        0       0
Sikka          1993/94         1        -        -      19       2        8        3       27      30      -        3        -       5        -        -
1994/95             -            -       16       -        1       0       17       17     -        3                4
1995/96                                  -        0                0        0       0      -        -                 -
1996/97                                           0                0        0       0      -
1996/98                 -        -       -        0        -       0        0       0      -        -                 -
Sub-total       1        0       0       35       2        9       3       44       47      0       6        0        9        0       1
Technical Annex    1        1       0       38        0       10       1       49      50      0        0       0        0        0        1
Ende           1993/94         -                2       10       2        5       4        15      19      -        -       -        -        2       12
1994/95        1        -        7      21        -       3        8       24       32     -        3        -       3        -        4
Sub-total       1        0       9       31       2        8       12       39      51      0       3        0        3        2       16
Technical Annex    1        3       8       29       0        8        9       40      49      0        0       0        0        4       14
Ngada           1993194         -       -        -       -        -        3       0        3       3       -       -        -        -       -        -
1994/95        2        -        3       2        -       5        5        7       12     -        3        -       3        -        -
Sub-total       2        0       3        2       0        8       5        10      15      0       3        0        3        0       0
Technical Annex    0        1       0        0        0       6        0       7        7      0        0       0        0        0        0
Total         4        2       16      80        4       29      24      111      135    6        14       5        17       2       17
Technical Annex    2        7       8       80        0       27      10      114      124    0         0       0        0        4       15
Symbols:   Puskesmas  =   Heath Center                         RH      =   Rehabilitation                    Rumkit       =   Hospitals
Puskes TT   =   Heath Centers with beds            RC      =   Reconstruction                   Rmh Pmd    =   Paramedic house
Pustu       =   Sub Health Centers                                                               Rmh Docter  =   Doctor house



Indonesia: Flores Earthquake Reconstruction Project                                                   Page 17
Implementaton Completion Report                                                         Part II: Statistical Tables
TABLE 5E: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
PILOT PROJECT AND COMMUNITY SCHOOL CONSTRUCTION
Classrooms-Financed under
No. of Schools
Kabupaten             classrooms        Category 1 (b)         Category 4              PEMDA
Frame         Built    Material    Built     Material    Built     Material
Flores Timur
Inibially Agreed                45           34      Bamboo        11      Bamboo       135      Bamboo
Subsequently Agreed             45           37      Bamboo        11      Bamboo       132      Bamboo
Actual Built                    45           37      Bamboo        11      Bamboo        92      Bamboo
Implementation Schedule
1995/96                          5
1996/97                         40                                 5
1996/98                                      37                    6                     92
Sikka
Initally Agreed                 51           38      Bamboo        13      Bamboo       153      Bamboo
Subsequently Agreed             51           38      Bamboo        13      Bamboo       153      Bamboo
Actual Built                     51          38      Bamboo        13      Bamboo       153      Bamboo
Implementation Schedule
1995/96                          6
1996/97                         45                                 6
1996/98                                      38                    7                    153
Ende
Inibally Agreed                  33          23      Bamboo        10      Bamboo        99      Bamboo
Subsequently Agreed             33           27      Bamboo        10      Bamboo        95      Bamboo
Actual Built                     33          27      Bamboo        10      Bamboo        95       Triplex
Implementation Schedule                                                                           (Plywood)
1995/96                          5
1996/97                         28                                 5
1996/98                                      27                    5                     95
Ngada
Initially Agreed                 18          14      Bamboo        4       Bamboo        54      Bamboo
Subsequently Agreed              18          14      Bamboo        4       Bamboo        54      Bamboo
Actual Built                     18          14      Bamboo        4       Bamboo        54      Bamboo
Implementation Schedule
1995/96                          2
1996/97                          16                                2                     54
1996/98                                      14                    2
Summary
Initially Agreed               147          109                    38                   441
Subsequently Agreed             147          116                   38                   434
Actual Built                    147          116                   38                   394
Implementation Schedule
1995/96                         18
1996/97                        129                                 18
1996/98                                     116                   20                    394
Total Program               147          116                   38                    394
Note:  1. Category 1 (b)   =  Civil Works for Educabon Facilities (50% IBRD, 50% GOI)
2. Category 4      =  Technical Assistance (100% IBRD)
3. PEMDA           =  Local Govemment Authority (Funded either from the School Board or PEMDA itself)



Page 18                                                                                                            Indonesia: Flores Earthquake Reconstruction Project
Part II: Statistical Tables                                                                                                       Implementation Completion Report
TABLE 5F: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
SUMMARY OF TRAINING PROGRAM
Number of Trainees
Training Courses                    Community   Craftsmen   Technician          Total         Government    University         Total
Non Professional    Officials        Staff     Professionals
No.                                                                                                                                Contractors &
Consultants
(1)                              (2)          (3)          (4)        (5)=(2)+(3)+(4)      (6)            (7)         (8)=(6)+(7)
1   Hazard Mitigation Study and Implementation Training:                                12               12               38                            38
Structural and Geo-technical Aspects & Construction
Quality Improvement Project, ITB (11/8/93 - 4/15194)
2   Technical Assistance Team for Construction of Buildings:  2,967                                    2,967             579                           579
Pt. Indra Karya (1994)
3   Second Stage Flores Earthquake Mitigation Study &
Training: PT. Bina Karya (1995)
Level 1*                                                              38           55               93               45                            45
Level 3*                                                              95                            95               32                            32
Training in Tokyo (1995)                                                                                               5                            5
Seminar in Ujung Pandang (May 21-22, 1996)                                                                           63                            63
Seminar Pandang (June 11-12,1996)                                                                                    64                            64
Seminar in Surbaya (July 8-9, 1996)                                                                                  68                            68
4    Spatial Planning for Flores Island, ITB & PT. Bina Karya              15           21               36               20           20               40
(5/19/97-11/17/97); and Earthquake Hazard Mitigation,
ITB & PT. Bina Karya (5/19/97-11/17/97)
5   The Office of Institutional Links Overseas Training in                                                                46                            46
Earthquake Engineering and Disaster Management,
University of New South Wales, Sydney, Australia (8120/96
-2/15197 & 3115/97, 3125/97, 9125/97)
7    Planning, Design, Testing and Prototyping of Bamboo                                14               14               13           12               25
School Buildings. Using Steel frame and Bamboo Cladding
-Maumere, Flotim, Sikka, Ende, Ngada & Manggarai (8/8-
10/96)
Totai                                   2,967         148          102            3,217            1,117           32            1,149
Grand Total (Col. 5+8)                                                              4,366
* Level 1: Pemda Tingkat I NTT: Provincial Development Agency Provincial Officer, Project Managers, from Universities, Contractors and Consultants
* Level 1: Pemda Tingkat Training Officers, Workshop leaders



Indonesia: Flores Earthquake Reconstruction Project                                                Page 19
Implementation Completion Report                                                     Part II: Statistical Tables
TABLE 6A: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATIONS
NUMBER OF PEOPLE UNDER POVERTY LINE
1993                                         2003
Kabupaten    L   Rupiah           Total       Percentage       Rupiah          Total       Percentage
Flores Timur        15,767         53,712         20.02
Sikka               15,612         65,305          25.49
Ende                13,664         15,095          6.72
Ngada               20,724         10,983          5.31
TABLE 6B: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
EXPECTED TRAFFIC GROWTH
Link No     Length        Traffic (1993)     Traffic (2003)*
(km)       Car      Motor      Car      Motor
cycle              cycle
Flo-Tim
A          Wutun - Nobo 1+11               K-014(1)     34.36        100        95
A          Kawaliwu - Moting              K-03(1)       11.35        115       105
A          Kawaliwu - Waiwio              K-03(2)        7.47        100       125
A          Wairunu - Lato                 K-08           7.95        100       120
O          Ebak-Riangkroko                K-07          14.29        115       100
o          Mudajebak-Kalo                 K-09            N/A
Sikka
A          Waiara- Btas Flo-Tim 1+11       N-017         30.0         84        97
A          Ende-Detusoko-Naumere          N-07           20.0        110       100
o         Nebe-Mudajebak l+l              K-032123/      26.8        125       145
Ende
A          Maurole-Katabaru-Magepanda      K-032        41.59        115        95
O?         Rankeolo-Nabe-Kaburea          K-013/014    22.09         100       105
Puukungu-Orakose II             K-010 (2)    10.00        145       100
Puukungu-Orakose I             K-010 (1)     15.00        125       100
Ngada
O        Dadiwuwu-Kaburea II             K-08           13.8        115       110
o        Dadiwuwu -Kaburea I             K-08           15.0        105       110
To be compared with estimated traffic for post-construction period Model Used: Kabupaten Model for Project Benefit
Monitoring Evaluation (PBME).
Traffic:    Normal traffic growth for Car (4WI) = 15%;
Motor Cycle (MC) = 12%;
Bicycle (B/C) = 5%;
Generated traffic factor used 4WI = 0.2; and for MC = 0.2.



Page 20                                                   Indonesia: Flores Earthquake Reconstruction Project
Part Il: Statistical Tables                                               Implementation Completion Report
Table 6C: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Budget for Operations, Maintenance & Development
Kabupaten Sikka *(Rp. million)
1997/98                  1998/99                  1999/2000
Description             Units     Expenditure    Units     Expenditure     Units     Expenditure
Roads
a) Routine Maintenance                                           18,171.6                    1,01.7
b) Periodic Maintenance                                            3,74.2                   1,584.0
c) Betterment                                                     8,723.7                    1,31.0
Schools
a) Operational               144         1,592.4                                              113.4
b) Rehabilitation (total)     2           120.0          4          280.0          3          420.0
c) Rehabilitation (major)     6           120.0         16          480.0
d) Rehabilitation (minor)    55          1,066.3        -         1,834.4         24          720.0
e) Furniture                 32            87.5         47          164.5         46          168.3
f) Watersupply                64          176.4        134          470.5         97          380.0
g) Development                5            30.0          8          383.9          7          490.0
Health Facilities
a) Rehabilitation                           -           10          114.5          9          213.7
b) Maintenance                              -          140          100.0        142          154.1
c) Development                            672.4         -                          5          351.0
* Sample kabupaten.



Indonesia: Flores Earthquake Reconstruction Project                                               Page 21
Implementation Completion Report                                                    Part II: Statistical Tables
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Study                Purpose as defined at       Status              Impact of Study
appraisallredefined
A. Technical assistance
Category
1. Short-term Hazard Mitigation   Identfy the basis for  Completed       Served as a basis for second stage
Study and Implementation    guidelines and manuals for                study. Produced modules for
Training Structural and Geo-    hazard mitigation                     training the community through
technical aspects of                                                  'training the trainers" strategy in
construction Study.                                                   mitigating the effect of earthquake
2. Spatial Planning for Flores  Spatial planning        Completed         Served to update the Law no.
Earthquake Reconstructon                                              24/1992, with respect to Flores
Project.
3. Studies of f Liquefaction,  The Study of geo-technical  Completed     Served as a basis for further study.
Landslides and Geo-technical   aspects of the land slides,            The finding of the study was widely
Aspects of the Affected Areas  liquefaction, volcanic                 disseminated to professionals
of Flores Earthquake        activity and to produce                   through workshops, seminars.
Reconstruction .            micro zone maps
identifying dangerous areas
4. Maumere Urban Development  Prepare a regional plan of   Completed     Identfied areas subject to
Programs.                   Maumere City                              liquefaction
5. Second stage Flores        Incorporate disaster      Completed         Updated the earlier study with
Earthquake Mitigation Study    management strategies                  respect to Law No. 24/1992 that
and training.               and also provide relevant                 promulgates crucial aspects about
training to staff of the four             spatial planning, taking
affected districts                        development in research since the
earlier one done in 1994.
Associate training was provided.
6. Development Plan for        Long-term development    Completed         Provide development plan for the
Extended Area of the City of    plan                                  extended Area of Maumere City
Maumere, including the                                                including a Fishing Boat Anchorage
Fishing Boat Anchorage area                                           at Wuring Baru"
of Wuring Baru.
7. Earthquake hazard Mitigation   Training modules      Completed        Training courses using modules I &
Production of training                                                11 provided.
Modules.
8. Spatial Planning of Vulnerable  Training modules     Completed         Prepared
Areas of Flores.
B. Construction Service
Category
1. Detail Design Review and    Quality assurance and    Completed        Served as a basis for
Construction Supervision, &  Seismic resistance design                reconstruction of civil works
Project Benefit Monitoring.  & EIRR estimation
2. Environmental Impact Study &   Environmental impact  Completed         Provided an environmental plan
Environmental Monitoring Plan  assessment                             and monitoring plan
of Maumere Hospital.
3. Project Benefit Monitoring &  Benefit Monitoring     Completed        A report on the effectiveness of the
Evaluation for Schools &                                              building works was prepared
Health Services.
4. Spatial Planning for Maumere   Development plan of the  Completed      Beside serving as a basis for the
Hospital & Maumere Market.   area                                     newly constructed market and
Hospital, it provided a spatial plan
for up to 2007 AD



Page 22                                                   Indonesia: Flores Earthquake Reconstruction Project
Part II: Statistical Tables                                              Implementation Completion Report
TABLE BA: PROJECT COSTS (US$ MILLION)
Appraisal                             Actual
Category
Local      Foreign      Total       Local      Foreign       Total
Roads and Bridges                11.0          5.1        16.1        12.0          5.6        17.6
Schools                           7.6          2.8        10.4        12.3          4.5        16.8
Hospital and Clinics              5.5          2.0         7.5         5.6          1.1         6.7
Other facilities                  3.6          1.4         5.0         1.1          0.4         1.5
Equipment and Fumiture            1.3          1.7         3.0         1.8          2.2         4.0
Consultant Services               4.5          5.5        10.0         7.0          4.7        11.7
Base Cost              33.5         18.6        52.1
Physical Contingencies            3.9          2.2         6.1         0            0           0
Price Contingencies               3.7          1.1         4.8         0            0           0
Total                  41.1        21.8         62.9        39.8        18.5         58.3
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING (US$ MILLION)
Appraisal                             Actual
Category
Local      Foreign      Total       Local       Foreign      Total
Govemment                     20.8          0.0        20.8        18.7         0.0         18.7
IBRD                          20.3        21.8         42.1        21.1        18.5         39.6
Total                    41.1        21.8        62.9        39.8         18.5        58.3



Implementation Completion Report                                                                                           Part Il: Statistical Tables
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
Length (km)       Estimate.    Actual      Traffic (1993)          Benefits
Kabupaten          Link/Section          Link No.   Appraisal    Actual    Base Cost    Cost       Car    Motor    NPV   NPV/Km  IRR (%)
('00O1Rp)   ('OOO1p)            cycle
1993       1995
Flo-Tim
A           Wutun - Nobo 1+11           K-014(1)     N/A       34.36                 5,388,522    100       95       770.0   22.4     15.6
A           Kawaliwu - Moting           K-03(1)      N/A       11.35                 1,866,015    115      105      485.8   42.8      18.5
A           Kawaliwu - Waiwio           K-03(2)      N/A        7.47                 1,348,468    100      125       275.5   36.9     17.1
A           Wairunu - Lato              K-08         N/A        7.95                   974,229    100       120      288.9   36.3     19.3
O           Ebak-Riangkroko             K-07          12       14.29     1,324,306.0  1,345,941   115      100    1,059.6    7.2      30.2
O           Mudajebak-Kalo              K-09        32.1         N/A    3,541,124.0
Sikka
A           Waiara- Btas Flo-Tim 1+11   N-017        N/A       30.00                 4,732,891     84       97       910.5   30.3     16.8
A           Ende-Detusoko-Naumere       N-07         N/A       20.00                 4,387,884    110       100      556.6   27.8     15.3
o           Nebe-Mudajebak 1+11         K-032/23/    24.4      26.80     2,691,998.0  6,480,908   125      145      -735.0  -27.5      8.9
Ende
A           Maurole-Katabaru-Magepanda   K-032                 41.59                 6,027,694    115       95    1,234.0   29.7      17.1
O?          Rankeolo-Nabe-Kaburea       K-013/014              22.09                 2,195,675    100      105    1,131.3   51.2      24.3
Puukungu-Orakose II         K-010 (2)              10.00                 1,038,461    145      100    1,404.6  140.5      41.8
Puukungu-Orakose I          K-010 (1)              15.00                 1,626,592    125      100    1,156.1   77.1      28.6
Ngada
.0          Dadiwuwu -Kaburea II        K-08          14        13.80                2,812,545     115      110      475.4   34.5     16.3
0           Dadiwuwu -Kaburea I         K-08          15        15.00                1,464,241    105       110    1,660.5  110.7     37.8
269.70               41,690,065
Source:     Bina Marga- Average daily Traffic (ADT) data (prior project); survey for post construction to establish growth rate.
Model Used: Kabupaten Model for Project Benefit and monitoring & Evaluation (PBME) Composition Annual Traffic Growth Rates (i 993-1996)-of 15% for 4 WI; 12% for MC;
and 5% B/C. Economic life of project assumed is 10-year life.



Page 24                                                                  Indonesia: Flores Earthquake Reconstruction Project
Part II: Statistical Tables                                                             Implementation Completion Report
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Section.         Present    Original    Revised                   Description                     Comments
Covenant          Status    Fulfillment  fulfillment                   Of
Type                        Date         Date                     Covenant
Section 4.01a         C                                  Borrower shall maintain all appropriate
expenditure records.
Section 4.01 (b) (i)  C                                  Borrower shall have all accounts audited by  Complied with
independent auditors.                      through BPKP
Section 4.01 (b) (ii)  C                                 Borrower shall provide the Bank with such other   Complied with
information about accounts and records as
requested by the Bank.
Section 4.01 (c) (i & ii)   C                            Borrower shall keep records and accounts of all   Complied with
statements of expenditure (SOE) and retain the
same for one year after Bank has received the
Audit Report for the last fiscal year in which
withdrawal has been made.
Schedule 5.2 (a)      C                                  Borrower shall maintain adequate qualified staff   Complied with
Schedule 5.3 (a)      CD         July 31,                The borrower shall, by July 31, 1993, prepare  Complied with but
1993                   general and area specific guidelines for    delayed
reconstruction, under terms of references
satisfactory to the Bank.
Schedule 5.3 (b)      CD         September               The borrower shall thereafter, submit for review    Complied with but
30, 1993               and comments, the said guidelines to a technical  delayed
panel established by the borrower in consultation
with the bank.
Schedule 5.3 (c)      CD         September               The borrower shall, by September 30, 1993,  Complied with but
30, 1993               finalize and implement the same in light of the  delayed
comments and suggestions of the said technical
panel.
Schedule 5.4          NC         Aug.31,                 The Borrower shall finalize the selection of all  Due to changing
1993                   items and facilities for repair, by August 31,  conditions this was
1993.                                       not followed.
Schedule 5.5          C                                 The Borrower shall implement the project in a  Complied With
manner satisfactory to the Bank.
Schedule 5.6          C                                  The Borrower shall carry out training in earth  Complied With
sciences (Schedule 2.b.2) in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank.
Schedule 5.7          NA                                 In areas affected by Part A.3 of schedule 2, the    NA
borrower shall prepare a relocation plan for any
inhabitants in the affected areas.
Schedule 6.2                                             Payments out of special A/C to be in accordance  Complied With
with Schedule 6.
Schedule 6.3 (a)                                         The Borrower will request the Bank for deposits   Complied With
to be made to the Special A/C within the limit of
total allocation.
Schedule 6.3 (b)                                        The Borrower will fumish to the Bank all     Complied With
evidence to show that the Payments out of the
Special A/C were made by the Borrower out of
the Special A/C.
Action Taken:                            Covenant type
C   = Covenant complied with              1  = Account/Audits
CD  = Complied with after delay           2  = Financial performance/revenue generation from beneficiaries
CP  = Complied with partially             3  = flow and utilization of project funds
NC  = Not complied with                   4  = Counterpart funding
5  = Management aspects of project or executing agency
6  = Environmental covenants
7  = Involuntary resettlement
8  = Indigenous people
9  = Monitoring, review, and reporting
10  = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
11  = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12  = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatory/institutional action
13  = other



Indonesia: Flores Earthquake Reconstruction Project                                                Page 25
Implementation Completion Report                                                      Part Il: Statistical Tables
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
Statement number and title                 Description and comment on lack of compliance
There were no significant lack of compliance with operation Directives
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Actual
Stage of project cycle                    Staff week                          US$ 000
Through appraisal                               28.7                                54.8
Appraisal- Board effectiveness                   8.4                                22.5
Supervision                                     71.4                               109.8
Completion                                      8.8                                15.6
Total                                     116.5                               202.7



Page 26                                                                                                       Indonesia: Flores Earthquake Reconstruction Project
Part Il: Statistical Tables                                                                                                   Implementation Completion Report
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Stage of project    Month/    Number of   SW        SpeclalIzed                                        Performance Rating
cycle           Year       persons      In      staff skills                                             Types of problems
field    represented     IP    D
Identification/     December
preparation         19, 1992
Appraisal           January         9         NA    TE (2),AR, CE,
1993                            GE, EH, HE,
ENV, OP
Board approval to   March
effectiveness       1993
Supervision I       August          4         2.0   UP, EH, HE GE     2      2    Management problem. RMT mobilized but without sufficient budget for vehicles. Project
1993                                                         implementation, including procurement, seriously behind schedule on all project
components. The situation was especially critical with regard to the quality of the
reconstruction and repair of education and health facilities People began retuming to live
in Wuring (which is unsafe due to the risk of liquefaction). Adherence to seismic
engineering principles appeared weak due to delays in ratification, publication, and
dissemination of the general Reconstruction Guideline.
Community angry about delays and not well informed about the purpose and role of the
Bank in the project. Little awareness in the community or in the officials of disaster
mitigation. Moreover, timeliness, in important criteria for effectiveness of emergency
reconstruction projects.
Supervision II      August          4         0.4   UP, HE, PR, GE           3    Management weakness in RMT, Flores in effective construction quality control and
1994                                                         establishment of mitigation measures. Main symptoms are variations in quality control and
hence seismic resistance of buildings. Adequate consultant service made available to
resolve the symptom.
Delays (i) in distributing construction guidelines to the population; (ii) in planning for the
redevelopment of Maumere; (iii) in establishing the Natural Hazards Information Center;
and in dealing with the future of the Wuring fishing settlement. Disbursement lagging by
28% from appraisal estimates; Local participation by NGOs, the Bapati of the Kabupaten
and the Gov. of NTT in project implementation need formal framework
Supervision IlIl    February/       3         3.0   UP, Scouller,    NR    NR   The special implementation arrangements took longer to set up and establish than
March                           Gonzales                      estimated.
The difficulty in recruiting staff to work in Flores resulted in staffing shortages in the RTM
1995                                                         in Flores resulted in staffing shortages in the RMY for almost nine months; bureaucratic
"red tape often caused inflexible inexplicable delays in elementary procedures within the
first six months (it took between Sept. and December 1995 to make copies of pages from
a manual on simple earthquake resistant construction techniques for distribution to the
community due to lack of budget item for 'printing"
Design and construction involved considerable "re-working" of designs to ensure
adequate safety that delayed procurement by up to six in some cases.
Delays in duplication of General Reconstruction Guidelines for over six months;
Panic and complexity of projects;
Delayed mobilization of contractors and site inspection visits during the first year due to
poor physical communications within Flores.



Indonesia: Fiores Earthquake Reconstruction Project                                                                                                    I 'age 27
Implementation Completion Report                                                                                                         Part !!: Statistica! Tables
Stage of project    Month/    Number of   SW        Specialized                                        Performance Rating
cycle           Year       persons     in       staff skills          DO                                 Types of problems
field    represented     IP    DTyeofpblm
Supervision IV Mid-   September     4               UP, GE, D/A,      S      S    Expected transfer of responsibilities from RMT to Bappeda as agreed in previous mission
term Review Mission  1995                           HE                            has not taken place.
Completed roads inspected were satisfactory. But, routine maintenance in some instances
neglected,
Additional river bank protection of Lowerea Bridge rebuilt due to abutments and
foundation failures; Wolofeo River against river scour; and Nanga Panda River (additional
cost Rp.970 million). Rectification of design shortcomings to be undertaken for schools
built in 1993/94 FY.
Design of Maumere Hospital, particularly the proximity of functions need careful,
adequacy of waste water treatment and quality of concrete aggregates and timber being
used on site. Review. Task to be completed by March 31, 1996. Problem with the quality
of construction of the Maumere Hospital. Progress in quality of construction in school
buildings observed. The local government had a turn around with respect to the declared
liquefacton areas which were planned to be developed into a park areas but were being
planned for urban development area as against to the original plan of encouraging people
to transfer to safe areas.
Supervision V       July 1996       3         3.8    E (2), ENV       S      S
Portfolio Status    July 1997                                         S      S    Need extension of closing date to December 31, 1997 to complete the civil works. While
Update                                                                            emphasis has been given to quality assurance in the construction phases, there is still
some effort required in carrying out the work properiy. The provision of budget in
accordance with all the procedures takes considerable time and effort, particularly when
budget revision is needed to support additional works.
Supervision VI      August          2         2.0   OP/TR, PS         S      S    Concem that, in view of the approaching of the closing date, the Mauimere Hospital, and
1997                                                          community schools are not ready for use.
3.0                     S      S    The loan was extended from May 31, to Nov.1998. the main reasons for the extension are
(i) continuing effects of the current financial crisis, which increased the prices of imported
materials substantially; (ii) delays in construction of eater supply for Baru as part of the
resettlement area, Maumere Market Drainage Works and Maumere Hospital. Without
completion of these " social infrastructure" components, the project objectives would not
be fully achieved.
Supervision VIII    July 1997                       HE, Pr, Env.                  Problems with Maumere Hospital
AR    =   Architect                             GE    =   GeologisVSeismic Engineer
CE    =   Civil Engineer                        OP=  =   Operation Officer
EH    =   Education/Health Specialist           TE    =   Transportation Economist
ENV   =   Environmental Specialist              UP    =   Urban planner
HE    =   Highway Engineer                      D/A   =   Disbursement/Audits



Indonesia: Flores Earthquake Reconstruction Project                 Page 28
Annex A: Borrowers Contribution to ICR               Implementation Completion Report
INDONESIA
FLORES EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
(LOAN 3589-IND)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ANNEX A: BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR



Indonesia: Flores Earthquake Reconstruction Project                                        Page 29
Implementation Completion Report                                  Annex A: Borrower's Contribution to ICR
TABLE OF CONTrENTS
Page No.
PART 1: BACKGROUND .........................................................................................31
A. Natural Phenomena ...................................... 31
B. Damage ...................................... 31
Infrastructure ...................................... 31
Human Impact ...................................... 31
C. Government Action ...................................... 31
Phase 1 and 2 ...................................... 31
Phase 3 ...................................... 31
Govemment Roles ...................................... 31
Aim of the Government ...................................... 32
D. Action by the World Bank ..........................................                      32
Loan .......................................... 32
E. Scope of Work .......................................... 32
PART 2: DESIGN OF THE PROJECT ....................................... 32
F. Objectives .......................................... 32
G. General Approach to Achieving the Objectives .......................................... 32
Reconstruction/Rehabilitation .......................................... 32
Mitigation .......................................... 32
Alternative Routes .......................................... 32
Hazard Studies .......................................... 33
Spatial Planning .......................................... 33
Building Codes .......................................... 33
Quality Assurance (QA) Practices .......................................... 33
Community Awareness .......................................... 33
Training .......................................... 33
Focus on Alternative Construction Materials .......................................... 33
Prediction .......................................... 33
Sustainability .......................................... 33
Community Welfare .......................................... 33
Economic Development .......................................... 34
H. Assessment of the Design of the Project .......................................... 34
PART 3: IMPLEMENTATION ....................................... 34
I.  Project Organization .......................................... 34
J. Consultancy Services .......................................... 34
Initial Phase (Management) .......................................... 34
Initial Phase (Construction) .......................................... 34
Study-Type Consultancies .......................................... 34
Summary of Consultancy Contracts .......................................... 35
K. Project Management by the Government .......................................... 35
Maumere Hospital ................                                              ..... 35
Government PMs .......................................... 35
Occupation Difficulties .......................................... 35
L. Construction Services .......................................... 35
Direct Appointments .......................................... 35
Other Contracts .......................................... 35
Intemational Competitive Bids (ICB) .......................................... 35
Implementation Schedules .......................................... 35



Page 30                                      Indonesia: Flores Earthquake Reconstruction Project
Annex A: Borrowers Contribution to ICR                  Implementabon Completion Report
TABLE OF CONTENTS (CONT'D)
Page No.
M. Implementation Delays ............................. 35
Consultancy Services ............................. 35
Funding Provision ............................. 36
Field Work ............................. 36
Weather ............................. 36
Financial Crisis ............................. 36
Handover-Operation ............................. 36
N. Construction Quality ............................. 36
Schools ............................. 36
Bamboo Schools ............................. 36
Health Facilities .............................. 37
Hospitals ............................. 37
Other Facilities ............................. 37
Roads and Bridges ............................. 37
Quality Assurance (QA) ............................. 37
0. Disbursements ............................. 37
P. Covenants ............................. 37
PART 4: PROJECT BENEFITS .......................... 37
Road ............................. 37
Schools ............................. 37
Health Facilities ............................. 37
Training and Skills Transfer ............................. 37
Socio-Economic ............................. 39
PART 5: BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE .......................... 38
Procurement ............................. 38
Quality Assurance ............................. 38
Institutional Development ............................. 38
Project Organization ............................. 38
PART 6: BANK'S PERFORMANCE ...........................                     38
Bank Supervision ............................. 38
Change ............................. 38
Financial Crisis ............................. 38
Overall ............................. 38
PART 7: OPERATIONAL PHASE ...........................                      39
Sustainability ............................. 39
PART 8: KEY LESSONS LEARNED ...........................                    39
COMMENTS ON BANK'S DRAFT ICR ...........................                   40



Indonesia: Flores Earthquake Reconstruction Project                                 Page 31
Implementabon Completion Report                              Annex A: Borrower's Contributon to ICR
FLORES EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT (FERP)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT, APRIL 1999
GOVERNMENT CONTRIBUTION
PART 1: BACKGROUND
A. Natural Phenomena
1.    The project was designed to counter the disastrous effects of the major earthquake and tidal wave
which struck the island of Flores in the Province of East Nusa Tenggara (eastern Indonesia) on December
12, 999.
2.     Measured at 7.5 on the Richter Scale, the earthquake was estimated to have a return period of
about 50 years. The tidal wave height was between 3 and 5.2 meters, depending on the coast line and
penetrated up to 300 m inland. Many areas were subjected to liquefaction: roads subsided so as to become
impassable, bridge abutments sank and rotated, buildings dropped several meters.
B. Damage
3.    Infrastructure. Although scattered throughout the Kabupatens of East Flores, Sikka, Ende and
Ngada, the damage to infrastructure was mainly in the towns of Maumere and Ende. Hospitals in Maumere
and Ende were seriously damaged. Some 25.000 houses, 600 schools and 135 health centers were
destroyed or severely damaged. Irrigation networks and weirs were seriously damaged. Nine water
distribution networks were damaged. Other infrastructure associated with airports and sea ports were
damaged, affecting food supplies. Telecommunications were damaged. The total damage was estimated at
over US$250 million.
4.     Human Impact. Losses of human lives, mostly in the areas affected by the tidal wave and the
liquefaction amounted to 1951 souls. Diseases associated with lack of shelter and sanitation, such as
malaria, respiratory and digestive tracks diseases were prevalent.
C. Government Action
5.     Phases I and 2. By the end of December 1992 the Govemment, with the help of the United
Nations and other helpful agencies, had taken many emergency measures such as providing food and
temporary shelter and some health services. By the end of March 1993 vital infrastructure such as roads,
some wooden housing and schools were made functional.
6.     Phase 3. For the long-term restoration of infrastructure the Govemment sought and accepted
assistance in various sectors from three agencies as follows.
a) The World Bank, for restoring the functions of roads and bridges, schools, health facilities
including hospitals, and community facilities.
b) The Asian Development Bank (ADB) for roads and bridges and facilities associated with Water
Resources such as irrigation schemes and river bank protection.
c) AusAID, the International Assistance Agency of the Australian Govemment, for restoring water
supply and sanitation systems affected by the earthquake.
7.     Government Roles. As the Ministry of Public Works (MPW) is normally responsible for the
oversight of the facilities mentioned in the preceding paragraph, the MPW under the overall coordination of
BAPPENAS took the lead in the reconstruction and restoration work communications, electricity supply,
airports, port facilities for ships and fishing boats were within the responsibilities of the Ministries of



Page 32                                             Indonesia: Flores Earthquake Reconstruction Project
Annex A: Borrowers Contribution to ICR                           Implementation Completion Report
Communications, Agriculture, Mines and Energy, and Posts Telegraphs and Tourism. The restoration of
services in the last-mentioned sectors was carried out under separate funding.
8.     Aim of the Government. In addition to restoring functions of the infrastructure, the Govemment
wished that reconstruction be done to contemporary standards in a manner that will mitigate losses in
any future earthquake.
D. Action by the World Bank
9.     Loan. After two site visits the World Bank proposed a project loan of US$42,100,000, sufficient to
cover about 45% of all extemal financing required. Negotiations for the loan were held in Jakarta from 11-13
March 1993, the loan was signed on 26 May 1993 and became effective on 7 July 1993. The final Loan
Closing Date was 30 November 1998 and only US$39,377,593 was utilized by the Account Closing Date of
31 March 1999.
E. Scope of Work
10.    Details of the categories and scope of the loan can be seen in Annex I that also shows
subsequent changes to the category allocations. The locations of the civil works carried out using the loan
funds are shown in Annex 2. The physical scope of the completed project is shown in Annex 3. A full
description and analysis of the project has been provided in the Govemment's Project Completion Report
(PCR) from which most of the Annexes in this ICR have been taken.
PART 2: DESIGN OF THE PROJECT
F.. Objectives
11.    The objectives of the Bank's involvement as agreed with the Govemment, were:-
a) The minimization of adverse economic impact of the disaster by restoring economic activity
and social services in the affected area through providing technical assistance and
reconstruction resources over a period of about 3 years for:
i) essential road infra- structure for national and kabupaten roads
ii) education facilities
iii) health facilities
iv) other community facilities
b) The introduction of measures to lessen the impact of future earthquakes including:
i) hazard mitigation
ii) land use controls
iii) improvement of building codes and their enforcement
G. General Approach to Achieving The Objectives
12.   In addressing the objectives the Bank and the Government applied the following methodology:
a) Reconstruction/Rehabilitation. In actually reconstructing and providing new buildings, roads
and bridges the project achieved the most obvious objective.
b) Mitigation. This was addressed in both planning and implementation phases. Some typical
examples were:
i) Alternative Routes. Some road links such as Puukungu-Orakose were upgraded to
provide altemative access between the north coast and the south coast e.g. Ende and
Maumere.



Indonesia: Flores Earthquake Reconstruction Project                                  Page 33
Implementation Completion Report                              Annex A: Borrower's Contribution to ICR
ii) Hazard Studies. These studies focused on the geotechnical aspects of the earthworks
and foundations for civil works and were useful in developing spatial plans, the General
Earthquake Reconstruction Guidelines (GRG) and in planning for the management of
future earthquake disasters.
iii) Spatial Planning. Through two studies, the areas with minimal risk to earthquake
damage were identified so that the type of development would be controlled. These
zonings are used in the building approval process.
iv) Building Codes. Through the publication of the GRG guidelines and very widespread
training of all levels in the community, the project can be expected to contribute to
improving the overall standard of building or civil works in a manner, which will minimize
risk of earthquake damage. These codes are used in the processing of building
approvals.
v) Quality Assurance (QA) Practices. While the project gave QA a high profile, the QA
aspects of the implementation proved quite difficult to achieve. The ADB had funded a
Chief Design Engineer (CDE) and also required the establishment of a Quality Assurance
Panel (QAP) which together with the QA engineer funded by the World Bank, was
intended to provide a significant advance in QA practices. However, contractor
procurement procedures were not implemented in accordance with the QA, contract
completion times were unrealistic. The Quality Control aspect was the main success of
the QA plan. For reasons of administrative difficulty in getting access to calculations and
drawings, the CDE's tasks were handicapped Similarly the QAP did not fulfill its intended
role as it approved designs post-facto instead of pre-construction.
vi) Community Awareness. Through training of all levels of the community from school
children to University Teachers, Government Officials and professional architects and
engineers, people have become aware of the ways to mitigate against damage and injury
from future earthquakes. This awareness will need to be maintained through refresher
campaigns and continual publicity, a facility for which was provided by the Bank's funding
of a building in Maumere to house all relevant information. New-comers and developers
are routinely informed of the mitigation measures.
c) Training. A summary of the training effort is shown in Annex 4 Training in mitigation
techniques was given high profile throughout the project, some examples were:
i) Community training, in domestic construction and safety procedures
ii) Building tradesmen and professionals, in construction techniques
iii) Government officials, planning, construction and management practices
iv) Disaster management, for Government Officials
d) Focus On Alternative Construction Materials. In order to demonstrate the possibilities for
improving bamboo construction technology, which is more resistant than masonry to
earthquake damage, exhibition houses were built in each of the 4 Kabupaten. Using a
penetration technique bamboo was treated against insect attack. Full bamboo and combination
of bamboo and steel construction was successfully trilled for schools.
e) Prediction. In order to provide the means for early warning of similar disasters such as
volcanic eruptions, 3 volcano observation stations were constructed and equipped with seismic
instruments. As well, other sophisticated seismic instruments for earthquake measurement
were provided to the Department of Mines in Banding.
f)  Sustainability. Promises and demonstrated allocations for O&M were raised, particularly for
roads, even though the amount of funding may not have been as much as desired. Some of
the O&M budgets are shown in Annex 5.



Page 34                                             Indonesia: Flores Earthquake Reconstruction Project
Annex A: Borrower's Contribution to ICR                          Implementation Completion Report
g) Community Welfare. One of the implied aims of the project was to improve the living
conditions of the communities on Flores. The inclusion of community schools into the
reconstruction program made a big impact towards achieving this aim. Apart from the obvious
benefits of the restored infrastructure less major benefits were the solar-cell powered lighting
and refrigerated medicine boxes for remote health centers, new equipment for the new
Maumere Hospital and a piped water supply for the resettled population of New Wuring.
h) Economic Development. While not a direct objective, economic development was a natural
effect of the spending of over US$100 million equivalent during the effective 5 years period of
the project. The construction of a large new market to replace the old Maumere Market that
was damaged by the earthquake, will contribute to the economy.
H. Assessment of the Design of the Project
13.    From the foregoing it can be seen that the objectives of the project were achievable and beneficial.
However, the project implementation period exceeded the original design by nearly 100%, due partly to
increased scope. Nevertheless, the overall design can be said to be successful.
PART 3: IMPLEMENTATION
I. Project Organization
14.    This project involved all the Directorate-Generals of the MPW and other ministries, especially the
Ministry of Health (MOH) and the Ministry of Education and Culture. The Ministry of Mines and Energy also
played a role. Hence a Core Management Team (TMI) was established in Jakarta to provide overall co-
ordination role with all Government agencies and the donor/lending agencies. This proved to be a very
necessary function and worked satisfactorily. In order to coordinate all the works on Flores a
Reconstruction Management Team (RMT) was established. In the first two years the RMT functioned
through the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) system, (Annex 6) with authority which was gradually passed
to the regional governments. For the last 4 years of the project in a "decentralized" mode the RMT
functioned as an advisory body with a high degree of expertise, supporting and advising individual Project
Managers (PM) who reported to the regional governments. This system is shown in Annex 7.
J. Consultancy Services
15.   Initial Phase (Management). These services were by direct appointment. A Program Adviser
(International) was appointed in June 1993 to assist the project development by establishing
communication and monitoring systems and preparing Terms of Reference. In July 1993, an International
Quality Assurance Engineer was appointed and this appointment was followed by the appointment of an
International Chief Construction Engineer and a team of national consultants to assist the RMT, in August
1993. These services were extended beyond the original Bank intention of 5 months, because of delays in
appointing their replacements, which had to be done through the competitive bidding process.
16.   Initial Phase (Construction). These contracts were by direct appointment. In order to provide the
site supervision for the construction works that began August/September 1993, Supervision Consultants
who had been working in Flores at the time of the Earthquake were appointed to supervise road
reconstruction, schools, and health facilities.
17.    Study-Type Consultancies. Early in the implementation phase contracts were placed by direct
appointment for the study of the geotechnical features, the characteristic performance of structures during
earthquake and for the identification of planning, design and construction of earthquake resistant structures.
These studies were extended into a second phase, which included disseminating the new or most important
techniques.



Indonesia: Flores Earthquake Reconstruction Project                                 Page 35
Implementation Completion Report                             Annex A: Borrowers Contribution to ICR
18.    Summary of Consultancy Contracts. Normal Bank procedures were applied to other
consultancies. A time-bound bar chart showing the utilization of all Consultancy services is at Annex 8.
K. Project Management by the Government
19.    By the beginning of 1995 each sub-project was in charge of a Local Government Project Manager
(PM). On the whole, the PM concept worked satisfactorily and was preferred to the PIU system.
20.    Maumere Hospital. This was the largest and most complicated sub-project of the whole FERP and
was further complicated by the funding/budgeting process and the management of the sub-project.
a) Government PMs. Initially MPW  provided the Project Manager and MOH arranged the
budget. Then the MOH official managing the budget withdrew and it was nearly 9 months
before a replacement was appointed. During this time no contract payments were made and
this undoubtedly contributed to construction delays. Subsequently it was resolved that the PM
(MOH) would be responsible for the Rp. portion of the contract (35%) and the PM (MPW)
would be responsible for arranging the loan-funded portion of the budget (65%). The PM
(MOH) approved all payments taking into account the technical advice of the PM (MPW). This
unavoidable dual control exacerbated the difficulties in arranging the funding for addendum's
to the contract.
b) Occupation Difficulties. When the physical works for the hospital had reached over 98%, a
new problem arose when a senior tradesman involved with the final fitfing out works,
dissatisfied with his payments occupied the medical supervision wards and refused to hand
over the keys to the buildings. The problem was resolved in March 1999. The hospital was
handed over to the Bupati Sikka in October 1998.
L. Construction Services
21.    Direct Appointments. As quick progress was necessary to restore some normality to life in Flores,
direct appointments to contractors already working in Flores were made for the rehabilitation and
reconstruction of schools.
22.    Other Contracts. The Local Competitive Bid (LCB) process was applied to the vast majority of
works contracts and although contracts took up to 4 rnonths to finalize could be said to have been
successful.
23.   International Competitive Bids (ICB). The ICB procedure was only used on one contract, namely,
Maumere Hospital. Initially, there was difficulty in obtaining a No Objection Letter from the Bank because
the Government-preferred tender from a national company was the second lowest, while the lowest was a
Joint Venture between a Korean contractor and a national contractor. Eventually the contract was awarded
to the Korean-Indonesian consortium. However, the Korean party was never present and most probably
only allowed its name to be used. Hence there was little evidence of the expected superior management
approach for which Korean construction firms are noted. Contractual difficulties and changes of the
Contractor's Superintendent in the early phases, caused many delays.
24.   Implementation Schedules. For Roads, Schoos, Health Facilities and other Facilities the timings
of the contracts are shown in Annex 9.
M. Implementation Delays
25.    All components were subject to delays.
a) Consultancy Services. Although the initial 5 months direct appointments were intended to
make services available as soon as possible after the Loan negotiation, consultants did not
commence for at least 3 months later. While the original intention was for the extensions of



Page 36                                              Indonesia: Flores Earthquake Reconstruction Project
Annex A: Borrower's Contribution to ICR                           Implementation Completion Report
these appointments to be tendered, it was not possible to finalize the tendering process within
the 5 months and also provide services for the restorative works which had already begun.
Hence, the direct appointments were extended by up to 4 months.
b) Funding Provision. The lack of available Rp. budget to support payments to road contractors
during the 1994195 period and again during 1995/96 and 1996197 for the Maumere Hospital
had a clear delaying impact on physical progress. During 1997/98 delays in provision of
Central govemment funding arrangements for the Wuring Water Supply contributed to
implementation delays, causing the civil works to be curtailed into a Phase I for which funds
were available and a Phase 2 for which funds were only available in the following financial
year.
c) Field Work. A major cause of delay was a shortage of labor suitably skilled for the
construction effort in a remote location. This applied to road works that were also affected by
contractors' capability to maintain cash flow to support the operation of heavy road-making
equipment. The most difficult problem was in finding sufficient workers for the Maumere
Hospital project, which exacerbated the management problems. As there were insufficient
resources on Flores, the contractor brought in workers from Java, only to find them rejected by
the local workers so that construction progress was ultimately determined by the availability of
Flores workers. Slowness in road and bridge work was caused by the necessity to use hand
tools for excavation of rock and demolition of broken concrete foundations; explosives were
prohibited.
d) Weather. Even though the weather patterns on Flores are well known the timing of certain
activities such as the transport of steel frames from Java for the school building reconstruction
were unavoidably coincident with the annual period of high seas which frequently close ports in
the NTT. This contributed to a construction delay of several weeks during 1994.
e) Financial Crisis. With the onset of a financial crisis in August 1997 the works then outstanding
were affected because of the uncertain and extremely high price of steel, cement and other
construction materials, which in turn produced a material shortage. This crisis was the grounds
for extending the Loan Closing Date from 31 December 1997 to 31 May 1998 and again from
31 May to 30 November 1998.
f)  Handover-Operation. Although many parts of the Maumere Hospital were ready for use in
May 1998, a delay in the provision of funding by MOH for the cost of moving equipment from
the old Maumere Hospital to the new one prevented the use of new facilities such as
Radiography, Polyclinic, Pharmacy. The New Maumere Market was unused for 18 months
while the property - management aspects were being resolved by the Bupati. By the final Loan
Closing Date the Market was operating.
N. Construction Quality
26.   In the first and second years of the project the quality of construction was well below expectations.
A contributing factor would have been the urgency to do so much in so little time and the need to improvise
by using local green timber. The work supervision teams also needed to adjust to increased quality control
concepts. More specifically some of the examples of good and bad construction were:
a) Schools. The first year's Program was the most affected by poor quality construction.
Columns were not aligned, roof lines were non-linear, bolted joints of structural steel members
were out of alignment, nuts were missing from foundation bolts. Steps were uneven. Building
rubbish and remains of earthquake damage were left on site. Timber window frames were ill-
fitting and warped. Paint work was too thin. Concrete floors were too thin and cracked.
Concrete footings crumbled. In succeeding years the steel works improved, the overall
appearance of the buildings was well aligned. Concrete was stronger. Ceilings were fastened
better. Rigidity between timber panels and steel frames was greatly improved.
b) Bamboo Schools. The observed extent of insect attack during the early stage of construction
and after the treatment of the bamboo raised concerns about the effectiveness of the
Boucheric pressure treatment. Subsequently, through spraying, the insect attacks reduced.



Indonesia: Flores Earthquake Reconstruction Project                                 Page 37
Implementation Completion Report                             Annex A: Borrower's Contribution to ICR
The full bamboo schools have been built with the structural columns buried in concrete, a
concept that could be expected to encourage damp rot of the bamboo. After the classroom
door design was modified, for the steel and bamboo schools, the overall result for bamboo
technology was successful.
c) Health Facilities. As with the schools, the later batches of buildings were of much better
quality. Ringbeam construction around the floor needed close supervision.
d) Hospitals. The Ende hospital that was only partly reconstructed experienced some poor
quality construction in regard to reinforcement steel and ring beams, at the ceiling level. Even
though the Maumere Hospital experienced so many other contractual difficulties, the general
consensus of opinion rated its construction as satisfactory.
e) Other Facilities. The new wall for the Maumere stadium was of excellent quality. Even though
there were some initial design problems with the New Maumere Market (the column base
plates had to be redesigned to provide for 4 holding down bolts instead of 2) the final
appearance of the building was pleasing.
f) Roads and Bridges. Missing bolts from steel truss splices and missing nuts from holding
down bolts, were some of the bridge defects that were eventually corrected. However, a
generally poor quality of flush bituminous seals on the roads will contribute to higher O&M.
27.    Quality Assurance (QA). In reviewing the QA Annex 10 summarizes the assessments for the QA
outcomes for Buildings, Roads and Bridges.
0. Disbursements
28.    At times during the project there were unexplained delays in processing the withdrawal applications
to the Bank. Towards the end of the project and after the Closing Date, final payment data was very difficult
to obtain due to staff being assigned to new projects. The overall disbursement performance is shown in
Annex 11 and final details are in Annex 12. The final costs were Rp.144,639,072,215 of which the Bank
funded Rp.98,995,464,934. (US$.39,377,593)
P. Covenants
29.    While the covenants followed the usual pattern for IBRD loans, there were 4 specifically for the
FERP, which dealt with the GRG, training in earthscience, and QA. All covenants were complied with
eventually as can be seen in Annex 13. The QA aspects were given increasingly successful attention as the
project progressed.
PART 4: PROJECT BENEFITS
30.    Roads. The speed and safety of travel have been improved. Public transport has increased. The
number of registered motor vehicles has increased.
31.    Schools. The leaming atmosphere has been improved, risks from future earthquake have been
reduced. Full Bamboo schools costs 41 % of the costs of steel and timber school buildings and steel frame
and bamboo clad school buildings cost 86% of the steel and timber building.
32.    Health Facilities. Two major hospitals have greatly improved facilities. Health Centers in the
villages provide better service. The provision of housing for medical and paramedical staff at remote
locafions reduces the cost of travel of pafients to larger centers and also leads to more effective
management of the remote center and less overload in the bigger centers.
33.    Training and Skills Transfer. A very wide target group in the whole community has been exposed
to earthquake mitigation practices and technology National and Intemational experts and broadened their
understanding of project management and earthquake engineering. Following the Disaster Management
Training, some participants contributed to the initial MPW Disaster Management Plan.



Page 38                                             Indonesia: Flores Earthquake Reconstruction Project
Annex A: Borrowers Contribution to ICR                           Implementation Completion Report
34.    Socio-Economic. In the words of a senior members of staff of the BAPPEDA, Sikka 'The socio-
economic at the end of the FERP is greatly different and better than the pre-earthquake condition.
PART 5: BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
35.    As can be seen from the foregoing the Government eventually accomplished its aims, although it
could have been done more efficiently. It certainly improved through the project period.
36.    Procurement. Largely because of many actors in the decision process this phase mostly takes a
longer-than-expected time. The arrangement of the funding sources to support sub-components is an
ongoing difficulty. Government misunderstanding of LCB/ICB constraints resulted in the exclusion of 2 links
from the project.
37.    Quality Assurance. Delays in appointing consultants and contractors increased the potential for
circumventing the original QA plan. Further familiarization difficulties between consultants assigned to the
FERP contributed to difficulty in meeting the target date for the production of the GRG which were only
made available well into the second year. Difficulties of communication between consultants affected the
availability of designs for checking by the CDE. Acceptable quality was eventually achieved through
modifications in the field.
38.   Institutional Development. The adoption of the decentralized organization will be of continuing
benefit to the Government as it has been a means of developing responsibility among the government
engineers through on-the-job training from national and international expertise.
39.    Project Organization. The organization for the FERP was a new concept and with the
commitment of the Central Government, the Provincial Government, and the Regional Govemments, the
organization operated satisfactorily.
PART 6: BANK'S PERFORMANCE
40.    Bank Supervision. The Bank Missions were a most effective means of encouraging the many
personnel engaged on the FERP. Meetings in Kupang with the BAPPEDA encouraged the higher level
managers in each of the project sectors. Likewise on Flores the sub-project staff were encouraged both in
technical and management matters. However, as can be seen from Annex 14 the missions could have
been more frequent.
41.    Change. The Bank's role in assisting the development of the decentralized organization as shown
in Annex 7, was beneficial for the Govemment institutional development strategy. Due recognition must
also be given to the Bank's support for the Bamboo school program which leads to more economical
classroom construction costs, a benefit of great interest to both the community and government education
agencies.
42.    Financial Crisis. The Bank's understanding of the difficulties caused by the financial crisis and the
subsequent two loan period extensions to cope with the difficulty was greatly appreciated.
43.    Overall. Throughout the long project the Bank's performance is rated highly. The Bank was
sensitive to the need for adjusting the scope of works as field experience showed additional earthquake
damage or as subsequent events showed some items to be unachievable e.g. the Fishing Boat Harbour at
New Wuring. The cooperation between the Government and the Bank in preparing the Aide-Memoires
of the Supervision Mission was excellent. Procurement approvals were responsive and the Bank's staff was
most helpful in advising the FERP staff on administrative procedure.



Indonesia: Flores Earthquake Reconstruction Project                                 Page 39
Implementation Completion Report                             Annex A: Borrower's Contributon to ICR
PART 7: OPERATIONAL PHASE
44.    Sustainability. The sustainability of the project will be dependent upon:
a) Continued awareness of hazard mitigation, this should be coordinated through the Province
but must be implemented in each Kabupaten.
b) Extension of the technical knowledge gained form the FERP to other parts of Indonesia (even
to the production of locality plans showing earthquake forces for different return periods).
c) Continuing budgets to maintain the standards of the buildings, roads and bridges.
d) Monitoring of socio-economic benefits to the project area such as:
i) Personal Incomes
ii) Vehicle Populations
iii) Traffic Counts
iv) School Attendance
v) Health Facility Usage
vi) Performance of Maumere Market
e) The most sensitive 'new' development, the Maumere Hospital is implementing an environment
monitoring and management plan.
PART 8: KEY LESSONS LEARNED
45.    From the Govemment's viewpoint the important lessons to be leamed are:
a) Procurement processes must be in accordance with the lending agency's policies and must be
expected.
b) The principle of contract variations, such as for extensions to cope with changed site
conditions, should be made more acceptable and readily approved.
c) The emphasis placed on earthquake-safe construction must be continued, especially through
the use of the training modules prepared by the ITB package, updating the GRG and through
the expanding use of the Earthquake Information Center in Maumere.
d) Regional Governments must provide more funding for O&M of the restored infrastructure.
e) Bamboo is an acceptable structural construction material and can be combined with steel
frame construction for advantages in cost and safety.
t) More attention needs to be given to the techniques of bituminous flush seals.
g) Foreign consultants can be used sparingly and effectively with a large force of national
consultants.



Page 40                                             Indonesia: Flores Earthquake Reconstruction Project
Annex A: Borrower's Contribution to ICR                          Implementation Completion Report
COMMENTS ON BANK'S DRAFT ICR
A. Evaluation Summary
The comments in the Evaluation Summary are fully supported. Section xiii most apt. We endorse
the concems about adequate funding for 0 & M. However, as we are aware of the priority now being given
to 0 & M, by BAPPENAS, we are optimistic that 0 & M will be increased.
We are pleased to note that the Bank agrees with our proposed indicators for monitoring the
sustainability of the project and we would be pleased to know whether the Bank could support a monitoring
effort say at 6 monthly intervals over say 5 years as part of another project loan in NTT.
Our detailed comments against a paragraph are:
ix.  We agree with the intent of this paragraph but would suggest the following   substitution in
mid paragraph:
'The Flores Island already had a shortage of skilled personnel delays and difficulties in
recruiting exacerbated this during the implementation phase"
B. Detailed Draft ICR
As with the Summary we agree with the details. Some special comments against respective Draft
ICR paragraph numbers follow:
8.  We agree with the view that capabilities of govemment and the contracting industry were
over-estimated. Even though the scope of work was significantly increased, there was an
underlying prolongation of the implementation time due to the insurmountable slowness of
budget approvals, contract administration and contractor activity.
8.  The General Reconstruction Guidelines are proving very useful.
25. It was difficult to get govemment staff to go to Flores and we believe that this is partly due to
our pay system that is very difficult to change.
30. We share the Bank's concems that there could have been move frequent Bank Missions.
C. Annexes to ICR
Page 17: Table 5. In the Column PEMDA-material and the Row Ende-Actual the material should
be Triplex (Plywood) and not Bamboo.
Page 32: Annex B: Supplementary Table 1: Although data is available there are no amounts
stated for any of the Columns for Row 1D - Other facilities and there is one blank
column.



Implementation Completion Report                                                                                             Annex B: Supplementary
ANNEX B: SUPPLEMENTARY
TABLE 1: REALLOCATION OF LOAN 3589-IND
Thousands of US Dollars
No.             Category             Original     Revised I    Revised II   Revised IlIl   Revised IV    Revised V    Revised VI   Disbursed
1.a      Roads & Bridges              10,500       10,500        10,500       10,500       11,835        12,580       11,435       11,363.0
1.b      Schools                       5,200        7,200         9,000        9,000        9,105         8,560        8,435        8,374.1
1.c      Health Facilities            49,000        4,900         5,400        5,400        5,520         5,320        5,030       4,967.2
1.d      Other Facilities              3,300        3,300         1,600        2,000        1,080         1,080        1,080         854.6
2.       Reconstruction services      37,000        3,700         4,700        4,100        4,300         4,300        3,965        3,871.9
3.       Equipment and Fumiture        2,000        2,500         3,300        2,900        2,725         2,725        2,725        2,719.2
4.       Consultant Services and        5,400       5,400         5,700        6,900        7,535         7,535        7,500        7,432.5
Training
5.       Unallocated                    7,100       4,600         1,900        1,300            0             0            0           0
6.       Canceled                        -            -             -            -            -             -         1,465.3       2,518.9
L   Total             42,100       42,100        42,100       42,100       42,100                     42,100        42,100
Total Cost                                                               39,581.1
Revision l: Approved by IBRD on 24 August 1994
Revision II: Approved by IBRD on 4 August 1995
Revision lfl: Approved by IBRD on 10 April 1996
Revision IV: Approved by IBRD on 4 Nov. 1996
Revision V: Approved by IBRD on 20 June 1997
Revision IV: Approved by IBRD 19 June 1998



Page 42                                                                                               Indonesia: Flores Earthquake Reconstruction Project
Part II: Statistical Tables                                                                                          Implementation Completion Report
ANNEX B: SUPPLEMENTARY
TABLE 2: REVISED HEALTH INFRASTRUCTURE PLAN
No.    Area    Unit Cost             No.    Area   Unit Cost              Equip-              Estimated
Facility     Kabupaten    No.   Units   (m2)   (per m2)    Cost    Units   (m2)   (per m2)    Cost)           ment      Total    Total Cost
(USS m)
Hospitals        ENDE             1      14    5,337    0.367      1,957.7   4      1,680    0.205      344.4      654.0   2,954.6      1.43
SIKKA\1         1       1   11,078    0.706      7,821.1                                        1,256.0   9,076.1     4.40
Total                          2 1   15   16,415               9,779.7    4     1,680    0.205      344.4    1,910.0  12,030.7      5.83
Health Center    ENDE             8       8    3,170    0.170       538.9                                           76.8     615.2      0.30
FLOTIM          3       3    1,364    0.212       289.2                                           28.8     317.4      0.15
NGADA           3       6    2,628    0.393      1,032.8                                          57.6   1,089.1      0.53
SIKKA          10      10    4,683    0.174       814.8                                           96.0     908.7      0.44
Total                         24     27   11,845               2,675.7    0         0                          259.2   2,930.4      1.42
Sub-health Centers  ENDE         37      29    2,900    1.168       487.2    8        280    0.201       56.3       74.0     617.1      0.30
FLOTIM         13      13    1,550    0.212       328.6                                           32.7     361.5      0.18
SIKKA          38      38    3,800    0.163       619.4                                           77.9     697.6      0.34
Total                         88     80    8,250                          8       280                          184.6    1676.2      0.82
Health Centers    ENDE            4       3    1,979    0.179       354.2    1        189    0.201       37.9       54.9     447.3      0.22
w/beds
FLOTIM          2       2    1,319    0.214       282.3                                           28.1     310.0      0.15
NGADA           1       1      660    0.202       133.3                                           14.5     147.7      0.07
SIKKA           2       1      660    0.174       114.8     1       189    0.196       37.0       16.9     168.8      0.08
Total                         9       7    4,618                884.7     2       378    0.397       74.9      114.4    1073.8      0.52
All               ENDE           50      54   13,386    0.249      3,336.0   13     2,149    0.204      439.0      860.0   4,634.0      2.25
FLOTIM         18      18    4,233    0.212       897.4                                           89.6     988.8      0.48
NGADA           4       7    3,288    0.354      1,164.0                                          72.1    1236.8      0.60
SIKKA          51      50   20,221    0.463      9,362.3    1       189    0.196       37.0    1,447.0  10,851.0      5.26
Total                      123      129   41,128              10,526.3   14     2,338               476.0    2,468.7  17,710.6      8.59



Indonesia: Flores Earthquake Reconstruction Project                                            Page 43
Implementation Completion Report                                                 Annex B: Supplementary
TABLE 3: PROJECT COSTS (RP BILLION)
Appraisal                           Actual
Category
Local     Foreign      Total       Local      Foreign      Total
Roads and Bridges               22.7        10.7         33.4       29.9        14.1        44.0
Schools                         15.8         5.8         21.6       28.7        10.5        39.2
Hospital and Clinics            11.3         4.2         15.5       13.8         5.1        18.9
Other facilities                 7.5         2.8         10.3        3.5         1.3         4.8
Reconstruction Services          7.6         8.9         16.5        6.0         4.6         10.6
Equipment and Fumiture           2.8         3.4          6.2        3.7         4.5         8.2
Consultant Services and Training  1.5        2.6          4.1        8.0        11.0         19.0
Unallocated                     15.7         6.6         22.3        0.0         0.0         0.0
Total                 84.9        45.0        129.9       93.6        51.1       144.7
TABLE 4: PROJECT FINANCING (RP BILLION)
Appraisal                            Actual
Category
Local     Foreign       rotal      Local      Foreign      Total
Government                   43.0         0.0        43.0        45.6         0.0        45.8
IBRD                         41.9        44.9        86.8        48.0        51.1        99.1
Total                   84.9        44.9       129.8        93.6        51.1       144.7



Indonesia: Flores Earthquake Reconstruction Project                                 Page 44
Annex C: ICR Mission's Aide Memoire                              Implementation Completion Report
ANNEX C: ICR MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA
FLORES EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
(LOAN 3589-IND)
Implementation Completion Mission: November 5-13,1998
Aide-Memoire
1.     This aide-memoire summarizes the understanding and agreement reached between the
Government of Indonesia and the World Bank Implementation Completion Mission that visits Flores, the
Nusa Tenggara Timur Provincial Government and Jakarta, Indonesia from November 2, 1998 to November
13, 1998 in accordance with the term of reference of October 29, 1998. The mission comprised of William
Hardi, Task Team Leader; and Ephrem Asebe, World Bank consultant. The mission was joined by
Mr. Sudarsono, Head of the Core Management Team for the Project; Mr. Lens Messah, Chief Project
Manger Reconstruction Management Team; Mr. Simanjuntak, Team Leader PT. Bina Karya (Peresoro);
Ms. lndraswari, Project Manger for the Directorate General of Human Settlements; and Mr. Newman Project
Coordination Consultant.
2.     The mission wishes to express its appreciation to the officials of the Government of Indonesia, the
Reconstruction Management Team, the Nusa Tenggara Timur Provincial Government, Kabupaten of Sikka
and the representatives of the various agencies involved in the project for their hospitality. The conclusion
and recommendations are those of the mission and subject to confirmation by World Bank management.
I. Background
3.     On December 12, 1992 at 1.30 p.m. an earthquake measuring 7.5 on the Richter scale, with
epicenter in the Flores Sea and at an estimated depth of 15 km below the sea level and some 50 km from
the city of Maumere caused damage over an area of 10,000 square km on the Island of Flores. The tidal
wave (tsunami) generated by the earthquake had a maximum height of 5.2 meters and caused serious
damages on the north coast of Flores. Most of these areas were also subjected to liquefaction, resulting in
a sudden loss of capability of the soil to support any superimposed weight such as a building or a human
foot. The most serious damage was caused over an area of about 6,000 square kilometer by combined
force of the earthquake, tidal wave and liquefaction affecting Kabupatens: Ende, Flores Timor, Ngada and
Sikka and the towns of Ende and Maumere. Some 31 villages were destroyed. Over 1951 persons died of
bone fractures, head and chest fractures and drowning and over 2,126 were injured. More than 25,000
houses, 600 schools and 135 health facilities were destroyed or severely damaged. The damage to homes
and public infrastructure (roads, bridges, jetties, airport facilities, irrigation works, water supply and
distribution systems, schools, health facilities) and government buildings alone was estimated at
US$273.5 million equivalent. The damage to agriculture (live stocks and food crops), fishing (boats, net
and other equipment), commercial and other private buildings (including private schools and heath facilities)
was also extensive.
4.     To cope with the disaster, the government launched a three-stage operation:
Stage 1: Rescue and Relief Operations, directed by National Coordinating Board for Disaster Control lasted
up to December 27, 1992. Stage 2: Rehabilitation and Recovery was directed by Ministry of Public Works
and other line departments represented in BAKORNAS put vital infrastructure back to service until end of
March 1993. Under stage I and stage 2 the government was assisted by United Nations relief agencies,
private sector organizations, non-government organizations and bilateral countries. Stage 3 focused on a
three-year program with an estimated cost of US$148.7 million of reconstruction under the responsibility of
the coordinating Ministry of Economic Affairs and the State Minister for Development Planning
(BAPPENAS) with the cooperation of the implementing agencies, including the MPW.



Page 45                                             Indonesia: Flores Earthquake Reconstruction Project
Implementation Completion Report                               Annex C: ICR Mission's Aide Memoire
5.     To finance Stage 3 the GOI approached multilateral and bilateral agencies. The World Bank
responded with a multi-sectoral project, the Florence Earthquake Reconstruction Project with
US$42.1 million emergency loan or some 45% of the external financing sought by GOI; the Asian
Development Bank would support the stage 3 program under its Flores Emergency Reconstruction
Project and Australian Government (AusAID) offered support under Flores Water Supply and Sanitation
Project The reconstruction was to be carried out with special emphasis to the use of seismic-resistant
construction standards on road and bridges, port facilities, water supply, irrigation and river works, and
social infrastructure including homes, hospitals, schools and markets over a three year period.
6.     Flores Earthquake Reconstruction Project (FERP). The loan was signed on May 26, 1993 and
FERP became effective on July 7 1993. The objectives of FERP were: (i) to minimize the adverse
economic impact of the disaster by assisting in the reconstruction of essential infrastructure, health and
educational facilities to promptly restore economic activity and social services in the affected areas; and
(ii) to introduce measures to lessen the impact of possible future earthquake. As designed, the project was
to cost US$62.9 million with base cost of US$52.1 million of which 31% was allocated for road and bridges;
39% for education and heath; and 10% for other facilities. The balance, 20% was allocated for the
reconstruction program and in the development of earthquake, land slide and tidal wave mitigating
measures, including technical assistance in spatial planning, the provision of training in geology and
seismology and for the procurement of equipment for seismological studies.
7.     Planned Project Implementation. This was to be carried out in a manner consistent within the
normal government organizational framework and in a manner consistent with existing policies, procedures
and practices. Special measures were to be limited to those required for accelerated implementation and
quality assurance. Accordingly, the organization structure consisted of a steering committee responsible for
overall direction and coordination, a reconstruction management team responsible for the coordination and
management of project implementation in Jakarta, and a project implementation unit in Flores for carrying
out the day to day implementation. In addition, a program for implementation for quality assurance, geo-
technical studies and post-reconstruction planning were to be established under Deputy V, BAPPENAS;
building codes would be revised if necessary; and environmental and resettlement of indigenous people
would be subject to Bank Review.
8.     Sustainability. The physical investment against possible future earthquake was to be safeguarded
by the General Reconstruction Guidelines and construction quality supervision.  The benefit is seen in
terms of poverty alleviation of the earthquake victims of the Province of Nusa Tenggara Timur (NTT) who in
1990 had a per capita income of IDR. 345,000 (US$167.15) with an overall incidence of poverty of 46%;
while the risk was seen in terms of possible delay due to loss of momentum normally experienced in
reconstruction works.
I. Project Implementation Status
Overview
9.     The ICR mission inspected some of the civil works financed under FERP in Flores. The original
scope of the project is fully completed by the loan closing date of November 30, 1998, following three
extensions. The project has assisted the restoration of services by reconstruction of essential infrastructure
and contributed to policy measures that would reduce the impact of future earthquakes in Indonesia.
Completed Civil Works.
10.    As evidenced from the tables shown below, the civil works was completed generally within budget
adjusted to changes in corresponding works.



Indonesia: Flores Earthquake Reconstruction Project                                          Page 46
Annex C: ICR Mission's Aide Memoire                                     Implementation Completion Report
Civil Works Implementation Status
Activities                      Physical Targets              Cost (US$ million)
Appraised      Completed      Appraised      Completed
Roads and bridges                                                      10.5            11.4
Kabupaten Roads                     169.5 km      229.6 km
National Roads                       55.5 km       50.0 km
Bridges                               226 m          407 m
Schools                                                                 5.2             8.4
Govemment Schools                   343 units     343 units
Community Schools                     0 units     147 units
Health facilities                                                       4.9             5.0
Health Centers                      124 units     177 units
Hospital                              2 units       2 units
Other facilities                                                        3.3             0.9
New Market                             1 unit        1 unit
Stadium Fence                          1 unit        1 unit
Geological Observation Building       3 units       3 units
Water Supply - New Wuring              0 set          1 set
Drainage Works                         0 set          1 set
Equipment & Furniture                                                   2.0             2.7
Schools                              91 units      84 units
Hospitals                           100 units     100 units
Health Centers (Solar Power)          0 unit       12 units
Geological Studies Equipment         31 units      32 units
Experimental
Bamboo School Building                0 unit        5 units          0.0             0.2
Bamboo Cladding (classroom)           0 unit       38 units
Bamboo Houses                         0 unit        4 units
1 1.    Roads and Bridges. All the 22 packages of roads and bridges contracts valued at Rp. 40.1 billion
have been completed. The mission inspected the roads and bridge in Ende and Sikka districts, and the
findings are summarized below:
a)  Waiwara-Bts. Flotim  I and 11 (S1W  & S2149, Sikka. The approach road works and the
construction of Neber Bridge are completed; the mission found its quality satisfactory. There is
a joint in the middle of the bridge with six bolts and nuts missing. The mission requested that
all the joints in this bridge to be rechecked. There was lack of routine maintenance works
along these roads.
b) Mauroleota Baru- Magepanda (PT. Yetti Dharmawan) (E6W.J, Ende. There has been
some additional protection wall construction against sea wave along the side of the road using
local budget. The mission found the quality of the road and protection walls to be satisfactory.
12.    Roads Routine Maintenance.  The mission found that there has been a lack of routine
maintenance on most of the provincial and kabupaten roads. The FERP team should request the Head of
BAPPEDA of NTT to allocate sufficient routine maintenance funding for all the roads, particularly the roads
constructed under the FY 1997-1998 & FY 1998-1999.
13.    Community Schools (Sekolah Swasta). All 147 community schools have been completed. The
schools that the mission visited in Sikka includes SDS Hikong, SD Geliting (bamboo school) and SD
Wuring. The mission found overall the quality of works to be satisfactory. The diagonal steel bracing for
SDS Hikong have been erected, the remaining bamboo cladding using local budget have also been
completed, as requested in the previous mission. The mission found that maintenance of the completed
schools was lacking. Some of the concrete floors of SD Wuring are deteriorating quite seriously. There was
no insect attacked found in the bamboo cladding or bamboo structures.



Page 47                                                Indonesia: Flores Earthquake Reconstruction Project
Implementation Completion Report                                  Annex C: ICR Mission's Aide Memoire
14.    Health Centers (Puskesmas). The health centers the mission visited includes Puskesmas Kota
Baru, Sikka and Puskesmas Boru, Flotim. The mission found that there has been lack of repairs and
maintenance of the completed health centers. Some of the concrete floors of Puskeasmas Boru are
deteriorating quite seriously, and the mission was informed that this health center lacks medical facilities,
such as refrigerator for keeping the medicine, vaccines for snake bites etc. Five people recently died from
snake bites due to an unavailability vaccines.
Ongoing Civil Works.
15.    Activities ongoing at present are: Drainage works for Maumere Hospital, Maumere Market and
Water Supply for Wuring Baru. The new Maumere Hospital is being upgraded from Class D to Class C.
The building construction has been basically completed but minor works of landscaping, drainage and air
conditioning are proceeding. Based on the evidence of surcharges of drains in the lower portion of the
hospital compound, the mission has recommended the immediate review of the drainage design and
subsequent action. The mission noted that the quality of finishing works could have been done better.
Currently, the planning for removal and re-installation of equipment from the old to the new hospital is
ongoing. However, the handing over of the hospital from MPW to the Bupati has not taken place. Urgent
action is required for resolving outstanding misunderstandings over the past payments of two of the
subcontractors to the main contractor. Most of the hospital buildings were locked and their keys have been
kept by the subcontractors.
16.    Drainage Works for Maumere Market. After a late start due to changes in the bidding procedures
now requiring new bidding instead of amending contracts through addendum, the work is progressing well
and should be completed by the closing date of November 30, 1998.
17.    Wuring Baru Water Supply. Work is progressing well to supply the New Wuring Village. It is
expected to be completed before the closing date. The mission has expressed its concern about the
potential contamination of the water in case of flood, and the contractor has agreed to take appropriate
measures.
18.    Supervision & Consultancy and Training Services. Overall supervision and consultancy and
training services have contributed to the desired quality outcome. The quality of finishing works in the new
Maumere Hospital, however could have been significantly raised without any additional cost to the project
by using more skilled craftsmen. The original loan allocation for construction supervision services under
category 2 of the loan was US$3.7 million and the committed contracts are US$3.965 million; for
Consultancy and training services. The allocation under category 4 while was originally US$5.4 million, the
committed amount is US$7.50 million including for the consultant services.
Supervision & Consultancy and Training Services Status
Appraised                        Completed
Consultancy Services and    F mm       L mm        Cost       F mm       L mm        Cost
Training                                    (US$                             (US$
million)                         million)
Design and Supervision         3.00      636.30       3.70        6.00     1,076.85    3.965
Training & Consultancy Services    65.60  433.60      5.40      160.99      936.13     7.500
Management                  65.60      188.60                 160.99      395.00
Training- Indonesia *        0.00       97.00                   0.00      252.63
Training - overseas-
Geological Studies           0.00       75.00                   0.00      185.50
Spatial Studies              0.00       73.00                   0.00      103.00
F mm  = Expatriate man-month                 Local Training: 4159 persons
L mm  = Locai man-month                  **  Foreign Training: in Japan: 5 persons; Australia 46 persons



Indonesia: Flores Earthquake Reconstruction Project                                                 Page 48
Annex C: )CR Mission's Aide Memoire                                           Implementation Completion Report
Payment After Loan Closing Date
19.     The mission informed the implementing agencies that all civil works and consultancy services
should be completed prior to the closing date (November 30, 1998), as only expenditures incurred prior to
the closing date could be paid from the loan for up to four months after the closing date (March 31, 1999).
1l1. Strategy for Minimizing Risks of Future Earthquakes
20.     To minimize the prospect of economic and social disruption that could be caused by earthquakes
in the area, a sound strategy was followed. Technical resources were allocated to improve design and
construction  in the Flores area.   These included specialists in earthquake engineering, structural
engineering and quality assurance. Some of the specialists contributed to the publicafion of general
reconstruction guidelines. The guidelines are now used by local governments in granting building permits.
The dissemination of the guidelines to the general public provided necessary advice to the private sector
regarding the number of stories, structural systems, and type of foundations that should be used in the
design and construction of new buildings and facilities. In road construction the stabilization of slopes
through the reduction of cut angles and where, possible, the re-establishment of ground cover - so as to
prevent or limit damage during possible future earthquakes were also addressed.
21.     Quality assurance of civil works was given a strategic role in minimizing future rsks from
earthquakes. Past weakness in civil works were addressed as flows:
Quality Assurance
Issues at Appraisal                                Project Response
Buildings
1.   Buildings and infrastructure are not designed, located  Designs were developed through extensive
and built to withstand any seismic events of 1992  interdisciplinary consultation and later reviewed by a
strength that may occur in the future in Flores.  specialist geo-technical engineer and the Chief Design
Engineer to ensure that design met seismic requirements;
guidelines for design & construction were prepared and
made available for engineers, architects and the general
public.
2.   Inadequate quality control of materials was used in the  Concrete aggregates were subjected to sieve analyses
fabrication of the concrete (in the past the sand was  and engineer approval was required before use. Job
contaminated, and there was inadequate gradation of the   mixes were designed and batch quantities determined.
aggregate), and the mix of concrete was made by hand    Site supervision involved control of added water, slump
without control of the amount of water added.      tests and compression test of cubic samples.
3.   The steel reinforcement did not follow established  Special attention was given to ensuring that the ends of
practice for reinforced concrete earthquake resistance  shear reinforcement bars were shaped with adequate
design, particularly in the spacing of the transverse  loops. The latest MPW codes were applied.
reinforcement and in the design of the hooks to provide
adequate confinement;
4.   Inadequate form-work in elements with wide variations in  Form works and reinforcement bars were approved prior
their cross sections; and the casting of concrete was  to casting of concrete. Mechanical concrete vibrators
done without proper compacting resulting in extensive  were used wherever there was access; otherwise
honey combing and therefore inadequate strength.   concrete was hand-rodded to minimize honey-combining.
If honey-combing occurred it was patched.
5.   Generally, experience showed:
a) the use of large sections of masonry walls without    a)  Un-reinforced masonry was limited to five square
reinforcement;                                     meters in area of wall;
b) the use of inadequate reinforcement concrete   b)  MPW practices were followed and reinforced
columns and beams (with disproportional small      columns were 12 cm by 20 cm;
cross-sections, insufficient reinforcement and lack of
adequate transverse reinforcement and detailing);
c) lack of proper reinforcement at the top of large  c)  wall openings were spanned with short beams of 20
openings (for doors and windows) in the masonry    cm depth and 12 cm width
walls; and



Page 49                                                       Indonesia: Flores Earthquake Reconstruction Project
Implementation Completion Report                                          Annex C: ICR Mission's Aide Memoire
Issues at Appraisal                               Project Response
d) lack of collar beams.                          d)  reinforced concrete collar beams were used on all
concrete and brick works and steel and timber were
used elsewhere.
6.   Wooden buildings suffered due to failure of foundation or  Steel holding down brackets for timber columns were
due to lack of anchorage of the posts.        installed in masonry/concrete footngs.
Roads
7.   Works were not designed and implemented in        Structural designs were developed taking full
accordance with standards appropriate for the seismic  consideration of seismic factors and then reviewed by
conditions on the island.                      geo-technical experts.
8.   Lack of engineered slopes- the slopes fail when rains  Stability analysis was undertaken and road alignments
increase soil pore pressures                   adjusted optimally.
9.   Coastal roads were affected by tidal waves (tsunami)  Seawall structures were used where appropriate or
alignment adjusted.
10.  Formation and pavement failures                   MPW codes of practice were followed
11.  Collapse of drainage and retaining wali structures.  Drainage and retaining walls were built to new standards.
Bridges
12.  Approaches, abutment failures and total destruction  Foundations were investigated before reconstruction and
in one case had to be abandoned. Design of bridge and
road reconstruction works were proceeded by geo-
technical investigation.
22.     Other related issues raised during implementation and the responses made during implementation
are summarized below.
Other Issues and Responses
Issue                                        Project Responses
1.   Natural Hazards Information  The Natural Disaster Committee participates in the annual exhibition staged by
Center in Maumere           BAPPEDA Sikka in the first week of October that informs the community of the
kabupatens plan for the following year. The Committee is yet to move into its newly
completed office.
2.   Volcano Observation stabtons    Three stations were built in Flotim Kabupaten at Lereboleng and in Ende Kabuapaten
at Kelimutu and at Rokatenda. Recording of volcanic data is proceeding.
3.   Fishing Village of Wuring   Despite the high risk, it has not been possible to persuade the people of Wuring to
refrain from returning to live in Wuring where they have been restoring their pre-
earthquake dwellings and buildings.
4.   Commercial Center at        A spatial plan for the business area was prepared, a new market-with the associated
Maumere                     drainage was constructed. (The concept of the self-financing of the operation and
maintenance of the new Maumere Market is to be commended and encouraged).
5.   New Wuring Village          a) Water supply funded by the Bank and to be operated by Maumere Water Authority
is being installed with public hydrants. The mission has raised concern over the
possibility of the water supply being polluted during the rainy season;
b) The Fishing Boat Harbor was not built because of excessive cost and because a
nearby jetty constructed by the Directorate General of Fisheries which provided
altemative facilities.



Indonesia: Flores Earthquake Reconstruction Project                                  Page 50
Annex C: ICR Mission's Aide Memoire                              Implementation Completion Report
IV. Views of the Stakeholders
23.    The mission has solicited the views of the provincial and kabupaten governments, direct
beneficiaries, consultants and a donor on the implementation experience.
24.    Government officials in Maumere have affirmed that the education and health services have
significantly improved as a result of the project implementation. Availability of public transport has
increased. The rehabilitation and reconstruction of the road network has improved access, reduced travel
time and significantly reduced the constraints on economic activities. The region's economy has shown
growth of the same order of magnitude as the national economy or even better. The reconstruction
guidelines and spatial planning studies are being applied in issuing building approvals to reduce risks from
future earthquakes.  The Kabupaten Disaster Committee is active in providing information to the
community.
25.    Government officials in Sikka Kabupaten stated that the current socioeconomic conditions are
significantly better than they were prior to the earthquake, despite the present economic condition of the
country. The combined impact of exchange rate depreciation and world price increases for the region's
exports has minimized the adverse impact of the current financial crisis on the well-being of the people of
Flores.
26.    Teachers. In most cases, the teachers were pleased with the facilities provided. In new Wuring
govemment primary school, where 402 student attend, a new school was built to support the new
community. There were some shortcomings that were pointed out by the head teacher and also observed
by the mission. The cemented floors of the class rooms have disintegrated and were in need of repair. At
Hikong community school, where 72 boys and 72 girls attend, the community has completed the remaining
three bamboo class rooms; the head teacher expressed his satisfaction. The mission observed that the
bamboo work was well finished. The main complaint was about the lack of water supply for the community.
Children are often absent from school as they have to fetch water from distance places for family use.
27.    Health Centers Staff. The mission had opportunity to discuss at length the quality and scope of
services provided at Kota Baru in Ende Kabupaten and at Boru Flotim Kabupaten. Both facilities have
attracted resident doctors and now provide improved services that attract patients who would otherwise
have traveled long distance to the nearest hospital or not sought medical assistance at all. The health
center in Kota Baru provides service to some 11,000 persons while the one in Boru provides for some
17,000 persons. Except for lack of electricity and refrigerators for storage of ant-venom for treating snake-
bite victims, the staff had no major complains. The mission saw that a solar powered refrigerator can be a
good solution.
28.    Consultants. The mission held discussions with some of the consultants who worked on design
and supervision aspects of the civil works, the training of staff, and on the preparation and dissemination of
disaster prevention measures. All participants were glad of their involvement and said that they have
gained great satisfaction in learning and using available scientific knowledge in the preparation of the
design and training material for disaster prevention and mitigation.
29.    Donor. The mission had opportunity to review the implementation experience of FERP with
AusAID staff managing the implementation of Flores Water Supply and Sanitation Project. AusAID
confirmed that water is indeed a priority for Flores. While AusAID is providing water supply to 130 villages
at a cost of US$16.0 million equivalent, its plan is likely to meet the need of only about 15% of the villages.
30.    Trainee. Under the project training material was developed and seminars were provided in the
Eastern, Central and Westem Regions of the Indonesia and in Flores. Participants, including 2967 persons
representing the community, 148 craftsmen and 90 technicians, were trained. In addition 973 government
officials and 32 university staff participated in the workshops. The mission has leamed from some of the
participants that the seminars and workshops were useful.



Page 51                                             Indonesia: Flores Earthquake Reconstruction Project
Implementation Completion Report                              Annex C: ICR Mission's Aide Memoire
V. Views of the Bank Mission
31.    Overall the project appears to have achieved its objectives while giving a sense of accomplishment
to those involved in its execution. Besides minimize the socioeconomic impact of the earthquake in Flores,
the project has instituted measures to help minimize the risks of damages to infrastructure from future
earthquakes and has created awareness about natural disasters especially about earthquakes and Volcano
disaster damage. The project has also encouraged policy measures and practices that could reduce
vulnerability to future earthquakes. These include:
a) land use, micro seismic zone maps;
b) disaster impact assessment of project sites;
c) enforcement of design and construction standards;
d) encouragement of the use of suitable building and bamboo technology through community
training;
e) design and construction regulations through quality assurance measures during
implementation;
f) enhanced awareness of management and monitoring environmental measures;
g) establishment of Disaster Hazard Management Committees and exercises twice a year in the
case of Maumere hospital and once in the public schools;
h) establishment and operation of Natural Hazard Information Center in Maumere and Volcano
observation stations in Ende and Flotim; and
i) providing training on earthquake disaster mitigation measures to some 4200 persons among
the community govemment officials, building trades and professional engineers and architects
in all the Regions of Indonesia.
32.    The mission noted that the International Decade of Disaster Reduction (IDDR) Day is observed
during the second Wednesday of October in accordance with the United Nations declaration. The mission
suggested to BAPPENDA that, as part of its measures of enhancing disaster preparedness, solidarity with
IDDR with may help create further awareness.
VI. Operational Plan
33.    Adequate maintenance funds and timely utilization of available funds for maintenance will be the
key indicators of government commitments to the Sustainability of the physical assets and institutional
capacities established under the project.
34.    The mission reviewed the budget allocated for road infrastructure, school and health facilities for
the Kabupaten Sikka. While underscoring the need for provision of adequate operation and maintenance
funds, the mission was heartened to note that at kabupaten level there is acute consciousness about the
importance of maintenance and it is being accorded due priority in resource allocations even under the
present adverse macroeconomic environment.  The Maumere Hospital management has allocated
adequate budget for maintenance of the hospital facilities. Management is also aware of the need for
environmental management and is committed for an ongoing monitoring of environmental factors likely to
affect the operation of the hospital and the well-being of the surrounding community.
VIl. Briefing & Schedule of Preparation of ICR
35.    The mission briefed staff of the Core Management Team (CMT), charged with the responsibility of
drafting the goveMment evaluation report, on Bank's requirement regarding government contribution to the
ICR. It was agreed that CTM will finalize its contribution to the ICR by January 31, 1999. The Bank will
make available the draft ICR for the Government's comment within 15 days of receiving the government
contribution to the ICR. The Bank will make available the final draft ICR for the Government's comment
within 15 days after receiving the Government's comment on the initial draft.



Indonesia: Flores Earthquake Reconstruction Project                                      Page 52
Annex C: ICR Mission's Aide Memoire                                  Implementation Completion Report
Vill. Outstanding information
36.    Analysis of the impact of the Flores Earthquake Reconstruction Project may require additional data
at kabupaten or provincial level. The mission has received from Kabupaten Sikka and the Provincial
Government of Nusa Tenggara Timur and Maumere Hospital management, budgets and other statistical
data.



Page 2                                                          Indonesia: Flores Earthquake Reconstruction Project
Annex C: ICR Mission's Aide Memoire                                            Implementation Completion Report
World Bank User
\\StreetTalk\Unit Files@EASTR@EAP\EPHREM\Flores ICR\ICR Boonsn Created May 11, 99.doc
06/07/99 8:42 AM



IBRD 24567
________                   CO~~~~~~~NDITONOS C   ATQJIE                       IAPN~                                                                                      TREUNCHRST 
EARTH ULAKE_INTENSITY'       ISOSE1SMAL CONDITONES O  ERHA                                                                       BRUN~1jrL                                            TRENSCHReTN
VI                      OF DECEMBER 12, 1992                                                                                                                             TRASFOM FULT
II  VII                                                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NATIONAL CAPITAL
U   vvI                                                                                                             MlASI                                                   INTERNATIONAL
IV  II~~~~~~   0(055  'SACIRAR                                                                                   -.         0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i~~~F I MABOUNIDARIES
v                                              1ThRUS1MNGa                                                 SINGAPORE                                                       C "F  P~(W       "
Floos Sea
~~~~             TIMOR ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JAKRARTA
I,-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A f yC
r,0  N  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      ~       Ft~~~oIVor~~~~r ~~~     (-IL LAN                                                AU~~~~~~~STRALIA
OA,M5a55  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  sa1so,$I                   [ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1220~30'                                                               023,UU
ULI~~~~~~~'o t1~~~~~~~~E'5Kk*           I ~~~~~~~~~~~Lewobungo
a -        SaMNTaANDTRANSFORM FAULT                     I D N SA7
121 '30'                           TRAR4SCUI~~~~EI0AN0                          SEISMOLOGY                                            WoMI6r6ng        Muluboihong
This aoap tohasb- prepared boy                                                                                                                                                P'OEES   55
Th. Wodd MS-ks staff -/..oiaelyKLMTR                                     55
far tfIr cn-inoetac of meademrsnd               L             o            ~       I__Woiwodon
Rank Oraop. Th. d-,roi-atia-             1M-ILES---n                                    -25
d00 -ad the booosle,So ahaonI,MLSJ2
this m.loop  -ot inopy, -n dh part
j.gsto h -                                             FLO RE SA                                                                                                 LARNTA                    Woilebe
any tsrcitcry A- any sndo,srnamt                                                                                                                                   A AN        UK
moaceptance of s.nt boundarieas,asrn 
0                                          Nebe0             f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CUTF ~~~~~~~Wairvnu/  B)asornani 
.r',,    I!  Wako  Mas~~~~~~~~~~~~ro~~  Dando  /                                      /                                                       8'20'~~~Mnano 
AIdMelo              Moge~~~~~~~~ando                              -           Tolibur~~~~INNeb~            o
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L 
Nangororo                                                                               Bob        C                                               TSUNAMI RUN UPSoro 
o               Woloworu    -  P'jnga           ~         ~        ~       ~        ~        ~       ~      ~       .      TSUNAMI LOCATIONSra  Bor
N~~~~~~ngapando ~ ~ ~ ~  ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~    \   Kwpat
Detusok                                                                    BolCaERESAPMNT                                             TSUNAMI RUN UPSHIGT
ENDE                                                                                     /~~~ /   GROUND FRACTURES                           SELECTED TOWNS AND VILLAGES
Nolona   ~~~~~~~~~~~~:/V/ ~~~~~~GROUND SUBSIDENCES,                                             C      KAB3UPATEN HEADQUARTERS
LANDSLUDES AND                           KBPTNBUDRE
ROCKFALLS                                KBPTNBUDRE
121'30'                                                122700'                                                 122'05'                                                  123I'UU
APRIL 1993



l2P          122~~~~                      1 1       MALAYSIA       2>    BRUN~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~PHfLIPPINES,7~~~~~~        IBRD 24568
INO ESAIAALSI
EARTHQUAKE IMPCE   N   SNM   AAED AREAS 5NAPR
Flores                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
PROJECT KABUPATENS                                                JAI~~~~ARTA                F    I                              II
AREAS OE IMPACT  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   NATIONAL CAPITAL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
SELECTtb ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ITENTOALBUQA1SAUTAr
GADA~~~~~~PRVNE OD
KAUAEN BUDARE
M. k. i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,                                     soan        ht~
fo,th    c  ron..e  f eaer an   is                       Pt< thefilfe5ridt   .mr Th  WWeredong
S-k G,mp. Th.  de- i~ti,,sos5>andth   bZsb hM,75
!I disg    ,~~~~~~d,  he part of the Worlde S/                  -Wolseklen n05,G
i  MAUMERE  o ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~ACH19



IBRD 24569
171-                                                                     122'                                    1             MALAY51A           ~        BRUNEI __,    *PHNIUPPINES/'
INDONESIA                                                                                                  (MALAYSIA
ELEVATIONS                                                                                                  SINGAPORE
Flores                                                                                  i          [N          ) D       o           N           E          s            I         A
ELEVATIONS IN FEET:                                                                                            JAKARTA
0 - 999                                                                                                                                          A-ea of Map                                       z
.   1000                                                                            * 1999  i   NATIONAL CAPITAL                                [11
- '1t's  -5C.  2000 - 2999                                                                    -          INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                       AUSTRALIA
3000 - 3999
4000 - 4999                                                                                                  .2r                                                                      124
5000 AND ABOVE
o    SELECTED TOWNS AND VILLAGES
-D    KABUPATEN HEADQUARTERS
-     KABUPATEN BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                                 8'-
w-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ xp=        L/bn 
j  tiaorn~~~   OsndoW7i /bil  .                                                        ;j,,                                               4 tarsOetoG    Tnii
>                         '-b      Weiwodon                           . .          .. 's..
W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D rl ot,o                                                                  !        '     E'at olpukrgn               Win h  TkcUf
5'  i'Q~4~~*                     ENE0                 :             PENDEKK
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.d                                                                                                                              & ; 0            '' 
9                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~ ~ ~~ ~~~ ~~KILOM^ETERS 0  25  S0            75               100
LI                      I               I                1 I
ThIs cmop hrus been prepared by The WvrHd Srock' stoff exclusively                                                                            ____________________________________
for the convenience of reoders and is for the int*rnol use of The World                                                                                                                 I
Boozk C;roup. The denominaot,ns used rund the boundaries shown on                     - 'MILES 0                                                            25                         50                         75
this crap do not uimpy or fhle pon of The World Blonk Group, onyt
judgemert on the legol status of ecny territory or axny endonsement
or occuptonce of sulch boondories.
21                                                   1S2T                                                                    123'                                                                     124'
Al.        __. ___                                                                                                         MARCH 1993



