Page  1
                                         CONFORMED COPY
                                   LOAN NUMBER 3589 IND
      (Flores Earthquake Reconstruction Project)
                        between
                 REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
                          and
         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                    AND DEVELOPMENT
                  Dated  May 26, 1993
                                   LOAN NUMBER 3589 IND
                    LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated May 26, 1993, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                       ARTICLE I
            General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
     (a)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     (b)  In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
     "(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
          under which any further withdrawals under the
          Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions of
          Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of
          Agreement."
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
     (a)  "Affected Area" means the area affected by the
earthquake on December 12, 1992 in the following administrative sub-
divisions of the Borrower: Flores Timur, Sikka, Ende and Ngada in
the Province of Nusa Tenggara Timur;
     (b)  "BAPPENAS" means the National Development Planning
Agency, an agency of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
     (c)  "MME" means the Borrower's Ministry of Mines and Energy
or any successor thereto;
     (d)  "MOEC" means the Borrower's Ministry of Education and
Culture or any successor thereto;
     (e)  "MOH" means the Borrower's Ministry of Health or any
successor thereto;
     (f)  "MPW" means the Borrower's Ministry of Public Works or
any successor thereto;
     (g)  "PIUs" mean the Project Implementation Units established
within MPW by MPW's Decree No. 127/KPTS/1993 dated March 1, 1993;
     (h)  "RMT" means the Reconstruction Management Team estab-
lished within MPW by MPW's Decree No. 127/KPTS/1993 dated March 1,
1993; and
     (i)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                      ARTICLE II
                       The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of forty-two million one hundred thousand dollars
($42,100,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such
withdrawal.
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
Page  3
open and maintain in United States dollars a special deposit account
in Bank Indonesia or a commercial bank, acceptable to the Bank, on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into,
and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1996 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
     (c)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
               on the date immediately preceding each date
               specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
               beginning with the Interest Period in which this
               Agreement is signed.
          (ii) "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
               reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
               as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
               borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
               1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
               thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund:
               (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which
               may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
               bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
               as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
         (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the
               second six months of a calendar year.
     (d)  On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
               "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
          principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
          from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
          the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
          of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
          (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in Section
          2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
          accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
          preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
          applicable during such Interest Period."
               "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
          Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
          of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
          Quarter."
Page  4
               "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
          commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
          a calendar year."
     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                      ARTICLE III
               Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, environmental and engineering practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5
to this Agreement.
     Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
                      ARTICLE IV
                  Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in
               paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
               the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
               in accordance with appropriate auditing
               principles consistently applied, by independent
               auditors acceptable to the Bank;
          (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
               any case not later than nine months after the end
               of each such year, the report of such audit by
               said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
               as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
         (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
               concerning said records and accounts and the
               audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
Page  5
          (ii) retain, until at least one year after the Bank
               has received the audit report for the fiscal year
               in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
               Account or payment out of the Special Account was
               made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
         (iii) enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
               records; and
          (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are
               included in the annual audit referred to in
               paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
               of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
               auditors as to whether the statements of
               expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
               together with the procedures and internal
               controls involved in their preparation, can be
               relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                       ARTICLE V
                      Termination
     Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                      ARTICLE VI
       Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          c/o Directorate-General of Budget
          Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
          P.O. Box 1139
          Jakarta 10710, Indonesia
          Cable address:           Telex:
               FINMINISTRY              45799 DJMLN IA
               Jakarta                  44319 DEPKEU IA
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:           Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                248423 (RCA),
               Washington,D.C.          82987 (FTCC),
                                        64145 (WUI) or
                                        197688 (TRT)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
Page  6
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                    REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
                    By  /s/ Abdul R. Ramly
                              Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By  /s/ Gautam S. Kaji
                                Regional Vice President
                                  East Asia and Pacific
                      SCHEDULE 1
        Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                       Amount of the
                      Loan Allocated       % of
                       (Expressed in   Expenditures
     Category       Dollar Equivalent)to be Financed
(1)  Civil works:
     (a) under Part      10,500,000     65%
         A.1 of the
         Project
     (b) under Part       5,200,000     50%
         A.2 (a) of the
         Project
     (c) under Part       4,900,000     65%
         A.2(b) and A.3(b)
         of the Project
     (d) under Part       3,300,000     65%
         A.3(a) of the
         the Project
(2)  Reconstruction       3,700,000     100%
     services under
     Part A.4 of
     the Project
(3)  Equipment and        2,000,000     100% of foreign
     furniture                          expenditures, 100%
                                        of local expendi-
                                        tures (ex-factory
                                        cost) and 65% of
                                        local expenditures
Page  7
                                        for other items
                                        procured locally
                       Amount of the
                      Loan Allocated       % of
                       (Expressed in   Expenditures
     Category       Dollar Equivalent)to be Financed
(4)  Consultants'         5,400,000     100%
     services and
     training
(5)  Unallocated          7,100,000
                         __________
     TOTAL               42,100,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures: (a) prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $7,000,000, may be
made in respect of Categories (1)(a) to (c), (2), (3), and (4) on
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after
December 19, 1992, and (b) under Category 1 (d), unless the Bank has
received a satisfactory relocation plan in accordance with paragraph
7 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
                      SCHEDULE 2
              Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to
restore the socio-economic life of the communities in the Affected
Area through: (i) the reconstruction of facilities damaged or
destroyed by the earthquake, and (ii) the introduction of measures
to help mitigate the impact of future disasters.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A: Reconstruction
1.   Roads and Bridges
     Reconstruction and repair of selected national and kabupaten
roads (about 55 and 170 kilometers respectively) and bridges (about
230 meters) in the Affected Area, and related construction of
temporary roads and bridges necessary to maintain traffic flows
during said reconstruction and repair.
2.   Education and Health Facilities
     (a) (i) Reconstruction of about 120 public schools and repair
of about 230 public schools located in kabupatens in the Affected
Area; and (ii) provision of required educational equipment and
furniture in said schools.
Page  8
     (b) (i) Construction of a new public hospital to replace the
Maumere General Hospital and reconstruction and repair of other
public health facilities including Ende General Hospital and about
120 health centers and sub-centers located in kabupatens in the
Affected Area; and (ii) provision of required medical and related
equipment and furniture in said health facilities.
3.   Other Facilities
     (a) Relocation of a part of the commercial center at Maumere
and the fishing village of Wuring by providing the requisite
infrastructure through the construction of access roads and
footpaths and retaining walls, provision of drainage, street
lighting and harbor facilities, and development of public parks.
     (b) Reconstruction of three volcano observation stations and
construction of a national hazards information center in the
Affected Area.
4.   Related Services
     Provision of design, and supervision services in respect of or
related to reconstruction hereunder.
Part B: Technical Assistance
1.   Development and implementation of earthquake mitigation
measures including:
     (a)  preparation of general and area specific guidelines for
reconstruction;
     (b)  preparation of spatial socio-economic development
proposals;
     (c)  formulation of spatial socio-economic policy guidelines
and for the monitoring and evaluation of the impact of the
Borrower's reconstruction program; and
     (d)  carrying out of selected geo-technic and seismic surveys
and studies and preparation of related maps.
2.   Provision of training in earth sciences including geology and
seismology.
3.   Provision of geological hazard detection equipment such as
volcano and seismic monitoring instruments.
4.   Preparation of reconstruction proposals, and undertaking of
management and implementation of the Project.
                         * * *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1996.
                      SCHEDULE 3
                 Amortization Schedule
                              Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due              (expressed in dollars)*
January 1, 1999                      785,000
July 1, 1999                         815,000
January 1, 2000                      845,000
July 1, 2000                         880,000
January 1, 2001                      910,000
July 1, 2001                         945,000
January 1, 2002                      980,000
July 2, 2002                       1,015,000
Page  9
January 1, 2003                    1,055,000
July 1, 2003                       1,095,000
January 1, 2004                    1,135,000
July 1, 2004                       1,175,000
January 1, 2005                    1,220,000
July 1, 2005                       1,265,000
January 1, 2006                    1,310,000
July 1, 2006                       1,360,000
January 1, 2007                    1,410,000
July 1, 2007                       1,465,000
January 1, 2008                    1,520,000
July 1, 2008                       1,575,000
January 1, 2009                    1,635,000
July 1, 2009                       1,695,000
January 1, 2010                    1,755,000
July 1, 2010                       1,820,000
January 1, 2011                    1,890,000
July 1, 2011                       1,960,000
January 1, 2012                    2,030,000
July 1, 2012                       2,105,000
January 1, 2013                    2,185,000
July 1, 2013                       2,265,000
___________________________
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
     determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal.  See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
     Time of Prepayment       Premium
                              The interest rate
                              (expressed as a
                              percentage per annum)
                              applicable to the Loan
                              on the day of prepayment
                              multiplied by:
Not more than three years          0.15
     before maturity
More than three years but          0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but            0.55
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not         0.80
     more than 16 years
     before maturity
More than 16 years but not         0.90
     more than 18 yearsbefore maturity
More than 18 years before          1.00
     maturity
                      SCHEDULE 4
         Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Page  10
Part A: International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part C.1 hereof, civil works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines). For fixed-price
contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 2.13 of
the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed
beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid
price will be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed
correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied to all
foreign currency components and the other to the local currency
component of the bid price.  Such an increase shall not be taken
into account in the bid evaluation.
Part B: Preference for Domestic Contractors
     In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C: Other Procurement Procedures
1.   (a) Except as provided in sub-paragraph (b) hereof, civil
works, estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $1,000,000 per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of
$29,100,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
     (b) Civil works, estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the
equivalent of $14,000,000, may be carried out by force account or
procured under other procedures agreed to by the Bank.
2.   (a) Except as provided in sub-paragraphs (b), (c) and (d)
hereof, equipment and, except as provided in sub-paragraph (c)
hereof, furniture shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
     (b) Seismic monitoring equipment under Part B.3 of the
Project, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers from at least three different countries eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
     (c) Furniture and, except as provided in sub-paragraph (d)
hereof, equipment, estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or
less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the
equivalent of $600,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least
three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
     (d) Contracts for proprietary items of equipment may be
awarded after direct negotiations with suppliers, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a) With respect to each contract for civil works, equipment
and furniture, estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more,
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
Page  11
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to
be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out
of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b) With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.  Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies
of the contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
     (c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not
apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be made on
the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.   In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall, as agreed with the Bank, employ consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall
be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the
Consultant Guidelines).
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent each.  However this exemption to prior Bank review shall
not apply to the terms of reference for such contracts nor to the
employment of individuals, to single source selection of firms, to
assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by the
Bank and to amendments of contracts raising the contract value to
$100,000 equivalent or above.
                      SCHEDULE 5
                Implementation Program
1.   The Borrower shall carry out the Project as follows:
     (a)  Parts A.1, A.2(a), A.2(b)(i), A.3, A.4, B.1(a) to (b),
and B.4 of the Project shall be carried out by MPW through RMT and
the concerned PIUs. Parts A.2(a) and A.2(b)(i) shall be carried out
by MPW on behalf of MOEC and MOH respectively;
     (b)  Part A.2(b)(ii) of the Project shall be carried out by
MOH;
     (c)  Part B.1(c) of the Project shall be carried out by
BAPPENAS; and
     (d)  Parts B.1(d), B.2, and B.3 of the Project shall be
carried out by MME.
2.   The Borrower shall maintain adequate qualified staff in RMT
and each of the PIUs and provide the requisite facilities thereto to
ensure qualitative and timely implementation and supervision of the
Project.
3.   The Borrower shall: (a) by July 31, 1993, prepare general and
Page  12
area specific guidelines for reconstruction, under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank; (b) thereafter submit, for
review and comments, the said guidelines to a technical panel
established by the Borrower in consultation with the Bank; and (c)
by September 30, 1993, finalize and implement the same in light of
the comments and suggestions of the said technical panel.
4.   The Borrower shall, by August 31, 1993, finalize the selection
of national and kabupaten roads and bridges and education, health,
and other facilities for reconstruction and repair under Part A of
the Project in consultation with the Bank.
5.   The Borrower shall carry out the agreed project implementation
plan in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
6.   The Borrower shall carry out Part B.2 of the Project in
accordance with a program and procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
7.   The Borrower shall prepare a relocation plan for the
relocation of inhabitants in the Affected Area under Part A.3 of the
Project in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank. The
Borrower shall submit the said plan to the Bank and implement and
monitor the progress thereof in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
                      SCHEDULE 6
                    Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)(a) to
(c), (2), (3), and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $6,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or
deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and
deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the
Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
               deposits into the Special Account at such
               intervals as the Bank shall specify.
          (ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request,
               the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
               documents and other evidence required pursuant
               to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
               or payments in respect of which replenishment is
Page  13
               requested.  On the basis of each such request,
               the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
               withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
               the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
               shall have requested and as shall have been
               shown by said documents and other evidence to
               have been paid out of the Special Account for
               eligible expenditures.
     All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
     (a) if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
     (b) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to
the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special
commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
     Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
     (b) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
     (c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
     (d) Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Page  14
Conditions.
