Do,cument of
The World Bank
FOR OFFCIAL USE ONTLY
Report No. 1 0 8 0 7
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MOROCCO
MIDDLE ATLAS - CENTRAL AREA -
ACRITCULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2082-MOR)
JUNE 30, 1992
Agricultural Operations Division
Cour.try Department I
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and man be used bv recipients onlv in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  -  Dirham (DE)
Appraisal year                        US$1.00  -  DH 5.17
Implementation average                US$1.00  -  DH 8.27
Completion year, average              US$1.00  -  DH 8.24
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CLCA        Caisse locale de credit agricole
CNCA        Caisse nationale de credit agricole
CT          Extension Center
DE          Direction de l'1levage
DPA         Direction provinciale de l'agriculture
DPAE        Direction de la planification et des affaires economiques
DPV         Direction de la production v6getale
F'AO/CP     Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations/
World Bank Cooperative Program
FKT         Fes-Karia-Tissa Project
FY          Fiscal Year (Wcrld Bank)
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
GOM         Government of Morocco
IAV         Institut agronomique et v6t6rinaire, Hassan II
MARA        Ministere de l'agriculture et de la reforme agraire
MTSAP       Medium Term Agricultural Adjustment Programme
ONEP        Office national de l'eau potable
PCR         Project Completion Report
SAL         Structural Adjustment Loan
SAP         Special Action Program
SAR         Staff Appraisal Report
T&V         Training and Visit
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
Government of Morocco: January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 30, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on MOROCCO
Middle Atlas- Central Area -
Agriculture Development Project (Loan 2082-MOR)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Morocco - Middle Atlas - Central Area - Agriculture
Development Project (Loan 2082-MOR)" prepared by the Middle East and North
Africa Regional Office.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of their official
dvlies. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MOROCCO
MIDDLE ATLAS - CENTRAL AREA
AGP'ICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2082-MOR)
T^BLE OF CONTENTS
PafeNo.
PREFACE    ........ . . . . . . . . . . .
EVALUATTON SUMKARY  .                          . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          i. i
PART I:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE    . . . . . . . . . .1
1.  Project Identity   . . . . . . . . . .    .            . . . . . .
2.  Background   . . . . . . . . . . .                            .1
3.  Project .'bjectives and Description  . . . . . . . . . .                 2
4.  Project Design and Organization            . . . . .   . . . .           3
5.  Project Implementation  .            ...        . . . . . . . . .        4
6.  Main Project Results   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 6
7.  Project Sustainability   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 9
8.  Bank Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                10
9.  Borrower Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                12
10.  Project Relationship   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                12
11.  Consulting Services             .  .  .  .  .  .   . . . . . . . .      12
12.  Project Documentation and Data   . . .   . . . . . . . .                12
PART II:  PROJECT REVIEW FPOM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE   . . . . . .                      13
A. Confirmation of Factual Data Contained in Parts I
and   III  .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  13
B.  Remarks on the Analysis Contained in Part I  . . . . . .                 13
C.  Bank Performance    . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . . .                15
D. Borrower Performance.. .                                                  15
E.  Lessons Learned   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                15
F.  Relationship between Bank and Moroccan Government   . . .                16
PART III:  STATISTICAL INFORMATION   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  17
1. Related Bank Loans   ..17
2.  Project Timetable   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                18
3. Loan Disbursements   ..19
4.  Project Implementation:   Project Implementation Ratios                  21
5.  Project Costs and Finascing   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                24
6.  Project Results  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     26
7.  Status of Major Covenants (Ln. 2082-MOR)    . . . . . . .                29
8.  Use of Bank Resources   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                30
ANNEXES
1.  Land Use and Crop Yields in Ifrane    . . . . . . I . . .                32
2.  Land II.SP in Project Area    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              33
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 1 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MOROCCO
MIDDLE ATLAS - CENTRAL AREA
AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJE-T
(Loan 2082-MOR)
PREFACE
This is the Prolect Completion Report (PCR) for the Middle Atlas - Central
Area - Agriculture Development Project for which Loan 2082-MOR, in the amount of
US$29 million, was approved on January 7, 1982. The loan was clo&ed on December
31, 1990, two and a half years behind schedule. US$5 million was cancelled from
the loan in November 1984, followed by cancellation of US$8 million in January
1987, US$5 million in December 1989, and the balance of about US$2 million at
closure.   Total disbursements amounted to US$9 million or 31 percent of the
original and 82 percent of the revised loan amount.
The PCR (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) was prepared by
sta:'f of the PAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme (FAO/CP) for the Agriculture
Opneations Division of the Middle East and North Africa Regional Office of the
Bank. Part II was prepared by the Borrower.
Preparation of the PCR was started during a visit to Morocco by an FAO/CP
mission in February 1991 and is based inter alia on a report prepared by the
Directorate of Livestock of the Borrower, on material gathered in Morocco,
discussions with Bank Project staff, the Appraisal Report, the Loan Agreement,
supervision reports, as well as correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower
and internal Bank memoranda.



- iii -
PROJEBCT COMPLETION REPORT
IIOROCCO
MIDDLE ATLAS - CENTRAL AREA -
AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMET PROJECT
(Loan 2082-NOR)
EVILUATION SUEARY
Obiectives
1.          The Middle Atlas Agriculture Development Project was the third of
four projects appraised by the Bank, during the late seventies and early
eighties, that demonstratod the interest of both Government and the Bank in
the integrated development of rainfed agriculture. Previous governmeztal
agricultural development policies had aimed almost solely at developing the
large-scale irrigated agriculture sub-sector. Designed as an integrated agro-
sylvo-pastoral development effort, the Middle Atlas project through the
implementation in five communes (provinces of Ifrane and Khenifera) of a
series of interrelated actions in the forest, on the range and on arable land
aimed at: (a) bringing about production increases of meat, milk, fodder,
cereals and wood; (b) increasing income and employment among the rural
production; and (c) reversing the deterioration of the forest and rangelands
in the areas, while restoring the role of tribal fractions in managing
collective rangelands. The project comprised four major components: forestry
development, livestock 'mprovement, cropping development and technical
assistance/studies. Specifically, these included (i) infrastructure and
equipment for the management and exploitation of the region's forest
resources; (ii) forest and collective rangeland development activities; (iii)
development of animal health facilities; (iv) on-farm development and working
capital for agricultural production; (v) construction and improvement of
forest range and feeder roads; (vi) improved extension and research; (vii)
irrigation rehabilitation; and (viii) technical assistance.
I-olementation Exoerience
2.          In spite of severe budgetary constraints and management problems
arising from frequent staff turnover, the project was successful in meating
several of its objectives. Major physical targets (table 4) that were met at



- iv -
more than 50 :rcent of appraisal estimates include the preparation of forest
management pl.1B, forest production improvement and services as well as range-
land z.avelopment, constructior. and equipment. Project performance was less
satisfactory in the physical implementation of forest road construction (21
percent of target), forest range management (33 percent of area expected) and
irrigation rehabilitation, where the Ifrane comuponent was cancelled during
project restructuring and the Midelt area completed at only 7.5 percent.
3.          From the first year of implementation (1983), this project, more
than any of the above mentioned World Bank financed projects, was confronted
with severely restrictive budget allocations. During fiscal years 1985 and
1986 the budget crisis reached a peak with shortage of allocated funds and
delayed authorization of payments; as a result, project activities were
severely reduced. Project implementation took two and a half years longer
than anticipated (table 2). Ban.c disbursements (US$ 9 million) lagged
throughout the whole period of implementation and 69 percent of the original
loan amount was cancelled (Table 3).
4.          Project coordination and management suffered greatly from the
frequent t.rnover in staff and delays in filling vacancies. In the project
region of Ifrane, the transfer of the project management unit from Meknes to
Azrou late in 1986, and the nomination of a new project director for the area,
along with the subsequent stability of the staff, gave project implementation
a new impetus. In the project region of Khenifra, however, despite a good
start, project activities slowed as a result of personnel transfers, unfilled
key posts and poor coordination.
Results
5.          The project objectives of bringing about increased inconme and
production of meat (sheep), sylvo-pastoral fodder and reversing the deter'o-
ration of the forests and rangelands were achieved in most areas where the
related project activities took place. However, those pertaining to increased
cereal and wood production and employment, were only partially achieved.
6.          Forestry DeveloDment.  The results of the recently completed
management plans, forest demarcation and plantation of conifers can only be
felt in the long term. Nevertheless, an appreciation of their positive impact
can already te felt since encroachment on forests lands is diminishing and a
better forest exploitation methodology is in effect at both Ifrane and
Khenifra. in the other hand, spraying to cont_ol the processionary cater-
pillar, thinning of holm-oak, forest range management and the construction of
roads, forest offices and stations as well as the procurement of equipment all
had an immediate and positive (even if unquantified) imnpact on the protection
of the forest and on improving the production of wood.
7.          Livestock Development.  Collective rangeland management at
Timahdite was undoubtedly the most successful activity undertaken by the
project to improve animal nutrition. Fodder production in the managed areas



v 
increa. - from 250 UF/ha to 480 UF/ha.  The animial health component was also
success-il and was reportedly able to reduce sheep death rates from 13 to 7
percent. Genetic improvements, proper herd management and several related
studies were not sufficiently adeKessed and therefore did not show the
expected results.
8.          Crogpina Development.  As a result of the project, the extension
services of the DPAs of Ifrane and Khenifra were strengthened and reorganized.
The extension effort was modeled along the Training and Visit system and
contacts with farmers were intensified. However, in view of the fact that
extension reorganization and strengthening took effect relatively late in the
life of the project, clear benefits accruing from them will only appear after
a period of time. Data available from Ifrane (Annex 1) indicate that cropped
areas for bread wheat and forage crops did increase as expected but crop
yields have not shown significant improvements.
Bustainability
9.          The main aspects where the project has been most succissful,
including improved collective and forest range management (Timahdite and
Bouhsoussen), are considered to be sustainable.  The first because the
technology was demonstrated to be well adapted and mastered by project staff.
The second because of local government support, real increases in fodder
production and beneficiary participation and interest. The cereal, forage
crops and wood production as well as livestock management have yet to reach
their potential and will necessitate, for tneir suscainability, more technical
assistance and support.
Findings and Lessons Learned
10.         The important lessons learned from this proje t are:
(a) management staff stability, competence and dedication are an
essential prerequisite to project success; key posts should be
filled by competent staff before Bank loans are made effective;
(b)   lack of Government financial support will hinder the
implementation and success even of well managed projects (such as
Ifrane after 1986).
(c)   monitoring and evaluation needs to be designed as an integral part
of project activities and should be in place before project
implementation begins (way, loan effectivzeLses). Collection and
analysis of monitoring data need not be complicated but have to be
pursued with a sustained determination;
(d)   this project also demonstrated that, despite the difficulties
involved, collective and forest rangelands can indeed be
organized, improved and managed properly, if the traditional



- vi -
rights of usage of the populations are not disturbed and if the
rightholders are involved in defining the management plans they
are supposed to follow;
(e)   integrating well-designed potable water supply schemes and other
social infrastructural works (as in Timahdite) with agricultural
development, improves the acceptance by the populations of the
changes and risks advocated by the project;
(f)   the involvement of local authorities in sensitizing and securing
the participation of the target populations is not only advisable
but necessary;
(g)   while the project correctly promoted the integration of a number
of different sub-sector activities, it suffered from the poor
coordination between Directorates of MARA and was limited by
having to fund all activities through the budget of tie livestoo2k
Directorate. For projects involving different Directorates,
project organization should be carefullv designed to allow for
multisectoral buuget allocations and to ensure true integration of
activities, knowing that coordinating committees do not guarantee
success.
(h)     five years is too short an implementation period for projects of
this type and complaxity. Project duration should be fixed
according to disbursement profiles established on the basis of
experience.



PROJECT COMPLETiON REPORT
MOROCCQ
MIDDLE ATLAs - CENTRAL AREA -
AGRICULTURE DEVELOPtIENT PROJECT
(Lorn 2082-MOR)
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTTVE
1. Project Identity
Project Name:    Middle Atlas - Central Area
- Agriculture Development Project
Credit No.:      2082-MOR
RVP Unit:        MNA Regic.
Country:         Morocco
Sector:          Agriculture
2. Prc4ect Backqround
2.1       Economic Context.  During the 1970's, the Moroccan Government
launched a massive public investment program to stimulate growth of the
economy. This caused GDP growth rate to increase to 7.3% per year in the
period 1973-77 but a disequilibrium developed with an increasing debt service
ratio. An initial stabilization program reduced investments and imports at
the cost of reduced GDP growth and unemployment. In 1980, the Government
adopted a strzctural adjustment strategy aiming at narrowing the external
resource gap while accelerating growth through (i) import reductions, (ii)
export promotion, and (iii) improved sectorial investment allocations.
2.2       Agricultural Context.  The project was formulated in 1979 during a
period when Moroccan agriculture's share in the economy was declining and its
contribution to GDP was averaging about 13 percent down from about 20 percent
at the beginning of the seventies. Growth of agricultural output averaged
only about 2.4%, not enough to keep pace with the rising demand for foodstuffs
of a rapidly growing population. In the mid 1970's, the agricultural trade
balance changed significantly and move. into deficit (US$150 to 200 million
per year). This decline ensued mainly from limited investment by the
Government in the rainfed sector on which over 80% of the rural population
depended for their livelihood, lack of a coherent price policy for the
agricultural sector, and land tenure problems which limited the use of modern
production techniques and agricultural credit. Insufficient attention had
also been given to the livestock sub-sector which contributed about a third of
agricultural GDP and to forestry production which was limited but could
potentially be increased to satisfy national wood and energy requirements.
2.3       The Government's objectives for agriculture in the Five-Year Plan
(1981-1985) were (i) to restore a high degree of agricultural self-sufficiency
and maximize agriculture's contribution to the balance of payments by
fostering export and import substituting production! and (ii; to reduce
regional income disparitied and improve living conditions of the poorer



segments of the rural population by increasing their productivity and
generating employment opportunities. To attain these objectives, the
Government increased public investment i.n agriculture and reallocated
investments to favor rainfed agriculture and livestock activities practiced by
the majority of Morocco's rural poor, as well as for forestry development.
The investment program in agriculture under the 1981-85 Plan reflects this
strategy. Agriculture is allocated 22.5% of total investments, against 18
percent during 1978-1980.  Within the sector, the share of large scale
irrigation schemes fell from 61 to 40 percent, while that of rainfed
agricultural development increased from 2 to 18 pe.cent, of smail-scale
irrigation from 3 to 8 percent, of livestock development from 4 to li percent
and of forestry from 4 to 8 percent. Since FY 1975, Bank lending in
agriculture has emphasized improvement in the productivity of rain: I
agriculture and livestock. A series of four rural development projects (Fes-
Karia-Tissa FY 1978, Loukkos FY 1980, Middle Atlas i'Y 1982, Ouln,es-Rommani FY
1983) were prepared to aduress these ohjectives.
2.4       The Project.  The issues addressed by the Middle Atlas Agricultural
Deve.opment Project, i.e. increasing production of basic commodities,
deveIGpment of forestry and rangeland resources in a relatively poor
mountainous area in central Morocco, to bring about a rire of income and
employment among the rural population, are fully comp.tible with the economic
and agricultural development objectives of the country.
3. 7roiect Obiectives and Description
Project Obiect..ves
3.1       Through the implementation in five communes (provinces of Ifrane
and Khenifra) of a series of interrelated actions in the forest, on the range
and on arable land, the project aimed at: (i) bringing about production
increases of meat, milk, fodder, cereals and wood; (ii) increasing income and
employment among the rural population; and (iii) reversing the deterioration
of the forest and rangelands in the areas, while restoring the role of tribal
fractions in managing collective rangelands.
Proiect Description
3.2       The project consisted cf the following four components:
(a)    Forestry developmenS     implementation of forest management
plans over 124,000   , including the preparation of neu plans
over 3E,000 ha, the provision of infrastructure including the
construction of 185 km of forest roads, installation of
nurseries, planting of trees (3,200 ha), thinning of cedar
and holm-oak trees (17,800 ha); pest management (46,000 ha);
and the strengthening of forest services through construction
of offices and housing and provision of equipment and
vehicles.
(b)    Livestock Development:  development of fodder resources at
the farm level, in the forest (20,80C ha) and on collective
rangeland; introduction of range management systems based on



-3-
fixed stocking rates and )n deferred and rotational gra:zing
(51,000 ha); provision of infrastructure on the range such Ps
water supply schemes and access roads at Timahdite;
construction of animal health faciliLies; improvement of herd
management; and provision of short, medium and long term
credit.
(c)    Cropping Development:  reorganization and reinforcement of
extension services; problem-specific research programs linked
with extension; provision of credit; rehabilitation of some
2,000 ha of small traditional irrigation perimeters;
construction of access roads; and introduction of forage
conservation methods.
(d)    Consultants and Studies:  techiiical assistance (124 mm) for
extension, range management, research, training of loggers,
pest management, project monitoring; scudies for irrigation
rehabilitation and for the establishment of a cheese factory.
3.3        In November 1985, the project description was amended to include
the funding of training, vehicles, equipment and operating costs for up to 30
pilot extension centers (28 were eventually funded). A total of US$1.1 m of
loan funds were set aside and a revolving fund of US$200,000 was set up at the
Central Bank. This was part of a program introduced under the first
agricultural sector adjustment loan to develop a T&V based extension service
in the rainfed areas to be eventually extended throughout the country.
Subsequently, the Government requested that the special account cover all
components, that it be increased to $2 million and that its location be
changed from the Central Bank to the Treasury. In March 1988, the Bank agreed
to close the original special account with the Central Bank and to open a new
one in the Treasury for all categories under the Loan (with a subaccount for
the pilot extension program), and to increase its amount to the equivalent of
$2 million in local currency.
4. Project Design and Organization
4.1        The conceptual design of the project was based on a realistic
assessment of the development alternatives available to the zone which
integrated forestry. range and crop production improvements. Project
objectives were shared and weli understood at the central level of the
Directorate of Livestock, where the staff were fully involved in preparing the
project. This was much less the case, however, at the regional level, where
project objectives were often insufficiently understood, especia lv during the
latter years of project implementation.
4.2         The fact that the already establ_shed prc\'incial management
directorates (DPAs) of Kenifra and Ifrane were the imiain executing agencies for
project activities in their respective provinces, definitely helped project
execution and the project was able to create, albeit to varying degrees, a
sense of renewed dynamism in the two DPAs.   However, the planning and
decision making ability of the DPAs was greatl.y hampered by the lack of
financial autonomy (contract approval and payment). This was compounded by
frequent staff changes (paras. 5.4, 5.5), particular'y at Khenifra. With one



- 4 -
separate project unit in each DPA, coordination was practically inexistent and
in hindsight it is easy to note that the project would have benefited from a
sing'.e project coordinator responsible for supporting project implementation
by the two DPAs. In addition to the DPAs, whose responsibilities extend far
beyond the project areas and activities, a stronger project management unit
could have taken the lead in continuously focusing the attention of the DPA
'service chiefs on the activities of the project and on the need to keep to the
agreed upc.n timetable.
5. Project Implementation
5.1       Project costs at appraisal were estimated at US$92.2 million,
project duration was to last 5 years, ending in June 1988. Actual costs were
considerably less than anticipated and project duration was extended to 7.5
years. At completion, Bank disbursements were US$9 million instead of the
estimated US$29 million. This reduction in project cost was mainly due to the
variation in the exchange rate where the US Dollar appreciated significantly
against the Mioroccan Dirham, very severe budget limitacions (paras. 5.2, 5.3),
poor project coordii.ation (para. 4.2), the high turnover in management staff
(paras. 5.4, 5.5) and the low use of technical assistance (para. 5.6) which
resulted in low implemenzation ratios.
5.2       Budgetarv Constraints.  The project (along with most of the Bank
supported projects) suffered from the very begi- ning from a shortage of local
funds caused by the tight budgetary situation in Morocco.   This led to
repeated postponement of approval of contracts and late availability of
approved financing for the project.  Despite approval of the Special Action
Program in 1987 (see below) and repeated requests by the Bank to the
Government to speed up budgetary transfers, this situation persisted
throughout the life of the project causing delays in implementation.   This
situation, coupled with the exchange rate diUferentials, lowered project costs
significantly from DH 443 million expected at appraisal to DH 135 million at
project completion.
5.3       In order to compensate for the financing shortages and improve
project implementation, agreement was reached in 1987 on a Special Action
Programme (SAP) which increased Bank disbursement percentages for the first
two categories of the Loan (oroject works, spraying program, construction of
water supply system and roads). Subsequently, the Bank agreed to extend the
applicability of the higher disbursement rates of the SAP until the closing
date of the Loan, to restructure the project by reducing the forestry,
livestock, agricultural development and the rural road programs to their most
essential production components, and to authorize the use of the special
account (para. 3.3) for all categories and increase its amount from US$200,000
to US$2 million equivalent in local currency.
5.4       Project managemert.  The second and probably the most important
factor that affected the pace of implementation was the high turnover in
project management staff. After a slow start, project implementation in the
Ifrane region picked up speed after the transfer in September 1986 if the
project management unit from the DPA of Meknes to the newly created DPA of
Ifrane. A new dynamic management team came or. board. Management stability and
dedication of the staff were instrumental in achieving major successes,



. 5 -
especially in the phytosanitary treatment of cedar forests and the
organization of clans for improved management of collective rangelands.
5.5       In the Khenifra Region, a good start was followed by the nomination
and subsequent transfer of at least three provincial directors and almost all
service chiefs. This resulted in insufficient focus on project activities and
delays in getting project activities and studies funded and executed. A case
in point is the study of irrigation rehabilitation in Midelt, where the aerial
photography and mapping took more than three years to complete and by the end
of the project only 7.5 percent of the area to be rehabilitated was fully
completed.
5.6       Technical assistance,  The insufficient use of technical assistance
(only 15 mm were used against 124 mm planned/1) due to late availability of
financing, and delays in processing of consultant contracts at the Ministry of
Finance, also had a negative effect on project implementation, particularly
the range management, extension, and monitoring and evaluation programs.
5.7       Project risks were correctly identified in the SAR.  However, high
staff turnover and the financial crisis, as described above, and the unusual
severe incidence of drought had a far greater impact on the project than had
been anticipated at appraisal. While the poor initial quality and long delays
in producing studies for the Timahdite and El Feija range perimeters
(para. 6.3) could not have been foreseen either, they were nevertheless
responsible for substantial delays in the implementation of those components.
5.8       As a result of the difficulties mentioned above, the project was
able to implement only parts of its components and therefore did not fully
attain its objectives (see Table 4, Part III). In the forestry development
and exploitation component, the forest management plans (36,000 ha), insect
control (on 31,500 ha), construction of forest services buildings, as well as
equipment and nurseries, were successfully implemented and almost totally
completed. The forest production activities, consisting mainly of cedar
forest regeneration and thinning of holm-oak, as well as the forest range
improvement and management, were implemented respectively at 39 and 63 percent
of appraisal expectations.
5.9       In the livestock component, while the husbandry practices and
nutrition did not receive the necessary attention, pastoral development
achieved a major success in the organization and management of the Timahdite
(25,000 ha) collective range and the Bouhsoussen public forest range (4,800
ha).   Collective pastoral sites were divided into manageable units according
to tribal fraction distribution rather than phyto-ecological criteria. This
allowed for the adherence and participation of the rightholders to the
development program. This same methodology is being used in other collective
range sites in Morocco and could have application in other countries of the
region.
5.10        The agricultural development component permitted the
reorganization of the extension system and its strengthening with new staff.
1    12 man months were used to produce the national extension plan.



- 6 -
However, the use of fertilizers and other farm inputs had only an erratic
development and increases of crop yields and livestock production were not
sufficiently evident. The irrigation activities for the Azrou region were
cancelled during project restructuring in 1987 and those for the Khenifra area
suffered long delays and were only partially completed. The third tranche of
works has been taken over by the Small and Medium Scale Irrigation II project.
6. Main Project Results
6.1       The project objectives of bringing about increased income and
production of meat, sylvo-pastoral fodder as well as reversing the
deterioration of the forests and rangelands, were achieved in most areas where
the related project activities took place. However, those pertaining to
increased cereal and wood production and employment were only marginally
achieved.
Forestry Development
6.2       The results of the recently completed management plans, forest
demarcation and plantation of conifers can only be assessed in the long term.
Nevertheless, an appreciation of their positive impact can already be felt
since encroachment on forest lands is diminishing and a better forest
exploitation methodology is in effect at both Ifrane and Khenifra. On the
other hand, spraying to control the processionary caterpillar, thinning of
holm-oak, forest range management and the construction of roads, forest
offices and stations, as well as the procurement of equipment, can all be
expected to have an immediate effect on the protection of the forest and on
improving the production of wood. Due to the lack of monitoring and
evaluation, no meaningful data is available to quantify the degree of success
or failure achieved. Nonetheless, the "ollowing observations can be made:
(a)    Insect control was implemented wherever the treatment was
necessary with visible positive effects on the cedar forest
of the area. A monitoring and research unit for forest
phytosanitary protection was established and is operational.
(b)    As a result of oak thinning and other forest exploitation
activities, a total of 250,000 m3 of sawlogs and 465,000
steres of fuelwood were produced between 1983 and 1989. This
is less than the anticipated incremental production of
300,000 m3 of sawlogs and 850,000 steres of fuelwood. The
shortfall in wood production is mostly due to the decision
not to establish the planned mechanized forest exploitation
units and to the partial implementation of forest roads.
(c)    Of a total of 12,000 ha in Bouhsoussen forest, range
management enabled the fencing and rational exploitation of
only 6,600 ha, with the participation and adherence (between
1984 and 1987) of about 700 stock owners organized in 28
groups. 'orest inanagement and fencing have been accepted by
the neighbouring populations who have asked the forest
service to step up the pace of its activities. Fodder
production, as a result of sylvo-pastoral management and



-7 -
improvement, has been reported to have increased in some
areas by 200 per cent (from 250 to 750 UF/ha) instead of the
62 per cent planned. Revegetation efforts showed that fodder
shrubs, namely Acacia Ciano2hyla and oDuntia Ficus Indica Var
Inermis, did not succeed because of poor adaptation to
prevailing edaphic conditions.
Livestock Development
6.3       The collective range menagement component suffered substantial
delays (about 5 years) due to social and organizational problems which had
been underestimated at appraisal. The principal reason for the difficulty in
implementing the main part (Timahdite and Ain Leuh) of the component was the
lack of information relating to the ownership of rights to the collective
lands by the prospective beneficiaries. The lack of commitment from both
Government and the communities involved resulted in a standstill of most of
the operations in 1985 for about a year. An additional problem was that
locally adapted technical packages for pasture development did not exist and
had to be devised and demonstrated to prospective beneficiaries to obtain
their full cooperation. Thus, a great deal of preparatory work needed to be
undertaken with the participation of the beneficiaries before appropriate
management systems could be established for Timahdite and Ain Leuh (late
1988/early 1989).   Once implemented, collective range management,
particularly at Timahdite, was undoubtedly the most successful activity
undertaken by the project to improve 'odder production. Animal health was
also successful and was reportedly able to reduce sheep death rates from 13 to
7%2 Genetic improvement, herd management and several related studies were
not sufficiently addressed and therefore did not show the expected results.
6.4       As mentioned above, in 1988, the Agronomic and Veterinary Institute
Hassan II (IAV) produced in collaboration with the Livestock Directorate (DE)
and the DPA of Ifrane, a range management plan for the communal range
perimeter of Timahdite (25,000 ha), base.l on participation of the graziers.
It was put into effect that same year and by 1990, 7,500 ha were managed under
a deferred grazing management plan. Under this plan, specific areas of the
range were closed to grazing during the early part of spring which allowed
plant growth and biomass production co increase from 250 UF/ha to 480 UF/ha.
For areas where the dominate species is Atemisia herba alba, a perennial
shrub, a multi-year .'sferment plan was put into effect and should show with
time an increase in production. While the range is closed, sheep herds move
to other parts of the range, to the forests or to arable land left fallow.
During the rest periods, a symbolic compensation, in the form of barley grain
was given to the range users. Committees and cooperatives were organized with
the local population to manage the rangelands and collect the 3 DH/sheep/year
fee from the users for operation and maintenance of the water supply scheme
and the other infrastructure (concrete marking posts). In Feija, the other
collective pastoral development perimeter of about 4,000 ha, the whole area
has been closed to grazing. Several shrubs and herbaceous species were tested
there, which showed that Agropiron sp and Atriplex numularia were well adapted
to the area.
2    Project staff estimates (Ifrane).



6.5       The results obtained in Timahdite are worthy of consideration and
could serve as a model not only for other communal rangelands in Morocco, but
also in neighbouring countries. The most important and probably most durable
result is securing the participation and involvement of the range
rightholders. This was made possible by the involvement of the communal
affairs services of the Ministry of Interior, the construction of the water
supply scheme, which served as a potent incentive, and the adoption of lenient
grazing deferment schedules. The second result was the improvement in range
fodder production which increased by 87% as planned. Coupled with the
veterinary services provided, the improvement in range fodder production was
responsible for increasing sheep daily weight gains to 150 g, corresponding to
an increase of more than 30%.
6.6       Collective and forest range management as well as insect spraying
in the forest, have had a positive impact on the physical environment of the
area covered by the project. The vegetative cover was improved reducing
erosion on the rangelands, and cedar trees of many forests in the area were
preserved.
6.7       The establishment of the range management and the forestry
monitoring and research units, and the strengthening of the DPAs in Azrou and
Khenifra have had a major impact on improving the capabilities of these
institutions to address technical and social development issues. The water
supply scheme (at ':imahdite) and wells (at Ain Leuh) made the task of fetching
water easier for -;omen and improved the health and well-being of the rural
population in the project area.
Extension
6.8       The funding of 28 pilot extension centers (CT) (para. 3.3) in
addition to extension activities funded in Ifrane and Khenifra, brought to a
total of 43 (15 being covered by the four area development projects) the CTs
receiving the transport and operating budget required to provide at least a
minimal extension service. However, significant improvements in extension
services were not possible until late in the life of the project. This was
due to the fact that extension activities, particularly in Khenifra, were
affected by the frequent management changes described above, and by the lack
of extension chiefs and financing for purchase of vehicles and operating
expenses.   A number of other factors affected smooth implementation of
extension activities: (a) it proved difficult to detach subject matter
specialists from their day-to-day administrative duties; (b) a number of the
CTs were in the arid areas where extension had little to pass on; and (c)
field staff had a limited education and capacity to diagnose problems and were
sometimes less well informed than the farmers. The equivalent of US$1 m was
disbursed for these activities and experience with these centers contributed
to the preparation of the National Agricultural Research and Extension Project
which was appraised in 1987.



-9-
Cropping Development
6.9          Due to the late improvements made in extension effectiveness,
clear benefits in terms of increases in crop and livestock yields would only
accrue after a period of time. Data available from Ifrane (annex 1) indicate
that between 1983 and 1988 surface areas planted to durum wheat and barley did
not change significantly, while cultivation of bread wheat increased by 100
per cent (from 4,000 to 8,000 ha) and of forage crops by 81 per cent (from
1,425 ha to 2,580 ha). On the other hand, no significant yield increases were
registered.
6.10      Credit.  As a result of the agricultural investment code, farmers
in the project area had access to credit to finance farm equipment and crop
establishment through the regional and local branches of the "Caisse nationale
du Credit Agricole" (CNCA). Total credit granted increased from DH 30.8
million in 1983 to DH 54.4 million in 1987 with Khenifra accounting for 54% of
the total amount. At the time of PCR preparation, no information had been
made available on the number of beneficiaries, the nature of the investments
for which the credit was used nor its impact on agricultural production.
Special credit facilities such as those implemented in the Fes-Karia-Tissa
project would have contributed to a faster uptake of better farming techniques
and equipment.
6.11      Monitoring and Evaluation.  Neither DPA involved in the Project has
established a monitoring and evaluation unit. The short training and
inadequate use of consultant support by the project management unit did not
enable it to collect any meaningful data to evaluate the impact of the
project. Little relevant data, particularly on the effect of extension on
crop yields or of range improvement on livestock production parameters were
available at the time of PCR preparation.
6.12      Internal Rate of Return.  Due to the lack of monitoring and
evaluation data, it is not possible to carry out an internal rate of return
calculation for the project. Field visits and discussions, conducted by the
mission with the staff of the DPAs, indicated that the project had, at best,
only a marginal impact on agricultural and forestry production. In view of
the potential importance of the small Timahdite range sub-component which
appears to have been successful in developing an approach to collective
rangeland improvement, an analysis was carried out and resulted in an ERR of
about 37% for this activity (Table 6 of Part III)3.
7. Project Sustainability
7.1       The most successful components of the project, which include forest
management and improved collective and forest range management (Timahdite and
Bouhsoussen), are considered to be sustainable. The first because the
technology was demonstrated to be well adapted to prevailing conditions and
3    This compares to an SAR estimate of 21%, but a comparison between the
two results is difficult as the assumptions of the original
calculations were not fully available.



-10 -
mastered by the DPA staff. The second because of Government support and
beneficiary participation and interest. The proven success in conserving the
natural resources in the forest and in achieving increased biomass production
on the rangelands will also contribute to the sustainability of these
activities.
7.2       Continued government support and willingness to seek beneficiary
participation and support is essential to future success of these
interventions in other areas. In order to obtain the full participation of
the population, the Government (MARA) may need to bear the cost of some form
of compensation to the herders during the initial periods when the rangelands
are closed for rest periods. In the past, the construction of infrastructure
(water supply schenes ancd wells) and/or the distribution of free animal feed
(50 kg of barley per ha of closed range per year) atLd provision of veterinary
services have provided sufficient incentives for the population until the
improvement in biomass production of the grazing lands became visible.
Replication of the experiences of Timahdite and Bouhsoussen is being actively
sought by the local populations of other areas and the Government (MARA) has
come forward with the necessary support. As the populations become more
committed and the success of the various improvement techniques become more
visible, Government compensation should diminish.
7.3       For crop and livestock production, a more dynamic effort in
extension will be required to reap the maximum benefits from the organization
and infrastructural investments put in place. Training and staff continuity
will be instrumental in providing the extension effort with the high quality
competent staff required. This in turn will give greater credibility to both
the extensicnists and their messages. Staff motivation and dedication will
have to be enhanced through the provision of adequate technical messages by
research, and the provision of inputs, transport and other working means and
materials.
8. Bank Performance
8.1       Project identification, preparation and appraisal were done well
and in close cooperation with a national team and the FAO-CP. Bank strengths
were the frequent (16 missions in 8 years) and high calibre supervision
missions mounted throughout the project life. The Bank's supervision effort
was highly appreciated and helped to build a constructive dialogue with
project staff particularly in Ifrane. The Bank proved responsive and flexible
in restructuring the project under the SAP in 1987 to permit the execution of
a limited program of priority investments. However, the SAP could have been
approved earlier in 1985 rather than two years later.   Also, although the
Bank made continuous attempts to draw the attention of MARA and the Ministry
of Finance to the need to reverse the funding const.aints which were
particularly hard for the Middle Atlas project, it was not successful in this
regard. New budgetary and disbursement procedures introduced in 1988/89 came
too late to affect this project. Another Bank weakness was that it did not
press harder for technical assistance.



- 11 -
Lessons Learned
8.2       The important lessons learned fron, this project are:
(i)   management staff stability, competence and dedication are an
essential prerequisite to project success. Key posts should
be filled by competent staff before Bank loans are made
effeccive;
(ii)   lack of Government financial support will hinder the
implementation and success even of well managed projects
(such as Ifrane after 1986);
(iii)  monitoring and evaluation needs to be designed as an integral
part of project activities and should be in place before
project implementation begins (say, loan effectiveness).
Collection and analysis of monitoring data need not be
complicated but have to be pursued with a sustained
determination;
(iv)   this project also demonstrated that, despite the difficulties
involved, collective and forest rangelands can indeed be
organized, improved and managed properly, if the traditional
rights of usage of the populations are not disturbed and if
the rightholders are involved in defining the management
plans they are supposed to follow;
(v)    integrating well-designed potable water supply schemes and
other infrastruactural works (as in Timahdite) with
agricultural development, improves the acceptance by the
populations of the changes and risks advocated by the
project;
(vi)   the involvement of local authorities in sensitizing and
securing the participation of the target populations is not
only advisable but necessary.
(vii)  while the project correctly promoted the integration of a
number of different sub-sector activities, it suffered from
the poor coordination between Directorates of MARA and was
limited by having to fund all activities through the budget
of the livestock Directorate. For projects involving
different Directorates, project organization should be
carefully designed to allow for multisectoral budget
allocations and to ensure true integration of activities,
knowing that coordinating committees do not guarantee
success.
(viii)   five years is too short an implementation period for projects
of this type and complexity. Project duration should be
fixed according to disbursement profiles established on the
basis of experience.



- 12 -
9. Borrower Performance
9.1       The national team was able to put together, with the collaboration
and assistance of the FAO-CP and World Bank, the necessary information for a
rapid appraisal of the prrject.  During project implementation, the borrower's
main strergth resided in its enactment of t:he necessary decrees to improve
collective rangelar.ds and the creation and staffing of the new DPA of Ifrane
at Azrou in 1956. Main weaknesses were in the high project management staff
turnover particularlv in Khenifra, inadequate project funding, insufficient
use of technical asistance and training, and insufficient back-stopping by
central Directorates, especially in monitoring and evaluation which was not
pursued to any meaningful extent. In addition, coordination among and within
central Directorates and project management units was weak.
10. Proiect RelationshiD
10.1      The relationship between the Bank and project management was good,
and the exchange of technical views helped in upgrading certain studies such
as those prepared by IAV Hassan II for rangeland development. However, there
was lack of support for the project in certain departments of the Ministry of
Agriculture, which caused the project to suffer even more drastic cuts at the
Ministry of Finance than the other ongoing rural development projects. This
situation led the Bank to recommend the allocation of available funds in
priority to the agro-sylvo-pastoral components which are the core of the
project and to reduce the scope of components which were not essential to the
project (para. 5.3).
11. Consulting Services
11.1      Aside from the entomology and analytical accounting consultancies
totaling 3 man months and the extension expert, who during 12 mm, worked on
the national extension plan, none of the remaining 109 man months were used.
Project implementation and staff, particularly in crop and livestock
development and in monitoring and evaluation, could have gained substantially
from the selective use of the funds provided for technical assistance.
12. Project Documentation and Data
12.1      The DPAs implementing the project prepared detailed annual reports
describing the activities undertaken. For the PCR, the livestock Directorate
(DE) prepared a synthesis of two reports by the DPAs of Ifrane and Khenifra,
where the major physical achievements of the project were highlighted.
However, the document lacked specific information on most aspects of project
activities. Concerning the credit component, for example, the report showed
only global amounts per province, with no details on credit distribution per
type of credit (short-medium or long term) or on rates of credit repayments.
As mentioned previously, due to the lack of monitoring and evaluation, the
impact of the project on forest, range and agricultural production and on the
preservation of natural resources cannot be measured. The qualitative
assessment of project results was based on observations made by the mission
during field visits and on discussions with staff of MARA, the DPAs and
project participants.



- 13 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
(Translated from the original French version)
A. Confirmation of factual data contained in Parts I and III
on the whole. the information presented in Parts I and III agrees
with that available in the two DPAs. Note: The Borrower requested some minor
corrections to the text of the PCR and these corrections have been made.
B. Remarks on the analvsis contained in Part I
PAge iii (para. 7)
7.          Livestock Development.   The genetic improvement program has been
carried out according to the sheep management plan guidelines. The project area
- birthplace of the Timahdite breed - has created several farmers associations,
all members of the ANOC (Association nationale ovine et caprine).
Page 8
(b) Differences between estimates and realizations of sawlog and
fuelwood exploitation activities: it must be remembered that the whole a4ea of
forest exploitation, with which the project was concerned, is developed. Forest
production is regulated and forecasts as to volume exploitation are based upon
forest management plans.  These forecasts, which take into consideration some
specific cropping rules, remain nevertheless lower than the appraisal forecasts.
It should be noted that even thougi. the elimination of mechanized forest
exploitation has a negative impact on sawlog exploitation, it also has a positive
impact by eliminating a management burden for the authorities. Improvement of
exploitation methods will on the other hand give good results as far as fuelwood
exploitation is concerned.



- 14 -
Pages 8 and 9
Livestozk develolment:  Positive results have been obtained by the
ANOC Association (Boumia-Itzer and Tounfit) because of herd management, health,
nutrition and genetic improvement measures. The National Commission has selected
1,680 from the 2,519 ewes presented, i.e. 66,75%. These results served as an
example to other farmers who created an association at Aguelmouss-Mrit.
Grazing improvement:   Concerning pastoral improvement, the Feija
range was not studied sufficiently. It should be noted that research triala have
been conducted, which have resulted in the current range improvement program:
the closing of the range has resulted in a spectacular regeneration. But lack
of monivoring and evaluation has not allowed quantification of the impact of
those actions.
Goat zenetic improvement: Epidemiological circumstances in France
and Spain did not allow the achierement of the program. In 1990, a goat station
in the El Hammame rural district, financed by the capital budget of the Livestock
Department, was established instead.
It should also be noted that the infrastructure provided, in terms
of breeding stations and equipment, particularly vehicles, permits the control
of diseases reputed to be legally contagious.
In addition, strengthening of equipment for conservation and
processing of milk and its derivatives at the Zayane and El Ayachi milk
cooperatives has improved milk production; 230 to 250 tons/year are currently
being sold by the two cooperatives.
Page 10
Para 6.9:   "The funding of 28 ... ." is not clear and needs to be
rewritten, pointing out that financing came from different sources, i.e. Middle
Atlas Project, etc.. In any case, the methodology used by the Khenifra DPA was
greatly appreciated during the supervision missions.
Para 6.11: The project management is fully aware of the importance
of monitoring and evaluation. This activity was only partially fulfilled because
of project managers' frequent rotations and budgetary constraints. Monitoring
of activities (physical and financial achievements) has been carried out in the
two DPAs; but monitoring and evaluation of the impact of the transfer of new
technology and of project activities were lacking, except for some short-lived
actions which took place in the Ifrane area.



- 15 -
C. Bank Performance
The participation of the Bank har been active throughout the
project's life, from, identification through completion.  Through the frequent
supervision missions it has contributed to the removal of several constraints
during project execution.
D. Borrower Performance
The Moroccan authorities, aware of the importance of livestock and
range development in arid zones, have undertaken the following actions in order
to make the project a success:
-     establishment of the Ifrane DPA in 1986;
-     promulgation of decrees for the establishment of the grazing
improvement perimeters of Timahdite and Ain Leuh;
-     establishment of a cooperative for the management of the water
supply system;
-     active participation of staff of the Ministries of Interior
and Information;
-     introduction of the national  regional and inter-regional
committees;
In addition, the following actions have also been undertaken:
-     establishment of clan committees where farmers consult with
each other on range improvement operations;
-     creation of a water charge for use of the water supply scheme
at Timahdite, to cover recruitment of skilled manpower and
spare parts for maintenance of the water supply scheme.
E. Lessons Learned
For future projects which are similar to the Middle Atlas Project in
terms of size, climatic conditions, etc., the pctential delays in project
execution generated by climatic conditions should be taken into acc ant at the
appraisal stage. While it is true that the project was extended several times,
the need for a longer implementation period should have been foreseen from the
start in order not to adversely affect the project.



- 16 -
Moreover, this type of project should be designed for a reasonable
duration as natural resource development issues are often complex, in view of the
diverse and sometimes difficult economic, social, institutional and agronomic
environments. An eight-year project duration is estimated t.. be reasonable, with
an eventual two-year excension.
In order to ensure successful operations, a number of increasingly
complex actions need to be undertaken as follows:
(a)   First, an observation phase allows for the creation of the
p.oject's institutional and legal framework, the establishment
of pastoralist groups, communal rangeland and extension. This
phase mainly aims at securing the involvement of the range
rightholders. Trials on range improvement and introduction of
rainfed fodder crops are initiated.
(b)   A second phase is mainly dedicated to range management and to
crop diversification in marginal areas.
(c)   The third phase is the full development s:age with a proper
management of the environment taking into account the impact
of livestock combined with appropriate techniques.
F. Relationship between the Bank and the Moroccan Government
Relations between the Bank and the Moroccan Government were good and
this contributed to the satisfactory execution of the Middle Atlas Project.



- 17 -
PART III - STATISTICAL INiFOTIQN
Table 1. Related Bank Loans
| oan/Credit 'itle                            Purpose                      Ye.an of Approval         Status
Loan 2590-M1OR                   Suppor- the irst phase if implementation aC the         FYA py       Cloed Jiunc 24 
Amrculrhl Sector Advustrent    Covemment's arogramme of adjustments in the                            1997
agpicuIt.ral sector. The priaciphi objectives of
E              i         ~~~~~~~the seotr adjustment programma are to uSnprove                                ';
the growwt rate in agrieulture vithin the Overal'
coi srra.,,ts in public rcsourcds.
Loan 285-MOR Second              Sipport the second phuecof implementatios of            FY i8        Third Tranc      " e
Azricultural Sector Adiustment    the Government's medium-term agicultural                            Releued
|oa ft                           sector adjustment programme within the
framcwork of a general macroeconomic
restrucruring progSamme. Th  essential          a
objectives are to foster effictent agriculturat
grown' and to contribute to the reduction oat
I)udgetay and current account d'eficius to
'   ; i'' -  60M  2 0 ;'' 0 '; 0   tnitmanageable revecs.L
If S60^MOR FCVYA Pia-Mis;t fImprove rural income and social well-beigof(    e             Y7"          CloIseO 6/,O/ 
At ichI rw Poiee t          ;     33,90 farm ra iTiea io  t e Proje  area througli'-:
(a)   -mnrvmenct to the =csarch andmeastoetsio                        cgnlcof~~
serAces,. (b) Lcreased credit avai[aoility, (c) ,                   dat: 06/30186 
improved input supp y, (d). erosion control, (e)
-aasreland rehabiliWa:on and (fQ investments in
infrastructure such a: roads, schools, health.                                       i
faciiities, and water supply.                         ___ _ _i
LoarL 2217-MOR Oulmes-           rImprove the living standards of the                    FY 83        Under superAsioh o
Rommani Azncu _turat             predominanlcy rural population living within the
Development Proiect              projecr area through development of agriculture                      Oriialt clossing   6
i       .        0  X           livestockand forestry and through provision. of                     dutc 12/31/8''
better social and agriculture services.
Current closing.
i______________________ j_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _i   date   06130/92
Loan 134.-MOR Loukkos Runl   Improve the agiculaurl systems prevaiiing in                EY 80        Original c4osing ..
Develoopmnt Proiect               I.oukkcs watershed intot sustainable systems5 by .     .date 6/1987
*     ,         allevatirn the destructive efrects of soil erosion
and increasing agricultural productiviry and                        Effeente closin:..
incomes of poor farmers. Project activities were                    date 12/71.98
to serve as a model. for wider replication, in the
Rif region.                            j         ,_-:_:,_                            .._
Loan 1704 Fourth Avricultuni   The projecr aims ar increasing Morocco's         .            :'Y 79     ;osed 6/30/83
Credit Proiect                    agricultural production thereby improving the:
stndar- of living of abc it 475,000o Morocce&'
farn famnlies. The proect, wil cover most of the :                               ..
C,isse Nationalede Credit (CNC)  ) me..u.    :                            .
and long-term  endingprgmme and fartt .,
investment programmt througth August I198Z :,.
financing of TJSS75 rillion is provided by FAD:
and KiW. Disbursemens are on schedule. To
alleviate CNCA's short-term liquidity problems
due to the recent drought, its lenders, including
the Bank. have inecreased their disbursement
percentages under their respective loans.                  ,_                    ::___
Loan 2367-MOR                     Fnancing of etdvides of                              FY 84          Cosd 03/17/87
Firth A6&catunw  Credit          CNCA 196246. Total cc 8t
Proiw                            USSl96 rulion Financed by
. BM, FADES, &AID and KM.
Loan 2731-MOR                    Finanos  of advities of                               FY 87            Cosed M/90
Sixth   nculntWat   Credit       CNICA 1967-1990 Total cosFt
tUSS101 million co-fimaneed by
BM and KXW.



- 18 -
Table 2 - Projed T;metab
Item               Date Planned           Date Revised            Date Actual
Identification (Executiv.                                                   May 1979
Project Summary)
Preparation                                                                 July 1980
Pre-appraisal                Nov. 1980                                      Nov. 1980
Apprais mission              April 1981                                     Oct. 1981
Loan/Negotiations            Dec. 1981                                      Dec. 1981
Board Approval               Jan. 1982                                      Jan. 1982
Loan/Signature               March 1982                                    March 1982
Loaa/Effectiveness           Sept. 1982                  -                  Nov. 1982
Loan/Closingt                June 1988          June 1989-Dec. 1990      December 1990
Loan/Completion              June 1987                                     April 1991



- 19 -
Table 3. Loan Disbursements
A. Cumulative Estimated and Actual Dlsbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year Appraisal Estimate AdJusted  :stlmate           Actual.          % of Adjusted
Semester Ending              Eit               1/                A        :    :    Estimate
.......... ......... 4 USS million).... ...    .      .
FY 83
December 31, 1982                 0.2                                     0.0
June 30, 1983                     1.0                 0.11                0.0
FY 84              .
December 31, 1983                 2.5                 0.33                0.7               212
June 30, 1984                     5.0                 0.66                1.1               166
December 31, 1984                 7.8                 1.1                 1.3               118
June 30, 1985                    11.0                 1.59                 1.8              113
December 31, 1985                14.6                 2.25                2.0                89
June 30, 1986                    19.0                 3.02                3.2               100
EY 8
December 31, 1986                23.0                 3.9                 3.9               100
June 30, 1987                    26.0                 4.89                4.3                88
December 31, 1987                28.0                 5.94                4.7  :80
June 30, 1988                    29.0                 7.31                5.3                72
December 31, 1988                                     8.69                7.3                84
June 30, 1989                                         9.79                7.5                77
December 31, 1989                                    10.67                7.6                71
June 30, 1990                                        11.0                 8.7                79
EY21
December 31, 1990                                                         8.7                79
June 30, 1991                                                             9                  82
1/       Basedon cancellationsof USSS million (November 1984), USS8 million (April 1987), and USSS million (December
1989).



-   20   -
B. Planned and Actual Disbursements by Category
Category               Planned          Revised          Actual       Actual/Revised
_____.........    ... -  US$  million ..............       %
1. Project works otber than        10              3.1              3.7              119
for water supply system and
road construction A+B
2. Spraying program and            8.4              2.4             2.3               96
water supply system and road
construction
3. Equipment, vehicles and         4.2              2.7             2.3               85
acquisition of selected
animals
4. Consultants' and specia-        3.0              1.4             0.5               36
lists' services and training
abroad
5. Operating costs                 0.0              1.1             0.2               18
6. Unallocated                     3.4             (J.3
TOTAL                         29.0             11.0           9.0 c/             82
a/ Loan agreement of March 1982. Total loan amount US$29 million.
h/ Based on total loan amount of USS11 million after US$5 nillion cancellation (November 11, 1984), 2nd
cancellation of US$8 million (Jan. 13, 1987), project restructuring and cancellation of US$5 million
(December 18, 1989).
c/ Balance of about US$2 million was cancelled at Loan closing (April 1991).



- 21 -
Table 4. Project Implementation: Project Implementation Ratios
Components            Unit         Projected SAR     Revised in 1987        Actuil       Act/Projected
I-Forestry Devtlopment
I. Forest ManaLement
Plans
Plans prepared for            ha                 36,000                             36,000            100
a> :thfamucturqe:
Fire towers               units                    9                 5                 1             it
RAdioa                    units                   37                                  48            130
Fire breaks                kmn                    40                                   7             18
ForeA demarcation         posts                11,000                              6,510             59
with posts
Road Construction           kmn                   185               73                 333/          21
Road maintenance           units                   2                                   2            100
units
Nurterics                 units                    4                                   4            100
Forest reserve              ha                    180                                  0              0
(Seheb)
b) Forest Production
improvement
Regeneration of             ha                  3,200                               1,256            39
cedar forest
Tihinning young             ha                  2,500                                  0              0
cedar
Thinning holm-oak           ha                 15,300            13,25$            9,619             63
coppice (of which
9,000ha Bouhsoussen)
Plantation of conifers      ha                   250                                 2 00            80
2. Forest Services
a) Construction
Offices                    unihs                    2                                               I0C
Forest stations                                     8                                                25
Housing                                           59                                  98            166
Workshops                                           2                                  2            100
Hangar                                              I                                  I            100
b) Equipment
Forest exploitation        units                   2                                   0              V
equipment (for 2
unuts)
Equipment for2               *                      2                                  2            100
road-construction
units
Fir fighting equip.        units                   10                                  6             60
tankers
1/ Because contractor abandoned work.



- 22 -
Components           Unit       Projeted SAR      Revisd   19i 7       Actual      Act/Projected
Motocycles                                     49                                10            20
Motorgrader                                      1                                1           100
Mobile verk shop .                              1                                0              0
(rp airshop)
Van                                             1                                 1             0
3. Forest xoitation        units                  2                                 r             a
Devartmental units:
4 insect Ctog=
Spraying                    ha                59,000                           31,464            53
Monitoringf/research       uni t                   1                                1           100
units
5. Forcst RnC.
Improved Mt (of which       ha                202800                          6,6001/            23
12.000 ha Bouhsoussen
Fodder shrubs               ha                 3,000                              950            32
Other sylvopastoral         ha                 7,000                            4,452            64
(rmseeding, fertilization)
lI-Livestock Development
a) Animal nutrition
Range/Pasture fencing &     ba                51,000                         2,C0002/            57
Management (Imnahdite,
Ain leuh, Faija)
Water suppfy system        unit                    I                                I            100
(Timahdite)
Water points               units                  14                                6            43
Range fertilization         ha                13,000                               60
Range reseeding             ha                 2,000
Fodder shrubs (Faija)       ha                  500                                30             6
Access roads (Tirnahdite)   km                    16                               16            100
Training in rang           staff                                                    B
b) Animal husbandry
health agns              staff                183/                             254/            138
study (cheese faetory)   wnit                    1                                0             0
study (use of by                                 I                                0             0
products)
study (animal                                    I t
improvemert)
Construction
Animal health centres      uniu                    9                                6             66
1/         at Bouhsousn
2/         7,500 ha at Timahdite are being managed with short or long term deferment
3/        incremental.
4/        total.



- 23 -
Components            Unit        Projected SAR     Revised in 1987       Adual       Act/Pj eced
Housing.                                           63                                Z5             40 |
Breeding statons:           units
for equines                                       6                5                3             60
forcratl                                          35               4                2             40
Livestock Ustions                                   3                                 0                4
Di'ps                                               1 *  t8                           8              44 0
Milk collection centres       ,                      2                                 0              0
Sheeps station                                       I                                 0             O..
Equipment
Form equipment                                     70                                 4              6
Milk collection equip.                              is                                I 1            Cl
Vehicles                                           24                                 24           IOO
lUAgrcult. e
Delopment
I.Extenio
Extesuion suff (new)        suff                  271"                              40Y             14
local training
study trips                                                                         0 o
Extension Managemnent       units                   2                                  2            100
unit (subj.Mat.spec.)
Conatction
Construction                unit.                   16                                 7            44
rehabilitation of
extension centres and
sub-centres
Housing                                            44                                29             66
Warehouse                                           17                                 5            29
Workshop                                            2                                  2            100
Equipment for               units                  21                                 10             48
etcentres. Audio for
resarch UNRA
wor4hop etc...
Vehicles                    units                  45                                 22             49
Motorcycles                   .                    36                                 26             71
2. lrriemtion investment 
a) Azrou
Studies for rehabilitstion  study                    I                                 0             0
of 9.60ha of exiting
L,rigation
Feeder road&                km                     44                22               0              0
Il         incremennt!
v/         total



- 24 _
Components             Unit        Projected SAR      Revised In 1987        Actual      i Act/Projected
Planting of fruit trees       ha                    750                                    0              0
b) Midell
Hiouiing                     units                    9                                    4             44
Study                        unit                      I                                   I            100
Rehabilitation of irtg.       ha                   2,000             398"                               .20
infrtnuctuhre
Access roads                  km                     27                  0                0               0
Fruit tree plantation         ha                    250                  0                 0              0
Vehiclcs                     unit                                                          6
IV-Technieal Assistance
Exieasion long terrm TA      m/m                     72                                   12             17
Short term TA in             n/rm                    52                                    3              6
Research, Range,
Forestry, Monitoring
Table 5. Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs
1. Estimated and Actual Costs
Item                                            SAR Estimate (mDh)                            Actual (mDh)
Studies                                                     na                                      17.1
Forestry                                                  140.9                                     46.8
Agriculture Developmentt                                  145.8                                      7.1
Livestock                                                  66.3                                     32.8
Sylvo Past.'                                               31.4                                       na
Small Scale Imgation'                                      31.5                                      1.0
Infrastructure                                             26.7                                     29.9
Total Project Cost5"                                      442.6                                    134.68
Total Cost- USS'                                           92.2                                     15.92
Note: Insufficient data  is available  to distinguish  between  foreign  exchange  and  local costs.
of which 248 ha are 25 % completed
v           Including incremenutl credit in SAR estinate
31          SAR did not distinguish separate categories
v           Probably not entire actual cost
Excluding incremental credit. Actual estimate, it is not certain that all costs between 1988 and 1990are included.
Actual estimate also excludes estimate on farm costa.
4'          Using average USS/Dh exchange rates as Table S A2.



- 25 -
2. Estimated Actual Project Cost (mlDh)
1983     1984  1  1985       1986       1987       1988     1989        1990       1991      Total
Studies1'        1.75     1.49      1.56      0.90       1.35       1.55      6.91       0.70       0.93      1?.14
Inf.lintucthre  6.52      0.90      2.55      3.57       2.80      6.28        1.49      2.31       3.45      29.S7
Agricultural     0.34     0.54      2.28      1.86       0.49      0.98       0.17       0.43     :            7.09
Uvestock        0.67      0.73      2.39      5.16       6.95      2.98       4,26       5.20       4.48      32.82
0ev.
Forestry Dev.   2.48      5.97      8.68      3.63       8.58      6.28       3.78       4.49       2.90      46.79 0
Smaltl scale     0. 10    0.14      0.26      0.38       0.09        .                     -                   0.97
imgation_
11 86     9.77     17.72      15.5      20.26      18.07     16.61       13.13      11.76    134.61
Crd4iL4                                                                                                
Total project    11.86    9.77     17.72      15.5      20.26      18.07      16.61      13.13      11.76     134.68:
Dh/USS           7.10    .8.80     10.10      9.10       8.40       8.20      8.48       8.00        8.00
Total USt$       1.67     1.11      1.76      1.70       2.41       2.20       1.96       1.64       1.47      15.92
mrilion                 I_f_I__:_
B. Project Financing (US$ million)
Source                                  Planned    Actual
Loan
Agreement
IBRD                                       29.0               9.0 
Govemmenel                                 41.9              12.7
CNCA credit                                 14.8              n.a
contribution'/
Farmer's contribution                       6.5              n.a
TOTAL                                      92.2             21. 7
It is not excluded that part of the small-scale irrigation component is included in this item.
2v         Mostly extension development
3/         No data available since 1988
4/         No reliable or indicative CNCA data on Incremental credit Costs. Project area available.
Vt         Mission estimate based on balance of the IBRD and other sources.
di         No CNCA data available at the time of PCR preparation.



- 2 6 -
Table 6. Project Results
A. Direct Results
1. Forestry Production
Indicators        Unit   Appraisal    Actual    Actual %
Projected    (Total)    projected
incremental
(year 5)
- Cedar Sawlogs           u3     300,000      250,039       na
- Cedar Fuelwood        Steres    50,000        na          na
Oak Fuelwood           Steres    850,000    380,624        na
Oak Charcoal          Quintal                86,133        na



- 27 7
2. Range Forage Production
Perimeter        Situation at Appraisal           Projected Situation               Actual (1991)         Actual %
(Year 12)                                           projected
-            -      _____          -                       -                   -____  - -      prodiu
iAre     Yield   Production   Area      Yield   Production   Area       Yield   Productidon    ion
(000 ha) (FV/ha)   (MiUion   (000 ha) (FU/ha)   (Million   (000 ha) (FU/ha)   (Million
1 f:: ::: 1'/                            E1              J      )                               L EI)__ l. :
.o :et          30.1      169        5.!        30.1     213        64na                            na         n
|-7Ranqge;      ?76.0     173        13.2       76.0     228        17.3        na       Da         na         n     i
Bouhsoussen
Forest         67.3      326       21.9       67,3      528       35.7        4.8      7502/       3.6        10
IAirS2 L    0.nf
-Foste          44.3      173        7.7        44.3     271        12.0              no activity3'
-Rang           71.7      350        25.0       71,7     547        39.2               no activity
Timaltdite                                                                                       :
FPOrea:         12.8      164        2,1        12.8     235        3.0         na       na         na
| Range         39.5      250        9.9       39.5      467        18 4       7.5       480  ;    3.6          X: 20 
FU - Feed Unit; Nutritive equivalent of Ikg of barley
2t         Reported estimate
3/         With the exception of the sinking of water wells



- 28 -
B. Economic Impact
|  URnderlying AssuLmptLons        Appraisal Estimate                 ReestimnatedL
ERR~~~~~~~  (at full development)
Timahdite collective range                  21                              37 a/
Note: Reestimated ERR is based on an incremental annual production of 'Unite Fourrag6re' (UF = 1 kg of barley
grain) from 250 to 480 UF/ha. Conversion rate UF/Kg Lw of 30 takes into account higher energy requirement of
grazing sheep. Analysis also includes benefits from the animal health component on the basis of a decrease in
mortality from 13 to 7% p.a. on the estimated herd on the managed range of 7,500 ha. Analysis carried out over
20 years.
a/ Small Timahdite range component only.
C. Studies
Studies                 Purpose              Status       Impact of Study.:
Forest road programme          Implement 244 km        Completed       Better forest
u.f forest roads     on 148 km       management
-.Irrigation rebabitation        Rehabilitate 1,640    Completed for       398 ha
ha at Boumiia       Khenifra        rehabilitated'
- Detail working plans at
tribal level foi the
development of:
Midelt                                na                na                na
Azrou                               Range           Study done          Fodder
de% elopment     for 25,000ha at     production
Timahdite    increased by 92%
Moulay Bouazza (Bouhssousen)    Sylvo pastoral        partially      Fodder prod.
Develop,ment        completed        reportedly
increased by
2309
4/ d  wt2S4 h aS nid



- 29 -
Table 7. Status of Major Covenants (Loan No. 2082-MOR)
Section of Loan                Short Description                       Compliance
Agreement
Section: 3.01(c)       Borrower shall ensure that CNCA make    Full compliance
agri. credit available to farmers in project
area.
Section: 3.02          Borrower shall appoint a manager for each  Full compliance
of the 2 road maintenance units assisted by
staff.
Section: 3.03          Borrower shall employ a logging consultant Cancelled on recommendation of
and shall reorganize and monitor the     the National Forest Council.
results of the forest exploitation.
Section: 3.04(a)       Limit dimilin to 10% of spraying and      a) Use of dimilin eliminated by
provide the Bank with evidence of prior    project mnanagement.
warning and access control.
Section: 3.04(b)       Monitor and evaluate the results of the   Full compliance.
spraying programme and hire qualified
consultants. Define pest management
system and implement it shortly thereafter.
Section: 3.05          Establish and staff a rural construction  Full compliance
agency in Borirnia and a sub-agency at
Moulay Bouazza.
Section: 3.06          Enter a contract for research between     Full compliance
DPAs of IFRANE and INRA annually.
Section: 3.07          Select and employ consultants according to  Partial compliance
the Bank's guidelines.
Section: 3.09          Devise a monitoring and evaluation system  Partial compliance
with consulting assistance and affect its
operation
Section: 4.02(c)       Annual audit report                       Full compliance
Section: 4.04(a)       Establish annual grazing rates on forest  Full compliance
rangeland.
Section: 4.05          Establish watering fee and fee recovery   Full compliance
system for Timahdite water supply system.
Section: 4.07(a)       Prepare guidelines for recovery of        Full compliance
investment costs on collective rangelands    Partial compliance at
(Timahdite and Bouhsoussen).             Bouhsoussen
Section: 4.07(b)       Implernent collective rangeland cost      Full compliance
recovery proposals.
Section: 4.08          Propose guidelines for cost recovery for    Partial compliance
Vsm.l!-scale irrigation investments.
sma~~~~~~~~ .s



- 30 -
Table 8. Staff Inputs
A. Staff Inputs
(staff weeks)
TO
TASK            FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92  Total
Preparation             209.6       -      -       -                                                        209.6
Appraisal                 85.4      -          -          -       -      -       -      -       -       -    85.4
Negotiations/Board         1.7      -      -       -      -       -      -       -      -                     1.7
Loan Processins (LOP)   10.0       -       -       -      -       -      -       -      -       -       -    10.0
Sub-total               306.7    0.0       -       -      -              -       -      -       -       -   306.7
Supervision               12.5   16.0   14.3    9.9   21.7    5.6    6.6    8.4    3.5    1.0           -    99.5
Annual Implementation       -       -      -       -     0.1    0.1      -       -       -      -       -     0.2
Review
Project Administration    -       0.4      -     0.3    0.4       -     0.1      -      -       -             1.2
Project Completion          -      -       -      -       -       -      -       -      -      0.3    0.6    0.9
Report
Sub-total                 12.5   16.4   14.3   10.2   22.2    5.7    6.7    8.4    3.5    1.3    0.6  101.8
TOTAL                   319.2   16.4   14.3   10.2   22.2    5.7    6.7    8.4    3.5    1.3    0.6  408.5



- 31 -
B. Missions
Stage of Project Cycle         Month/Year        No. of Persons           Specialization          Performance rating
of project
Identification                         05/79
Preparation j/                         07/80
Appraisal
- Pre-appraisal                        11/80
- Appraisal                            04/81                5         Economist, Rural Engineer,
Agriculturalist, Livestock
Specialist, Forestry Specialist
Supervision
- Supervision 1                        05/82                4         Lcononists (2), Engineer,                 1
Agronomist
- Supervisioni 1                       06/82                1         Forester                                  1
- Supervision 2                        12/82                3         Agronomist, Livestock                    2
Specialist, Forestry Specialist
- Supervision 3                         5/83                1         Agronomist                                3
- Supervision 4                        11/83                1         Agronomist                                3
- Review                                2/84                1         Forestry Specialist
- Supervision 5                         5/84                1         Agronomist                                3
- Supervision 6                         7/84                1         Forestry Specialist
- Supervision 7                         7/85                5         Agronomists (2), Livesto;k                3
(mid-term review)                                                    Specialist, Economist,
Agronomist (consultant)
- Supervision 8                        10/85                2         Forestry Specialist
- Supervision 9                         5/86                1         Agronomist, Livestock Specialist         3
- Supervision 10  /                    12/86                3         Agronomist                                3.
- Supervison 11                       n.a.a/87              7         Agronomist, Livestock                    n.a.
Specialist, Agronomist
- Supervision 12 gj                     7/88                2         n.a.                                     n.a.
- Supervision 13                       11/88                1         Agronomists, Livestock                  na.
Specialist
- Supervision 14                        5/89                1         Agronomist, Livestock Specialist          2
- Supervision 15                       11/89                          Agronomist                                2
Supervision 16                         6/90                          Agronomist                              n.a.
a_I    Project preparation was essential'y undertaken by Moroccan staff with the assistance of FAO/CP. Several FAO,CFmissions
took place between 5/79 and 7/80 for reconnaissance, pre-identification and preparation.   Staff details are not available.
12/    Supervision reports for period 12/86 to 10/88 could not be found in project files.
./    At least two supervisions took place. Reports and details are not available.
gJ    Performance rating: I = Problem free or minor problems; 2 = Moderate problems; 3 = Major problems.



M IDDLE  ATILAS       CENRM. I<'( LtON  - ACRICI!iT.1!LAl, I)FVEi,O01i1.lNT  PROJECT
L.ANI', lSE  ANI, CROP  YllE.lOS  iN  iFRANI
;____   ' Years                            1983                  1984           1         198                   1986                       1987                   198X|
___  __. _   ___._ _-_  _,  ___     _ _._ __ _ _ _ _ _           ,-           -  - 4  -                  I
Timalidite         l'imal1ulite a           Timaihdita and           '1-1l'ia iie 4rne       Finail(ite and           Ti'uin lidite
an(d  Ain             Aimi Leh                Ain IAxuh                Aiii Lejili             AI iuh                   Iand
Luh                     ot T al                TOHI'' tat                                    'Total          I     AiM    Lu b
Total                                                                                                         I       Total
liarly   IArea (ha)                      6,50                   6,500                   7.0(0                    7,100                   6,000                  7, Ci
Yield (qx/lha)               12.5                   11.5                    ll.S                      i0                      13                     11     1
.              _   _   _  ... .   .   _    _  _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -- --   - - -   _ _ _ _ - - _ _ _ --   _ _   _    _
Durum        Area (ha)                   10,000                11,000                    11,000                  10,800                  10,800                10,1x0
IWhieat       Yield (qx/hi,-)                12                     13           I13.5                               1 1                   14.5                     1 
Bread        Area (ha)                   4,(00:                 4,0(X)                  4,000                    4,281                   6,500                  8,0(0i
Wheat        Yield (qx/ha)                  14          _15                                1i                     13.5                    15.5                    15
Forage    Area (ha)                      1,425                  1,730                    1,700          I        1,780                   2,380                  2,580
(hay)        Yield (qx/ha)                37.5         _          4()                     45            |          40                      40                     40          J
, ___   _   _  _      _             _            _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 33 -
A\,TY X92
Table 1 - Land use in project area
Forest       Rangeland       crop land         Total
Boumia              6.810          15.000          65.290         87. 100
Itzer               23.246         61.000          32.780         117.026
M. Bouazza          67.290          3.900          41.900         109.190
Timnahdite          12.756         39.450           8.450         60.656
Ain Leuh            44.336         71.680          26.620         142.636
Total              154.438        191.030         175.040         516.608
Table 2 - Average Yearly Rainfall mm/year in Project Area
Timahdite    Ain Leuh       Itzer       Boumia   MI. Bouazza
83/84         573         666                 -.    196          440
84/85         630         724                       214          430
85/86        1249         606          21.5  2l 87               631
86/87         577         587          338          338          472
87/88         475         603           156         306          553   Jj



